

201 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: Last Job Count Before Election: Always a Political Number

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 8 

 BODY:
It's official. President Bush will be the first president since Herbert Hoover to face re-election with fewer people working than when he started.
 No president may have more than an indirect influence on unemployment, and Mr. Bush had the bad luck to take office in January 2001, just before the economy was about to slide into a recession. 
 Still, despite the stimulus from three rounds of tax cuts, a spectacular expansion of the federal budget deficit and enormous assistance from the Federal Reserve, which slashed interest rates 13 times, the nation has at least 585,000 fewer jobs now than when Mr. Bush took office. 
 On Friday, as the Labor Department issued its last update on job creation before the elections, the Bush campaign aggressively defended its record in a barrage of interviews and in a new television advertisement, declaring that the nation has added ''nearly two million jobs'' since August 2003.
 ''Nearly two million more people with more security,'' the ad declares. ''Nearly two million more reasons why Americans are optimistic about our future.''
 But the overall track record is much less sunny. In contrast to previous economic recoveries, including the so-called jobless recovery that helped Bill Clinton defeat Mr. Bush's father in 1992, this economic recovery was nearly two years old before the nation stopped losing jobs.
 That is far from what the Bush administration predicted when it was pushing Congress to approve its third round of tax cuts in early 2003. At that time, the White House Council of Economic Advisers predicted that the nation would add 306,000 jobs a month through the end of 2004, an annual pace of more than three million jobs. It forecast that the tax cuts alone would add more than one million new jobs.
 Economists estimate that the nation needs to add roughly 150,000 jobs a month to keep pace with the growth in the working-age population, and it needs to add many more than that to make up for the ground that has been lost.
 But job creation over the last year has barely kept up with current population growth, much less overtaken the job losses from the recession and its aftermath. 
 More troubling, employment growth is once again sputtering. Over the last three months, job creation has averaged below 100,000 a month and has failed even to keep pace with the increased number of workers.
 ''That is not a typical pattern,'' said Nigel Gault, chief United States economist at Global Insight, an economic forecasting firm. ''At some point in a recovery you really get going with the expansion. You don't want to have this pattern, where you have three or four really good months and then just fizzle again.''
 Administration officials frequently note that the unemployment rate has declined from 6.3 percent in June 2003, to 5.4 percent in September. But the official jobless rate provides an artificially rosy picture, in part because millions of adults have dropped out of the work force.
 The reasons remain unclear. Many workers become discouraged during a downturn and stop looking for work. Others decide to resume their education and many are forced to stop working because of illness or incarceration.
 Whatever the reasons, the percentage of adults who either have a job or are looking for a job has declined significantly over the last three years. The employment-to-population ratio in September was 62.3 percent, about 2.1 percentage points below where it was when Mr. Bush took office.
 The decline in work force participation was particularly marked for teenagers, Hispanics and blacks. The only demographic group with more members at work than in 2001 are those age 65 and older who decided to postpone retirement.
 Mr. Bush and his economic advisers contend that the job situation would be even worse had he not pushed through tax cuts that will drain the Treasury of about $1.9 trillion over 10 years. Those tax cuts include rate reductions for people at all income levels, additional tax breaks for two-income families with children and a big reduction in taxes on stock dividends and capital gains.
 Most economists agree that the tax cuts did indeed soften the downturn, helping encourage consumers to keep spending even when unemployment was rising.
 ''The tax cuts were incredibly well timed,'' said Richard Yamarone, chief economist at Argus Research, an investment advisory firm. ''I can't imagine that the economy would not have been in a deep recession, had it not been for those tax cuts.''
 But most economists also contend that the immediate impact of the tax cuts was blunted because they overwhelmingly favored the very wealthiest households; middle-income and lower-income people are more likely to spend their entire tax reduction much faster. 
 ''The tax cuts could have been designed to provide more short-term stimulus, at a lower cost,'' said William C. Dudley, senior economist at Goldman Sachs. 
 The problem for the next president, whether Mr. Bush or Mr. Kerry, is that many of the recent job losses are outside government control. Manufacturers have shed more than two million jobs in the last three years, and most of those jobs are not coming back. Corporate profits have soared and industrial production is nearly back to its level when Mr. Bush took office. 
 But manufacturing companies have added fewer than 100,000 jobs, a tiny fraction of the number eliminated, and the Labor Department estimated on Friday that manufacturing payrolls shrank again, falling by 18,000 jobs in September.
 Neither Mr. Bush nor Mr. Kerry has any control over world oil prices, which reached $53 a barrel this week and are slowing economic growth. Nor do presidents set interest rates; they were pushed to rock-bottom levels by the Federal Reserve but are now being gradually increased. 
 Also, the next president will have little or no opportunity for another round of tax cuts: with this year's budget deficit at $415 billion and no sign of an end to war costs in Iraq, both Republicans and Democrats have little appetite for more federal borrowing.


GRAPHIC: Photo: The protest signs were in pink at a demonstration during the Republican National Convention in New York in the summer. (Photo by Logan Mock-Bunting/Getty Images)Chart: ''A Meager Recovery''Businesses have added only 390,000 jobs since the recession ended, far less than in past economic cycles. Gains in earnings have been modest, too.Graph tracks private nonfarm payrolls (average performance during last six recoveries) since start of recovery.This recovery: 8.3 million jobs below the averageGraph tracks wages and salaries, adjusted for inflation, since start of recovery.9.5 percentage points lower than the average(Source by Morgan Stanley Research)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); RECESSION (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); POPULATION GROWTH (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); NATIONAL DEBT (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); APPROVALS (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (69%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (68%); BUDGET DEFICITS (56%) Labor; Hiring and Promotion; Unemployment; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Labor

ORGANIZATION: Labor Department (US)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BILL CLINTON (79%) George W (Pres) Bush; Herbert Clark (1874-1964) Hoover; Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2004



202 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: The 2nd Presidential Debate; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 15276 words

HEADLINE: The Presidential Candidates' 2nd Debate: 'These Are the Differences'

 BODY:
Following is a transcript of the presidential debate last night in St. Louis between President Bush and Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, as recorded by The New York Times. The moderator was Charles Gibson of ABC News. The questioners were potential voters who said they were undecided.

MR. GIBSON -- Good evening. From the Field House at Washington University in St. Louis, I'm Charles Gibson of ABC News and ''Good Morning America.'' I welcome you to the second of the 2004 presidential debates between President George W. Bush, the Republican nominee, and Senator John Kerry, the Democratic nominee. The debates are sponsored by the Commission on Presidential Debates.
 Tonight's format is going to be a bit different. We have assembled a town hall meeting. We're in the Show Me State, as everyone knows Missouri to be. So Missouri residents will ask the questions. The 140 citizens were identified by the Gallup Organization as not yet committed in this election.
 Now earlier today, each audience member gave me two questions on cards like this, one they'd like to ask of the president, the other they'd like to ask the senator. I have selected the questions to be asked and the order. No one has seen the final list of questions but me, certainly not the candidates. No audience member knows if he or she will be called upon. 
 Audience microphones will be turned off after a question is asked. Audience members will address their question to a specific candidate. He'll have two minutes to answer. The other candidate will have a minute and a half for rebuttal, and I have the option of extending discussion for one minute to be divided equally between the two men. All subjects are open for discussion. 
 And you probably know the light system by now. Green light at 30 seconds. Yellow at 15. Red at 5, and flashing red means you're done. Those are the candidates' rules. I will hold the candidates to the time limits forcefully but politely, I hope.
 And now please join me in welcoming with great respect President Bush and Senator Kerry. Gentlemen, to the business at hand. The first question is for Senator Kerry and it will come from Cheryl Otis, who is right behind me. 

Q. Senator Kerry, after talking to several coworkers and family and friends, I asked the ones who said they were not voting for you why. They said that you were too wishy-washy. Do you have a reply for that?

MR. KERRY -- Yes, I certainly do. But let me just first, Cheryl, if you will, I want to thank Charlie for moderating, I want to thank Washington University for hosting us here this evening. Mr. President, it's good to be with you again this evening, sir.
 Cheryl, the president didn't find weapons of mass destruction in Iraq, so he's really turned his campaign into a weapon of mass deception. And the result is that you've been bombarded with advertisements suggesting that I've changed a position on this or that or the other.
 Now the three things they try to say I've changed position on are the Patriot Act. I haven't, I support it. I just don't like the way John Ashcroft has applied it. And we're going to change a few things. The chairman of the Republican Party thinks we ought to change a few things. 
 No Child Left Behind Act. I voted for it. I support it. I support the goals. But the president has underfunded it by $28 billion. Right here in St. Louis, you've laid off 350 teachers. You're $150, excuse me, I think it's a little more, about $100 million shy of what you ought to be under the No Child Left Behind Act to help your education system here. So I complain about that. I've argued that we should fully fund it. The president says I've changed my mind. I haven't changed my mind. I'm going to fully fund it.
 So these are the differences. Now the president has presided over the economy. We've lost 1.6 million jobs. First president in 72 years to lose jobs. I have a plan to put people back to work. That's not wishy-washy. I'm going to close the loopholes that actually encourage companies to go overseas. The president wants to keep them open. I think I'm right and I think he's wrong. I'm going to give you a tax cut. The president gave the top 1 percent of income earners in America got $89 billion last year. More than the 80 percent of people who earn $100,000 or less all put together. I think that's wrong. That's not wishy-washy, and that's what I'm fighting for, you.

MR. GIBSON -- Mr. President, a minute and a half.

MR. BUSH -- Charlie, thank you. Thank our panelists. And senator, thank you. And thanks Washington U. as well.
 I can see why people at your workplace think he changes positions a lot. Because he does. He said he voted for the $87 billion, and voted against it right before he voted for it. That sends a confusing signal to people. 
 He said he thought Saddam Hussein was a grave threat and now said it was a mistake to remove Saddam Hussein from power. Now I can see why people think that he changes position quite often. Because he does. 
 You know, for a while he was a strong supporter of getting rid of Saddam Hussein. He saw the wisdom, until the Democratic primary came along. And Howard Dean, the antiwar candidate, began to gain on him. He changed positions. 
 I don't see how you can lead this country in a time of war, in a time of uncertainty if you change your mind because of politics. 
 He just brought up the tax cut. Remember, we increased that child credit by $1,000, reduced the marriage penalty, created a 10 percent tax bracket for the lower income Americans. That's right at the middle class. He voted against it. And yet he tells you he's for a middle-class tax cut. 
 You've got to be consistent when you're the president. There's a lot of pressures. And you've got to be firm and consistent.

MR. GIBSON -- Mr. President, I would follow up, but we have a series of questions on Iraq. And so I will turn to the next questioner. The question for President Bush, and the questioner is Robin Dahle. Can you get a microphone, Robin? I'm sorry.

Q. Mr. President, yesterday in a statement you admitted that Iraq did not have weapons of mass destruction but justified the invasion by stating, I quote, ''He retained the knowledge, the materials, the means and the intent to produce weapons of mass destruction and could have passed this knowledge to our terrorist enemies.'' Do you sincerely believe this to be a reasonable justification for invasion when this statement applies to so many other countries, including North Korea?

MR. BUSH -- Each situation's different, Robin. And obviously we hope that diplomacy works before you ever use force. The hardest decision a president makes is ever to use force. After 9/11, we had to look at the world differently. After 9/11, we had to recognize that when we saw a threat, we must take it seriously before it comes to hurt us. In the old days, we'd see a threat and we could deal with it if we felt like it or not.
 But 9/11 changed it all. I vowed to our countrymen that I would do everything I could to protect the American people. That's why we're bringing Al Qaeda to justice; 75 percent of them have been brought to justice. That's why I said to Afghanistan, ''If you harbor a terrorist, you're just as guilty as the terrorist.'' And the Taliban is no longer in power, and Al Qaeda no longer has a place to plan. 
 And I saw a unique threat in Saddam Hussein -- as did my opponent -- because we thought he had weapons of mass destruction. And the unique threat was that he could give weapons of mass destruction to an organization like Al Qaeda, and the harm they inflicted on us with airplanes would be multiplied greatly by weapons of mass destruction. And that was a serious, serious threat. So I tried diplomacy, went to the United Nations. But as we learned in the same report I quoted, Saddam Hussein was gaming the oil-for-food program to get rid of sanctions. He was trying to get rid of sanctions for a reason. He wanted to restart his weapons programs. 
 We all thought there was weapons there, Robin. My opponent thought there was weapons there. That's why he called him a grave threat. I wasn't happy when we found out there wasn't weapons, and we've got an intelligence group together to figure out why. But Saddam Hussein was a unique threat, and the world is better off without him in power. 
 And my opponent's plans lead me to conclude that Saddam Hussein would still be in power and the world would be more dangerous. Thank you, sir.

MR. GIBSON -- Senator Kerry, a minute and a half.

MR. KERRY -- Robin, I'm going to answer your question. I'm also going to talk, respond to what you asked, Cheryl, at the same time.
 The world is more dangerous today. The world is more dangerous today, because the president didn't make the right judgments. Now the president wishes that I had changed my mind. He wants you to believe that. 
 Because he can't come here and tell you that he's created new jobs for America. He's lost jobs. He can't come here and tell you that he's created health care for Americans. Because one point -- what, we've got five million Americans who have lost their health care -- 96,000 of them right here in Missouri. He can't come here and tell you that he's left no child behind because he didn't fund No Child Left Behind.
 So what does he do? He's trying to attack me. He wants you to believe that I can't be president. And he's trying to make you believe it because he wants you to think I change my mind. 
 Well, let me tell you, straight up, I've never changed my mind about Iraq. I do believe Saddam Hussein was a threat. I always believed he was a threat -- believed it in 1998 when Clinton was president. I wanted to give Clinton the power to use force if necessary. But I would have used that force wisely. I would have used that authority wisely, not rush to war without a plan to win the peace. I would have brought our allies to our side. I would have fought to make certain our troops had everybody possible to help them win the mission.
 This president rushed to war, pushed our allies aside, and Iran now is more dangerous. And so is North Korea with nuclear weapons. He took his eye off the ball, off of Osama bin Laden.

MR. GIBSON -- Mr. President, I do want to follow up on this one because there were several questions from the audience along this line.

MR. BUSH -- [inaudible] rebuttal.

MR. GIBSON -- Well, I was going to have you do the rebuttal, but you go ahead. You're up.

MR. BUSH -- Remember the last debate? My opponent said that America must pass a global test before we used force to protect ourselves. That's the kind of mindset that says sanctions were working. That's the kind of mindset that said let's keep it at the United Nations and hope things go well. Saddam Hussein was a threat because he could have given weapons of mass destruction to terrorist enemies. Sanctions were not working. The United Nations was not effective at removing Saddam Hussein.

MR. GIBSON -- Senator?

MR. KERRY -- The goal of the sanctions was not to remove Saddam Hussein. It was to remove the weapons of mass destruction. And Mr. President, just yesterday the Duelfer report told you and the whole world, they worked. He didn't have weapons of mass destruction, Mr. President. That was the objective. And if we had used smart diplomacy, we could have saved $200 billion and an invasion of Iraq. And right now Osama bin Laden might be in jail or dead. That's the war against terror.

MR. GIBSON -- We're going to have another question now on the subject of Iraq. And I'm going to turn to Anthony Baldi with a question for Senator Kerry. Mr. Baldi?

Q. Senator Kerry, the U.S. is preparing a new Iraq government and will proceed to withdraw U.S. troops. Would you proceed with the same plans as President Bush?

MR. KERRY -- Anthony, I would not. I have laid out a different plan, because the president's plan is not working. You see that every night on television. There's chaos in Iraq. King Abdullah of Jordan said just yesterday or the day before you can't hold elections in Iraq with the chaos that's going on today.
 Senator Richard Lugar, the Republican chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee, said that the handling of the reconstruction aid in Iraq by this administration has been incompetent. Those are the Republican chairman's words. Senator Hagel of Nebraska said that the handling of Iraq is beyond pitiful, beyond embarrassing. It's in the zone of dangerous. 
 Those are the words of two Republicans, respected, both on the Foreign Relations Committee. Now I have to tell you, I would do something different. I would reach out to our allies in a way that this president hasn't. He pushed them away, time and again. Pushed them away at the U.N., pushed them away individually. 
 Two weeks ago, there was a meeting of the North Atlantic Council, which is the political arm of NATO. They discussed the possibility of a small training unit or having a total takeover of the training in Iraq. Did our administration push for the total training of Iraq? No. Were they silent? Yes. Was there an effort to bring all the allies together around that? No. Because they've always wanted this to be an American effort. 
 They even have the Defense Department issue a memorandum saying don't bother applying for assistance or for being part of the reconstruction if you weren't part of our original coalition. Now that's not a good way to build support and reduce the risk for our troops and make America safer. I'm going to get the training done for our troops. I'm going to get the training of Iraqis done faster. And I'm going to get our allies back to the table.

MR. BUSH -- Two days ago in the Oval Office, I met with the finance minister from Iraq. He came to see me. And he talked about how optimistic he was and the country was about heading toward elections. Think about it. They're going from tyranny to elections. He talked about the reconstruction efforts that are beginning to take hold. He talked about the fact that Iraqis love to be free. He said he was optimistic when he came here. Then he turned on the TV and listened to the political rhetoric, and all of a sudden he was pessimistic. This is a guy who, along with others, is taking great risks for freedom. And we need to stand with him.
 My opponent says he has a plan. Sounds familiar because it's called the Bush Plan. We're going to train troops, and we are. We'll have 125,000 trained by the end of December. We're spending about $7 billion. He talks about a grand idea. Let's have a summit. We're going to solve the problem in Iraq by holding a summit. And what is he going to say to those people that show up to the summit? Join me in the wrong war at the wrong time at the wrong place? Risk your troops in a war you've called a mistake? 
 Nobody is going to follow somebody who doesn't believe we can succeed and somebody who says the war where are is a mistake. I know how these people think. I meet with them all the time. I talk to Tony Blair all the time. I talk to Silvio Berlusconi. They're not going to follow an American president who says follow me into a mistake. 
 Our plan is working. We're going to make elections and Iraq is going to be free and America will be better off for it.

MR. GIBSON -- You want to follow up, senator?

MR. KERRY -- Yes, sir, please. Ladies and gentlemen, the right war was Osama bin Laden and Afghanistan. That was the right place, and the right time was Tora Bora, when we had him cornered in the mountains.
 Now everyone in the world knows that there were no weapons of mass destruction. That was the reason Congress gave him the authority to use force, not an excuse to get rid of the regime. Now we have to succeed. I've always said that. I have been consistent. Yes, we have to succeed, and I have a better plan to help us do it.

MR. BUSH -- First of all, we didn't find out he didn't have weapons until we got there. And my opponent thought he had weapons. And told everybody he thought he had weapons.
 And secondly, it's a fundamental misunderstanding to say that the war on terror is only Osama bin Laden. The war on terror is to make sure that these terrorist organizations do not end up with weapons of mass destruction. That's what the war on terror's about. Of course we're going to find Osama bin Laden. We've already got 75 percent of his people. And we're on the hunt for him. But this is a global conflict that requires firm resolve.

MR. GIBSON -- The next question is for President Bush, and it comes from NickyWashington.

Q. Thank you. Mr. President. My mother and sister traveled abroad this summer. And when they got back they talked to us about how shocked they were at the intensity of aggravation that other countries had with how we handled the Iraq situation. Diplomacy is obviously something that we have to really work on. What is your plan to repair relations with other countries given the current situation?

MR. BUSH -- No, I appreciate that. I -- listen, I -- we got a great country. I love our values. And I recognize I've made some decisions that have caused people to not understand the great values of our country.
 I remember when Ronald Reagan was the president. He stood on principle. Some might have called that stubborn. He stood on principle standing up to the Soviet Union. And we won that conflict. Yet at the same time he was very -- we were very unpopular in Europe because of the decisions he made.
 I recognize that taking Saddam Hussein out was unpopular. But I made the decision because I thought it was in the right interest of our security.
 You know, I've made some decisions on Israel that's unpopular. I wouldn't deal with Arafat because I felt like he had let the former president down, and I don't think he's the kind of person that can lead toward a Palestinian state. And people in Europe didn't like that decision. And that was unpopular, but it was the right thing to do. 
 I believe Palestinians ought to have a state. But I know they need leadership that's committed to a democracy and freedom, leadership that'd be willing to reject terrorism. I made a decision not to join the International Criminal Court in The Hague, which is where our troops can be brought in front of a judge, an unaccounted judge. I don't think we ought to join it. That was unpopular. And so what I'm telling you is that sometimes in this world you make unpopular decisions because you think they're right.
 We'll continue to reach out. Listen, there's 30 nations involved in Iraq, some 40 nations involved in Afghanistan. People love America. Sometimes they don't like the decisions made by America. But I don't think you want a president who tries to become popular and does the wrong thing. You don't want to join the International Criminal Court just because it's popular in certain capitals in Europe.

MR. GIBSON -- Senator Kerry, a minute and a half.

MR. KERRY -- Nicky, that's a question that's been raised by a lot of people around the country. Let me address it but also talk about the weapons the president just talked about, because every part of the president's answer just now promises you more of the same over the next four years.
 The president stood right here in this hall four years ago, and he was asked a question by somebody just like you, ''Under what circumstances would you send people to war?'' And his answer was with a viable exit strategy and only with enough forces to get the job done. He didn't do that. He broke that promise. We didn't have enough forces. General Shinseki, the Army chief of staff, told him he was going to need several hundred thousand, and guess what? They retired General Shinseki for telling him that.
 This president hasn't listened. I went to meet with the members of the Security Council in the week before we voted. I went to New York. I talked to all of them to find out how serious they were about really holding Saddam Hussein accountable. I came away convinced that if we worked at it, if we were ready to work at letting Hans Blix do his job and thoroughly go through the inspections. That if push came to shove, they'd be there with us. But the president just arbitrarily brought the hammer down and said: ''Nope, sorry, time for diplomacy is over. We're going.'' He rushed to war without a plan to win the peace.
 Ladies and gentlemen, he gave you a speech and told you he'd plan carefully, take every precaution, take our allies with us. He didn't. He broke his word.

MR. GIBSON -- Mr. President.

MR. BUSH -- I remember sitting in the White House looking at those generals, saying do you have what you need in this war? Do you have what it takes? I remember going down to the basement of the White House the day we committed our troops as last resort. Looking at Tommy Franks and the generals on the ground. Asking them do we have the right plan with the right troop level? And they looked me in the eye and said, yes, sir, Mr. President.
 Of course, I listened to our generals. That's what a president does. A president tests the strategy and relies upon good military people to execute that strategy.

MR. GIBSON -- Senator?

MR. KERRY -- You rely on good military people to execute the military component of the strategy. But winning the peace is larger than just the military component. General Shinseki had the wisdom to say you're going to need several hundred thousand troops to win the peace. Military's job is to win the war. The president's job is to win the peace.
 The president did not do what was necessary. Didn't bring in enough nations. Didn't deliver the help. Didn't close off the borders. Didn't even guard the ammo dumps. And now our kids are being killed with ammos right out of that dump.

MR. GIBSON -- The next question is for Senator Kerry, and it comes from over here from Randee Jacobs.

Q. Iran sponsors terrorism and has missiles capable of hitting Israel and southern Europe. Iran will have nuclear weapons in two to three years time. In the event that U.N. sanctions don't stop this threat what will you do as president? In the event that U.N. sanctions don't stop this threat, what will you do as president?

MR. KERRY -- I don't think you can just rely on U.N. sanctions, Randee. But you're absolutely correct. It is a threat. It's a huge threat. And what's interesting is it's a threat that has grown while the president has been preoccupied with Iraq where there wasn't a threat. If he'd let the inspectors do their job and go on, we wouldn't have 10 times the number of forces in Iraq that we have in Afghanistan chasing Osama bin Laden.
 Meanwhile, while Iran is moving toward nuclear weapons, some 37 tons of what they call yellowcake, the stuff they use to make enriched uranium. While they're doing that, North Korea has moved from one bomb, maybe, maybe to four to seven bombs. For two years, the president didn't even engage with North Korea, did nothing at all while it was growing more dangerous. Despite the warnings of people like former Secretary of Defense William Perry, who negotiated getting television cameras and inspectors into that reactor. We were safer before President Bush came to office. 
 Now they have the bombs, and we're less safe. So what do we do? We've got to join with the British and the French, with the Germans who have been involved in their initiative. We've got to lead the world now to crack down on proliferation as a whole. But the president's been slow to do that even in Russia. At his pace, it's going to take 13 years to reduce and get a hold of all the loose nuclear material in the former Soviet Union. I've proposed a plan that can capture it and contain it and clean it within four years. And the president is moving to the creation of our own bunker-busting nuclear weapon. It's very hard to get other countries to give up their weapons when you're busy developing a new one. I'm going to lead the world in the greatest counterproliferation effort. And if we have to get tough with Iran, believe me, we will get tough.

MR. GIBSON -- Mr. President, minute and a half.

MR. BUSH -- That answer almost made me want to scowl. He keeps talking about let the inspectors do their job. It's naive and dangerous to say that. That's what the Duelfer report showed. He was deceiving the inspectors.
 Secondly, of course we've been involved with Iran. I fully understand the threat. And that's why we're doing what he's suggested we do. Get the Brits, the Germans and the French to go make it very clear to the Iranians that if they expect to be a party to the world to give up their nuclear ambitions. We've been doing that.
 Let me talk about North Korea. It is naive and dangerous to take a policy that he suggested the other day, which is to have bilateral relations with North Korea. Remember, he's the person who's accusing me of not acting multilaterally? He now wants to take the six-party talks we have -- China, North Korea, South Korea, Russia, Japan and the United States -- and undermine them by having bilateral talks. That's what President Clinton did. He had bilateral talks with the North Koreans, and guess what happened. He didn't honor the agreement. He was enriching uranium. That is a bad policy. 
 Of course, we're paying attention to these. That's a great question about Iran. That's why in my speech to the Congress I said there's an axis of evil, Iraq, Iran and North Korea. And we're paying attention to it. And we're making progress.

MR. GIBSON

We're going to move on, Mr. President, with a question for you. And it comes from Daniel Farley. Mr. Farley?

Q. Mr. President, since we continue to police the world, how do you intend to maintain a military presence without reinstituting a draft?

MR. BUSH -- Yeah, great question, thanks. I hear there's rumors on the Internets that we're going to have a draft. We're not going to have a draft, period. The all-volunteer Army works. It works particularly when we pay our troops well. It works when we make sure they've got housing, like we have done in the last military budgets. And all-volunteer Army is best suited to fight the new wars of the 21st century, which is to be specialized and to find these people as they hide around the world. We don't need mass armies anymore.
 One of the things we've done is we've taken the -- we're beginning to transform our military. And by that I mean we're moving troops out of Korea and replacing them with more effective weapons. We don't need as much manpower on the Korean Peninsula to keep a deterrent. In Europe, we have massed troops as if the Soviet Union existed and was going to invade into Europe. But those days are over with. And so we're moving troops out of Europe and replacing it with more effective equipment. 
 So the answer to your question is we're withdrawing, not from the world. We're drawing manpower so they can be stationed here in America. So there's less rotations. So life is easier on their families and, therefore, more likely to be -- will be more likely to be able to keep people in the all-volunteer Army.
 One of the most important things we're doing in this administration is transformation. There's some really interesting technologies. For example, we're flying unmanned vehicles that can send real-time messages back to stations in the United States. That saves manpower, and it saves equipment. It also means that we can target things easier and move more quickly, which means we need to be lighter and quicker and more facile and highly trained.
 Forget all this talk about a draft. We're not going to have a draft so long as I'm the president.

MR. GIBSON -- Senator Kerry, a minute and a half.

MR. KERRY -- Daniel, I don't support a draft. But let me tell you where the president's policies have put us. The president -- and this is one of the reasons why I'm very proud in this race to have the support of Gen. John Shalikashvili, former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; Adm. William Crowe, former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; Gen. Tony McPeak, who ran the air war for the president's father and did a brilliant job, supporting me; Gen. Wes Clark, who won the war in Kosovo, supporting me, because they all -- General Baaka, who was the head of the National Guard, supporting me. Why? Because they understand that our military is overextended under the president. Our Guard and Reserves have been turned into almost active duty. You've got people doing two and three rotations. You've got stop-loss policies, so people can't get out when they were supposed to. You've got a backdoor draft right now.
 And a lot of our military are underpaid. They -- these are families that get hurt. It hurts the middle class. It hurts communities, because these are our first responders, and they're called up and they're over there, not over here.
 Now, I'm going to add 40,000 active-duty forces to the military, and I'm going to make people feel good about being safe in our military and not overextended, because I'm going to run a foreign policy that actually does what President Reagan did and President Eisenhower did and others. We're going to build alliances. We're not going to go unilaterally. We're not going to go alone, like this president did.

MR. GIBSON -- Mr. President, let's extend for a minute ----

MR. BUSH -- Let me just, well, I got----

MR. GIBSON -- Let's talk about an issue of----

MR. BUSH -- I got to answer this.

MR. GIBSON -- Well, exactly. And with reservists being held on duty and some soldiers----

MR. BUSH -- No, let me answer what he just said about----

MR. GIBSON -- Well, I wanted to get into the issue about the----

MR. BUSH ----going it alone. You tell Tony Blair we're going alone. Tell Tony Blair we're going alone. Tell Servio Berlusconi we're going alone. Tell Aleksander Kwasniewski we're going alone. We've got 30 countries there. It denigrates an alliance to say we're going alone, to discount their sacrifices. You cannot lead an alliance if you say, you know, you're going alone. And people listen. They're sacrificing with us.

MR. GIBSON -- Senator.

MR. KERRY -- Mr. President, countries are leaving the coalition, not joining. Eight countries have left it. If Missouri -- just given the number of people from Missouri are in the military over there were a country, it would be the third largest country in the coalition, behind Great Britain and the United States. That's not a grand coalition. Ninety percent of the casualties are American; 90 percent of the costs are coming out of your pockets. I could do a better job, my plan does a better job, and that's why I'll be a better commander in chief.

MR. GIBSON -- The next question, Senator Kerry, is for you. And it comes from Ann Bronsing, who I believe is over in this area.

Q. Senator Kerry, we have been fortunate that there have been no further terrorist attacks on American soil since 9/11. Why do you think this is? And if elected, what will you do to assure our safety?

MR. KERRY -- Thank you very much, Ann. I've asked in my security briefings why that is. And I can't go into all the answers, etc. But let me say this to you. This president and his administration have told you and all us it's not a question of when -- excuse me, not a question of if, it's a question of when. We've been told that. The when I can't tell you. Between the World Trade Center bombing in what was it, 1993 or so, and the next time was five years, seven years. These people wait. They'll plan. They plot. I agree with the president that we have to go after them and get them wherever they are. I just think I can do that far more effectively. Because the most important weapon in doing that is intelligence. You've got to have the best intelligence in the world. And in order to have the best intelligence in the world, to know who the terrorists are and where they are and what they're plotting, you've got to have the best cooperation you've ever had in the world.
 Now to go back to your question, Nicky, we're not getting the best cooperation in the world today. We've got a whole bunch of countries that pay a price for dealing with the United States of America now. I'm going to change that. And I'm going to put in place a better homeland security effort. Look at it, 95 percent of our containers coming into this country are not inspected today. When you get on an airplane your bag is X-rayed, but the cargo hold isn't X-rayed. Do you feel safer? 
 This president in the last debate said that would be a big tax gap if we did that. Ladies and gentleman, it's his tax plan. He chose a tax cut for the wealthiest Americans over getting that equipment out into the homeland as fast as possible. We have bridges and tunnels that aren't being secured. Chemical plants, nuclear plants that aren't secured. Hospitals that are overcrowded with emergency rooms. If we had a disaster today, could they handle it? This president chose a tax cut over homeland security. Wrong choice. 
 Mr. President

Q. Mr. president.

MR. BUSH -- That's an odd thing to say since we've doubled, tripled, the homeland security budget, from $10 billion to $30 billion. Listen, we'll do everything we can to protect the homeland. My opponent's right. We need good intelligence. That's also a curious thing for him to say, since right after 1993 he voted to cut the intelligence budget by $7.5 billion.
 The best way to defend America in this war, in this world we live in, is to stay on the offense. We've got to be right 100 percent of the time here at home. And they've got to be right once. And that's the -- that's the reality. And there's a lot of good people working hard. We're doing the best we possibly can to share information. That's why the Patriot Act was important. The Patriot Act is vital, by the way. It's a tool that law enforcement now uses to be able to talk between each other. My opponent says he hadn't changed his positions on it. No, but he's for weakening it.
 I don't think my opponent has got the right -- right view about the world to make us safe. I really don't. First of all I don't think he can succeed in Iraq. And if Iraq were to fail it'd be a haven for terrorists -- and there'd be money. And the world would be much more dangerous. I don't see how you can win in Iraq if you don't believe we should be there in the first place. I don't see how you can lead troops if you say it's the wrong war at the wrong place at the wrong time. I don't see how the Iraqis are going to have confidence in the American president if all they hear is that it was a mistake to be there in the first place.
 This war is a long, long war. And it requires steadfast determination and it requires a complete understanding that we not only chase down Al Qaeda but we disrupt terrorist safe havens as well as people who could provide the terrorists with support.

MR. GIBSON -- I want to extend for a minute, senator. I'm curious about something you said. You said it's not when, but if. You think it's inevitable? Because the sense of security is a very basic thing with everybody in this country worried about their kids.

MR. KERRY -- Well, the president and his experts have told America that it's not a question of if. It's a question of when. And I accept what the president has said. These terrorists are serious. They're deadly and they know nothing except trying to kill. I understand that. That's why I will never stop at anything to hunt down and kill the terrorists. But you heard the president just say to you that we've added money. Folks, the test is not if you've added money, the test is have you done everything possible to make America sure. He chose a tax cut for wealthy Americans over the things that I listed to you.

MR. GIBSON -- Mr. President?

MR. BUSH -- Well, we'll talk about the tax cut for middle class here in a minute. But yeah, I'm worried. I'm worried. I'm worried about our country. And all I can tell you is every day I know that there's people working overtime doing the very best they can. And the reason I'm worried is because there's a vicious enemy that had an ideology of hate. And the way to defeat them long term by the way is to spread freedom. Liberty can change habits. And that's what's happening in Afghanistan and Iraq.

MR. GIBSON -- Mr. President, we're going to turn to questions now on domestic policy, and we're going to start with health issues. The first question is for President Bush, and it's from John Horstman.

Q. Mr. President, why did you block the reimportation of safer and inexpensive drugs from Canada, which would have cut 40 to 60 percent off of the cost?

MR. BUSH -- I haven't yet. Just want to make sure they're safe. When a drug comes in from Canada, I want to make sure it cures you and doesn't kill you. And that's why the F.D.A. and that's why the surgeon general are looking very carefully to make sure it can be done in a safe way. I've got an obligation to make sure our government does everything we can to protect you. And my worry is, is that, you know, it looks like it's from Canada and it might be from a third world. We've just got to make sure before somebody thinks they're buying a product that that it works. And that's why we're doing what we're doing. Now it may very well be here in December you hear me say I think there's a safe way to do it.
 Other ways to make sure drugs are cheaper. One is to speed up generic drugs to the marketplace, quicker. Pharmaceuticals were using loopholes to keep brand drugs in place. And generics are much less expensive than brand drugs. And we're doing just that. Another is to get our seniors to sign up for these drug discount cards. And they're working. 
 Wanda Blackmore, I met here from Missouri. The first time she bought drugs with her drug discount card, she paid $1.14. I think it was for about $10 worth of drugs. These cards make sense. 
 And you know, in 2006, seniors are going to get prescription drug coverage for the first time in Medicare. Because I went to Washington to fix problems. Medicare, the issue of Medicare used to be called Mediscare. People didn't want to touch it for fear of getting hurt politically. I want to get something done. I think our seniors deserve a modern medical system. And in 2006, our seniors will get prescription drug coverage. Thank you for asking.

MR. GIBSON -- Senator, a minute and a half.

MR. KERRY -- John, you heard the president just say that he thought he might try to be for it. Four years ago, right here in this forum he was asked the same questions. Can't people be able to import drugs from Canada? Do you know what he said? I think that make sense. I think that's a good idea. Four years ago.
 Now the president said, ''I'm not blocking that.'' Ladies and gentlemen, the president just didn't level with you. Right now, again, he did block it, because we passed it in the United States Senate. We sent it over to the House, that you could import drugs. We took care of the safety issues. We're not talking about third world drugs. We're talking about drugs made right here in the United States of America that have American brand names on them in American bottles, and we're asking they be able to allow you to get them. The president blocked it.
 The president also took Medicare, which belongs to you, and he could have lowered the cost of Medicare and lowered your taxes and lowered the cost to seniors. You know what he did? He made it illegal for Medicare to do what the V.A. does, which is bulk purchase drugs so that you could lower the price and get them out to you lower. He put $139 billion of windfall profit into the pockets of the drug companies, right out of your pockets. 
 That's the difference between us. The president sides with the power companies, the oil companies, the drug companies. And I'm fighting to let you get those drugs from Canada and I'm fighting to let Medicare survive. I'm fighting for the middle class. That's the difference.

MR. BUSH -- If----

Q. Mr. President----

MR. BUSH -- If they're safe, they're coming. I want to remind you that it wasn't just my administration that made the decision on safety. President Clinton did the same thing. We have an obligation to protect you.
 Now, he talks about Medicare. He's been in the United States Senate 20 years. Show me one accomplishment toward Medicare that he accomplished. I've been in Washington, D.C., three and a half years and led the Congress to reform Medicare, so our seniors have got a modern health care system. That's what leadership is all about.

MR. KERRY -- Actually, Mr. President, in 1997, we fixed Medicare and I was one of the people involved in it. We not only fixed Medicare and took it way out into the future, we did something that you don't know how to do. We balanced the budget and we paid down the debt of our nation for two years in a row and we created 23 million new jobs at the same time. And it's the president's fiscal policies that have driven up the biggest deficits in American history. He's added more debt to the debt of the United States in four years than all the way from George Washington to Ronald Reagan put together. Go figure.

MR. GIBSON -- Next question is for Senator Kerry, and this comes from Norma-Jean Laruent.

Q. Senator Kerry, you've stated your concern for the rising cost of health care. Yet you chose a vice-presidential candidate who has made millions of dollars successfully suing medical professionals. How do you reconcile this with the voters?

MR. KERRY -- Very easily, John Edwards is the author of the Patients Bill of Rights. He wanted to give people rights. John Edwards and I support tort reform. We both believe that as lawyers, I'm a lawyer, too, and I believe that we will be able to get a fix that has eluded everybody else, because we know how to do it. It's in my health care proposal. Go to johnkerry.com. You can pull it off the Internet, and you'll find a tort reform plan.
 Now, ladies and gentlemen, important to understand the president and his friends try to make a big deal out of it. Is it a problem? Yes, it's a problem. Do we need to fix it, particularly for Ob-Gyn's and brain surgeons and others? Yes. But it's less than 1 percent of the total cost of health care. 
 Your premiums are going up. You've gone up in Missouri about $3,500. You've gone up 64 percent. You've seen co-pays to up, deductibles go up. Everything's gone up. Five million people have lost their health insurance under this president. He's done nothing about it. 
 I have a plan. I have a plan to lower the cost of health care for you. I have a plan to cover all children. I have a plan to let you buy in to the same health care senators and congressmen give themselves. I have a plan that's going to allow people 55 to 64 to buy into Medicare early. And I have a plan that will take the catastrophic cases out of the system, off your backs, pay for it out of a federal fund, which lowers the premiums for everybody in America, makes American business more competitive and makes health care more affordable.
 Now all of that can happen but I have to ask you to do one thing: Join me in rolling back the president's unaffordable tax cut for people earning more than $200,000 a year. That's all. Ninety-eight percent of America, I'm giving you a tax cut and I'm giving you health care.

MR. GIBSON -- Mr. President, a minute and a half.

MR. BUSH -- Uh, let me see where to start here. First, The National Journal named Senator Kennedy the most liberal senator of all. And that's saying something in that bunch. You might say that took a lot of hard work. The reason I bring that up is because he's proposed $2.2 trillion in new spending. And he said he's going to tax the rich to close the tax gap. He can't. He's going to tax everybody here to fund his programs. That's just reality.
 And what are his health programs? First, he says he's for medical liability reform, particularly for Ob-Gyn's. There's a bill on the floor of the United States Senate that he could have showed up and voted for if he's so much for it. 
 Secondly, he says that medical liability costs only caused 1 percent increase. That shows a lack of understanding. Doctors practice defensive medicine because of all the frivolous lawsuits that cost our government $28 billion a year. 
 And finally, he says he's going to have a novel health care plan. You know what it is? The federal government is going to run it. It is the largest increase in federal government health care ever. And it fits with his philosophy. That's why I told you about the award he won from the National Journal. That's what liberals do. They create government-sponsored health care. Maybe you think that makes sense. I don't. Government-sponsored health care would lead to rationing. It would ruin the quality of health care in America.

MR. GIBSON -- Senator Kerry, we got several questions along this line. And I'm just curious if you'd go further on what you talked about with tort reform. Would you be favoring capping awards on pain and suffering? Would you limit----

MR. KERRY -- Follow-up----

MR. GIBSON -- Yes, to follow up on this for a minute.

MR. KERRY -- Yeah, I think we should look at the punitive and we should have some limitations. But look what's really important, John is the president is just trying to scare everybody here with throwing labels around. I mean compassionate conservative, what does that mean? Cutting 500,000 kids from after-school programs. Cutting 365,000 kids from health care? Running up the biggest deficits in American history. Mr. President, you're batting 0 for 2. I mean, seriously, labels don't mean anything. What means something is do you have a plan? And I want to talk about my plan some more. I hope we can.

MR. GIBSON -- We'll get to that in just a minute. Thirty----

MR. BUSH -- You're right, what----

MR. GIBSON -- ----seconds.

MR. BUSH ----does matter is the plan. He said he is for -- you're now for capping punitive damages. That's odd. You should have shown up on the floor in the Senate and voted for it then. Medical liability issues are a problem, a significant problem. He's been in the United States Senate for 20 years, and he hadn't addressed it. We passed it out of the House of Representatives. Guess where it's stuck. It's stuck in the Senate because the trial lawyers won't act on it. And he's put a trial lawyer on the ticket.

MR. GIBSON -- The next question is for President Bush and it comes from Matthew O'Brien.

Q. Mr. President, you have enjoyed a Republican majority in the House and Senate for most of your presidency. In that time you've not vetoed a single spending bill. Excluding $120 billion spent in Iran and -- I'm sorry, Iraq and Afghanistan, there has been $700 billion spent and not paid for by taxes. Please explain how the spending you have approved and not paid for is better for the American people than the spending proposed by your opponent.

MR. BUSH -- Right. Thank you for that. We have a deficit. We have a deficit because this country went into a recession. You might remember the stock market started to decline dramatically six months before I came to office and then the bubble of the 1990's popped. And that cost us revenue. That cost us revenue.
 Secondly, we're at war and I'm going to spend what it takes to win the war. More than just $120 billion for Iraq and Afghanistan. We've got to pay our troops more. We have, we've increased money for ammunition and weapons and pay and homeland security. I just told this lady over here we spent -- went from $10 billion to $30 billion to protect the homeland. 
 I think we have an obligation to spend that kind of money. Plus we cut taxes for everybody. Everybody got tax relief so that they get out of the recession. I think if you raise taxes during a recession, you head to depression. I come from the school of thought that says when people have more money in their pocket during tough economic times it increases demand or investment. Small businesses begin to grow and jobs are added. We found out today that over the past 13 months we're added 1.9 million new jobs in the last 13 months.
 I've proposed a plan, detailed budget, that shows us cutting the deficit in half by five years. And you're right, I haven't vetoed any spending bills because we work together. Nonhomeland, nondefense discretionary spending was raising at 15 percent a year when I got into office. And today it's less than 1 percent because we're working together to try to bring this deficit under control. Like you, I'm concerned about the deficit. But I am not going to shortchange our troops in harm's way. And I'm not going to run up taxes, which will cost this economy jobs. Thank you for your question.

MR. GIBSON -- Senator Kerry, minute and a half.

MR. KERRY -- Let me begin by saying that my health care plan is not what the president described. It is not a government takeover. You have choice. Choose your doctor. Choose your plan. The government has nothing to do with it. In fact it doesn't ask you to do anything. If you don't want to take it, you don't have to. If you like your high premiums, you keep them. That's the way we leave it.
 Now with respect to the deficit, the president was handed a $5.6 trillion surplus, ladies and gentlemen. That's where he was when he came into office. We now have a $2.6 trillion deficit. This is the biggest turnaround in the history of the country. He's the first president in 72 years to lose jobs. He talked about war. This is the first time the United States of America has ever had a tax cut when we're at war. 
 Franklin Roosevelt, Harry Truman, others knew how to lead. They knew how to ask the American people for the right things. One percent of America, the highest 1 percent of income earners in America got $89 billion of tax cut last year. One percent of America got more than the 80 percent of America that earned from $100,000 down. The president thinks it's more important to fight for that top 1 percent than to fight for fiscal responsibility and to fight for you.
 I want to put money in your pocket. I am -- I have a proposal for a tax cut for all people earning less than the $200,000. The only people affected in my plan are the top income earners of America.

MR. GIBSON -- I both -- I heard you both say -- I have heard you both say during the campaign -- I just heard you say it -- that you're going to cut the deficit by a half in four years. But I didn't hear one thing in the last three and a half minutes that would indicate how either one of you do that.

MR. BUSH -- Well, look at the budget. One is make sure Congress doesn't overspend.
 But let me talk back about where we've been. The stock market was declining six months prior to my arrival. It was the largest stock market correction -- one of the largest in history, which foretold a recession.
 Because we cut taxes on everybody -- remember we ran up the child credit by 1,000, we reduced the marriage penalty, we created the 10-percent bracket. Everybody who pays taxes got relief. The recession was one of the shortest in our nation's history.

MR. GIBSON -- Senator Kerry, 30 seconds.

MR. KERRY -- After 9/11, after the recession had ended, the president asked for another tax cut and promised 5.6 million jobs would be created. He lost 1.6, ladies and gentlemen. And most of that tax cut went to the wealthiest people in the country. He came and asked for a tax cut -- we wanted a tax cut to kick the economy into gear. You know what he presented us with? A $25 billion giveaway to the biggest corporations in America, including a $254 million refund check to Enron. Wrong priorities. You're my priority.

Q. Senator Kerry, the next question will be for you and it comes from James Varner, who I believe is in this section. Mr. Varner, you need a microphone.

Q. Thank you. Senator Kerry, would you be willing to look directly into the camera and using simple and unequivocal language give the American people your solemn pledge not to sign any legislation that will increase the tax burden on families earning less than $200,000 a year during your first term?

MR. KERRY -- Absolutely, yes. Right into the camera, yes. I am not going to raise taxes. I have a tax cut. And here's my tax cut. I raise the child care credit by $1,000 for families to help them be able to take care of their kids. I have a $4,000 tuition tax credit that goes to parents and kids if they're earning for themselves to be able to pay for college. And I lower the cost of health care in the way that I described to you. Every part of my program I've shown how I'm going to pay for it. And I've gotten good people like former Secretary of the Treasury Bob Rubin, for instance, who showed how to balance budgets and give you a good economy, to help me crunch these numbers and make them work.
 I've even scaled back some of my favorite programs already, like the child care program I wanted to fund and the National Service program. Because the president's deficit keeps growing. And I've said as a pledge I'm going to cut the deficit in half in four years. 
 Now I'm going to restore what we did in the 1990's, ladies and gentlemen. Pay as you go. We're going to do it like you do it. The president broke the pay-as-you-go rule. Somebody here asked the question about why haven't you vetoed something? It's a good question. If you care about it. why don't you veto it? I think John McCain called the energy bill ''the no lobbyist left behind bill.'' I mean, you've got to stand up and fight somewhere, folks. 
 I'm pledging I will not raise taxes. I'm giving a tax cut to the people earning less than $200,000 a year. Now for the people earning more than $200,000 a year, you're going to see a rollback to the level we were at with Bill Clinton, when people made a lot of money. And looking around here at this group here, I suspect there are only three people here who are going to be affected, the president, me, and Charlie. I'm sorry -- you too. 

MR. GIBSON -- Mr. President.

MR. BUSH -- It's just not credible when he talks about being fiscally conservative. It's just not credible. If you look at his record in the Senate, he voted to break the spending -- the caps, the spending caps, over 200 times. And here he says he's going to be a fiscal conservative all of the sudden. It's just not credible. You cannot believe it.
 And of course he's going to raise your taxes. You see, he's proposed $2.2 trillion of new spending. And so you say, well how are you going to pay for it? He said, well, he's going to raise the taxes on the rich. That's what he said. The top two brackets. That raises, he says $800 billion. We say $600 billion. We've got battling green eyeshades, somewhere in between those numbers. And so there is a difference: What he's promised and what he can raise.
 Now either he's going to break all of these wonderful promises he's told you about or he's going to raise taxes. And I suspect, given his record, he's going to raise taxes. My time up yet?

MR. GIBSON -- No, you can keep going.

MR. BUSH -- Keep going. Good.

MR. GIBSON -- You're on a roll.

MR. BUSH -- You looked at me like my clock was up. I think that the way to grow this economy is to keep taxes low, is to have an energy plan, is to have litigation reform. As I've told you, we just got a report that said over the past 13 months we've created 1.9 million new jobs. We're growing.
 And so the fundamental question of this campaign is who's going to keep the economy growing so people can work. That's the fundamental question.

MR. GIBSON. -- I'm going to come back one more time to how these numbers add up and how you can cut that deficit in half in four years, given what you've both said.

MR. KERRY -- Well, first of all, the president's figures of $2.2 trillion just aren't accurate. Those are the fuzzy math figures put together by some group that works for the campaign. That's not the number.
 No. 2, John McCain and I have a proposal jointly for a commission that closes corporate giveaway loopholes. We've got $40 billion going to Bermuda. We've got all kinds of giveaways. We ought to be shutting those down. 
 And third, credible? Ladies and gentlemen, in 1985, I was one of the first Democrats to move to balance the budget. I voted for the balanced budget in '93 and '97. We did it. We did it. 

MR. GIBSON -- Thirty seconds.

MR. KERRY -- And I was there.

MR. GIBSON -- I'm sorry, 30 seconds, Mr. President.

MR. BUSH -- Yeah, I mean he's got a record. He's been there for 20 years. You can run but you can't hide. He voted 98 times to raise taxes. I mean these aren't made-up figures. And so people are going to have to look at the record. Look at the record of the man running for the president. They don't name him the most liberal in the United States Senate because he hasn't shown up to many meetings. They named him because of his votes. And it's reality. It's just not credible to say he's going to keep taxes down and balance budgets.

MR. GIBSON -- Mr. President, the next question is for you, and it comes from James Hubb, over here.

Q. Mr. President, how would you rate yourself as an environmentalist? What specifically has your administration done to improve the condition of our nation's air and water supply?

MR. BUSH -- Off-road diesel engines -- we have reached an agreement to reduce pollution from off-road diesel engines by 90 percent. I've got a plan to increase the wetlands by three million. We've got an aggressive brown-field program to refurbish inner-city sore spots to useful pieces of property. I proposed to the United States Congress a Clear Skies initiative to reduce sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide and mercury by 70 percent. I fought for a very strong title in the Farm Bill for the conservation reserve program to set aside millions of acres of land to help improve wildlife and the habitat.
 We proposed and passed a Healthy Forest Bill, which was essential to working with, particularly in Western states, to make sure that our forests were protected. What happens in those forests because of lousy federal policy, is they grow to be, they, they are, they're not harvested. They're not taken care of. And as a result, they're like tinderboxes. And over the last summers, I've flown over there. And so this is a reasonable policy to protect old stands of trees and at the same time make sure our forests aren't vulnerable to the forest fires that have destroyed acres after acres in the West. 
 We've got a good common-sense policy. Now I'm going to tell you what I really think is going to happen over time is technology is going to change the way we live for the good for the environment. That's why I proposed a hydrogen automobile, hydrogen-generated automobile. We're spending $1 billion to come up with the technologies to do that. That's why I'm a big proponent of clean coal technology, to make sure we can use coal, but in a clean way. 
 I guess you'd say I'm a good steward of the land. The quality of the air is cleaner since I've been the president. Fewer water complaints since I've been the president. More land being restored since I've been the president. Thank you for your question. 

MR. GIBSON -- Senator Kerry, a minute and a half.

MR. KERRY -- Boy, to listen to that, the president, I don't think, is living in a world of reality with respect to the environment. Now, if you're a Red Sox fan, that's O.K. But if you're a president, it's not.
 Let me just say to you, No. 1, don't throw the labels around. Labels don't mean anything. I supported welfare reform. I led the fight to put 100,000 cops on the streets of America. I've been for faith-based initiatives helping to intervene in the lives of young children for years. I was -- broke with my party in 1985 -- one of the first three Democrats to fight for a balanced budget when it was heresy. Labels don't fit, ladies and gentlemen.
 Now, when it comes to the issue of the environment, this is one of the worst administrations in modern history. The clear skies bill that he just talked about -- it's one of those Orwellian names you pull out of the sky, slap it onto something, like No Child Left Behind but you leave millions of children behind. Here they're leaving the skies and the environment behind. If they just left the Clean Air Act all alone the way it is today, no change, the air would be cleaner than it is if you passed the clear skies act. 
 We're going backward. In fact, his environmental enforcement chief air-quality person at the E.P.A. resigned in protest over what they're doing to what are called the ''new source performance standards'' for air quality. 
 They're going backward on the definition for wetlands. We're going backward on the water quality. They pulled out of the global warming, declared it dead, didn't even accept the science.
 I'm going to be a president who believes in science.

MR. GIBSON -- Mr. President.

MR. BUSH -- Well, had we joined the Kyoto treaty, which I guess he's referring to, it would have cost America a lot of jobs. It's one of these deals where in order to be popular in the halls of Europe, you sign a treaty. But I thought it would cost a lot of -- -- I think there's a better was to do it. And I just told you the facts, sir.
 The quality of the air is cleaner since I've been the president of the United States. And we'll continue to spend money on research and development, because I truly believe that's the way to get from how we live today to being able to live a standard of living that we're accustomed to and being able to protect our environment better, the use of technologies.

MR. GIBSON -- Senator Kerry, 30 seconds.

MR. KERRY -- The fact is that the Kyoto Treaty was flawed. I was in Kyoto and I was part of that. I know what happened. But this president didn't try to fix it. He just declared it dead, ladies and gentlemen. And we walked away from the work of 160 nations over 10 years.
 You wonder, Nikki, why it is that people don't like us in some parts of the world. You just say: Hey, we don't agree with you -- Goodbye. The president's done nothing to try to fix it. I will.

MR. GIBSON -- Senator Kerry, the next question is for you. It involved jobs, which is a topic in the news today. And for the question we're going to turn to Jane Barrow.

Q. Senator Kerry, how can the U.S. be competitive in manufacturing given the wage necessary and comfortably accepted for American workers to maintain the standard of living that they expect?

MR. KERRY -- Jane, there are a lot of ways to be competitive. And unfortunately, again I regret this administration has not seized them and embraced them.
 Let me give you an example. There's a tax loophole right now if you're a company in St. Louis working trying to make jobs here, there's actually an incentive for you to go away. You get more money. You can keep more of your taxes by going abroad. I'm going to shut that loophole and I'm going to give the tax benefit to the companies that stay here in America to help make it more competitive. 
 Secondly, we're going to create a manufacturing jobs credit and a new jobs credit for people to be able to help hire and be more competitive here in America.
 Third, what's really hurting American business more than anything else is the cost of health care. Now you didn't hear any plan from the president because he doesn't have a plan to lower the cost of health care. Five million Americans have lost their health care -- 620,000 Missourians have no health care at all, 96,000 Missourians have lost their health care under President Bush. 
 I have a plan to cover those folks. And it's a plan that lowers cost for everybody, covers all children. And the way I pay for it -- I'm not fiscally irresponsible -- is I rollback the tax cut that this president so fiercely wants to defend, the one for him and me and Charlie. I think you ought to get the break. I want to lower your cost of health care. 
 I want to fully fund education, No Child Left Behind, special needs education. And that's how we're going to be more competitive, by making sure our kids are graduating from school and college. China and India are graduating more graduates in technology and science than we are. 
 We've got to create the products of the future. That's why I have a plan for energy independence within 10 years. And we're going to put our laboratories and our colleges and universities to work. And we're going to get the great entrepreneurial spirit of this country and we're going to free ourselves from this dependency on Mideast oil. That's how you create jobs and become competitive.

MR. GIBSON -- Mr. President, a minute and a half.

MR. BUSH -- Uh, let me start with how to control the costs of health care, medical liability reform for starters, which he's opposed. Secondly, allow small businesses to pull together so they can share risk and buy insurance at the same discounts big businesses get to do. Thirdly, spread what's called health savings accounts. It's good for small businesses, good for owners. You own your own account. You can save tax free. You get a catastrophic plan to help you own it. This is different from saying, O.K., let me incense you to go on the government.
 You talking about his plan to keep jobs here. You know he calls it an outsourcing, to stop outsourcing. Robert Rubin looked at his plan and said it won't work. The best way to keep jobs here in America is 1) have an energy plan. I proposed one to the Congress two years ago. Encourages conservation, encourages technology to explore for environmentally friendly ways for coal and use coal and gas. It encourages the use of renewables like ethanol and biodiesel. It's stuck in the Senate. He and his running mate didn't show up to vote when they could have got it going in the Senate. Less regulations if we want jobs here. Legal reform if we want jobs here. And we've got to keep taxes low. 
 Now he says he's only going to tax the rich. Do you realize 900,000 small businesses will be taxed under his plan because most small businesses are ''Subchapter S corps'' or limited partnerships. And they pay tax at the individual income tax level. And so when you're running up the taxes like that you're taxing job creators. And that's not how you keep jobs here. 

MR. GIBSON. -- Senator, I want to extend for a minute. You talk about tax credits to stop outsourcing. But when you have I.B.M. documents that I saw recently where you can hire a programmer for $12 in China, $56 an hour here, tax credits won't cut it ----

MR. KERRY -- You can't stop----

MR. GIBSON -- ---- in that----

MR. KERRY -- ----you can't stop all outsourcing, Charlie. I've never promised that. I'm not going to because that would be pandering. You can't. But what you can do is create a fair playing field, and that's what I'm talking about.
 But let me just address what the president just said. Ladies and gentlemen, that's just not true what he said. The Wall Street Journal said 96 percent of small businesses are not affected at all by my plan. And you know why he gets that count? The president got $84 from a timber company that he owns, and he's counted as a small business. Dick Cheney's counted as a small business. That's how they do things. That's just not right.

MR. BUSH -- I own a timber company? That's news to me. Need some wood?
 Most small businesses are Subchapter S corps, they just are. I met Grant Milliron, Mansfield, Ohio. He's creating jobs. Most -- most small businesses -- 70 percent of the new jobs in America are created by small businesses. His taxes are going up when you run up the top two brackets. It's a fact.

MR. GIBSON -- President Bush, the next question is for you and it comes from Rob Fowler, who I believe is over in this area.

Q. President Bush, 45 days after -- excuse me -- 45 days after 9/11, Congress passed the Patriot Act, which takes away checks on law enforcement and weakens American citizens' rights and freedoms, especially Fourth Amendment rights. With expansion to the Patriot Act and Patriot Act II, my question to you is why are my rights being watered down and my citizens around me, and what is the specific justifications for these reforms?

MR. BUSH -- I appreciate that and I know it's necessary. I can remember being in upstate New York talking to F.B.I. agents that helped bust the Lackawanna cell up there. And they told me they could not have performed their duty, the duty we all expect of them, if they did not have the ability to communicate with each other under the Patriot Act.

MR. GIBSON -- Senator Kerry, a minute and a half.

MR. KERRY -- Former Governor Roscoe, as chairman of the Republican Party, said he thought that the Patriot Act has to be changed and fixed. Congressman Jim Sensenbrenner, he's the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, said over his dead body before it gets renewed without being thoroughly rechecked. A whole bunch of folks in America are concerned about the way the Patriot Act has been applied. In fact, the inspector general of the Justice Department found that John Ashcroft had twice applied it in ways that were inappropriate.
 People's rights have been abused. I met a man who spent eight months in prison, wasn't even allowed to call his lawyer, wasn't allowed to. Finally, Senator Dick Durbin of Illinois intervened and was able to get him out. This is in our country folks, the United States of America. They've got sneak-and-peek searches that are allowed. They've got people allowed to go into churches now and political meetings without any showing of potential criminal activity or otherwise. 
 Now I voted for the Patriot Act; 99 United States senators voted for it. And the president's been very busy running around the country using what I just described to you as a reason to say I'm wishy-washy, that I'm flip-flopper. Now that's not a flip-flop. I believe in the Patriot Act. We need the things in it that coordinate the F.B.I. and the C.I.A. We need to be stronger on terrorism. But you know what, we also need to do as Americans is never let the terrorists change the Constitution of the United States in a way that disadvantages our rights. 

MR. GIBSON -- Senator Kerry, the next question is for you, and it comes from Elizabeth Long.

Q. Senator Kerry, thousands of people have already been cured or treated by the use of adult stem cells or umbilical-cord stem cells. However, no one has been cured by using embryonic stem cells. Wouldn't it be wise to use stem cells obtained without the destruction of an embryo?

MR. KERRY -- You know, Elizabeth, I really respect your, the feeling that's in your question. I understand it. I know the morality that's prompting that question and I respect it enormously.
 But like Nancy Reagan and so many other people -- you know, I was at a forum with Michael J. Fox the other day in New Hampshire, who's suffering from Parkinson's. And he wants us to do stem cell, embryonic stem cell. And this fellow stood up and he was quivering. His whole body was shaking from the nerve disease, the muscular disease that he had. And he said to me and to the whole hall, he said, you know, don't take away my hope because my hope is what keeps me going.
 Chris Reeves is a friend of mine. Chris Reeves exercises every single day to keep those muscles alive for the day when he believes he can walk again. And I want him to walk again.
 I think we can saves lives. Now I think we can do ethically guided embryonic stem cell research. We have 100,000 to 200,000 embryos that are frozen in nitrogen today from fertility clinics. These weren't taken from abortion or something like that. They're from a fertility clinic. And they're either going to be destroyed or left frozen. 
 And I believe if we have the option, which scientists tell us we do, of curing Parkinson's, curing diabetes, curing some kind of a, you know, paraplegic or quadriplegic or a spinal cord injury, anything, that's the nature of the human spirit. I think it is respecting life to reach for that cure. I think it is respecting life to do it in an ethical way.
 And the president's chosen a policy that makes it impossible for our scientists to do that. I want the future and I think we have to grab it.

MR. GIBSON -- Mr. President, a minute and a half.

MR. BUSH -- Embryonic stem cell research requires the destruction of life to create a stem cell. I'm the first president ever to allow funding, federal funding, for embryonic stem cell research. I did so because I, too, hope that we'll discover cures from the stem cells and from the research derived.
 But I think we've got to be very careful in balancing the ethics and the science. And so I made the decision we wouldn't spend any more money beyond the 70 lines, 22 of which are now in action. Because science is important, but so's ethics. So's balancing life. To destroy life to save life is -- it's one of the real ethical dilemmas that we face. There's going to be hundreds of experiments off the 22 lines that now exist, that are active. And hopefully we find a cure. But as well, we need to continue to pursue adult stem cell research. I helped double the N.I.H. budget to $28 billion a year to find cures and the approach I took is one that I think is a balanced and necessary approach, to balance science and the concerns for life.

MR. GIBSON -- Senator, 30 seconds, let's extend.

MR. KERRY -- Well, you talk about walking a waffle line, he says he's allowed it, which means he's going to allow the destruction of life up to a certain amount and then he isn't going to allow it. Now, I don't know how you draw that line.
 But let me tell you point blank, the lines of stem cells that he's made available, every scientist in the country will tell you not adequate, because they're contaminated by mouse cells and because there aren't 60 or 70. There are only about 11 to 20 now, and there aren't enough to be able to do the research because they're contaminated.
 We've got to open up the possibilities of this research, and when I am president, I'm going to do it.

MR. GIBSON -- Senator.

MR. KERRY -- Because we have to.

MR. GIBSON -- Mr President.

Mr. Bush Let me make sure you understand my decision. Those stem cell lines already existed. The embryo had already been destroyed prior to my decision. I had to make the decision do we destroy more life, do we continue to destroy life. I made the decision to balance science and ethics.

MR. GIBSON -- Mr. President, the next question is for you, and it comes from Jonathan Michaelson over here.

Q. Mr. President, if there were a vacancy in the Supreme Court and you had the opportunity to fill that position today, who do you choose and why?

MR. BUSH -- I'm not telling. I really don't have, haven't picked anybody yet. Plus I want them all voting for me. I would pick somebody who would not allow their personal opinion to get in the way of the law. I would pick somebody who would strictly interpret the Constitution of the United States.
 Uh, let me give you a couple of examples I guess of the kind of person I wouldn't pick. I wouldn't pick a judge who said that the Pledge of Allegiance couldn't be said in a school because it had the words 'under God'' in it. I think that's an example of a judge allowing personal opinion to enter into the decision-making process, as opposed to strict interpretation of the Constitution. Another example would be the Dred Scott case, which is where judges years ago said that the Constitution allowed slavery because of personal property rights. That's personal opinion. That's not what the Constitution says. The Constitution of the United States says we're all -- you know, it doesn't say that. It doesn't speak to the equality of America. 
 And so I would pick people that would be strict constructionists. We've got plenty of lawmakers in Washington, D.C. Legislators make law. Judges interpret the Constitution. And I suspect one of us will have a pick at the end of next year, next four years. And that's the kind of judge I'm going to put on there. No litmus test except for how they interpret the Constitution. Thank you.

MR. GIBSON -- Senator Kerry, a minute and a half.

MR. KERRY -- Thank you, Charlie.
 A few years ago, when he came to office, the president said, these are his words: What we need are some good conservative judges on the courts. And he said also that his two favorite justices are Justice Scalia and Justice Thomas. So you get a pretty good sense of where he's heading if he were to appoint somebody. 
 Now, here's what I believe. I don't believe we need a good conservative judge and I don't believe we need a good liberal judge. I don't believe we need a good judge of that kind of definition on either side. I subscribe to the Justice Potter Stewart standard. He was a justice on the Supreme Court of the United States. And he said the mark of a good judge, a good justice, is that when you're reading their decision, their opinion, you can't tell if it's written by a man or woman, a liberal or a conservative, a Muslim, a Jew or a Christian. You just know you're reading a good judicial decision. 
 What I want to find if I am privileged to have the opportunity to do it and the Supreme Court of the United States is at stake in this race, ladies and gentlemen, the future of things that matter to you in terms of civil rights: what kind of Justice Department you'll have, whether we'll enforce the law. Will we have equal opportunity? Will women's rights be protected? Will we have equal pay for women, which is going backwards? Will a woman's right to choose be protected? These are our constitutional rights. 
 And I want to make sure we have judges who interpret the Constitution of the United States according to the law. 

MR. GIBSON -- Going to go to the final two questions now, and the first one will be for Senator Kerry, and this comes from Sarah Degenheart.

Q. Senator Kerry, suppose you're speaking with a voter who believed abortion is murder, and the voter asked for reassurance that his or her tax dollars would not go to support abortion, what would you say to that person?

MR. KERRY -- I would say to that person exactly what I will say to you right now. First of all, I cannot tell you how deeply I respect the belief about life and when it begins. I'm a Catholic -- raised a Catholic. I was an altar boy. Religion has been a huge part of my life, helped lea me through a war, leads me today.
 But I can't take what is an article of faith for me and legislate it for someone who doesn't share that article of faith, whether they be agnostic, atheist, Jew, Protestant, whatever. I can't do that. But I can counsel people, I can talk reasonably about life and about responsibility. I can talk to people, as my wife, Teresa, does, about making other choices and about abstinence and about all these other things that we ought to do as a responsible society. But as a president, I have to represent all the people in the nation and I have to make that judgment.
 Now I believe that you can take that position and not be pro-abortion. But you have to afford people their constitutional rights. And that means being smart about allowing people to be fully educated, to know what their options are in life and making certain that you don't deny a poor person the right to be able to have whatever the Constitution affords them if they can't afford it otherwise.
 That's why I think it's important. That's why I think it's important for the United States, for instance, not to have this rigid ideological restriction on helping families around the world to be able to make a smart decision about family planning. You'll help prevent AIDS. You'll help prevent unwanted children, unwanted pregnancies. You'll actually do a better job, I think, of passing on the moral responsibility that is expressed in your question. And I truly respect it.

MR. GIBSON -- Mr. President, minute and a half.

MR. BUSH -- Trying to decipher that. My answer is we're not going to spend federal -- taxpayers' money on abortion. I -- this is an issue that divides America. But certainly reasonable people can agree on how to reduce abortions in America. I signed the partial-birth -- the ban on partial-birth abortion. It's a brutal practice. That's one way to help reduce abortions. My opponent voted against the ban.
 I think there ought to be parental-notification laws. He's against them. I signed a bill called the Unborn Victims of Violence Act. In other words, if you're a mom and you're pregnant and you get killed, the murder gets tried for two cases, not just one. My opponent was against that.
 These are reasonable ways to help promote a culture of life in America. I think it is a worthy goal in America to have every child protected by law and welcomed in life. I also think we ought to continue to have good adoption law as an alternative to abortion. And we need to promote maternity group homes, which my administration has done. Culture of life is really important for a country to have if it's going to be a hospitable society. Thank you. 

MR. GIBSON -- Senator, you want to follow up, 30 seconds?

MR. KERRY -- Well, again, the president just said categorically my opponent's against this, my opponents against that. You know, it's just not that simple. No, I'm not. I'm against the partial-birth abortion, but you've got to have an exception for the life of the mother and the health of the mother under the strictest test of bodily injury to the mother.
 Secondly, with respect to parental notification, I'm not going to require a 16- or 17-year-old kid who's been raped by her father and who's pregnant to have to notify her father. So you've got to have a judicial intervention. And because they didn't have a judicial intervention where she could go somewhere and get help, I voted against it. It's never quite as simple as the president wants you to believe. 

MR. GIBSON -- And 30 seconds, Mr. President.

MR. BUSH -- It's pretty simple when they say are you for a ban on partial-birth abortion? Yes or no. And he was given a chance to vote. And he voted no. And that's just the way it is. That's the vote. It came right up. It's clear for everybody to see. And as I said, you can run but you can't hide. It's reality.

MR. GIBSON -- And the final question of the evening will be addressed to President Bush, and it will come from Linda Grabel. Linda Grabel's over here.

MR. BUSH -- You put a head fake on us.

MR. GIBSON -- I got faked out myself.

MR. BUSH -- Hi, Linda.

Q. President Bush, during the last four years, you have made thousands of decisions that have affected millions of lives. Please give three instances in which you came to realize you had made a wrong decision and what you did to correct it. Thank you.

MR. BUSH -- I -- I have made a lot of decisions and some of them little, like appointments to boards you've never heard of, and some of them big. And in a war there's a lot of -- there's a lot of tactical decisions that historians will look back and say, he shouldn't have done that, he shouldn't have made that decision. And I'll take responsibility for them. I'm human.
 But on the big questions, about whether or not we should have gone into Afghanistan, the big question about whether we should have removed somebody in Iraq -- I'll stand by those decisions because I think they're right. It's really what your -- when they ask about the mistakes, that's what they're talking about. They're trying to say, did you make a mistake going into Iraq? And the answer is absolutely not. It was the right decision.
 The Duelfer report confirmed that decision today because what Saddam Hussein was doing was trying to get rid of sanctions so he could reconstitute a weapons program and the biggest threat facing America is terrorists with weapons of mass destruction. We knew he hated us. We knew he'd been -- invaded other countries. We knew he tortured his own people. 
 On the tax cut, it's a big decision. I did the right decision. Our recession was one of the shallowest in modern history.
 Now you ask what mistakes. I've made some mistakes in appointing people, but I'm not going to name them. I don't want to hurt their feelings on national TV.
 But history will look back and I'm fully prepared to accept any mistakes that history judges to my administration. Because the president makes the decisions, the president has to take the responsibility.

MR. GIBSON -- Senator Kerry, a minute and a half.

MR. KERRY -- I believe the president made a huge mistake, a catastrophic mistake, not to live up to his own standard, which was build a true global coalition, give the inspectors time to finish their job and go through the U.N. process to its end. And go to war as a last resort.
 I ask each of you just to look into your hearts, look into your guts -- gut-check time. Was this really going to war as a last resort? 
 The president rushed our nation to war without a plan to win the peace. And simple things weren't done. That's why Senator Lugar says, incompetent in the delivery of services. That's why Senator Hagel, Republican, says, you know, beyond pitiful, beyond embarrassing, in the zone of dangerous. 
 We didn't guard 850,000 tons of ammo. That ammo is now being used against our kids. 
 Ten thousand out of 12,000 Humvees aren't armored. I've visited some of those kids with no limbs today because they didn't have the armor in those vehicles. They didn't have the right body armor. I've met parents who, on the Internet, gotten the armor to send their kids. 
 There's no bigger judgment for a president of the United States than how you take a nation to war. And you can't say because Saddam might have done it 10 years from now, that's a reason. That's an excuse. 

MR. GIBSON -- Mr. President?

MR. BUSH -- Complains about the fact our troops don't have adequate equipment, yet he voted against the $87 billion supplemental I sent to the Congress. And then issued one of the most amazing quotes in political history: ''I actually did vote for the $87 billion before I voted against it.'' Saddam Hussein was a risk to our country, Ma'am. And he was a risk that -- and this is where we just have a difference of opinion. The truth of the matter is if you listen carefully, Saddam would still be in power, if he were the president of the United States. And the world would be a lot better off.

MR. GIBSON -- And Senator Kerry, 30 seconds.

MR. KERRY -- Not necessarily be in power, but here's what I'll say about the $87 billion. I made a mistake in the way I talked about it. He made a mistake in invading Iraq. Which is a worse decision? Now I voted the way I voted because I saw that he had the policy wrong. And I wanted accountability. I didn't want to give a slush fund to Halliburton. I also thought the wealthiest people in America ought to pay for it, ladies and gentlemen. He wants your kids to pay for it. I wanted us to pay for it, since we're at war. I don't think that's a bad decision.

MR. GIBSON -- That's going to conclude the questioning. We're going to go now to closing statements. Two minutes from each candidate. And the first closing statement goes to Senator Kerry. I believe that was the agreement.

MR. BUSH -- Go ahead. Actually -- --

MR. KERRY -- You want to go first?

MR. BUSH -- Either way.

MR. KERRY -- Thank you. Charlie, thank you. And thank you all. Thank you all of you for taking part. Thanks for your questions tonight very, very much.
 Obviously the president and I both have very strong convictions. I respect him for that. But we have a very different view about how to make America stronger and safer.
 I will never cede the authority of our country or our security to any other nation. I'll never give a veto over American security to any other entity -- not a nation, not a country, not an institution.
 But I know, as I think you do, that our country is strongest when we lead the world, when we lead strong alliances. And that's the way Eisenhower and Reagan and Kennedy and others did it. We are not doing that today. We need to.
 I have a plan that will help us go out and kill and find the terrorists. And I will not stop in our effort to hunt down and kill the terrorists. 
 But I also have a better plan on how we're going to deal with Iraq: training the Iraqi forces more rapidly, getting our allies back to the table, with a fresh start, with new credibility, with a president whose judgment the rest of the world trusts.
 In addition to that, I believe we have a crisis here at home -- a crisis of the middle class that is increasingly squeezed, health care costs going up. I have a plan to provide health care to all Americans. I have a plan to provide for our schools so we keep the standards, that we help our teachers teach and elevate our schools by funding No Child Left Behind. I have a plan to protect the environment so that we leave this place in better shape to our children than we were handed it by our parents. That's the test.
 I believe America's best days are ahead of us. I'm an optimist. But we have to make the right choices -- to be fiscally responsible and to create the new jobs of the future. We can do this. And I ask you for the privilege of leading our nation to be stronger at home and respected again in the world. Thank you.

MR. GIBSON -- Senator. And a closing statement from President Bush.

MR. BUSH -- Charlie, thanks. Thank you all very much. It's been enjoyable.
 The great contest for the presidency is about the future. Who can lead? Who can get things done? 
 We've been through a lot together as a country. Been through a recession, corporate scandals, war. And yet think about where we are. Added 1.9 million new jobs for the past 13 months. The farm income in America's high. Small businesses are flourishing. Home ownership rate is at an all-time high in America. We're on the move. 
 Tonight, I had a chance to discuss with you what to do to keep this economy going. Keep the taxes low. Don't increase the scope of the federal government. Keep regulations down, legal reform, a health care policy that does not empower the federal government but empowers individuals and an energy plan that'll help us become less dependent on foreign sources of energy. 
 And abroad, we're at war. And it requires a president who is steadfast and strong and determined. I vowed to the American people after that fateful day of Sept. the 11th that we would not rest nor tire until we're safe. 
 The 9/11 commission put out a report that said America is safer but not yet safe. There's more work to be done. We'll stay on the hunt on Al Qaeda. We'll deny sanctuary to these terrorists. We'll make sure they do not end up with weapons of mass destruction. It's the great nexus. The great threat to our country is that these haters end up with weapons of mass destruction. 
 But our long-term security depends on our deep faith in liberty. We'll continue to promote freedom around the world. Freedom is on the march. Tomorrow, Afghanistan will be voting for a president. An Iraqi will be having free elections. And a free society will make this world more peaceful. God bless.

Q. Mr. President, Senator Kerry, that concludes tonight's debate. I want to give you a reminder that the third and final debate, on issues of domestic policy, will be held next Wednesday, Oct. 13, at Arizona State University in Tempe, Ariz., hosted by Bob Schieffer of CBS News. I want to thank President Bush and Senator Kerry for tonight. I want to thank these citizens of the St. Louis area, who asked the questions, who gave so willingly of their time and who took their responsibility very seriously. Thank you, also, to everyone at Washington. I want to thank everyone at Washington University in St. Louis for being such gracious hosts. I'm Charles Gibson, from ABC News, from St. Louis, good night.


CORRECTION-DATE: October 10, 2004

 CORRECTION:
Three segments of the debate Friday between President Bush and Senator John Kerry were omitted from the transcript in some copies yesterday. A full transcript of the debate is at nytimes.com/corrections. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush, upper left, and John Kerry, right, mingled with the audience last night after their debate ended at Washington University in St. Louis. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (91%); POLITICAL DEBATES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TRANSCRIPTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (77%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (74%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Debating; Election Issues

COMPANY: GALLUP ORGANIZATION (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%) George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (92%) MISSOURI, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2004



203 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: NUMBER OF JOBS ROSE LAST MONTH AT SLUGGISH PACE

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER; Jodi Wilgoren and Terry Aguayo contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
Employment grew by less than 100,000 last month, the Labor Department reported yesterday, well below the level needed to keep pace with the expansion in the labor force and presenting a weak picture of the economy in the last employment report before President Bush faces the voters in his bid for re-election. 
 Though the official unemployment rate, which is based on a different survey, remained unchanged at a relatively low 5.4 percent, that was mostly because some 200,000 people stopped looking for work.
 ''Employment is still on the fairly sluggish side,'' said Ed McKelvey, an economist at Goldman Sachs. ''This grudging labor participation exposes an underlying vulnerability of the economic recovery.'' 
 Many economists argue that presidents have only limited influence on job creation. Moreover, Mr. Bush entered office in 2001, just before the economy started to slide into a recession.
 But the nation's job performance during his term in office is the worst since Herbert Hoover ran for re-election in the depths of the Depression in 1932. [Page C1.] 
 Coming only hours before the second presidential debate, the jobs report drew starkly different interpretations from President Bush and his Democratic challenger, Senator John Kerry.
 The White House hailed it as evidence of continued employment expansion, saying that it validated Mr. Bush's strategy of pursuing tax cuts to support a recovery from the 2001 economic downturn. The Bush campaign brought out a new television ad citing ''nearly two million new jobs'' created since last August as one of ''many reasons to be hopeful about America's future.''
 N. Gregory Mankiw, the president's chief economic adviser, stressed that employment had grown for 13 consecutive months. ''We are not there yet, but we are moving in the right direction,'' Mr. Mankiw said. ''The policies we have in place have been creating jobs.''
 But Senator Kerry dismissed that argument, calling the job numbers disappointing, and pointing out that 1.6 million private sector jobs have been lost since President Bush entered office.
 ''President Bush will be the first president in 72 years to face the electorate with an economy that has lost jobs under his watch,'' Mr. Kerry said in a statement. ''Even over the last year, our economy has failed to create even enough jobs to cover new workers coming into the job market, not to speak of the millions who are unemployed, working in part-time or temporary jobs or who have given up or dropped out.''
 Despite the relatively weak job performance, most economists said they still expected the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates another quarter-point when it meets to set monetary policy in November. 
 With the current employment report, the government released a preliminary annual revision to the employment figures, which increased its estimate of jobs held in March by 236,000. 
 Including these revisions, Mr. Mankiw said, employment had grown by about 1.9 million jobs since August 2003. Yet even taking into account the adjustment, which was less than usual for such revisions, the economy has still lost a total of 585,000 jobs since President Bush took office.
 Whether or not the occupant of the White House can move employment much one way or another, the economy remains a pivotal issue shaping voters' perceptions, and the evidence that job creation continues to be disappointing appears to play to the strength of Mr. Bush's challenger. 
 Earlier this month, a CBS/New York Times poll found that 55 percent of adults thought the economy was in good shape, while 45 rated it as bad. According to an October poll by Gallup, Americans still rate Mr. Kerry as better able to handle the economy than Mr. Bush, by a 51 percent to 44 percent margin. 
 ''Bush hasn't been paying any attention to what is going on here at home,'' said Nina Dyer, 39, an environmental consultant in Sanford, Fla., who has been laid off twice in the last three years. Ms. Dyer, a registered Democrat, said she voted for Mr. Bush in 2000. But now, she said, she would probably vote for Mr. Kerry. 
 Scott Lilly, senior fellow at the Center for American Progress, a liberal research institute, argued that precedent suggested that Mr. Bush would be hurt at the polls by the economy's poor job performance.
 ''Strong employment growth does not guarantee electoral success, but weak employment growth presents a very significant obstacle to electoral success in a presidential election,'' he wrote.
 Assessing the employment situation in September was complicated by the uncertain effects of the four hurricanes that struck the United States in the last two months, devastating parts of Florida and affecting businesses from Texas to the Carolinas.
 ''It's much, much busier than usual, probably three times as busy,'' said Linda Ogle, area manager for Manpower in Port St. Lucie, Fla., one of the area's hardest hit by the hurricanes. ''We're getting requests from people who lost their jobs and others who don't have many opportunities because of the hurricanes.''
 The Bureau of Labor Statistics, which compiles the data, stated that while the impact from the hurricanes was negative, it was probably not big enough to materially change its view of the employment situation.
 Kathleen P. Utgoff, the commissioner of the bureau, argued that the weather cut jobs at companies that were unable to operate or operated at reduced capacity but that other businesses added workers to help the cleanup from the storms.
 Moreover, the lackluster pattern of job creation was consistent with the weak job growth recorded since the end of spring, when a rise in the price of gasoline put a dent in the economic expansion. The bureau also revised downward its estimate of job growth in August, to 128,000 from the 144,000 increase reported earlier, and increased July's figure to 85,000 from 73,000. 
 Since July, the economy has added, on average, only 103,000 jobs a month, a third of them government jobs. Meanwhile, hourly wage gains of production workers have barely kept up with inflation. Last month, hourly wages were up 2.4 percent from a year earlier and weekly hours worked were up 0.2, to 33.8. 
 ''We are nowhere near getting out of the hole we're in,'' said Harry Holzer, a former chief economist of the Labor Department who is now a professor at Georgetown University in Washington.
 In September, an estimated 62.3 percent of the working-age population was employed, two full percentage points below the level at the beginning of the recession in March 2001. That difference represents over 4.5 million people without work.
 The tepid employment figure reinforced concerns about the vigor of the economic expansion. Several economists have pointed out that if payrolls do not improve substantially, the already slowing growth in consumer spending could lose any momentum and put a further brake on the economy.
 ''This is an economic expansion that is still continuing at a very moderate pace,'' said Anthony Chan, senior economist of J.P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management. ''It's likely to continue, but we are very far away from robust economic conditions, and we are not likely to get there soon.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Sluggish Engine''The economy continued to create jobs last month, but at a slow pace.150,000: Average number of jobs that must be created each month to keep pace with population growth, according to economists.Sept. 2004: +96,000Graph tracks monthly change in nonfarm payrolls since recession (2001).(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C4)Chart: ''The Labor Picture in September''UNEMPLOYMENTGraph tracks unemployment rate from October 2003 to September 2004.Civilian unemployment: 5.4 percentBY DEMOGRAPHICWhiteAug.: 4.7%Sept.: 4.7%BlackAug.: 10.4Sept.: 10.3Hispanic*Aug.: 6.9Sept.: 7.1Asian+Aug.: 3.6Sept.: 4.3Men 20 and overAug.: 5.0Sept.: 5.0Women 20 and overAug.: 4.7Sept.: 4.7Teenagers (16-19)Aug.: 17.0Sept.: 16.6OUT OF WORK (millions)TotalAug.: 8.0Sept.: 8.0Lost jobAug.: 3.9Sept.: 4.0Left jobAug.: 0.9Sept.: 0.8Returning to labor marketAug.: 2.4Sept.: 2.4New to labor marketAug.: 6.9Sept.: 6.9'HIDDEN' UNEMPLOYMENT (millions)Working part-time, but want full-time workAug.: 4.5Sept.: 4.4'Marginally attached' workers$SAug.: 1.6Sept.: 1.6EMPLOYMENTGraph tracks employment rate from October 2003 to September 2004.Household survey: 139.5 millionNonfarm payroll survey: 131.6 millionBY TYPE OF WORK (millions)NonfarmAug.: 131.5Sept.: 131.6GoodsAug.: 21.9Sept.: 21.9ServicesAug.: 109.5Sept.: 109.6AgricultureAug.: 2.3Sept.: 2.2SHARE OF POPULATIONEmployedAug.: 62.4%Sept.: 62.3%Labor force (workers and unemployed)Aug.: 66.0Sept.: 65.9Figures are seasonally adjusted except where noted.*Hispanics can be of any race.+Not seasonally adjusted.$SPeople not working but not counted as unemployed because they are not currently looking for work
 must have searched in the last 12 months and been available for work when surveyed. Includes discouraged workers. Not seasonally adjusted.(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (92%); ELECTIONS (91%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); LAYOFFS (79%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (79%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (79%); RECESSION (79%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); GREAT DEPRESSION (76%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (74%); TAX INCENTIVES (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); POLITICAL DEBATES (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (66%); TAX LAW (65%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (64%); MONETARY POLICY (61%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; United States Economy; Taxation; Labor; Unemployment; Presidential Election of 2004

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); JOHN KERRY (89%) Eduardo Porter; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2004



204 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A2-8

Many Israelis Return Home After Sinai Terror Attacks
Thousands of Israelis returned to Israel on foot from Sinai resorts bloodied by the bombings of three tourist resorts, one of the largest and most skillfully executed terrorist attacks on Israelis in many years. At least 29 people are dead, and more than 160 people wounded, but the death toll is expected to rise as rescue workers dig through the rubble of a collapsed section of the Taba Hilton. A1

British Hostage Beheaded
A militant group released a video showing insurgents slicing off the head of a man identified as Kenneth Bigley, the British engineer who was kidnapped last month and later pleaded with the British government to negotiate with his captors. A6

The Bush administration's handling of the report on Saddam Hussein's attempts to purchase weapons and buy influence in the years before the war has angered French officials. The report made assertions that French companies and individuals had enriched themselves through Iraq's efforts. A6

Afghan Blockades for Election
Afghanistan's main roads and cities were closed in a security operation in anticipation of violence during the country's first presidential election. The American-led forces in Afghanistan and the Kabul government took no chances in the light of threats from the Taliban and the militant leader Gulbuddin Hekmatyar. A8

Kenyan Wins Nobel Peace Prize
Wangari Maathai, a Kenyan woman who started an environmental movement in Africa and who has campaigned for women's rights and greater democracy, was announced the winner of the 2004 Nobel Peace Prize. She is the first African woman to win the peace prize. A1

NATIONAL A9-17,20

Bush Defends Iraq Policy; Kerry Critical of Campaign
Senator John Kerry assailed President Bush for a record of soaring deficits, anemic job growth and foreign policy that stirred resentment around the globe in a tense and testy second debate. Mr. Bush derided Mr. Kerry as a liberal whose election would lead to higher taxes and bigger government and would make the United States less safe. A1

House Adopts 9/11 Bill
The House adopted a Republican-sponsored bill that would restructure the nation's intelligence community in response to the recommendations of the Sept. 11 commission. A16

No-Fly Watch List Grew Quickly
The government's list of banned airline passengers has grown from just 16 names on Sept. 11, 2001, to thousands of people, documents and interviews show. A9

Congressional Recess Put Off
Congressional plans to recess until after the elections were scuttled when lawmakers clashed over tax and spending measures that hold political implications. A9

Beliefs A17

ARTS B7-20

OBITUARIES C13

SPORTSSATURDAY D1-8

Red Sox Win Division Series
Boston beat the Anaheim Angels in 10 innings, 8-6, winning an American League division series in three games. They will face the winner of the Yankees-Minnesota Twins series on Oct. 12. D1

The Yankees beat the Twins, 8-3, taking a 2-1 lead in that series. D1

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Two High School Players Charged With Raping a Girl
Two high school varsity football players in Montclair, N.J., 17 and 15 years old, were charged with kidnapping and raping a 15-year-old sophomore schoolmate after forcing her into their car and driving her to a park, the police said. A1

Gotti's Allies Testify
At least three of the five bodies of murder victims the F.B.I. has been digging for in Queens were buried by several of John Gotti's closest associates, according to court testimony and investigators. B1

DNA Testing Leads to Arrest
The New York Police Department, using a federal grant, found the killer of a Bronx woman who was found bludgeoned to death in her apartment a decade ago. It is the first case to yield a DNA match of the 1,500 murder cases reviewed. B3

New Jersey to Cut Spending
New Jersey's treasurer, facing the possibility of a $5 billion budget gap, directed state agencies to prepare to slash spending by 10 percent. B4

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Hopes for Flu Vaccine Doubted
he F.D.A.'s acting commissioner said he was pessimistic that the United States's flu vaccine program could be salvaged this winter. A20

A shortage in flu vaccines has left New York City and State officials scrambling to decide who will have access to treatment. B1

EDUCATION

American Schools on Edge
Revelations that a computer disk found in Iraq had diagrams of some American schools prompted school officials in several states to review security and assure parents. A16

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Weak Job Growth Reported
Employment grew by less than 100,000 last month, the Labor Department reported, well below the level needed to keep pace with the expansion in the labor force and presenting a weak picture of the economy in the last employment report before President Bush faces the voters in his bid for re-election. A1

Sharp Criticism for S.E.C.
A Democratic commissioner at the agency criticized it for bowing to executives who he said had blocked a proposal that would give shareholders more say in selecting board members. C1

Stocks End Week Lower
The Dow dropped 70.20 points, to 10,055.20, 137.45 points below last week's close. The Nasdaq fell 28.55 points, to 1,919.97, 22.23 points below last week's close. C4

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: The town hall debate; an inexplicable vote for death; salmon and science; Verlyn Klinkenborg on cloning a bad idea.

Columns: David Brooks, Nicholas D. Kristof.

Bridge B17
TV Listings B20
Crossword B16
Weather C14

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); ELECTIONS (88%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); NOBEL PRIZES (86%); HUMAN RIGHTS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); RESORTS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); TALIBAN (78%); HOSTAGE TAKING (77%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); WOMEN (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); INTERVIEWS (70%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (64%); FOREIGN POLICY (63%); BASEBALL (61%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); IRAQ (92%); KENYA (92%); FRANCE (92%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2004



205 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: Shares Drop as Jobs Report Produces Sharp Reaction

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Financial markets reacted sharply yesterday to a weaker-than-expected jobs report for September that raised doubts about the economy's strength.
 Bond prices rose, pushing the yield on the Treasury's 10-year note down to 4.13 percent. The three main stock market gauges dropped 0.7 percent or more. The dollar fell 1.6 percent against the yen and 1 percent against the euro. 
 The price of oil exceeded $53 a barrel, another record and a level that could increase concerns about an economic slowdown.
 The government reported that 96,000 new payroll jobs were created in September, below the Wall Street consensus forecast of about 150,000. But the number was not nearly as far off expectations as some other jobs reports from this year.
 Still, some analysts said that the report showed that the economy had not rebounded from what Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, labeled a temporary soft patch this summer.
 The jobs number ''doesn't confirm Greenspan's assertion that the soft patch is behind us,'' said David Gilmore, a partner at Foreign Exchange Analytics in Essex, Conn. ''And suddenly we are beginning to question if we are still in a soft patch and people are skeptical about Greenspan's optimism.''
 Prices in the bond market had been falling since Sept. 30 as some investors took profits after the 10-year yield fell below 4 percent and others worried about the possibility of a stronger-than-expected jobs report. So yesterday's rally may have been, in part, a result of a sell-off that went too far.
 ''I was surprised that everyone got so bearish on the market and equally surprised that a jobs number that doesn't seem that terrible caused a rally,'' said Scott Gewirtz, co-head of government bond trading at Deutsche Bank. ''Sometimes the price action is just hard to explain.''
 The fall in the stock market, which was led by Bank of America, American Express, Intel, Wal-Mart Stores, and eBay, comes just as the reporting season for corporate earnings is getting under way. If executives express new doubts about the business outlook as they announce their results, stocks could fall, even if the third-quarter reports are generally positive.
 General Electric reported yesterday that its earnings rose 38 cents a share in the third quarter, matching Wall Street estimates, but its stock price fell 21 cents, to $33.74. Intel, which reports its earnings next week, fell 69 cents, to $20.55.
 The dollar's fall was not only a response to the jobs report but also to comments from Robert D. McTeer Jr., the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. He said Thursday that the country's record current account deficit, which measures the balance of the country's trade in goods and services with the rest of the world, could lead to a fall in the dollar and a rise in interest rates.
 ''I wasn't trying to convey the idea that it was a clear and present danger,'' he said in a telephone interview yesterday. ''But sooner or later it's going to come to an end that we can have a larger and larger current account deficit.'' 
 In the bond market, the price of the Treasury's 10-year note rose 29/32, to 100 31/32, while the yield, which moves in the opposite direction, fell to 4.13 percent, from 4.24 percent on Thursday.
 The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 70.20 points, or 0.7 percent, to 10,055.20 while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 8.51 points, or 0.8 percent, to 1,122.14. The Nasdaq composite index fell 28.55 points, or 1.5 percent, to 1,919.97. For the week, the Dow was off 1.3 percent, the S.&P. 500 was down 0.8 percent and the Nasdaq dropped 1.1 percent.
 The dollar fell to 109.42 Japanese yen, from 111.19 Thursday. The euro was valued at $1.2418, up from $1.2296 Thursday. From the American point of view, that meant the dollar fell to a value of 0.8o5 euro, from 0.813 euro on Thursday.
 In the crude oil pit of the New York Mercantile Exchange, the price of oil for November delivery rose 64 cents, or 1.2 percent, to $53.31 a barrel.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); BONDS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); US DOLLAR (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); EURO (71%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (60%) Stocks and Bonds; Unemployment; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; United States Economy; Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS (60%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (59%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (59%); WAL-MART STORES INC (52%); INTEL CORP (52%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (52%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (51%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (59%); BAC (LSE) (59%); 8648 (TSE) (59%); DEUT (JSE) (59%); DBK (FRA) (59%); DBK (BIT) (59%); DBETN (JSE) (59%); DBA (ASX) (59%); DB (NYSE) (59%); WMT (NYSE) (52%); INTC (NASDAQ) (52%); AXP (NYSE) (52%); GNE (PAR) (51%); GEC (LSE) (51%); GE (SWX) (51%); GE (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (60%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (60%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (59%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (59%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (59%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (59%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (59%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (59%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (59%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (59%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (52%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (52%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (52%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (78%) Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2004



206 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: The Report That Nails Saddam

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS. 
E-mail: dabrooks@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Saddam Hussein saw his life as an unfolding epic narrative, with retreats and advances, but always the same ending. He would go down in history as the glorious Arab leader, as the Saladin of his day. One thousand years from now, schoolchildren would look back and marvel at the life of The Struggler, the great leader whose life was one of incessant strife, but who restored the greatness of the Arab nation.
 They would look back and see the man who lived by his saying: ''We will never lower our heads as long as we live, even if we have to destroy everybody.'' Charles Duelfer opened his report on Iraqi weapons of mass destruction with those words. For a humiliated people, Saddam would restore pride by any means. 
 Saddam knew the tools he would need to reshape history and establish his glory: weapons of mass destruction. These weapons had what Duelfer and his team called a ''totemic'' importance to him. With these weapons, Saddam had defeated the evil Persians. With these weapons he had crushed his internal opponents. With these weapons he would deter what he called the ''Zionist octopus'' in both Israel and America.
 But in the 1990's, the world was arrayed against him to deprive him of these weapons. So Saddam, the clever one, The Struggler, undertook a tactical retreat. He would destroy the weapons while preserving his capacities to make them later. He would foil the inspectors and divide the international community. He would induce it to end the sanctions it had imposed to pen him in. Then, when the sanctions were lifted, he would reconstitute his weapons and emerge greater and mightier than before.
 The world lacked what Saddam had: the long perspective. Saddam understood that what others see as a defeat or a setback can really be a glorious victory if it is seen in the context of the longer epic.
 Saddam worked patiently to undermine the sanctions. He stored the corpses of babies in great piles, and then unveiled them all at once in great processions to illustrate the great humanitarian horrors of the sanctions. 
 Saddam personally made up a list of officials at the U.N., in France, in Russia and elsewhere who would be bribed. He sent out his oil ministers to curry favor with China, France, Turkey and Russia. He established illicit trading relations with Ukraine, Syria, North Korea and other nations to rebuild his arsenal. 
 It was all working. He acquired about $11 billion through illicit trading. He used the oil-for-food billions to build palaces. His oil minister was treated as a ''rock star,'' as the report put it, at international events, so thick was the lust to trade with Iraq.
 France, Russia, China and other nations lobbied to lift sanctions. Saddam was, as the Duelfer report noted, ''palpably close'' to ending sanctions.
 With sanctions weakening and money flowing, he rebuilt his strength. He contacted W.M.D. scientists in Russia, Belarus, Bulgaria and elsewhere to enhance his technical knowledge base. He increased the funds for his nuclear scientists. He increased his military-industrial-complex's budget 40-fold between 1996 and 2002. He increased the number of technical research projects to 3,200 from 40. As Duelfer reports, ''Prohibited goods and weapons were being shipped into Iraq with virtually no problem.''
 And that is where Duelfer's story ends. Duelfer makes clear on the very first page of his report that it is a story. It is a mistake and a distortion, he writes, to pick out a single frame of the movie and isolate it from the rest of the tale.
 But that is exactly what has happened. I have never in my life seen a government report so distorted by partisan passions. The fact that Saddam had no W.M.D. in 2001 has been amply reported, but it's been isolated from the more important and complicated fact of Saddam's nature and intent.
 But we know where things were headed. Sanctions would have been lifted. Saddam, rich, triumphant and unbalanced, would have reconstituted his W.M.D. Perhaps he would have joined a nuclear arms race with Iran. Perhaps he would have left it all to his pathological heir Qusay. 
 We can argue about what would have been the best way to depose Saddam, but this report makes it crystal clear that this insatiable tyrant needed to be deposed. He was the menace, and, as the world dithered, he was winning his struggle. He was on the verge of greatness. We would all now be living in his nightmare. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (74%); CHILDREN (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (70%); TERRORISM (69%); POLITICS (66%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (64%); LOBBYING (61%) Atomic Weapons; Biological and Chemical Warfare ; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Terrorism; Politics and Government

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (93%) David Brooks; Saddam Hussein; Charles Duelfer

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%); FRANCE (90%); TURKEY (79%); ISRAEL (79%); UKRAINE (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); SYRIA (79%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2004



207 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE CONTEXT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: Under Fire, Firing Back

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

 BODY:
Halfway through last night's debate, President Bush declared: ''The best way to defend America in this world we live in is to stay on the offense,'' but he spent much of the evening on the defensive against John Kerry's unyielding accusations that he had mishandled the war in Iraq and the American economy.
 At the outset, Mr. Bush seemed a bit strident and on edge, as if over-eager to avoid a repetition of his pained performance eight days ago. But he appeared to gain comfort as the encounter wore on, sounding considerably more confident and collected than he did last week. He strolled the stage, microphone in hand and characterized Mr. Kerry as ''just not credible.'' 
 But as often as not, it was Mr. Kerry who was on the offensive on topics like tax cuts in wartime, prescription drug imports, the ballooning deficit, homeland security, the rationale for the war in Iraq and the daunting conditions on the ground there that he said had led to a ''back-door draft'' of National Guard and Reserve troops.
 Mr. Kerry generally seemed to be more in command of his brief, more confident in demeanor and more intent than Mr. Bush to reach across partisan boundaries as he invoked the leadership of Ronald Reagan and Dwight D. Eisenhower and talked of the importance of balancing budgets. Mr. Bush seemed more content to play to his conservative base. 
 Like a pair of big cats circling each other in their red-carpeted arena, Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry fielded succinct questions from uncommitted voters , and from start to finish they seemed barely able to hide their distaste for each other and their differing views on foreign and domestic issues, including stem cell research and the selection of new justices to the Supreme Court.
 Loosed from the anchor of the lectern he often leaned on last week, Mr. Bush addressed members of the live audience by name and the television cameras directly, doing his best to suppress the frowns and squints so widely remarked on in his last performance. He declined an offer to list three mistakes he had made in office, but offered a fresh formulation in defense of his decision to invade Iraq, insisting, ''Sometimes in this world you make unpopular decisions because you think they're right.''
 If Mr. Kerry's task last week was to show himself as a plausible alternative to Mr. Bush as commander in chief, last night he strived to show that he could be an acceptable television presence in the living rooms of viewers -- and voters. He, too, addressed his questioners by name, and accused Mr. Bush of using the campaign as a ''weapon of mass deception'' to attack his character and record unfairly, and of pursuing policies that have left the world ''more dangerous today.''
 ''He wants you to believe that I can't be president,'' Mr. Kerry said, ''and he's trying to make you believe it because he wants you to think I changed my mind. Well, let me tell you straight up: I've never changed my mind about Iraq.'' Mr. Kerry added that he, too, had believed Saddam Hussein posed a threat, and was prepared to use force if necessary, but added: ''I would have used that authority wisely, not rushed to war without a plan to win the peace.''
 Unlike their first debate, which produced a sharp swing in national polls to Mr. Kerry's advantage, their exchange last night seemed more apt to reinforce the views of each man's supporters, while offering undecided voters some fresh context and insight into their divergent policies and personalities.
 Both men recycled lines from their stump speeches, but some of Mr. Bush's seemed to fall flat without the supportive applause he can count on at partisan rallies. 
 Asked late in the debate whether he could assure people who believe abortion is murder that their tax dollars would not support it, Mr. Kerry spoke in personal terms about his faith as a Roman Catholic, but never gave a direct answer. By contrast, Mr. Bush declared, ''My answer is that we're not going to spend taxpayer money on abortion.''
 Again, despite rules limiting them from questioning each other directly, the candidates produced real exchanges. After Mr. Kerry accused him of diverting attention from the war in Afghanistan and the hunt for Osama bin Laden in order to attack Saddam Hussein, Mr. Bush had a crisp rejoinder.
 ''It's a fundamental misunderstanding to say that the war on terror is only Osama bin Laden,'' Mr. Bush said. ''The war on terror is to make sure that these terrorist organizations do not end up with weapons of mass destruction. That's what the war on terror is about. Of course we are going to find Osama bin Laden.''
 Mr. Kerry's rebuttals were equally brisk and dismissive. After Mr. Bush insisted, ''We're not going to have a draft so long as I'm the president,'' Mr. Kerry shot back: ''Our Guard and Reserves have been turned into almost active duty. You've got people doing two and three rotations. You've got stop-loss policies so people can't get out when they were supposed to. You've got a back-door draft right now.''
 After Mr. Bush insisted that he had listened to his generals and supplied all the troops they sought in Iraq, Mr. Kerry countered, ''Military's job is to win the war; president's job is to win the peace.'' 
 One theme that emerged again and again was the gulf between Mr. Bush's stated aspirations for Iraq and the domestic economy and Mr. Kerry's grim, unsparing summary of the week's headlines about both. 
 Since their last debate, a report from the administration's own chief weapons inspector found that Iraq possessed no chemical and biological stockpiles when the war began, and the latest employment figures released yesterday confirmed Mr. Bush's status as the first president since Herbert Hoover to face re-election with fewer Americans at work than when he first won.
 Polls since the last debate have shown a razor-close race, and at least one new poll -- by Time magazine -- has Mr. Kerry at last trumping Mr. Bush on likeability, the factor on which the Democrat has generally lagged all year. Last night, Mr. Kerry insisted at one point that Mr. Bush ''promises you more of the same over the next four years.''
 In his own way, Mr. Bush acknowledged as much, saying that while he might have made some tactical errors or bad appointments, he had no regrets about his biggest decisions.
 ''History will look back, and I'm fully prepared to accept any mistakes that history judges to my administration, because the president makes the decisions, the president has to take the responsibility.''
 History's judgment is a ways off. The voters' will come in just over three weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (88%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); BUDGETS (77%); TERRORISM (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (68%); TAX LAW (68%); ARMED FORCES (66%); CATS (64%); CONSERVATISM (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (62%); SUPREME COURTS (62%); PHARMACEUTICALS TRADE (53%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (53%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (50%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Debating; Public Opinion; Terrorism; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOHN KERRY (79%) Todd S Purdum; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2004



208 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR: DIPLOMACY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: Report on Iraq Arms Deals Angers France and Others

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 8 

 BODY:
The Bush administration's handling this week of a report on Saddam Hussein's attempts to purchase weapons and buy influence has angered French officials and set back a year of American efforts to repair the rupture caused by the Iraq war, French and other European officials said Friday.
 The anger of France and others is focused on the assertions in the report by Charles A. Duelfer, the top American arms inspector in Iraq, that French companies and individuals, some with close ties to the government, enriched themselves through Iraq's efforts to gain influence around the world in the years before the war.
 Administration spokesmen said Friday that there was no intent in releasing the report to endorse its findings or blame France or any other country for corruption, or to link any alleged corruption to that country's subsequent opposition to the war in Iraq.
 On the other hand, Vice President Dick Cheney and others in the administration are citing the Duelfer report as evidence that Mr. Hussein had sought to corrupt foreign countries in order to have sanctions on Iraq lifted. Although Mr. Cheney did not say so directly, French officials say it was obvious that he was referring to France and other countries that had opposed the war. 
 French officials say that the report's charges, based on documents and interviews in Iraq, have been denied in the past, but that Mr. Duelfer's report did not contain the denials. They also complain that France was not given more than one day's notice before the report was issued.
 They were incensed that the report also mentioned Americans in connection with similar charges but that unlike the French they were not identified because of American privacy regulations.
 ''You protect American citizens, but you put in danger a number of private citizens in other countries who may be innocent people,'' said Jean-David Levitte, the French ambassador to the United States. ''These names are from an old list, published months ago, and those mentioned denied it flatly.''
 A European diplomat said the damage to French-American relations was so great that it could disrupt a new spirit of cooperation with France on other fronts, namely the joint American and European efforts to put pressure on Iran to dismantle its suspected nuclear weapons program and to organize an international conference next month on Iraq. 
 ''This report does great damage,'' Mr. Levitte said. ''There really is a sense of outrage in Paris. We don't want to create a situation that will put us back to one year ago. But these are dirty tricks at the expense of France, with the White House putting the finger on the name of France.'' Mr. Duelfer's main conclusion -- that Iraq did not have unconventional weapons when the Bush administration was charging that it had them -- got the most publicity when the 918-page report was issued.
 But the administration highlighted charges that under Mr. Hussein, Iraq was successful in circumventing the sanctions placed on it by the United Nations by purchasing conventional weapons with money siphoned fraudulently from a program authorized by the United Nations in 1996, allowing Iraq to sell oil and use the revenue for food, medicine and other human necessities.
 To curry favor around the world, Iraq set up a system in which some individuals and companies were able to profit by manipulating the oil-for-food program. Among those enriched in this process, the report said, were French, Russian and other officials.
 Administration spokesmen said Friday that the United States did not endorse the allegations that anyone was enriched by Iraq's practices, only that Iraq was trying to buy influence and weaken sanctions.
 ''It doesn't say that those transactions were completed,'' said Richard A. Boucher, the State Department spokesman. ''It doesn't say whether or not governments intervened. It doesn't say whether or not the individuals declined. It doesn't really say what happened.''
 But that was not the tone adopted by Mr. Cheney and other officials caught up in President Bush's tough re-election campaign. In Florida on Thursday, Mr. Cheney said Mr. Hussein had used oil funds to corrupt ''some employees of the United Nations as well as other governments in the hopes that they would work with him to undermine the sanctions.''
 A day before releasing the Duelfer report, the State Department called in officials from several embassies in Washington to give them a preview. That meeting itself stirred anger, according to those who attended. ''We were not given the text of the report,'' said a diplomat from a country other than France. ''We were directed to the C.I.A. Web site, and we couldn't download it,'' because the site was swamped.
 Mr. Levitte said he had called top officials at the White House and the State Department to protest ''in very strong terms that I considered this very unfair and not good behavior from a great democracy, to protect your own citizens and give publicity to others in the Web site of the C.I.A.''
 He said the officials had ''noted with some embarrassment that I had a point.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORRUPTION (90%); ARMS TRADE (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); DISARMAMENT (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (68%); TERRORISM (60%) Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Privacy; Atomic Weapons; Biological and Chemical Warfare

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (88%); DICK CHENEY (73%) Steven R Weisman; Charles Duelfer

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (73%) UNITED STATES (99%); FRANCE (98%); IRAQ (94%); EUROPE (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) Iraq; France; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2004



209 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 9, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 355 words

HEADLINE: G.E.'s Earnings Rise 11%, Driven by Surge in Orders

BYLINE: AP

DATELINE: FAIRFIELD, Conn., Oct. 8 

 BODY:
The General Electric Company's third-quarter earnings rose 11 percent and revenue jumped 15 percent as a rebounding economy and acquisitions drove a sharp increase in orders, the company said Friday.
 G.E. -- the industrial, financial services and media conglomerate -- said it earned $4.05 billion, or 38 cents a share, in the period, up from $3.65 billion, or 36 cents a share, a year ago. Revenue for the quarter was $38.3 billion, up from $33.4 billion a year ago. 
 The results matched the consensus estimate of 38 cents a share of analysts surveyed by Thomson Financial.
 ''The economy we see continues to be very strong, with our total orders for the quarter up 27 percent,'' said Jeffrey R. Immelt, G.E.'s chairman and chief executive. ''Eight of our 11 businesses delivered at least double-digit earnings growth with continued strong performance on cash flow from operating activities.''
 Excluding acquisitions, industrial sales rose 12 percent.
 G.E. forecast earnings for the year of $1.57 to $1.60 a share, the high end of its previous range. Analysts expected earnings of $1.58 a share for this year and $1.78 a share for 2005.
 During a conference call with analysts, Mr. Immelt said, ''We also remain confident we will achieve 10 to 15 percent earnings per share growth in 2005.''
 Jeffrey M. Graff, research analyst with Victory Capital Management, which owns G.E. stock, said: ''That should aid investor confidence in the stock. The company's relative growth rate should really start to pick up in 2005.''
 But G.E. shares were unable to hang onto early gains Friday, falling 21 cents, to $33.74 on the New York Stock Exchange, but still trading near their 52-week high of $34.57.
 Profit jumped 24 percent, to $536 million, at the NBC television network on strong ratings for the Summer Olympics. G.E.'s newly acquired Universal television and entertainment businesses accounted for more than $140 million of those profits, G.E. said.
 G.E.'s health care business and transportation orders were also strong, but profits were down for the insurance and energy units. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (93%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); CASH FLOW (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); EXECUTIVES (68%); NETWORK TELEVISION (66%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (66%); HEALTH CARE (64%); CONFERENCE CALLS (51%); OLYMPICS (50%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (50%) Company Reports 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (94%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (81%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (71%); VICTORY CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (54%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: General Electric Co

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (94%); GEC (LSE) (94%); GE (SWX) (94%); GE (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (81%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (81%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (54%); SIC6091 NONDEPOSIT TRUST FACILITIES (54%)

PERSON: JEFFREY IMMELT (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2004



210 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: Pulling Back a Curtain On Hedge Funds

BYLINE: By PAUL B. BROWN

 BODY:
IT seemed like a good idea. 
 Two Wall Street refugees would set up shop in a dumpy office over an arts store near Silicon Valley. Their plan was to invest money for the superrich, becoming wealthy themselves in the process.
 But these two men, Andy Kessler and Fred Kittler, didn't foresee a number of quirks along the way when they created their company, Velocity Capital Management, in the mid-1990's. The lessons they learned are recounted by Mr. Kessler in a new book, ''Running Money: Hedge Fund Honchos, Monster Markets and My Hunt for the Big Score'' (HarperBusiness, $24.95). 
 Some of the stories in the book deal with personalities. One is about a billionaire who begged them to reconsider when he was shut out of a deal -- which involved a company that ended up being called Netscape.
 Another describes how the managers were asked to put their money into developing software intended to allow anyone to play the piano perfectly. The inventor's primary credential was that he was an Elvis impersonator.
 The bumps along the path to riches, as described by Mr. Kessler, give the book a seemingly endless string of humorous stories about hedge funds -- sophisticated, unregulated mutual funds that have generally been open only to wealthy investors.
 ''The first rule of investing is never to buy something because someone else tells you to,'' Mr. Kessler writes. ''Of course, I spent 10 years of my life as a Wall Street analyst telling people they should buy stuff,'' he adds. ''God, I hope no one listened.'' He says he and his partner came at their decisions from another angle, spending much of their five years at the fund visiting the management of companies in which they were considering investments.
 In fact, the book's tone is so engaging and the stories come so fast that they almost obscure what Mr. Kessler has accomplished here. 
 First, he pulls back the curtain on the world of hedge funds, in which a minimum investment of $1 million is often required and the fund managers, in lieu of fixed salaries, annually receive 1 percent of the money under management and 20 percent of the profits. He also lays out a rational framework for long-term investing, and provides context for the technological revolution's place in economic history.
 The investment strategy is particularly interesting because Mr. Kessler's fund was an aberration. It was intended to hold stocks for a long time -- in a world where his competitors would buy or sell equities based on moves of a quarter-point and would engage in currency swaps and anything else to increase returns.
 This relatively conservative approach was one way for the fund to differentiate itself from the pack. Another was its choice of investments.
 Given Mr. Kessler's background, the focus of the fund was on technology stocks. In the early 1980's, he spent five years at Bell Labs as a chip designer and programmer before becoming an electronics and semiconductor analyst at PaineWebber and, later, Morgan Stanley. 
 But instead of finding companies that had created breakthrough technology, Mr. Kessler's goal was to find companies that could exploit it. 
 That is where real wealth has been made throughout history, Mr. Kessler writes. It wasn't James Watt, the inventor of the steam engine, who became very rich from it. It was the people who figured out how to use the engine efficiently to power steamships, railroads and factories.
 Money can be made in betting on the commercialization of new ideas, Mr. Kessler says, whether you are running a hedge fund or investing for your retirement. 
 His fund made successful investments in Inktomi, the search company eventually acquired by Yahoo; RealNetworks, the maker of media-playing software; and Silicon Image, a digital media company. 
 Equally important, from the perspective of its shareholders, Mr. Kessler and his partner decided to go out of business just before the technology bubble burst. Unlike most investors, they sensed that the valuations were absurd.
 ''We'd just seen the list from the folks that track hedge funds -- our 377 percent gain in 1999 made us the fourth-best hedge fund for the year,'' he writes. ''We are on our way to being up 40 percent for the first quarter of 2000, our sixth quarter of big gains in a row. It is just too bizarre to be believed.'' 
 As a result of their decision to start closing the fund, they produced 55 percent annual returns -- and all the war stories -- over the fund's life.
 STILL, the book does have its flaws. Because the narrative constantly jumps forward and back, it is hard to get a clear understanding of how quickly the fund grew. (It eventually had $1 billion in assets that could be invested.)
 Terms are not always defined the first time around. In the first half of the book, for example, Mr. Kessler discusses why his fund doesn't ''short,'' a fairly common hedge fund strategy in which managers bet that a given stock will decline in price. 
 When you ''go short,'' you borrow shares and sell them, hoping that you can replace them later at a lower price. The difference between what you received for selling the borrowed shares and what you have to pay to replace them, is your profit. But shorting is not explained until the second half of the book.
 And if you don't already have a deep grounding in both the Industrial Revolution and the technology boom, you may find it hard to keep up with the discussion as the book tries to describe how the current technology revolution is consistent with what has come before.
 But none of these things distract from the central point. Mr. Kessler has written an entertaining business book, in which it is more than possible to learn something. That is a rare combination.


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (93%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); LITERATURE (78%); BONDS (78%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (53%) Stocks and Bonds; Reviews; Books and Literature; Hedge Funds

PERSON: Paul B Brown; Andy Kessler; Fred Kittler

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004



211 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 305 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Yankees Win, and a Rivalry Is Renewed
Ruben Sierra, center, capped an eighth-inning rally with a three-run homer, and the Yankees beat Minnesota, 6-5, in 11 innings. The Yankees face Boston again in the American League Championship Series, starting Tuesday. In the National League, Houston took a 2-1 lead in its division series, and Los Angeles cut its deficit to 2-1. SPORTSSUNDAY

Crash of Charter Bus Kills 15 in Arkansas
A bus traveling from Chicago to a casino in Tunica, Miss., crashed in Marion, Ark., leaving at least 15 people dead. The dead included the brother and wife of the owner of the tour bus company. PAGE 22

Australian Leader Re-elected
Prime Minister John Howard, backed by a good-luck message from President Bush, was decisively re-elected. Iraq loomed, but the crux was the economy. PAGE 16

Seeing Votes in DeLay's Woes
Democrats hope Congressional candidates will benefit from ethics scoldings delivered to the House majority leader, Tom DeLay. PAGE 34

Survivors' Uganda Reunion
Eight years ago, rebels in Uganda raided a school and kidnapped 139 girls during a civil war that has raged for 18 years. But some of the girls have managed to escape. PAGE 8

Battling Over Gambling
Two ballot proposals to expand gambling in California are facing expensive fights. But even if they fail, casino-style gambling will remain one of the fastest-growing industries in the state, with net revenue approaching $6 billion a year. PAGE 22

SPECIAL TODAY
T: Modern Baroque
The fall 2004 design issue of The Times Style Magazine looks at the influence of traditional decoration on contemporary interiors and products, from a New York apartment to a plastic table lamp.

Mutual Funds Report
A prosperous run for mutual funds ended in the third quarter. Investors now face lackluster expectations for equity markets. SUNDAYBUSINESS


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)
 (Photo by Stephanie Diani for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%); SIGHTSEEING TRANSPORTATION SERVICES (69%); REFERENDUMS (68%); MUTUAL FUNDS (68%); ETHICS (67%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (53%); JOHN HOWARD (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); UGANDA (92%); IRAQ (79%); AUSTRALIA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004



212 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: Lost Dogs and Other Stories From Small-Town Radio

BYLINE: By FRAN SILVERMAN

 BODY:
THE call about the missing dog came at 6 a.m., when Dale Jones, a D.J. at WZBG-FM (97.3), was already well into his morning show. But he was quick to let his listeners know.
 ''The collie was last seen on Michigan Avenue in Torrington,'' he told the audience that day in mid-August. After that, he segued into a call-in, asking listeners to tell him their best jokes. 
 Meanwhile, from his news desk next to the studio where he had been since 3 a.m., Jeff Zeiner, the news reporter and anchor, was chasing information about Thomaston voters, who turned down a proposed $21.8 million budget for a third time.
 Lost dogs and the budget woes of small towns are a centerpiece of programming at WZBG, a small independent adult contemporary station in Litchfield with a family-friendly format. 
 ''We can't offer them what the big boys can,'' said Mr. Jones, who is also the station's program director. ''If we didn't offer local news, we couldn't survive.''
 Most radio stations in Connecticut -- more than 40 -- are owned by large broadcast networks. WZBG, which began broadcasting in 1992, is one of 28 commercial independent stations left in the state. It is owned by the actress Susan Saint James and her husband, Dick Ebersol, the chairman of NBC Universal Sports, along with their friend Virginia Mortara. All live in Litchfield. 
 While being independently owned has its advantages -- more freedom for the D.J.'s, fewer corporate dictates -- it has its challenges too, especially in financial matters. It has survived, its executives say, by carefully managing finances and by staying firmly anchored to the local community.
 WZBG's studio is a block from the Litchfield Green in a small building in the back of a shopping center. But its 3,000-watt signal stretches from Granby in the north to Wallingford in the south, and to Coventry in the east. That is a wide swath for a station with just two full-time D.J.'s and a total staff of 10. Here, multitasking and being multifaceted is crucial.
 ''We all have to do a little bit of everything,'' Mr. Jones said.
 In August, when an armed man robbed a gas station and police helicopters were scouring the area for the culprit, the telephones lit up with elderly citizens concerned there had been a terrorist attack, said Karleen Smith, an advertising sales representative. Ms. Smith hung up with her clients to calm callers down while the afternoon D.J. tried to get information from the police. 
 When a freak ice storm struck the area last November, causing a blackout, Jennifer Parsons, the general manager, trekked to the station's tower in Torrington to switch on the generator manually.
 ''Things go wrong all the time, so people have to come in here and be ready to punt,'' said Ms. Parsons, who lives just down the road from the studio.
 A big problem is maintaining advertising income. Since the station was founded, rates have risen to about $25 from about $3 for a one-minute commercial. That is low compared with the hundreds of dollars charged by stations owned by bigger networks. But still, Ms. Parsons explained, the station must be sure to keep rates low enough so that small, local businesses can afford them, yet high enough to stay in business. 
 The station cannot afford the fee to subscribe to the ratings service Arbitron, Ms. Parsons said, and so the size of its audience is unclear. This complicates the sale of advertising because it is hard to explain the demographics to national advertisers who prefer big-city stations.
 In the area, Hartford's WWYZ-FM (92.5), a country music station owned by Clear Channel Communications, and WRCH-FM (100.9), a soft adult contemporary music station in Hartford owned by Infinity Broadcasting/Viacom, competes for advertising. Local advertisers can also turn to cable and newspapers, Ms. Parsons said.
 WZBG airs 60 percent local advertising and 40 percent national advertising. Between music licensing fees, Federal Communications Commission fees, the increasing number of unpaid public service announcements the station airs and a weakened economy, turning a profit is becoming tougher. 
 ''It's getting harder and harder to keep my lights on,'' Ms. Parsons said. ''I am as tight as the day is long. My staff hasn't had a raise in a couple of years.''
 In this season, local political advertising provides revenue, even though the station can only charge its lowest rates for that. And the F.C.C. requires the station to file reports on these advertisements; the paperwork involved is becoming overwhelming, Ms. Parsons said.
 The station sticks to its FM format -- a mix of music, talk, news and service information. There is a live D.J. in the morning, and one more in the late afternoon and early evening. In between, the station broadcasts satellite programming from Colorado. At night, the Colorado programming switches on again.
 There is some live programming on the weekends. 
 Ms. Parsons would like to hire a D.J. for a live midday broadcast, and to do more live broadcasts in general, but said she did not envision when the station would be able to afford that. 
 The station's ties to the community are deep. The D.J's are all homegrown, and everyone on staff understands how important it is to connect with the locals.
 Theresa Lipeika, the office manager, answers the telephones and handles the front door, not always pleasant jobs. There was an instance over the summer when a woman who had won a prize came in, was babbling almost incoherently and resisted leaving, Ms. Lipeika said.
 Then there is ''grumpy,'' she added, the elderly man who calls frequently to complain about town issues. Sometimes, listeners will bang on the window of the D.J. booth from the parking lot.
 ''Listeners feel they have a connection to us,'' Ms. Lipeika said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Dale Jones, a D.J. at WZBG-FM in Litchfield, and also its program director, in the studio. The station is one of 28 independents in Connecticut. Top left, Jennifer Parsons, the station's general manager. (Photographs by Scott Mullin for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); DOGS (90%); RADIO FORMATS (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (74%); BUDGETS (74%); RETAILERS (61%); ROBBERY (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (60%); HELICOPTERS (50%); TERRORISM (50%); SENIOR CITIZENS (50%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%) Radio; Company and Organization Profiles

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Wzbg-Fm (Litchfield, Conn)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (56%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (56%)

PERSON: Dale Jones; Susan Saint James; Dick Ebersol; Virginia Mortara; Fran Silverman

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Litchfield (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004



213 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; SundayBusiness; DataBank; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 205 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Fall Amid Worry Over Oil Prices and Jobs

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
Rising oil prices and disappointing news about jobs creation led the stock market lower last week. 
 Uncertainty about the outcome of the presidential election didn't help, either, as the candidates for president and vice president hurled criticisms at their opponents' economic policies. 
 On Friday, the Labor Department said the nation added fewer nonfarm jobs in September than it had in August, setting off speculation that the Federal Reserve would moderate the pace of interest rate tightening. In the bond market, prices rose and yields fell. The yield of the 10-year benchmark Treasury note dropped to 4.13 from 4.19 percent the previous week. 
 The markets punished Chiron, the pharmaceutical company. British authorities forced it to shutter a factory that was to have supplied half the flu vaccine in the United States this season. Chiron shares declined 20.4 percent, the worst performance in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index for the week.
 For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average lost 137.45 points, or 1.3 percent, to close at 10,055.20. The S.&P. 500 dropped 9.36 points, or 0.8 percent, to close at 1,122.14. The Nasdaq composite index fell 22.23 points, or 1.1 percent, to close at 1,919.97. JEFF SOMMER


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''STOCKS IN THE NEWS''Note: Graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable.ChironNNM: CHIRThe biotechnology company said its manufacturing license at a British plant was suspended and that it would not be able to supply any of the 46 million to 48 million doses of flu vaccine it had planned to sell in the United States.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $35.63WEEK'S CHANGE: -20.43%EST. '04 P/E: 47.83Valero EnergyNYSE: VLOShares of the operator of oil refineries rose, as did those of many of its peers, as crude oil prices soared above $50 a barrel. The prices closed at $53.31 a barrel, a new high, on Friday.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $41.98WEEK'S CHANGE: +3.34%EST. '04 P/E: 3.84America West AirlinesNYSE: AWAThe airline, based in Phoenix, warned that it expected ''significant losses'' in the third and fourth quarters because of high fuel prices and weaker revenue.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $4.92WEEK'S CHANGE: -10.55%EST. '04 P/E: --SunGardData SystemsNYSE: SDSThe provider of software and services to financial companies said it would spin off its data recovery service for disasters into a separate publicly traded company.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $25.79WEEK'S CHANGE: +5.61%EST. '04 P/E: 18.36Ruby TuesdayNYSE: RIThe operator of casual-dining restaurants lowered its expectations for full-year earnings because of weak sales. The company also said it had to close several restaurants temporarily during the recent hurricanes.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $24.90WEEK'S CHANGE: -10.04%EST. '04 P/E: 13.73Sirius Satellite RadioNNM: SIRIHoward Stern said that he had signed a lucrative contract that would move him from commercial broadcast radio, which is bound by government regulations, to the company's satellite pay service starting in January 2006.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $3.70WEEK'S CHANGE: +17.83%EST. '04 P/E: --Hot TopicNNM: HOTTThe clothing retailer said its same-store sales for September had a modest increase of 1.1 percent, but that was better than the 3.1 percent drop that Wall Street had been expecting.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $19.36WEEK'S CHANGE: +12.62%EST. '04 P/E: 19.46AT&TNYSE: TThe nation's largest long-distance provider said it would eliminate 20 percent of its work force this year and write off $11.4 billion in assets in the aftermath of its decision to retreat from residential phone service.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $15.18WEEK'S CHANGE: +5.71%EST. '04 P/E: 30.67(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); BONDS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (88%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (69%); INTEREST RATES (55%); VACCINES (53%); INFLUENZA (53%); ANTIVIRALS (53%) Stocks and Bonds; United States Economy

PERSON: Jeff Sommer

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004



214 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 1527 words

HEADLINE: DeLay's Woes Give New Focus to Races

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 9 

 BODY:
Congressional races, which have been overshadowed by one of the most heated presidential campaigns in years, have been energized in recent days by the back-to-back ethics scoldings delivered to the House majority leader, Tom DeLay.
 Immediately after the House ethics committee's actions against Mr. DeLay, Democrats set about trying to exploit the issue -- sending an e-mail appeal for contributions based on Mr. DeLay's troubles, pointing out his ties to moderate Republicans they hope to defeat in November and renewing calls for Republican candidates to return contributions from the Mr. DeLay's political action committee.
 House Republicans said the action against their embattled leader has served only to reinvigorate their support for him. 
 Just last week, the ethics committee -- composed of five Republicans and five Democrats -- issued a formal rebuke to Mr. DeLay for pressuring a fellow lawmaker to change his vote on an important health care bill. On Wednesday, the panel issued a second round of admonishments, citing Mr. DeLay for engaging in fund-raising activities that created the appearance of impropriety and for using his position to exert influence over a federal agency for political gain.
 The impact, if any, that the ethics committee findings may have on Congressional races is unclear. Democrats need to gain 12 seats to win back the majority. Analysts have said consistently this year that that was unlikely, but the Democrats believe Mr. Delay's troubles could give them an effective new weapon. Only about three dozen of the 435 House seats are truly in play.
 As the House approached a pre-election recess late Friday, the House Democratic leader, Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, forced a vote on bringing in an outside counsel to investigate Mr. DeLay, a proposal she knew would be defeated but one that put all House Republicans on record against a further inquiry.
 Then on Saturday morning, Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the Democratic whip, noted in the national Democratic radio response that Mr. DeLay has now been ''rebuked'' by the panel four times in five years. Democrats, he said, ''will not elect leaders who spend more time fending off ethics charges than they do tending the people's business.''
 While Democrats say they have seen evidence of Mr. DeLay lowering his political profile, Republican leaders say they do not believe that Mr. DeLay will be a detriment in the upcoming elections and that he continues to be sought after for campaign appearances.
 ''I haven't heard of anyone that doesn't want him,'' said Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, a member of the Republican leadership. 
 The Democratic maneuvers and the fusillade of calls for Mr. DeLay to step down have enraged his House allies, who say they view the ethics findings as the tainted result of a politically inspired push to stifle Mr. DeLay by those who have been unable to defeat him otherwise. Instead of limiting his political effectiveness, they say, the ethics cases and partisan recriminations are sparking a backlash and building party support.
 ''This was quite obviously an attempt to chill fund-raising and take the House out of Republican hands and it has really ticked off a lot of Republican members,'' said Representative Mike Rogers of Michigan, finance chairman for the House Republican campaign organization. He said lawmakers had approached him in recent days pledging to increase donations to the party effort in anger over the Democratic assault.
 Even the most ardent Republican defenders of Mr. DeLay will acknowledge privately that the ethics admonishments are an unwelcome distraction as the election looms. But they say he has been cleared of the most serious accusations and that while the rulings could complicate his future, his leadership position is safe for now.
 Democrats say Republicans are engaged in wishful thinking if they believe there will be no serious repercussions from the ethics findings, the first on Sept. 30 for his attempt to trade a political endorsement for a vote on the House floor for a teetering Medicare bill. Then on Wednesday, the panel chided him again for a fund-raiser that appeared to grant undue access and for using federal resources in a partisan conflict.
 ''There is no question that he is a liability to Republican House members,'' said Representative Robert T. Matsui of California, the chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. He and others said the slaps from the bipartisan panel gave substance to the Democratic assertion that Mr. DeLay pushes the limits in accumulating and wielding his power.
 ''It is certainly not going to help the Republicans maintain that they are a House of which people can be proud,'' said Mr. Hoyer, the No. 2 Democrat in the House. 
 If Democrats hope to convert Mr. DeLay's woes into Congressional victories around the nation, they have hurdles to overcome, not the least of which is that Mr. DeLay is not a well-known figure on a par with the former speaker Newt Gingrich, another Republican leader Democrats sought to convert into a political issue.
 State leaders of both parties say they do not get a sense that Mr. DeLay has a profile that can move voters. 
 ''Congressional leaders like Tom DeLay, most voters in Kansas don't even know who he is,'' said Scott Poor, executive director of the Kansas Republican Party. ''He's not that big a deal here. In the minds of most voters, it's a real stretch to link their wonderful congressman to Tom DeLay.'' 
 Don Morabito, executive director of the Democratic Party in Pennsylvania, where a number of closely contested House races are under way, shared a similar view. ''I'm old school, someone who believes all politics are local,'' he said. ''Our close races are more about local issues, like sprawl, the economy and quality of life. The Kerry-Bush race does have an impact, but I haven't seen anything yet about DeLay, and I don't know if it will get any traction.'' 
 Democrats say they are not certain if they will broadcast television commercials that focus on Mr. DeLay, but they certainly intend to keep the heat on him and Republican candidates they can link to the majority leader. For instance, even the prospect of a visit by Mr. DeLay to the Seattle suburbs to raise money for King County Sheriff Dave Reichert, a Republican House candidate, sent Democrats into action.
 ''Who does Dave Reichert want to represent -- Tom DeLay's conservative, win-at-all-costs wing of the Republican Party or the independent voters of the Eighth'' Congressional District, asked Paul Berendt, chairman of the state Democratic Party.
 But a spokesman for Mr. Reichert said the Republican welcomed the chance to meet with Mr. DeLay. ''The sheriff will jump at every opportunity to discuss issues of importance to the Eighth District with the second-ranking member of the House of Representatives,'' said the spokesman, Josh Mathis.
 Aides to Mr. DeLay said he would keep a full schedule of political activities in the days leading up to the election, though he would also be campaigning in his own suburban Houston district that was redrawn in the political battle that helped launch a grand jury investigation in Texas that has resulted in indictments of top DeLay political aides.
 Representative Thomas M. Reynolds of New York, the chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee, said he believed Mr. DeLay could continue to be a campaign force for the party. But he noted that the organization has relied more heavily in the 2004 House campaigns on appearances by Speaker J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois and Vice President Dick Cheney rather than the majority leader.
 Allies of Mr. DeLay also say they do not see any impact for the fund-raising juggernaut on which the lawmaker has built his political foundation, doling out dollars to Republican candidates who repay him with loyalty. His political action committee raised about $3.3 million through August, but spent much of it, ending last month with about $538,000. Befitting his position, Mr. DeLay has led the Congress in contributions to fellow candidates, according to the Center for Responsive Politics. 
 Susan Hirschmann, who was Mr. DeLay's chief of staff for years before leaving in 2002 to work as a lobbyist and political adviser, said her former boss still enjoyed the support of his Republican colleagues and that the flow of money was not likely to slow or stop.
 ''Everyone sees this for what it is: election-eve politics,'' she said. ''It's just not going to make a difference.''
 Some of the Republican anger over Mr. DeLay's treatment has also been directed at the ethics panel, which some critics say crumpled under pressure from outside groups and chastised Mr. DeLay for activities that were not outside the realm of normal politics. Republican members of the panel bristle at the suggestion and say they were trying to rein in Mr. DeLay as well as set limits of behavior for others.
 ''The consensus feeling was that he had been a couple of steps across the line and we ought to point that out,'' said Representative Joel Hefley, Republican of Colorado and chairman of the ethics panel.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Representative Nancy Pelosi, the House Democratic leader, knew the vote she forced on bringing in an outside counsel to investigate Mr. DeLay, her Republican counterpart, would be defeated. (Photo by Carol T. Powers for The New York Times)
 Tom DeLay has been admonished by the House ethics committee. (Photo by Evan Vucci/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHICS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (74%); FUNDRAISING (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: STENY HOYER (59%); ERIC CANTOR (59%); NANCY PELOSI (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004



215 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2302 words

PERSON: Jacques Derrida

HEADLINE: Jacques Derrida, Abstruse Theorist, Dies in Paris at 74

BYLINE: By JONATHAN KANDELL

 BODY:
Jacques Derrida, the Algerian-born, French intellectual who became one of the most celebrated and notoriously difficult philosophers of the late 20th century, died Friday at a Paris hospital, the French president's office announced. He was 74. 
 The cause of death was pancreatic cancer, according to French television, The Associated Press reported. 
 Mr. Derrida was known as the father of deconstruction, the method of inquiry that asserted that all writing was full of confusion and contradiction, and that the author's intent could not overcome the inherent contradictions of language itself, robbing texts -- whether literature, history or philosophy -- of truthfulness, absolute meaning and permanence. The concept was eventually applied to the whole gamut of arts and social sciences, including linguistics, anthropology, political science, even architecture. 
 While he had a huge following -- larger in the United States than in Europe -- he was the target of as much anger as admiration. For many Americans, in particular, he was the personification of a French school of thinking they felt was undermining many of the traditional standards of classical education, and one they often associated with divisive political causes. 
 Literary critics broke texts into isolated passages and phrases to find hidden meanings. Advocates of feminism, gay rights, and third-world causes embraced the method as an instrument to reveal the prejudices and inconsistencies of Plato, Aristotle, Shakespeare, Freud and other ''dead white male'' icons of Western culture. Architects and designers could claim to take a ''deconstructionist'' approach to buildings by abandoning traditional symmetry and creating zigzaggy, sometimes disquieting spaces. The filmmaker Woody Allen titled one of his movies ''Deconstructing Harry,'' to suggest that his protagonist could best be understood by breaking down and analyzing his neurotic contradictions.

A Code Word for Discourse
 Toward the end of the 20th century, deconstruction became a code word of intellectual discourse, much as existentialism and structuralism -- two other fashionable, slippery philosophies that also emerged from France after World War II -- had been before it. Mr. Derrida and his followers were unwilling -- some say unable -- to define deconstruction with any precision, so it has remained misunderstood, or interpreted in endlessly contradictory ways. 
 Typical of Mr. Derrida's murky explanations of his philosophy was a 1993 paper he presented at the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law, in New York, which began: ''Needless to say, one more time, deconstruction, if there is such a thing, takes place as the experience of the impossible.''
 Mr. Derrida was a prolific writer, but his 40-plus books on various aspects of deconstruction were no more easily accessible. Even some of their titles -- ''Of Grammatology,'' ''The Postcard: From Socrates to Freud and Beyond,'' and ''Ulysses Gramophone: Hear Say Yes in Joyce'' -- could be off-putting to the uninitiated.
 ''Many otherwise unmalicious people have in fact been guilty of wishing for deconstruction's demise -- if only to relieve themselves of the burden of trying to understand it,'' Mitchell Stephens, a journalism professor at New York University, wrote in a 1994 article in The New York Times Magazine.
 Mr. Derrida's credibility was also damaged by a 1987 scandal involving Paul de Man, a Yale University professor who was the most acclaimed exponent of deconstruction in the United States. Four years after Mr. de Man's death, it was revealed that he had contributed numerous pro-Nazi, anti-Semitic articles to a newspaper in Belgium, where he was born, while it was under German occupation during World War II. In defending his dead colleague, Mr. Derrida, a Jew, was understood by some people to be condoning Mr. de Man's anti-Semitism.

A Devoted Following
 Nonetheless, during the 1970's and 1980's, Mr. Derrida's writings and lectures gained him a huge following in major American universities -- in the end, he proved far more influential in the United States than in France. For young, ambitious professors, his teachings became a springboard to tenure in faculties dominated by senior colleagues and older, shopworn philosophies. For many students, deconstruction was a right of passage into the world of rebellious intellect. 
 Jacques Derrida was born on July 15, 1930, in El-Biar, Algeria. His father was a salesman. At age 12, he was expelled from his French school when the rector, adhering to the Vichy government's racial laws, ordered a drastic cut in Jewish enrollment. Even as a teenager, Mr. Derrida (the name is pronounced day-ree-DAH) was a voracious reader whose eclectic interests embraced the philosophers Jean-Jacques Rousseau and Friedrich Nietzsche, Albert Camus, and the poet Paul Valery.
 But he could be an indifferent student. He failed his baccalaureate in his first attempt. He twice failed his entrance exam to the Ecole Normal Superieure, the traditional cradle of French intellectuals, where he was finally admitted in 1952. There he failed the oral portion of his final exams on his first attempt. After graduation in 1956, he studied briefly at Harvard University. For most of the next 30 years, he taught philosophy and logic at both the University of Paris and the Ecole Normal Superieure. Yet he did not defend his doctoral dissertation until 1980, when he was 50 years old.
 By the early 1960's, Mr. Derrida had made a name for himself as a rising young intellectual in Paris by publishing articles on language and philosophy in leading academic journals. He was especially influenced by the German philosophers, Edmund Husserl and Martin Heidegger. Both were strong critics of traditional metaphysics, a branch of philosophy which explored the basis and perception of reality.
 As a lecturer, Mr. Derrida cultivated charisma and mystery. For many years, he declined to be photographed for publication. He cut a dashing, handsome figure at the lectern, with his thick thatch of prematurely white hair, tanned complexion, and well-tailored suits. He peppered his lectures with puns, rhymes and enigmatic pronouncements, like, ''Thinking is what we already know that we have not yet begun,'' or, ''Oh my friends, there is no friend''
 Many readers found his prose turgid and baffling, even as aficionados found it illuminating. A single sentence could run for three pages, and a footnote even longer. Sometimes his books were written in ''deconstructed'' style. For example, ''Glas'' (1974) offers commentaries on the German philosopher Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel and the French novelist Jean Genet in parallel columns of the book's pages; in between, there is an occasional third column of commentary about the two men's ideas.
 ''The trouble with reading Mr. Derrida is that there is too much perspiration for too little inspiration,'' editorialized The Economist in 1992, when Cambridge University awarded the philosopher an honorary degree after a bruising argument among his supporters and critics on the faculty. Elsewhere in Europe, Mr. Derrida's deconstruction philosophy gained earlier and easier acceptance.

Shaking Up a Discipline
 Mr. Derrida appeared on the American intellectual landscape at a 1966 conference on the French intellectual movement known as structuralism at Johns Hopkins University, in Baltimore. Its high priest was French anthropologist Claude Levi-Strauss, who studied societies through their linguistic structure.
 Mr. Derrida shocked his American audience by announcing that structuralism was already passe in France, and that Mr. Levi-Strauss's ideas were too rigid. Instead, Mr. Derrida offered deconstruction as the new, triumphant philosophy.
 His presentation fired up young professors who were in search of a new intellectual movement to call their own. In a Los Angeles Times Magazine article in 1991, Mr. Stephens, the journalism professor, wrote: ''He gave literature professors a special gift: a chance to confront -- not as mere second-rate philosophers, not as mere interpreters of novelists, but as full-fledged explorers in their own right -- the most profound paradoxes of Western thought.''
 ''If they really read, if they stared intently enough at the metaphors,'' he went on, ''literature professors, from the comfort of their own easy chairs, could reveal the hollowness of the basic assumptions that lie behind all our writings.''
 Other critics found it disturbing that obscure academics could presume to denigrate a Sophocles, Voltaire or Tolstoy by seeking out cultural biases and inexact language in their masterpieces. ''Literature, the deconstructionists frequently proved, had been written by entirely the wrong people for entirely the wrong reasons,'' wrote Malcolm Bradbury, a British novelist and professor, in a 1991 article for The New York Times Book Review. 
 Mr. Derrida's influence was especially strong in the Yale University literature department, where one of his close friends, a Belgian-born professor, Paul de Man, emerged as a leading champion of deconstruction in literary analysis. Mr. de Man had claimed to be a refugee from war-torn Europe, and even left the impression among colleagues that he had joined the Belgian resistance. 
 But in 1987, four years after Mr. de Man's death, research revealed that he had written over 170 articles in the early 1940's for Le Soir, a Nazi newspaper in Belgium. Some of these articles were openly anti-Semitic, including one that echoed Nazi calls for ''a final solution'' and seemed to defend the notion of concentration camps. 
 ''A solution to the Jewish problem that aimed at the creation of a Jewish colony isolated from Europe would entail no deplorable consequences for the literary life of the West,'' wrote Mr. de Man.
 The revelations became a major scandal at Yale and other campuses where the late Mr. de Man had been lionized as an intellectual hero. Some former colleagues asserted that the scandal was being used to discredit deconstruction by people who were always hostile to the movement. But Mr. Derrida gave fodder to critics by defending Mr. de Man, and even using literary deconstruction techniques in an attempt to demonstrate that the Belgian scholar's newspaper articles were not really anti-Semitic.
 ''Borrowing Derrida's logic one could deconstruct Mein Kampf to reveal that [Adolf Hitler] was in conflict with anti-Semitism,'' scoffed Peter Lennon, in a 1992 article for The Guardian. According to another critic, Mark Lilla, in a 1998 article in The New York Review of Books, Mr. Derrida's contortionist defense of his old friend left ''the impression that deconstruction means you never have to say you're sorry.''
 Almost as devastating for deconstruction and Mr. Derrida was the revelation, also in 1987, that Heidegger, one of his intellectual muses, was a dues-paying member of the Nazi Party from 1933 to 1945. Once again, Mr. Derrida was accused by critics of being irresolute, this time for failing to condemn Heidegger's fascist ideas.
 By the late 1980's, Mr. Derrida's intellectual star was on the wane on both sides of the Atlantic. But he continued to commute between France and the United States, where he was paid hefty fees to lecture a few weeks every year at several East Coast universities and the University of California at Irvine.

Lifting a Mysterious Aura
 In his early years of intellectual fame, Mr. Derrida was criticized by European leftists for a lack of political commitment -- indeed, for espousing a philosophy that attacked the very concept of absolute political certainties. But in the 1980's, he became active in a number of political causes, opposing apartheid, defending Czech dissidents and supporting the rights of North African immigrants in France.
 Mr. Derrida also became far more accessible to the media. He sat still for photos and gave interviews that stripped away his formerly mysterious aura to reveal the mundane details of his personal life. 
 A former Yale student, Amy Ziering Kofman, focused on him in a 2002 documentary, ''Derrida,'' that some reviewers found charming. ''With his unruly white hair and hawklike face, Derrida is a compelling presence even when he is merely pondering a question,'' wrote Kenneth Turan in The Los Angeles Times. ''Even his off-the-cuff comments are intriguing, because everything gets serious consideration. And when he is wary, he's never difficult for its own sake but because his philosophical positions make him that way.'' 
 Rather than hang around the Left Bank cafes traditionally inhabited by French intellectuals, Mr. Derrida preferred the quiet of Ris-Orangis, a suburb south of Paris, where he lived in a small house with his wife, Marguerite Aucouturier, a psychoanalyst. The couple had two sons, Pierre and Jean. He also had a son, Daniel, with Sylviane Agacinski, a philosophy teacher who later married the French political leader Lionel Jospin. 
 As a young man, Mr. Derrida confessed, he hoped to become a professional soccer player. And he admitted to being an inveterate viewer of television, watching everything from news to soap operas. ''I am critical of what I'm watching,'' said Mr. Derrida with mock pride. ''I deconstruct all the time.''
 Late in his career, Mr. Derrida was asked, as he had been so often, what deconstruction was. ''Why don't you ask a physicist or a mathematician about difficulty?'' he replied, frostily, to Dinitia Smith, a Times reporter, in a 1998. ''Deconstruction requires work. If deconstruction is so obscure, why are the audiences in my lectures in the thousands? They feel they understand enough to understand more.''
 Asked later in the same interview to at least define deconstruction, Mr. Derrida said: ''It is impossible to respond. I can only do something which will leave me unsatisfied.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jacques Derrida in January, at his home in France. His deconstructionist theory was applied to many arts. (Photo by Joel Robine/Agence France Presse--Getty Images)(pg. 49) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); PHILOSOPHY (90%); WRITERS (89%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); POLITICS (77%); LITERATURE (75%); LINGUISTICS (75%); CLASSICS (75%); VISUAL ARTISTS (74%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (73%); LITERARY CRITICISM (70%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (69%); LAW SCHOOLS (67%); GAYS & LESBIANS (66%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (65%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (64%); ENDOCRINE SYSTEM DISORDERS (57%); CANCER (57%); LGBT RIGHTS (51%); WORLD WAR II (50%) Philosophy; Biographical Information; Deaths (Obituaries)

Jonathan Kandell; Jacques Derrida

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%) NEW YORK, USA (71%) FRANCE (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%)

CATEGORY: Medicine and Health

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004



216 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: E.P.A. Cuts Pollution Levels With Refinery Settlements

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 9 

 BODY:
Despite its continuing difficulties forcing power plants to reduce their toxic emissions, the Environmental Protection Agency has enjoyed unusual success in bringing down pollution levels from some of the nation's largest oil refining companies.
 Enforcement efforts begun in the Clinton administration have led to negotiated settlements with a dozen companies in the last four years, resulting in fines of $40 million and promises by the companies to spend $2.2 billion for equipment upgrades that reduce toxic emissions. The improvements are projected to eliminate nearly 170,000 tons of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide, substances that cause problems for human health and the ozone.
 Agency officials say the settlements represent 41 percent of the industry, with negotiations under way that would reach 60 percent by early next year. Officials say no other industry group monitored for toxic emissions has responded so aggressively to threats of litigation over Clean Air Act violations. 
 ''This is the model,'' Thomas V. Skinner, the E.P.A.'s chief enforcement officer, said of the refineries. ''Our goal is 100 percent, but I'm sure some companies won't sign on; they'll end up fighting. But 60 percent is an incredible success story.''
 Even environmental groups admit that the agency has done a commendable job reducing toxic emissions at refineries, which account for about one percent of the nation's total emissions.
 ''These refinery settlements show that enforcing the Clean Air Act works,'' said John Walke, director of the Clean Air Program at the Natural Resources Defense Council.
 He added: ''What that highlights, however, is a perverse contrast with power plants, where the Bush administration is not enforcing the law. If the administration would enforce clean air protections against coal-fired power plants in the same way as it has against the refineries, America would see millions of tons of reduced pollution and accompanying health benefits.''
 The first of the refinery settlements came just after the 2000 elections, when the agency concluded deals with Koch Industries, BP Exploration and Oil, Motiva Enterprises LLC/Equilon and Marathon Ashland Petroleum. The latest settlement, with Citgo, was concluded this week. 
 In each case, the company has eight years to complete its upgrades.
 The agency has had less success with utility companies because of the way they interpret accusations of violations of Clean Air Act regulations under what is known as the New Source Review rule, which requires older facilities to install pollution controls when renovations would lead to increased emissions. 
 The operators of power plants, which account for almost a quarter of the nation's nitrogen oxide emissions and nearly 70 percent of sulfur dioxide emissions, have generally argued that they are complying with all federal laws and court decisions would eventually bear that out.
 The utilities' willingness to litigate has been emboldened by two lawsuits, now on appeal, in which the trial court ruled in favor of the company, as well as by a Bush administration decision to revise the New Source Review rule to make it easier for operators to delay or avoid adding the new controls. The revision has come under attack from environmental groups and the E.P.A.'s inspector general, who issued a report last week that criticized the administration approach as lenient to companies and harmful to the air. 
 The government has reached settlement agreements with six utility companies, representing just five percent of the industry, and has prevailed in one other case at trial. 
 ''The utilities have taken the position, win or lose, they'll battle it out,'' Mr. Skinner said. ''They believe that time is money and as long as they can delay improvements, the better off they are.''
 Scott Segal, director of the Electric Reliability Coordinating Council, a trade group, said that the issue was not so much whether to litigate. Rather, he said, the government's interpretation of New Source Review rules exposes companies that undergo maintenance every few years to ''a perpetual cycle of litigation.'' 
 Refineries undergo fewer changes that expose them to New Source Review oversight. But they are subject to standards for other substances. Jim Mahoney, executive vice president of Flint Hills Resources, said his company and others that had settled with the E.P.A. made their decisions based on economic considerations for the company and environmental considerations for the communities.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Refinery Settlements''The E.P.A. has reached settlements with 12 oil refining companies in the last four years.Motiva EnterprisesEstimated reductions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides (tons per year): 57,550Minimum cost of agreed-upon upgrades (millions): $ 550BP ExplorationEstimated reductions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides (tons per year): 30,900Minimum cost of agreed-upon upgrades (millions): 457Marathon AshlandEstimated reductions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides (tons per year): 20,800Minimum cost of agreed-upon upgrades (millions): 360CitgoEstimated reductions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides (tons per year): 30,434Minimum cost of agreed-upon upgrades (millions): 320ChevronTexacoEstimated reductions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides (tons per year): 9,558Minimum cost of agreed-upon upgrades (millions): 275ConocoEstimated reductions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides (tons per year): 7,210Minimum cost of agreed-upon upgrades (millions): 110KochEstimated reductions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides (tons per year): 5,200Minimum cost of agreed-upon upgrades (millions): 80HollyEstimated reductions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides (tons per year): 2,595Minimum cost of agreed-upon upgrades (millions): 19LionEstimated reductions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides (tons per year): 1,180Minimum cost of agreed-upon upgrades (millions): 17CenexEstimated reductions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides (tons per year): 2,430Minimum cost of agreed-upon upgrades (millions): 10Coastal Eagle PointEstimated reductions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides (tons per year): 600Minimum cost of agreed-upon upgrades (millions): 7Ergon RefiningEstimated reductions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides (tons per year): 888Minimum cost of agreed-upon upgrades (millions): 5TOTALEstimated reductions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides (tons per year): 169,345Minimum cost of agreed-upon upgrades (millions): $2,210(Source by E.P.A.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (93%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (93%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); AIR QUALITY (89%); NITROGEN OXIDES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); LITIGATION (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (73%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (60%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MARATHON PETROLEUM CORP (63%); BP EXPLORATION & OIL INC (52%); KOCH INDUSTRIES INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%)

TICKER: MPC (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (63%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (63%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (52%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004



217 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; EVERYBODY'S BUSINESS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: Birds and Bees? No, Let's Talk About Dollars and Cents

BYLINE: By BEN STEIN. 
Ben Stein is a lawyer, writer, actor and economist. E-mail: ebiz@nytimes.com.

 BODY:

DEAR Tommy,
 I hope that you are well and especially that your football season is going well. It must be difficult to be injured so close to the beginning of the schedule. I hope you are studying. Eleventh grade is a terribly important year.
 I think it may be time for me to send you a few thoughts about money and how to make sure that you continue to have the standard of living you have come to love so much. I'd like to try to explain how you have been able to live so large and what you will have to do to keep it going for the rest of your life and for your children's lives. It has to do with a very important word called ''capital.''
 First of all, my grandfathers on both sides came to this country with virtually nothing. My grandfather on my father's side was an Army cavalry officer for a long time and then a skilled tool-and-die maker at Ford Motor and then at General Electric. He accumulated no capital to speak of, in terms of finance, and too little in terms of education to allow him to make a decent living. He was unemployed for a large part of the Great Depression, and Pop's family was supported largely by his mother's work at a department store. On my mother's father's side, there was a small amount of real estate, but it was largely lost in the Great Depression.
 My father was the first Stein in all history, as far as we know, to have accumulated any real capital. He did that by getting a fine education at Williams College and then at the University of Chicago. He was a stone genius, and among his many aspects of genius was that he knew that he must regularly convert his human capital -- his intelligence and education and connections -- into financial capital: namely, savings. He always lived well below his means and saved the difference. A result was that when he grew older, he could send my sister and me to good colleges; I went to Columbia and Yale Law School; she went to Wellesley. I acquired some skills -- law, economics, writing, acting, speaking -- that paid a good wage.
 I have been very lucky and have worked like a maniac, and the results are that I have earned a decent living for many years. Taking a leaf from my father, I have saved some of it -- although much less than my father did. I also took the trouble -- starting at about the age of 12 -- to read about investing and had some extremely good luck in that field (although I have also made some disastrous mistakes, both on the buy and sell side). When my parents died, I inherited money. Although it was not a huge amount, it was enough to make a difference.
 Your mother, whose father was a hero in World War II and Vietnam, inherited a modest sum after he died recently. But she worked very hard as a lawyer and made a superb living for many years. We managed to save some of the money she made, as well.
 Notice a few threads here, my boy: your forebears first acquired human capital -- education, work skills, discipline, connections. Then we converted that into financial capital and, with some notable exceptions, it grew and added to our income stream. At all times, we have had to be cautious to keep from being ripped off in our investments. (The possibilities for being defrauded are endless.) We have been able to do this more readily than some others because we have known a bit about the world of investments and when and where to walk away from the table.
 Now, for the first time in the history of the Steins and the Denmans -- your mother's family, of course -- we have enough capital so that even at today's very low interest rates, we could live without working. That is, we do not have to rely entirely upon selling our labor. Our savings can take care of us, albeit at a level far more modest than what you are used to.
 But, Tommy, several elements went into this, and you have to continue them all to keep up this standard of living: acquiring good work habits (this does not include playing computer games); getting an education in a field that pays a living wage (not a field that's fun and trendy but offers no possibility for a job); learning at an early age to save; and, very important, living at a level that does not exhaust your savings. We hope to be able to leave you some money, but it would be possible for you to run through it in no time if you were careless. And, in any event, you don't get any of it until you are 40.
 The common denominator of all of these bits of advice is the invaluable capital of self-discipline: the self-discipline to learn good work habits, the self-discipline to acquire education in a field where there is a market for your skills, the self-discipline to make connections and be a good friend, the self-discipline to do a good job at your work, the self-discipline to learn about investments, and the self-discipline to save.
 When you have these, you gradually make yourself secure. You do not have to worry about tiny or even large sums of money. You are impervious to economic ups and downs, except for very large downs. You do not wake up at 3 a.m. worrying about money. Most of all, you have capital. That's the magic word. Capital -- human and financial -- lets you have an aura of safety around yourself and allows you to enjoy yourself and not live in a cage of fear and insecurity. And the first step and the last step toward capital is self-discipline.
 My grandfathers did not even remotely have the opportunities you have -- the chance to accumulate free education, have connections, have money waiting to be inherited. You are the first member of my family ever to grow up in luxury. But you can lose it all quickly if you don't remember where capital comes from and don't bear in mind that indiscipline with money can leave you back where my grandparents were. Shirtsleeves to shirtsleeves can be avoided only by rolling up your sleeves and going to work on yourself. Capital in this society comes from your own state of mind.
 Love, Pop


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Philip Anderson) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRANDPARENTS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); LIVING STANDARDS (76%); CHILDREN (74%); ARMIES (70%); LAW SCHOOLS (68%); MACHINE TOOLS (67%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (55%); FORD MOTOR CO (55%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (55%); GEC (LSE) (55%); GE (SWX) (55%); GE (NYSE) (55%); FORDP (PAR) (55%); F (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%) ILLINOIS, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004



218 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 47

LENGTH: 4675 words

HEADLINE: The Genome in Black and White (and Gray)

BYLINE: By Robin Marantz Henig. 
Robin Marantz Henig is the author, most recently, of ''Pandora's Baby: How the First Test Tube Babies Sparked the Reproductive Revolution.''

 BODY:
Imagine that you have heart failure. What can medicine do for you? It depends: are you white or black? If you're white, your doctor may prescribe one of the drugs that seem to ease the symptoms, maybe a beta-blocker or an ACE inhibitor. And if you're black, your doctor may still prescribe those drugs, but they might not really help.
 That's about to change. In the not-too-distant future, if you're black and have heart failure, drug-company researchers predict you'll be able to go to the doctor and walk out with a prescription tailor-made for you. Well, not tailor-made, exactly, but something that seems to work in people a lot like you. Well, not a lot like you, exactly, except that they're black, too. In this not-too-distant future, if you're black, your doctor will be able to prescribe BiDil, the first drug in America that's being niche-marketed to people of a particular race -- our first ethnic medicine.
 BiDil, expected to be approved early next year by the Food and Drug Administration, is on the leading edge of the emerging field of race-based pharmacogenomics. It signals a shift in perception, a new approach to medicine that has at its core an idea at once familiar and incendiary: the assumption that there are biological differences among the races. 
 BiDil is also a feat of creative repackaging. Five years ago, the F.D.A. rejected it for use in the general population because it was found to be ineffective in the treatment of heart failure, a common complication of cardiovascular disease that affects some five million Americans and leads to 300,000 deaths a year. But in 2001, the manufacturer, NitroMed, asked permission to test BiDil exclusively in blacks, whose heart failure tends to be more severe and harder to treat. The company reasoned that the drug's effect on nitric-oxide deficiency, more common in black heart-failure patients than in nonblacks, might make it especially suited to them. With the collaboration of the Association of Black Cardiologists, NitroMed embarked on a large clinical trial involving more than 400 black women and 600 black men, all of whom had heart failure.
 Last summer, investigators called an early end to the study because they thought BiDil was so effective that it would be unethical to continue to deny it to people in the control group. Thus, a drug that had been deemed ineffective in the population at large seemed to work so well in one racial subgroup that the scientists thought everyone in that subgroup should get it.
 Pharmacogenomics has for years been touted as the ultimate benefit of the genomics revolution. But to many, this revolution has a troubling side. For race-based niche marketing to work, drug developers first will have to explore the ways that blacks, whites, Asians and Native Americans are biologically different. And the more they explore and describe such differences, critics say, the more they play into the hands of racists. Even the broad-minded might inadvertently use such information to stigmatize, isolate or categorize the races. Could it be that this terrain is too dangerous to let anyone, no matter how well meaning, try to navigate it?
In two weeks, a major scientific journal, Nature Genetics, will publish a special issue on the genetics of race. This comes on the heels of several conferences on the subject, most recently one held last Monday by Johns Hopkins University, as well as editorials in the science press, including one in the Journal of the American Medical Association just last week. All of these forums pose some thorny questions: Can genes tell us anything meaningful about race, beyond the obvious connection to things like skin color? Do the races differ biologically in terms of drug response or disease susceptibility? Can genes say anything about how ''race'' -- which is itself all but impossible to define -- is related to complex traits like behavior and intelligence?
 Looking for biological determinants of race is nothing new. It has a potent history, with poisonous associations dating back to the early days of eugenics. But contemporary science has given these efforts a new respectability. In the wake of the completion of the Human Genome Project, geneticists are trying to arrange pieces of the genome like a Rubik's Cube, searching for patterns of variation that align into some useful matrix. Their goal is to generate information that will help prevent and treat common diseases. But in the process, they're generating information that might also lead to declarations about the biological meaning of race.
 The new interest in racial genetics comes at a time when the softer sciences, like anthropology and sociology, have declared that race is a cultural construct, without any biological significance. The social designations go back at least to the 19th century, when humans were generally divided into five races that were loosely tied to skin color; this has lingered as the basic grammar of race even into the 21st century. But in a 1998 position paper, the American Anthropological Association called race a social invention, with a variety of pernicious consequences ranging from day-to-day bigotry to the Holocaust. Racial beliefs are myths, the anthropologists wrote, and the myths fuse ''behavior and physical features together in the public mind, impeding our comprehension of both biological variations and cultural behavior, implying that both are genetically determined.''
 Geneticists, too, have gone on record as saying that race has no biological significance. ''The concept of race has no genetic or scientific basis,'' said J. Craig Venter in June 2000, standing beside President Bill Clinton to announce the completion of the first draft of the human genome sequence. Venter was at the time the president of Celera, the private company that competed with the National Human Genome Research Institute, a publicly financed international team, to sequence the genome. (It was declared a tie.) 
 Venter's scientific rival, Francis S. Collins, the head of the genome institute, stood at the podium that day on Clinton's other side -- two male, middle-aged white scientists saying we're all brothers and sisters under the skin. Collins made much of the fact that humans share 99.9 percent of their genome with one another -- and that the remaining 0.1 percent probably codes for variations, like skin color, that are for the most part biologically insignificant. In fact, there is more variation within races than between them. A few months later he made the point more informally, playing his electric guitar and regaling his co-workers with a musical ditty he had written to the tune of Woody Guthrie's ''This Land Is Your Land'':
 ''We only do this once, it's our inheritance,
 Joined by this common thread -- black, yellow, white or red,
 It is our family bond, and now its day has dawned. 
 This draft was made for you and me.''
 Today, the two men have parted company on this narrow strip of common ground. Venter says he still believes the genome is colorblind. ''I don't see that there's any fundamental need to classify people by race,'' he says. ''What's the goal of that, other than discrimination?''
 But Collins sees the matter differently now. Maybe in that 0.1 percent of the genome there are some variations with relevance to medicine, he says. And maybe identifying them could help reduce health disparities among the races. He is using his bully pulpit at the genome institute to urge scientists to study whether these variations can, or should, be categorized according to racial groupings.
 ''It's always better to face up to a controversial scientific issue, to tackle the issue head on and not run away from it,'' Collins says. ''And if we don't do it, someone else will -- and probably not as well.''
One reason to focus on the genetics of race is to try to make a dent in health disparities: the frustrating gap in the health status of different racial groups that stubbornly refuses to close or even to be adequately explained. In terms of national measures of physical well-being -- life expectancy, infant mortality, some chronic diseases -- blacks tend to do worse than whites. Many factors account for this health gap, including the fact that minorities suffer disproportionately the effects of low income, lack of health insurance, poor diet, exposure to environmental toxins, discrimination and stress. But some geneticists think that at least some part of health disparities can be explained by genes. Social scientists think genetic explanations might obscure the all-too-real social and economic causes.
 Take hypertension, which affects black Americans at a higher rate than white Americans. Geneticists try to explain this difference in terms of genes: genes for salt retention, genes for low levels of renin in the kidneys. But a classic study found that one thing that correlated most strongly with level of blood pressure was, surprisingly, skin color. Among black subjects of low socioeconomic status, the darker the skin, the higher the blood pressure. Social scientists' explanation is that people with darker skin are subject to greater discrimination, and therefore to greater stress.
 ''If you follow me around Nordstrom's, and put me in jail at nine times the rate of whites, and refuse to give me a bank loan, I might get hypertensive,'' says Troy Duster, a professor of sociology at New York University and at the University of California at Berkeley. ''What's generating my increased blood pressure are the social forces at play, not my DNA.''
 But pharmacogenomics researchers presume that health disparities can be addressed, at least in part, by exploiting tiny group differences in DNA. If the BiDil experience pans out, other companies are likely to try their own versions of race-based drug development. Some candidates already exist. People known as slow acetylators, for instance, take a longer time than fast acetylators to clear certain drugs from the liver. This means they're more likely to build up toxic levels of some common drugs. The proportion of slow acetylators in different racial groups ranges from a low of 14 percent among East Asians to a high of 54 percent among whites. Some whites, therefore, might benefit from a different version of medications that are cleared through the liver. 
 The ultimate goal of pharmacogenomics would be for everyone's genome to be analyzed individually, so that doctors could gauge how much of a medication, and which type, is most likely to work for a specific patient. Even the BiDil investigators are moving in that direction. Michael D. Loberg, the president of NitroMed, says that the company asked each participant in the BiDil trial for permission to take a DNA sample and that he hopes to get a total of at least 400 such samples. These will be sequenced, he says, ''to see if there's some genetic marker that predicts which of the trial patients responded to BiDil favorably and which didn't.''
 But at this point, geneticists cannot sequence individual genomes in a cost-effective way. Until they can, they may view race as a handy shortcut, a way to make some useful generalizations about how an individual patient will fare with a particular drug. But while using race this way might increase the odds of finding the right medication, it is an imprecise method, a kind of roulette in which the physician is making educated guesses based on probabilities.
 The temptation of race-based medication is clear: it's convenient for the investigator, and it suits the way drug companies' products are sold. ''The mantra of pharmacogenomics is that drugs will be fine-tuned for the individual,'' Duster says. ''But individuals are not a market. Groups are a market.'' And one typical way to identify markets, in a country where skin color seems to count for so much, is race.
In terms of our genes, we humans are all the same -- except for the ways in which we're different. The human genome comprises 3 billion nucleotides, strung together in a specific order along the chromosomes. About 99.9 percent are identical from one person to another, no matter what that person's race, ethnicity, continent of origin or bank account.
 Among our 3 billion nucleotides, an estimated 10 million are locations of common variations. Where most people will have a nucleotide represented by the letter A, for instance, a big group of people might have a T instead. Elucidating where those spots are, and whether replacing a T with an A has any clinical significance, are what occupies today's geneticists.
 The most common type of variants are called single nucleotide polymorphisms, or SNP's (pronounced ''snips''). Usually they occur in regions where the nucleotides seem to be doing nothing. This means the SNP's don't have any function, either, or at least none that has been discovered yet; they're just there.
 Still, SNP's tend to occur in different patterns in different populations. Say there's a SNP on Chromosome 12 in which a person might have either an A or a T. At this hypothetical SNP, 20 percent of Africans might have an A, and 80 percent a T. At the same spot, the frequency might be flipped in Europeans: 80 percent might have an A, while only 20 percent have a T. 
 So while SNP patterns don't reveal anything about the function of the genes, they can say something about an individual's continent of ancestry -- and, by extension, something about migration pathways through human history. SNP's tend to be inherited in clusters, called haplotype blocks. Like SNP's, varieties of haplotype blocks occur at different frequencies in different regions of the world -- and that's how population geneticists have managed to reconstruct the story of human migration.
 The biggest variety of haplotype blocks occurs in Africa, because modern humans arose there more than 150,000 years ago, and variations have had the longest chance to accrue simply because of random mutations. About 55,000 years ago, a small group of modern humans, who carried in their genomes a subset of the original haplotype varieties, traveled to Australia; later, in sequence and timing that are still a source of controversy among paleoanthropologists, other small groups migrated to parts of Europe, Asia and the Middle East.
 As time went on, there were some evolutionary changes in response to the new environments. In Northern Europe, for instance, people carrying mutations for lighter skin color thrived, probably because the scarcity of sunlight made dark-skinned people especially susceptible to Vitamin D deficiency and rickets. But most of the variations occurred in the nonfunctional regions of the genome, with no effect on an individual's appearance or health. All that the variations did was allow geneticists, some 2,000 generations later, to assign a continent of origin to the descendents of these original travelers based on the descendants' DNA. 
 To the dismay of Troy Duster, several private companies are now taking these findings about SNP's to a new level: scanning the genome for variations that can say something about an individual's race. Last year, a company called DNAPrint Genomics made headlines by telling law-enforcement officials in Louisiana that they'd been looking for a serial killer of the wrong race. Eyewitnesses had offered different accounts of the race of the suspect -- some thought he was black, others white -- and authorities had focused their search on white males between the ages of 25 and 35 based in part on an F.B.I. psychological profile. But based on crime-scene specimens, DNAPrint said the murderer was probably black -- in fact, the company said it could detect 85 percent sub-Saharan African ancestry and 15 percent Native American -- and even gave an assessment of his skin tone. When a black male was apprehended, his DNA was found to match that at one of the crime scenes. He was convicted of second-degree murder in August.
 For some, this would be a story of science advancing police work. But for people like Duster, the forensic use of genetic markers raises troubling questions. Can a DNA screen of a person's blood or hair really tell you anything more than where his ancestors probably came from? Would it lead to witch hunts based on some uncertain appraisal of skin color? Would it be used, wrongly, to give a patina of scientific authority to group prejudices? 
 Worried, Duster approached his friend and colleague, Francis Collins, to suggest that Collins might want to use his position at the genome institute to mount an investigation into the genetics of race -- before the drug manufacturers and genomics companies set the tone for the public debate. 
 Collins says he was already thinking the same thing. The two men approach the venture from different perspectives, less because Collins is white and Duster is black than because one is a geneticist and the other a sociologist. As Duster sees it, race is a relationship, largely dependent on social context. Take a Tutsi and a Hutu and set them down in Los Angeles, he says, and they're both the same race, both black. But put them back in Rwanda, and they're two different races, different enough to slaughter each other.
 There may be biological dimensions to race, Duster says, but that doesn't take away from his belief that race should be understood as a social construction. ''The myth is that somehow the biology is real and the social forces are unreal,'' he says. ''In fact, the social forces can feed the biological forces.''
 Collins, for his part, recognizes that social forces explain many of the observed differences among the races -- but says he thinks something else might be involved as well. ''We need to try to understand what there is about genetic variation that is associated with disease risk,'' he says, ''and how that correlates, in some very imperfect way, with self-identified race, and how we can use that correlation to reduce the risk of people getting sick.'' 
 Taking up Duster's challenge, Collins knew, meant walking into a quagmire. A decade earlier, another top government scientist lost his job by discussing the genetics of urban violence (though his case was egregious: he compared young black men with male monkeys). But Collins said he believed the idea, risky as it was, was worth pursuing because it offered the best chance of converting new genomic information into something of medical significance.
 The genome institute, part of the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md., currently spends some $31 million for studies into human genetic variation. The institute is also a major contributor to the Hap Map project, a $110million international collaboration that by late 2005 will have put together a coherent almanac of human variation using haplotype blocks. The Hap Map is meant to help scientists in their search for common disease-causing genes, but in the process it will also generate new information about the specific ways in which populations from the places being studied -- China, Japan, Nigeria and, in the United States, Utah -- differ from one another genetically.
 Collins is clean-cut and homespun, emphatically tall, with a fringe of sandy hair that makes him look younger than his 54 years. He exudes an aw-shucks earnestness when he talks about his favorite topics, which include his rebirth as a Christian during his medical training. Each time he makes a scientific discovery, he says, he gets a glimmer of insight into the workings of the mind of God. 
 But for all his personal sincerity, Collins is finding that some of his allies are wary of this newest undertaking. They know that even a man with the best intentions can muck it up when it comes to race. 
While writing this article, I took a trip to the Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington. I wanted to see the museum's current exhibit about eugenics, the scientific movement of the early 20th century that looked for evidence of biological racial differences to promote creation of a ''fitter'' species. In a very short time, eugenic ideas were subverted to support Nazi policies of ethnic cleansing and racial extermination. Since last spring, when Collins called to suggest that I might be interested in his institute's plan to investigate the genetics of race, I had talked to more than two dozen scientists about the issue. Uncomfortable questions about where such inquiries could lead underscored a number of those conversations -- the sort of questions that, as a white person in America today, I don't usually have to confront. I went to the Holocaust museum looking for resonances.
 How disturbing it was to see that the activities of the early eugenicists resembled, from a certain perspective, the activities of specimen collectors of the early days of zoology -- as well as those of genomics researchers today, going around collecting specimens of human variation. The eugenicists engaged in some straightforward scientific studies that can seem almost harmless, even ordinary. And that's what makes it so troubling to look back.
 With rulers, calipers, charts of eye shapes and elaborate reconstructions of family trees, eugenicists of the 1920's and 30's took great care to describe physical characteristics of different racial groups. They photographed subjects, measured their noses and mouths, made plaster casts of their faces and documented variations in facial features and head proportions. Is it possible that the difference between then and now is that the tools have changed -- that instead of using calipers and scales, scientists now use DNA-sequencing machines?
 Connecting contemporary genomic studies to the Holocaust is too glib, of course, and it obscures one crucial point: that the anthropometrics of the early eugenics movement turned ugly once fanatics perverted the information. But the exhibit is a sobering reminder of how easy it would be to travel down that path. ''I think our best protection against that -- because this work is going to be done by somebody -- is to have it done by the best and brightest and hopefully most well attuned to the risk of abuse,'' Collins says. ''That's why I think this has to be a mainstream activity of genomics, and not something we avoid and then watch burst out somewhere from some sort of goofy fringe.''
 Collins doesn't quote the Bible often -- he tends to neither hide nor flaunt his religious faith -- but he quotes it now. He chooses a line
 from the New Testament's Book of John, in which Jesus says to his disciples, ''And you shall know the truth, and the truth shall set you free.''
Reducing health disparities and catching criminals are serious reasons for pursuing the genetics of race, but there's also a small but growing trend toward something its practitioners call ''recreational genomics.'' To satisfy curiosity about their heritage, more and more people are experiencing race-based genomics as a mail-in test, for which they pay up to $400, that will tell them how much of their genome is black, white, American Indian or Asian. These companies go beyond old-fashioned genealogical services, the kind that involve scouring archives and huddling over microfiche machines, and trace genetic linkages back many generations to a particular geographic location. Critics say that what these companies are doing sanctifies the genetic distinctions among racial groups, as if the question of whether race has a biological basis has been settled.
 The services, with names like GeoGene, AncestryByDNA and Roots for Real, begin by asking clients to mail in a cheek swab to get some stray skin cells from which DNA can be extracted. Though the process may feel like a parlor game, the results can be deeply affecting. One of those who traced his genetic lineage through a company called African Ancestry is Andrew Young, former United States ambassador to the United Nations and now chairman of an organization called Good Works International.
 Young was looking for information about his maternal lineage only; he assumed, he told me, that his paternal lineage would be ''contaminated'' with white DNA, a bitter memento of slave rape that he didn't feel ready to confront. (According to Rick Kittles, a cofounder of African Ancestry and a geneticist at Ohio State University, about one-third of blacks who do a paternal lineage analysis, himself included, find that there is European DNA somewhere in their past.)
 When a black client discovers that there's white in his genome, the results can be shattering. Last year, the ABC News program ''Nightline'' profiled a 50-year-old California man who had assumed his whole life that he was black. But a recreational genomics analysis by DNAPrint Genomics indicated that his genome was 57 percent of what the company called Indo-European, 39 percent Native American, 4 percent East Asian -- and zero percent African. So what is this man: the race he has always thought himself to be, or the race his genome says he is? 
 Young's reaction to his African Ancestry report is an indication of how much weight we ascribe to genes, how much we believe our DNA reflects not only our racial identity but our individual identity, too. When Young heard that the company had traced his DNA back to what is now Sierra Leone, he was disappointed because he considered Sierra Leone to have a ''snobbish'' middle class. But the report got much more specific: the people whose SNP pattern most resembled Young's, it said, were from the Mende tribe. Whether a few SNP matches can allow such precision is a matter of debate, but it fit happily into Young's self-image. Young, who got his start in the civil rights movement, was raised on tales about the Amistad slave-ship rebellion of 1839, for which the Mende were responsible. ''I always had a spiritual connection to these stories,'' he says. ''Now I have a genetic connection.''
So is there such a thing as race? It depends on whether you're defining it in terms of culture or biology. Culturally, there is no denying it. In the United States, with its race-stained legacy dating back to slavery, the government has tried for centuries to define a person's race. The Census Bureau has been asking about race on its forms since 1790, most recently giving individuals the opportunity to check off more than one race if they so desire.
 But the more vexing question is whether there's such a thing as race in terms of biology. Genetic variations do seem to cluster differently for people with different continents of origin, but is this race? And what does it mean if it is -- or if it isn't? Do we need to agree on whether race is a biological entity, since we can so readily agree that it's a social one? 
 ''Race is a reality in this country, no matter what the genome tells us,'' says Vanessa Northington Gamble, director of the National Center for Bioethics in Research and Health Care at Tuskegee University. ''If I can't get a cab in New York, it's because my skin is black. And I can't hold up my DNA and say: 'Wait a minute! I'm just the same as you!' '' 
 Some critics worry that the more we find out about genetic differences among people of different racial groups, the more such information will be misinterpreted or abused. Already there are fears that the biological measures of racial differences might lead to pronouncements about inherent differences in such complex traits as intelligence, athletic ability, aggressiveness or susceptibility to addiction. Once such measures are given the imprimatur of science, especially genomic science, loathsome racist stereotypes can take on the sheen of received wisdom.
 Looking for racial genetic markers does indeed risk creating categories that can get us in trouble. It bears remembering, however, that the ''slippery slope'' argument is itself a danger. Rather than abort a whole field of research because it might bolster cranks and demagogues, maybe one solution to our national angst over race is to let scientists hunt down the facts -- facts that will no doubt affirm, one way or another, that the human genome is indeed our common thread. 


GRAPHIC: Drawings (Drawings by Joel Lardner)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (90%); HEART DISEASE (89%); GENOMICS (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (89%); DRUG INTERACTIONS & SIDE EFFECTS (89%); PHARMACOGENOMICS (89%); CARDIOLOGY (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (78%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (78%); CLINICAL TRIALS (77%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (72%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (72%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (72%); SCIENCE NEWS (66%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (66%); APPROVALS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004



219 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; NEWS AND ANALYSIS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: The Health Care Clash Moves to the Next Aisle

BYLINE: By RUSS MITCHELL

DATELINE: Berkeley, Calif. 

 BODY:
DRAPED in a blue apron, a supermarket clerk squatted on a parking lot curb, taking a break from work at a Safeway supermarket in an affluent neighborhood here. 
 ''I make about 10 bucks an hour,'' he said. ''I don't know how they expect us to pay for health care out of that.''
 The clerk, who is single and in his 50's, said he had little money left after paying rent on a small apartment in what he called the ''low-rent end'' of nearby Alameda, where one-bedrooms bottom out around $800 a month. He is upset that his employer wants him to pay more for health insurance, but he said he would rather not give his last name because of ''all the strike talk and all.'' Does he expect a strike? ''Could be,'' he shrugged. ''We'll see.'' 
 With bitter memories of a long strike still fresh, the supermarket industry faces a new showdown between labor unions determined to hang on to health insurance benefits and management that is girding to meet increased competition from low-cost rivals like Wal-Mart Stores. 
 The same issues were behind the four-and-a-half-month strike and lockout in Southern California that ended in February, attracting national publicity and leaving both sides exhausted. Nearly 60,000 union workers lost a third of their annual pay, while the parent corporations of the grocery chains -- Albertsons, Safeway and Kroger -- shed $1 billion in profits, much of it spent trying to lure customers back into their stores with price promotions. 
 Now the attention has shifted to Northern California, the next stop on a patchwork of regional negotiations. Scarred by the Southern California experience, both sides will try to avoid a strike. But compromise will be hard to come by. 
 Unionized supermarket chains have been paying 100 percent of most workers' health care premiums for decades, and Steven A. Burd, the chairman and chief executive of Safeway, says they have ''become a runaway cost, not just for us, but for industry in general.''
 The days when supermarkets could tolerate the costs ended with the arrival of nonunion competitors, especially Wal-Mart, he added. Supermarkets need to deal with the issue ''before we find ourselves in the same situation as the airline industry,'' rife with layoffs and bankruptcy, Mr. Burd warned. He likens the competition from Wal-Mart to airline industry competition from JetBlue. (Albertsons, the other major party in the Northern California negotiations, declined to comment.)
 The issue is not unique to the supermarket industry. Negotiations between the United Auto Workers and Caterpillar Inc. are bogged down over who will pay for health benefits. In San Francisco, service workers are striking against major hotels; the top issue there, too, is health benefits.
 Richard L. Benson, president of United Food and Commercial Workers Local 870 in nearby Hayward, placed more blame for the problem on nonunion chains and on the health care industry than on Safeway and Albertsons. But, he added, ''we are not going to allow the solution to be 'pass the cost on to employees, and then let's move on.'''
 The costs are substantial, and growing. While consumer inflation ticks along at 2 to 3 percent, driven mostly by volatile markets for oil, health insurance premiums have climbed more sharply. They increased 14.7 percent in 2003 and are expected to grow 12.6 percent this year, and although inflation is forecast to slow in 2005, double-digit increases will be the norm for years to come, according to Hewitt Associates.
 ''Employers can't take on 12 to 14 percent annual increases in health care,'' said Tom Beauregard, a health care consultant at Hewitt. ''The cost increases we see are not sustainable.''
 As a result, employers -- the main providers of health care coverage in the United States -- are shifting more benefit costs to their workers. Hewitt reports that while employers' share of health care spending will hold steady this year, workers will see their average annual contribution for family coverage rise to $1,565, from $1,276.
 In Southern California, Safeway workers accepted a two-tier wage and benefits system, similar to that in a deal reached in April, without a strike, at Giant and Safeway stores in Washington, D.C. Under the Washington plan, workers hired after the contract takes effect will for six years receive lower wages than veteran workers and fewer health benefits; part-time employees will begin paying $38 a week for family coverage. In Seattle, local unions rejected the two-tier system but agreed to pay a share of health premiums. Negotiations are continuing in Denver.
 THE new contracts provide some cost savings for the supermarket chains, but not enough to compete effectively against nonunion rivals, said Jason Whitmer, an analyst at Midwest Research in Cleveland. ''They need to be more competitive on cost to be more competitive on price,'' he said. 
 Supermarkets have still not fully recovered the market share they lost during the Southern California strike to discounters like Wal-Marts and Costco or to specialty markets like Trader Joe's and Whole Foods Market, he said. ''Even Bed Bath & Beyond is selling food now,'' he said.
 Union leaders acknowledge the need for the supermarkets to remain competitive, but they say Mr. Burd's comparison to the airline industry is an exaggeration. Safeway's financial performance is weakening, they say, but its returns regularly exceed its cost of capital, or the amount it estimates it could earn in another investment of comparable risk. (Albertsons and Kroger have not done as well in recent years, according to Stern Stewart & Company, a financial consulting firm in New York, though both still earn a profit.)
 As President Bush and Senator John Kerry argue over health care at the national level, individual states are having their own debates. In California this fall, voters will be presented with Proposition 72, which would require companies with 200 or more workers to pay at least 80 percent of the health care premiums for employees and their families; companies with 50 to 199 workers would have to offer insurance only to employees. If they did not buy insurance on their own, employers would pay into a state-run system that would provide private insurance. 
 The measure was driven in part by two recent studies at the University of California, which concluded that the low wages and benefits at chains like Wal-Mart were forcing workers into welfare programs that cost the state nearly $3 billion. The Legislature's budget analysis group, however, said it could not estimate if the proposal would save the state any money. 
 Even under the kinds of programs that would be offered in Proposition 72, employers would continue to be the primary provider of health insurance. James C. Robinson, a professor of health economics at the University of California, Berkeley, said the focus on issues like premium payments missed the larger point: that health care costs would continue to rise, meaning that insurers and employers would need to offer a variety of health plan options with different benefits and costs.
 ''The employers' job is to make good options available to employees and the tools to help them decide,'' he said. ''If you choose the higher-cost option, you'll pay more. If you choose the lower-cost option, you'll pay less. Just like everything in life.''
 The trouble, Professor Robinson says, is that most companies -- Safeway and Albertsons included -- do a minimal job of providing those options and tools. And employees wonder whether they can afford even the cheapest plans.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Striking grocery workers in Southern California last year. Contract negotiations are moving to the northern part of the state this year and are expected to be contentious. (Photo by Robyn Beck/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)Chart: ''Benefits Squeeze''As low-cost rivals have grown, supermarkets have cut wages and benefits to better compete.Top food retailers by sales19931. Kroger2. Safeway3. Lucky's4. Winn-Dixie5. A.&P.6. Albertsons20031. Wal-Mart*2. Kroger3. Albertsons4. Safeway5. Ahold USA6. Costco*Includes Wal-Mart Supercenter and Sam's Club(Source by Business Guides)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (93%); STRIKES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (87%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (74%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); LAYOFFS (71%); LOCKOUTS (71%); PARENT COMPANIES (69%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (69%); EXECUTIVES (66%); AIRLINES (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CATERPILLAR INC (60%); WAL-MART STORES INC (55%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (51%)

TICKER: CTA (LSE) (60%); CATR (PAR) (60%); CAT (SWX) (60%); CAT (NYSE) (60%); WMT (NYSE) (55%); JBLU (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333131 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (60%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (55%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (55%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (51%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%)

PERSON: STEVEN A BURD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004



220 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Habitats/Williamsburg; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: Living In the New Suburbia, With Plans for Children

BYLINE: By PENELOPE GREEN

 BODY:
ONE month ago today, Richard Oceguera, 35, and Thomas Koveleskie, 33, celebrated their Massachusetts wedding of last spring with a party on the roof of their home on South First Street in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. Sixty people attended this handmade ceremony, which sampled elements from early Christian services -- both men are Catholic -- blended with vows they had written themselves, followed by disco dancing to Duran Duran, Book of Love and late Blondie.
 As the sun set, the lights honoring the Twin Towers were lighted, along with those of the Empire State Building, and a flock of pigeons tumbled skyward from the roof of a nearby tenement (a happy coincidence). John Gillespie, a neighbor, made a toast, which he recalled the other day. ''I said that this was a transformative event both for the guests, and the building,'' Mr. Gillespie said. ''It marked a new beginning for all of us, and it felt like a blessing on the building.'' 
 This celebration, its setting and the coincidental atmospherics -- those lights, the pigeons -- underscore Williamsburg's 21st-century incarnation as a bedroom community for Manhattan professionals. The residents of 150 South First Street, the luxurious new condominium development where Mr. Oceguera and Mr. Koveleskie bought their 900-square-foot two-bedroom for $440,000 in July 2003, are prototypical of the area's new citizens; many are couples looking to start a family. 
 ''We've already had a naming ceremony on the roof, for one of the two babies born in the building,'' said Mr. Gillespie, who is president of the condo board at 150 South First (his day job is medical director at Pfizer in Manhattan). ''And there's another wedding planned.''
 No longer a haven for artists -- or even ''artists'' -- Williamsburg feels more like Georgetown in Washington, than the East Village, to which it has been compared. At 8:45 on any given weekday morning, Bedford Avenue is a river of well-scrubbed young professionals pouring toward the L train and their city jobs across the river. (The Bedford Avenue gloss is so powerful that the developers of 150 South First Street, which is at the corner of South First and Bedford, marketed their property as 299 Bedford Avenue.) By 10 the strollers are out, careering along the same strip or parked at Fabiane's Cafe.
 ''I never thought of myself as a 'Williamsburg kind of guy,' '' said Mr. Oceguera, who is director of business development at Rent-Direct.com, an online-service that connects would-be renters with landlords; he and Mr. Koveleskie had been renting together in Brooklyn Heights for four years.
 Mr. Oceguera was crisply dressed in a blinding white shirt and zippered chocolate brown Agnes B. sweater from Paris -- he and Mr. Koveleskie had just returned from a honeymoon in Italy and France -- and talking passionately about family and roots; he sees Williamsburg as fertile ground for both.
 ''Even though this is our starter home, our first purchase,'' Mr. Koveleski said, ''we want to start a family here. We've hit all the milestones -- home ownership, marriage -- and the last one is children. Our neighbors expect it of us.'' 
 The men say their neighbors, mostly straight couples in their 30's, are sharing parenting and adoption group news. ''We all seem to have a lot in common,'' Mr. Oceguera said.
 It took one month for all 32 units here to sell, said Helene Luchnick, an executive vice president at Douglas Elliman who marketed the building. 
 ''At that time there was absolutely nothing else for sale in Williamsburg,'' Ms. Luchnick said. Its developers had planned the building as a rental property, until they saw the state of the market. It was Ms. Luchnick who suggested they build the rooftop deck, fitness center and kitchen. Prices are about $500 a square foot, and rising. Mr. Oceguera and Mr. Koveleskie's apartment was just reappraised, they said, at about $550,000.
 Patrice Mack, a broker at Elliman who sold the building with Ms. Luchnick, was surprised by the monolithic homogeneity of her clients. ''It was weird, we thought it would be artists or people from the area,'' she said, ''but instead it was this group from Manhattan. They even had the same stuff. Do you remember the Aerosole 'Dollyanna' shoes from 'Sex and the City?' '' she continued. ''All the girls were wearing those.''
 Old Williamsburg, the one with the Latin flavor, is still here: the vacant lot opposite Mr. Oceguera and Mr. Koveleskie's living room terrace is filled with pumpkin vines. The ''artists'' are represented too: a juice bar around the corner has a street sign with the words Haight-Ashbury painted on its galvanized steel walls (there's even a VW bus emblazoned with peace signs). But this couple mostly ignores such signage on their walks to emporiums like Uva's Wines and Bedford Cheese down the block; both men love to cook.
 They met by chance six years ago in a Chelsea restaurant. A few nights later, Mr. Oceguera, new to the city from Chicago, was dialing around haphazardly for a dinner date. Mr. Koveleskie, vice president for equity and fixed income research at BBVA Securities, was the only one who answered his phone. It was 9 p.m. and he was working late. ''We've been inseparable ever since,'' Mr. Oceguera said. 
 On May 24, Day 6 of legalized marriage in the commonwealth of Massachusetts, the men were the 350th same-sex couple to be married, they said. The state requires a three-day waiting period, but you can get a waiver, which they sought. The elderly male judge who granted it urged both to ''ignore the small-minded folks out there,'' as Mr. Oceguera remembers it. Mr. Koveleskie's father told him, ''I looked up the definition of love in the dictionary, and it didn't say it was only between a man and a woman.''
 Mr. Oceguera broke in. ''Not to mention it's always good for the economy when two gay guys get married,'' he said. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: FAMILY ORIENTED -- Thomas Koveleskie and Richard Oceguera, seated, far left, were married in Massachusetts last spring after buying a two-bedroom condo the previous year, left, in Williamsburg, where they hope to put down roots and raise children. Recently, they celebrated their wedding with a party on the communal roof, below. (Photographs by Robert Stolarik for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); SUBURBS (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (87%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (72%); RENTAL PROPERTY (70%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (70%); FAMILY (69%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (50%) Housing; Biographical Information

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (53%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (53%); PFEB (BRU) (53%); PFE (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (53%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (53%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (53%)

PERSON: Richard Oceguerra; Thomas Koveleskie; Penelope Green

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City; Williamsburg (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004



221 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; West Hartford Journal; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: In a Well-Off Suburb, Lawn Signs Duel Over Change, Charm and Property Taxes

BYLINE: By STACEY STOWE

DATELINE: WEST HARTFORD, Conn., Oct. 8 

 BODY:
With sidewalk cafes, a bakery for dogs and a reliable group of antiwar protesters, the cozy downtown here serves up consumerism with a dollop of social conscience, an appealing dish that whets the appetites of the errand-runners and browsers who fill the town's center on any given day. 
 The town has had a good thing going since a spate of new restaurants opened in the mid-1990's, helping make it the envy of the area. While next door, Hartford, with the second highest poverty rate in the country, is struggling to woo developers to engage in its $1 billion downtown redevelopment project, this well-off suburb's dance card is full.
 But a current suitor's proposal, a $158 million project known as Blue Back Square that would roughly double the size of West Hartford's commercial center, has sharply divided residents. Even in this heavily Democratic town, where civic engagement is a recreational sport, the proposal to develop a 20-acre site behind Town Hall has ignited extraordinary passion. 
 Dueling lawn signs are the new garden ornaments. Leaflets pro and con jam mailboxes. The mayor himself, Jonathan Harris, has witnessed sidewalk shouting matches over the proposal. Graham Chase, who lives two blocks from Town Hall, has parked an outhouse on his front walkway. ''Blue Back Square Stinks'' is scrawled on its side.
 ''I've lived here almost 40 years and I can't remember anything like it,'' said Charles T. Coursey, one of nine members of the Town Council, which unanimously voted approval of the project. Mr. Coursey remembers the center's less thriving days; in 1990, now-bustling LaSalle Road was deserted enough for skate boarders to set up ramps on Friday nights.
 On Tuesday, voters will be asked to decide whether to use tax dollars to pay almost $49 million of the project's cost and to sell the town's Board of Education building and other property to the developer, Street-Works, for $34 million.
 The downtown project would turn a sea of asphalt, some patches of grass and a shuttered car dealership into about 500,000 square feet of retail shops, restaurants, upscale condominiums, offices, a medical and fitness center and parking garages. So far, only Crate and Barrel has signed on to be a tenant.
 Opponents of the project say it is too dense for the site and not at all charming.
 ''Cheap. That's how I describe it,'' said Libby Spinella, who has lived here since 1960. ''My mother, who is 90, said it's like trying to fit an elephant into a powder room.''
 Mr. Harris, who supports the project, portrays the antipathy as a positive, the sign of an engaged citizenry. Besides, he said, the town needs a new way to raise revenue.
 ''We're fully developed and too reliant on property taxes for our budget,'' he said. 
 An official with Street-Works, which has developed similar projects in Maryland and Florida, said Blue Back Square would enhance the neighborhood. ''The whole project is about encouraging a sense of community,'' said Richard Heapes, a partner in the company. There have been some 50 hours of public hearings and meetings on the project. Street-Works, which is based in White Plains, has spent more than $500,000 preparing for the referendum. The Taubman Companies, the parent company of West Farms, a sprawling mall that straddles West Hartford and Farmington, has spent more than $296,000 campaigning against it.
 On Friday, members of Save Our Center, a grassroots group opposed to the project, gathered in a Starbucks on LaSalle Road. They juggled laptops, cellphones and file folders stuffed with leaflets.
 One member, Susan Schaffman, who lives a few blocks from the town center, said she was opposed to the project for many reasons, chief among them its financing.
 ''This property is a jewel -- anyone would want it -- so why are we supporting a private developer with public money?'' she asked. 
 Opponents say the project's scale will mar the character of the town center, where low-slung boutiques are nestled beneath awnings, restaurants feature terrace dining, and brick sidewalks are lined with trees. 
 And, Ms. Schaffman said, a bigger town center means more crowds and less of a sense of community.
 ''I'm comfortable letting my 14-year-old daughter come here with her friends because she is bound to see a neighbor or teacher,'' she said. ''Sixteen thousand more cars a day aren't going to bring more neighbors.''
 Patrick Pinnell, an architect who lives in Haddam, Conn., and writes about urban planning for newspapers, said that although the project has flaws, it would appeal to people who want to be less reliant on automobiles. ''People are becoming interested in a neighborhood center and developers are trying to figure out ways to attach themselves to that,'' he said.
 Tony Gold, who lives and works in Hartford and is a consultant on urban and suburban planning, said she was envious.
 ''People in my neighborhood would sell their grandmother to have what West Hartford does,'' she said. 
 Steven Goodman, 58, who owns Bennett's, a stationery store that has been in the center since the 1930's, said he had mixed feelings, wondering if Blue Back Square would help or hurt his business, while recognizing the need for economic growth.
 ''People like the apple pie version of the center now,'' he said. ''But you need a mix of businesses. People walking around with an ice cream cone are nice but they aren't really spending money.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Steven Goodman, owner of a stationery store, has mixed feelings. ''You need a mix of businesses,'' he said.
 Graham Chase put an outhouse on his front walkway in opposition to a nearby 20-acre development plan. (Photographs by Douglas Healey for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (90%); SUBURBS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PROPERTY TAX (85%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); MAYORS (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (76%); CITY LIFE (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); SKATEBOARDING (72%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (72%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (71%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (70%); POOR POPULATION (70%); APPROVALS (69%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (68%); EXTREME SPORTS (67%); POVERTY RATES (55%); NEW CAR DEALERS (50%); RETAILERS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004



222 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1436 words

HEADLINE: Navigating Routes To Foreign Markets

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
SUCCESSFUL investing in foreign stock markets means knowing where to go -- and how to get there. 
 Three broad types of funds give small investors access to a mix of companies based overseas. Index mutual funds and exchange-traded funds try to match the returns of benchmark indexes, while actively managed funds try to beat them, risking substantial underperformance if their managers pick the wrong stocks.
 The three categories of foreign funds differ in their potential for reward -- and in their risk levels. They also vary in cost, diversification and the markets and sectors on which they focus. Such differences also apply to domestic funds, of course, but they can be more pronounced once borders are crossed, fund managers and financial planners say. 
 The main appeal of passively managed funds -- those that aim to match the performance of a benchmark index -- is their cost, or lack of it. Because little research and trading is involved, the management fees and other expenses are generally low. But in international funds, the differences in expenses between these funds and actively managed funds can be especially high, said George U. Sauter, chief investment officer at the Vanguard Group, the fund giant.
 ''When you factor in fund administration fees, trading fees and management fees,'' Mr. Sauter said, ''active managers will lag the returns of international markets because of the substantial cost of investing internationally.'' 
 Research can be more expensive overseas, too; a trip to visit a company in Johannesburg can be much more expensive than one to Milwaukee.
 The cost advantage of index funds is substantial. Fidelity Investments recently lowered the expenses of its Spartan International index fund to 0.1 percent a year, from 0.47 percent. Whether other managers follow suit remains to be seen. John Woerth, a spokesman for Vanguard, said it had no plans to engage in a price war and suggested that Fidelity's move was a ''marketing gimmick'' that could be undone at any time. Vanguard's fund expenses are already relatively low, running at 0.36 percent a year for its Total International Stock Index fund.
 Scott Beyerl, a Fidelity spokesman, said that the reduction, and similar ones for some domestic funds, were being made ''for an indefinite period of time'' and that the company viewed it as ''a long-term initiative.'' But he also said that ''we certainly reserve the right to lift them at some point in the future.''
 International E.T.F.'s are somewhat more expensive than index mutual funds, even before Fidelity's reduction is taken into account. Annual expense ratios run from 0.3 percent to 1.3 percent, compared with average annual expenses of 0.57 percent for conventional index funds, said Dieter Bardy, an analyst at Morningstar Inc.
 E.T.F. expenses tend to be higher because of their single-country focus and because the flow of money in and out of them is greater than for index mutual funds, he said.
 Advocates of E.T.F.'s say the funds offer advantages. One reason for the higher money flow is that E.T.F.'s trade throughout the day, and buyers and sellers can get up-to-the-minute price information. Mutual funds, by contrast, are priced only at the close of a day's trading, and orders must be received before then. 
 Another advantage, said Diane Shew, head of international equities at Barclays Global Investors, a large issuer of E.T.F.'s, is that investors can use them to profit from a falling market. Like common stocks, E.T.F.'s can be sold short, ''if you want to underweight a market or bet against it, or if you just don't like a country or region,'' she said.
 Even the most ardent supporters of active management say that passively managed funds are best in certain situations -- if, for example, you want to focus on particular emerging markets. ''If you really wanted a pure play on Korea or South Africa, let's say, the only choice would be an E.T.F. or index fund,'' said Kathleen Piaggesi, a certified financial planner in Scarsdale, N.Y. ''You may not find a well-run, well-thought-out actively managed fund'' specializing in those countries, she said.
 But small investors who are considering single-country funds are advised to think hard before acting. ''Funds of this nature are usually only on people's radar because they have been in the press or have had good recent performance,'' said Mr. Bardy at Morningstar. ''Most people do not need a dedicated country-specific fund and would be better served by a diversified international fund.''
 Proponents of actively managed foreign funds say these funds offer the only way to beat the market, instead of just matching it, and that international markets are especially inefficient, giving good managers a good shot at consistently outperforming the indexes.
 ''Where there are inefficiencies, that's where active management is at its best,'' said Susan Hirshman, a wealth strategist at J.P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management in New York, which handles many actively run portfolios. The biggest inefficiencies overseas emerge when dealing with small markets and small companies, analysts say.
 ''Active managers have an advantage in small-capitalization stocks, especially value stocks, because they're underresearched,'' Mr. Bardy said. ''That applies more in foreign markets. In emerging-market small caps, there's almost no coverage. If you've got a fund manager in Malaysia you've got an edge.''
 That kind of edge may be growing as Wall Street firms pare their ranks. ''Investment banks are cutting back on research, more so in international markets,'' said Michael Johnston, managing director for investments at Smith Barney in Irvine, Calif. That can give an advantage, he said, to ''managers who are willing to hop on a plane.''
 Fidelity's fee cut in its international index fund has not changed some advisers' preference for active management. Ms. Piaggesi said the reduction was not enough to close the performance gap between index trackers and the actively managed funds she recommends to her clients. 
 Mr. Bardy said that the Fidelity fund is ''top heavy,'' meaning that it is dominated by very large stocks. It is just this type of fund that good active managers can beat by picking smaller companies that are generally not as well researched, he said. 
 Indexers counter that while some active managers beat benchmarks, it is hard to predict which ones will do so -- and that most will not.
 ''The difficulty is knowing in advance who is going to outperform,'' said Mr. Sauter at Vanguard.
 Difficult, but worth the effort, supporters of active management say. Ms. Piaggesi starts by looking for funds that have beaten their benchmarks over five years. ''Past performance may be no guarantee of future performance,'' she noted, ''but it's all you've got.''
 Ms. Piaggesi says she prefers management companies that are light on marketing and heavy on analysis. ''I want to know that what these people do is researching and meeting with companies they want to invest in, and the companies' customers,'' she said.
 Funds that meet her criteria include Oakmark International Small Cap; Oppenheimer Global; Third Avenue International Value; Longleaf Partners International; Artisan International; Tweedy, Browne Global Value; and First Eagle Global.
 MR. BARDY conceded that finding a strong international manager who will continue to beat the market is ''impossible to do with certainty.'' But he said Oppenheimer Global had ''a very good record'' and he spoke highly of its manager, William L. Wilby, who was an international economist with the Federal Reserve Bank in Chicago. ''If you believe his research record and economics background give him an edge in performance over his peers,'' he said, ''then he's worth investing in.'' 
 Mr. Bardy also likes Tweedy, Browne Global Value. ''It's got a good, solid, long-term track record,'' he said. ''If you're going to be in the international small-cap space, this is a good option.''
 Mr. Johnston of Smith Barney declined to make specific recommendations, but he advised investors to ''go for a fund where the manager has been at the fund for a long time.''
 He also suggested sticking with funds that have low volatility, even if that meant sacrificing some gains. His concern is not the price swings themselves but shareholders' reaction to them, which may be to do the wrong thing at the wrong time.
 ''When markets get shaky, U.S. investors are more likely to hold onto a U.S. investment than a foreign one,'' he said. ''When they look at a foreign fund that has names they can't pronounce and it's down 15 percent, they're more likely to sell it.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Niculae Asciu)Graph: ''Beaten by a Benchmark''In most years, less than half of actively managed foreign funds that use the MSCI EAFE index as their benchmark manage to outperform it. That index covers stocks in 21 developed countries in Europe and in the Asia-Pacific region.Graph tracks the percentage of funds beating the benchmark from 1994-2004*.*Through Sept. 30(Source by Morningstar Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); INDEX FUNDS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BONDS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (73%); PRICE CUTTING (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%) Stocks and Bonds; Mutual Funds

COMPANY: FMR CORP (92%); MORNINGSTAR INC (60%); VANGUARD GROUP INC (55%)

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (60%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (60%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (60%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: Conrad De Aenlle

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%) WISCONSIN, USA (79%) EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004



223 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 4; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: When 'Job' Means Part Time, Life Becomes Very Different

BYLINE: By DAVID KOEPPEL

 BODY:
While presidential candidates and economists fiercely debate the strength of the job market's recovery, that expansion is tilting heavily toward part-time jobs rather than full-time employment. 
 More than one million of the 1.2 million jobs added this year are part time, the Labor Department says, and part-time jobs now represent 18 percent of the overall job market, the highest level since 1997. 
 Many economists and other experts say that most of the jobs being offered are part time because of economic uncertainty, changing markets and employers' efforts to save money. 
 Some workers take these jobs because they cannot find full-time work but need some income, while others cite noneconomic factors, like a desire to attend school full time, to spend more time with family or to have a more flexible schedule than full-time work permits. 
 Whatever the cause, the high number of part-time jobs today has important implications for job seekers. 
 Part-time jobs often come without benefits. According to a study performed by the Employee Benefit Research Institute in Washington that is to be released in December, 19 percent, or 4.8 million, of the 25 million part-time workers in 2003 had employee health benefits. An additional 37 percent, or 9.2 million, were covered as dependents of other family members, while 11 million, or 44 percent, of all part-time workers were not covered by any employer. 
 A.J. Catanzaro had no health insurance and suffered for it last year. He endured five days of excruciating headaches and visual problems. But instead of seeing a doctor immediately, he waited until he could no longer stand the pain, then went to the emergency room of a nearby hospital. The headache turned out to be a result of a brain aneurysm, a serious condition. He took two weeks off, without pay, from his part-time job as a bartender while he recovered.
 Mr. Catanzaro, 25, is a full-time student at Kingsborough Community College and now works 20 hours a week as a driver for a company that chauffeurs dogs to a canine daycare center. He wants the flexibility of part-time work, but neither his current nor his former job provided health coverage.
 ''When something goes wrong, I go immediately to my pharmacist at Walgreen's; that's my health coverage,'' he said. ''If I had health insurance, I would have gone to a doctor immediately and not waited five days.'' 
 Along with the scarcity of benefits, part-time workers -- those working less than 35 hours a week -- often have lower hourly wages and little or no paid vacation or sick leave.
 Chuck Harner, 63, worked for 15 years as a manager for the EMC Corporation in Research Triangle Park, N.C., before he was laid off in 2001. He has a doctorate in mathematics, but he spent the next 18 months searching fruitlessly for full-time work. 
 In April 2003, he found a 12-hour-a-week job at Wild Birds Unlimited, which caters to backyard bird-feeding hobbyists. He does everything from sweeping the floors to selling bird feeders. As a manager, he made more than $100,000 annually, and he now earns about $7 an hour, he said. 
 Still, some workers are drawn to part-time work because of the flexibility it affords. 
 Lana Caywood, 49, an art teacher in Platteville, Wis., is happily employed three days a week at an elementary school, a schedule that she says gives her time for her family and her art. Still, she hopes to land a full-time teaching job that will bolster her retirement savings and help pay for her 17-year-old son's college tuition next fall. 
 Flexibility is important for many workers in general. In a 2004 survey of 946 full-time professionals by Lee Hecht Harrison, a career coaching firm, 39 percent said that they would definitely accept a job paying up to 10 percent less but offering a better corporate culture, more work-life balance and other intangible enhancements. And 87 percent said that they looked for flexible hours in a new job. 
 The part-time marketplace is also more accommodating for the laid-off textile worker seeking to retrain; the baby boomer who wants to spend more time with family; and the senior citizen who is not ready to retire, says Robert Morgan, the president of employment solutions at Spherion, a provider of temporary staff and executive recruitment, based in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. 
 Economists and staffing specialists cite many reasons for the shift toward part-time work. The cost of benefits is a major factor, they say. According to a survey of employers this year by the Kaiser Family Foundation, job-based health insurance premiums rose 11.2 percent this year, and since 2000, 59 percent. There are now five million fewer jobs with health coverage than there were in 2001, the study said. 
 The globalization of manufacturing is also contributing to the shift toward part-time work, says Edward Learner, a professor of global economics and management at the University of California, Los Angeles. With more manufacturing jobs overseas, he says, a greater part of the American work force is employed in service industries, where jobs are more likely to be part time. 
 Some employment experts say companies are hiring part-time workers because they are uncertain about the economic outlook. 
 ''Companies have been on a roller coaster and they're tired of getting whiplash,'' says Mr. Morgan of Spherion. ''They've had to ramp up and ramp down and lay off all these people.'' 
 A small but growing number of part-time workers say they would like to work full time but have not been able to. In August 2004, 1.44 million part-time workers -- fewer than 10 percent of all part-timers -- said they wanted to work full time, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, a 39 percent increase from 878,000 in August 2000. But several experts say they do not expect a significant shift in the trend toward part-time work anytime soon. 
 Andrew Reamer, an economist at the Brookings Institution in Washington, says that while it has been common for part-time work to pick up in economic recoveries before full-time jobs, he is not sure that will happen in the current economic cycle. 
 ''Job growth for the past three years has been almost entirely driven by part-time workers,'' he said. ''There's more pressure on companies to keep costs down. My guess is part of the attractiveness in hiring part-time workers is the lack of benefits.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: A.J. Catanzaro, 25, is a full-time student who works part time. When he gets sick, he says, he asks a pharmacist at a Walgreen store, like this one in Coney Island, for advice. (Photo by Angela Jimenez for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (97%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (86%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); FLEXIBLE WORK ARRANGEMENTS (78%); FAMILY (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); DOGS (72%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (69%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (69%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (67%); PET CARE SERVICES (60%); SICK LEAVE (50%) Labor; Part-Time Employment; Hiring and Promotion

COMPANY: EMC CORP (60%)

ORGANIZATION: EMPLOYEE BENEFIT RESEARCH INSTITUTE (55%) Labor Department (US)

TICKER: EMC (NYSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (60%)

PERSON: David Koeppel

GEOGRAPHIC: RESEARCH TRIANGLE, NC, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004



224 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 2; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 257 words

HEADLINE: Helen Levy, David Rosenfeld

 BODY:
Helen Gardner Levy and David Martin Rosenfeld are to be married today at Princeton University in New Jersey. Rabbi Vicki S. Tuckman will officiate at Prospect House, the faculty club. 
 Ms. Levy, 35, is keeping her name. She is an assistant professor at the Institute for Social Research at the University of Michigan at Ann Arbor and an assistant research scientist at the university's School of Public Health, conducting health and labor research on uninsured families. She graduated cum laude from Yale and received a doctorate in economics from Princeton.
 She is the daughter of Brooks Emmons Levy and Kenneth J. Levy of Princeton. Her father is an emeritus professor of music at Princeton, and her mother retired from the university as a curator of rare books and special collections at the Firestone Library.
 Mr. Rosenfeld, 40, is a freelance translator of Japanese technical documents for the automotive industry. He graduated cum laude from Harvard and received a master's in East Asian studies from Stanford and a Ph.D. in Japanese literature from Michigan.
 He is a son of Barbara B. Rosenfeld and Stephen S. Rosenfeld of Alexandria, Va. His mother retired as the vice chairwoman of Safer America for Everyone, a former consumer-protection organization in Washington; from 1994 to 2001 she was the senior adviser to the chairwoman of the federal Consumer Product Safety Commission in Bethesda, Md. His father retired as the editorial page editor and a columnist at The Washington Post.
 The bridegroom's previous marriage ended in divorce.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Anna Kramer Rosenfeld) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); ACADEMIC LIBRARIES (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); FAMILY (78%); LITERATURE (77%); WRITERS (74%); PRODUCT SAFETY (73%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (73%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (72%); SCIENCE NEWS (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (72%); CONSUMER LAW (71%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (71%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (69%); TRANSLATORS & INTERPRETERS (68%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (94%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (58%); INSTITUTE FOR SOCIAL RESEARCH (58%); CONSUMER PRODUCT SAFETY COMMISSION (54%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004



225 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1604 words

HEADLINE: Rah-Rah Market Claims a Neighborhood

BYLINE: By SELIM ALGAR

DATELINE: BRIDGEHAMPTON 

 BODY:
A WORKING-CLASS black neighborhood is something of an anomaly in the Hamptons, so tourists expecting uninterrupted affluence rubberneck at the clothes lines and small homes in the general vicinity of the Bridgehampton railroad station. The neighborhood, first settled by black farmworkers, landscapers and service workers a century ago, is a short walk from the trendy shops along Main Street, but the socioeconomic distance is vast. 
 The paradox has not escaped the notice of the voracious East End real estate corps. As buildable South Fork land becomes increasingly scarce, agents and contractors have trained their sights on a neighborhood that to them represents millions of dollars in untapped revenue. And while longtime residents of the neighborhood say they have grown accustomed to the solicitations to sell and move elsewhere over the years, many say the entreaties have become increasingly aggressive and effective.
 Black families have been vanishing from streets like the Bridgehampton-Sag Harbor Turnpike, Narrow Lane, Huntington Crossway and Sawasett Avenue in Bridgehampton for decades. But in the past few years, entire blocks once exclusively inhabited by African-Americans of modest means have given way to upscale homes and subdivisions where everyone is white. 
 ''The area is gentrifying at a very rapid rate,'' said Rob Camerino, president of Hampton Country Realty in Bridgehampton. ''I would say it's inevitable that it's going to look very different in a few years. This is becoming a year-round community and demand, especially in the lower end of the market, is very high.''
 Gentrification issues dominate conversation among the neighborhood's black residents when they turn out for athletic events at the tiny, mostly-minority Bridgehampton High School or services at the First Baptist Church, a black congregation whose members said it had roughly three times as many active members 15 years ago.
 Older residents said the drop in church attendance is an accurate indicator of the community's overall decrease. They estimated that the hamlet's black population was more than 1,000 15 years ago and barely 300 today. There is a creeping sense among the holdouts, said John Wyche, a lifelong Bridgehampton resident, that the old community is ebbing irreversibly toward extinction. ''You have to wonder if any of us will be left,'' he said. ''It seems like we're disappearing.''
 Blacks first settled the neighborhood during the early 20th century to work the farms that once dominated the area's economy. As agriculture's role receded, they fanned out into other, mostly low-income professions. While their economic situation remained static or worsened, the Hamptons exploded around them into a pricey resort destination.
 ''The cost of living is becoming too much for a lot of people and leaving the area becomes their only option,'' Mr. Wyche said.
 No street exemplifies this exodus like Sunrise Avenue, a serene block off the Bridgehampton Turnpike that has undergone a striking makeover in only three years. In 2001, all of its 20 property owners were black. Today that number stands at three, and the modest homes that once dotted the stretch have been bought out, torn down and replaced by new versions put on the market for upward of $700,000. The original houses sold for $180,000 to $265,000, according to Southampton Town records.
 For many of the sellers, the gentrification of the old neighborhood has been a boon. Several of those who sold jumped at the opportunity to move out of Bridgehampton and begin a new life. Damon Darden sold his property in 2000 for $260,000 and moved to Maryland to start fresh. He said by phone that the influx of cash gave him options that would not have been available to him without the sale. As for any misgivings about having joined the flight of blacks from Bridgehampton, Mr. Darden said that he was ''not the sentimental type.'' 
 Carlyle Turner, a former Bridgehampton school board president, also opted to sell and leave his childhood home. ''It really wasn't a tough decision,'' he said from Virginia, where he now lives. ''Of course it's a little sad to leave your community and all the people there, but the cost of living was too much. I'm glad I was able to sell. It was an opportunity.''
 For Bridgehampton's tiny public school, long a victim of white flight, the more recent black flight presents new problems.
 With almost all the white parents sending their children to private schools, the district had long been overwhelmingly African-American. But recent demographic shifts have altered its makeup. The district was roughly 90 percent black only 10 years ago, according to the longtime district clerk Joyce Manigault. Today, only 55 percent of the 171 students are African-American.
 ''The Latino kids have kept our numbers up,'' Ms. Manigault said. ''If it wasn't for them, I'm not sure the school would survive. I can't see how it could.''
 Some of the old residents of the neighborhood accuse East End real estate companies of offering lowball prices for land they know will bring big profits. Mr. Wyche said he was offended not only by the prices he was offered for his Sunrise Avenue property, but the manner in which the offers were conveyed.
 ''They offer you quick cash, cash in your pocket,'' he said. ''It's in a way that suggests you really need the money. They say you could hold out for more money but you wouldn't have the instant cash. That's insulting.''
 Mr. Camerino, a 23-year veteran of the South Fork real estate trenches, said that unscrupulous solicitation is not uncommon on the East End. ''You have to understand, that happens at all levels, not just to poor people,'' he said. ''You are going to have people that operate like that in every business.''
 Clyde Gambles has found himself mired in a legal battle to prevent the sale of his Sunrise Avenue home. Mr. Gambles originally agreed to sell his Sunrise Avenue property for $180,000 but has since balked after seeing what the new homes were being sold for. Mr. Gambles has also complained that the development company that pursued his property, HDE Properties, falsely represented itself. ''They told me they were just looking to buy this one house to sell to a low-income family,'' he said. ''They didn't tell me that they were actually buying up the whole block.''
 HDE Properties is suing Mr. Gambles for breach of contract. The company's lawyer, John Bennett of Southampton, said Mr. Gambles was simply reneging on a signed contract. ''I really don't understand this,'' he said. ''He was represented by a lawyer at all times and agreed on a fair price.''
 Mr. Bennett said he had no knowledge of the false representation charge but said that regardless, Mr. Gambles accepted the offered price. ''Let's assume that's true, and I don't know if it is, then how does that harm him?'' he said. ''He agreed to the price and now he doesn't want to got through with it.''
 Meanwhile, the sell-off of the old neighborhood continues. 
 ''This is a tough issue,'' said Dennis Suskind, a Southampton town councilman and Bridgehampton resident. ''Our area needs to maintain some cultural diversity. That community has a very long, rich history out here. To see them completely vanish would be a real loss.''
 Newcomers to the neighborhood had mixed feelings about its transformation. 
 Robin Rice has lived in one of the new houses on Sunrise Avenue for a year. Her shingled home sits across from a markedly less attractive structure across the street. Moving onto a street in the midst of such change was a bit disconcerting, she said.
 ''Sure it was a little strange,'' she said. ''But you get used to it. It's a special block. You feel like you are starting something new, something different. It's already a little community.'' 
 Ms. Rice said she saw nothing unseemly about the overhaul of the neighborhood. ''Those who wanted to sell did and those who didn't stayed,'' she said. ''It may be a bit strange for the people still here, but we are all pretty nice on this block. I don't think that's a problem.''
 Clay Sheff spends weekends at his handsome Bridgehampton home only a few blocks from the Bridgehampton-Sag Harbor Turnpike. ''They've cleaned up a lot of the crime in the area in the past few years,'' he said. ''It's definitely changing. I feel like I got in at a good time.'' 
 Mr. Sheff said his property value has increased threefold since he first bought it. As for gentrification, Mr. Sheff said he never felt that he was encroaching on another neighborhood. ''I'm pretty sure they were bought out for a fair price,'' he said. ''I would think they would be happy too. It seems like a good situation for everyone.''
 But Bob Marshall, a former English professor at the University of Pittsburgh, said he was saddened by the flight of the black population around the corner from his home.
 ''We like living in a diverse community,'' he said. ''I don't think we want the area to become totally gentrified. It's good to have different cultures. But I think it's tough to make it in this area now for a lot of people.''
 Summer tourists are greeted in Bridgehampton by a sign boasting of the local high school's string of state basketball championships. With several titles over the decades, the basketball team was a source of pride for the black community. But some alumni wonder if the sign is all that will be left of the once vibrant community one day.
 Nick Thomas, 26, a standout on two of those state championship squads, considered his 6-year-old son's future. ''Honestly, I can't see him ever putting on a Bridgehampton Killer Bee jersey,'' he said. ''I really can't.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: OLD AND NEW -- Developers are tearing down houses in Bridgehampton's black community and putting up larger ones. (Photo by Doug Kuntz for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 Al Tuths waving to a resident of Sunrise Avenue in Bridgehampton's black community. Mr. Tuths has been trying to buy the resident's home. (Photo by Doug Kuntz for The New York Times)(pg. 7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RACE & RACISM (78%); RESORTS (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (73%); FARM LABOR (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); COST OF LIVING (63%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (60%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (50%) Blacks; Geographic Profiles; Housing; Demolition

PERSON: Selim Algar

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) Bridgehampton (NY) ; Bridgehampton (NY) 

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004



226 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1983 words

HEADLINE: Warm Water Killed the Lobsters

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER

 BODY:
A''PERFECT STORM'' of sustained high water temperatures, low levels of dissolved oxygen and the toxic impact of ammonia and sulfides created lethal conditions for lobsters in western Long Island Sound in September 1999 and all but certainly explains why they suddenly died in huge numbers, researchers said last week.
 But in a series of reports delivered at a symposium on Monday at Stony Brook University, they sounded less certain about whether and to what degree pesticides contributed and said it was an area that needed more study.
 The 1999 die-off, which lobstermen said occurred with shocking speed between Sept. 19 and 22, abruptly ended a peak period for catches, essentially wiped out the $100 million lobster industry, idled hundreds of New York and Connecticut lobstermen who had been hauling a record 500,000 traps, and sounded alarms as far north as Maine. 
 Shell disease, marked by eroded and discolored shells that make lobsters unmarketable, has also spread in eastern Long Island Sound, where lobsters are less plentiful. But the impact of the 1999 die-off was greatest in western waters of the Sound, where the lobsters and the lobster industry were concentrated. Last year, the lobster catch was less than one-tenth of its peak of 8.2 million pounds in 1997. 
 Participants in the symposium described the die-off as a major environmental event, and in the view of some researchers, it was an ominous if still tentative sign of global warming. Long Island Sound is at the southern edge of the Maine lobster's East Coast range.
 ''Global warming is definitely happening, and it's happening in Long Island Sound,'' said Karen Chytalo, a marine habitat protection official for the State Department of Environmental Conservation. But Jack Mattice, director of the New York Sea Grant program at Stony Brook, was more tentative, saying that anything that raised water temperatures was a threat to lobsters, and ''it could be global warming.''
 Long Island and Connecticut lobstermen who attended the symposium continue to suspect that lobsters were pushed over the edge by mosquito pesticides applied in communities around Long Island Sound to combat West Nile virus, which first appeared in the United States in 1999. Until that year, they said, lobsters had always rebounded once the late-summer conditions of high water temperatures and low dissolved oxygen ended.
 ''I've seen plenty of warm water, but lobsters catch up,'' said Joseph Finke of Bayville, president of the Western Long Island Sound Lobstermen's Association. What had never happened before, he said, was that healthy lobsters gave way to ''nothing but death and destruction'' over just four days. 
 But in reports delivered at the symposium, co-sponsored by the Connecticut and New York Sea Grant programs, researchers said that mosquito pesticides including methoprene, malathion, resmethrin and sumithrin could not account for the catastrophic 1999 die-off, even though the compounds were found to be extremely toxic to lobsters.
 The pesticides, in different combinations and at different times, were in use both before and after the die-off in New York City, on Long Island and in Westchester and Connecticut as government and health officials reacted to the onset of mosquito-borne West Nile virus with emergency ground and aerial spraying. Genetically, lobsters are closely related to mosquitoes. 
 Many lobstermen believe the pivotal event came on Sept. 19, when the remnants of Hurricane Floyd, by then a tropical storm, dumped heavy rain on Long Island and flushed pesticides into the Sound in storm runoff. 
 Gladstone N. Jones III, a lawyer in New Orleans representing more than 100 lobstermen from New York and Connecticut in a federal class-action suit against manufacturers of pesticides used around Long Island Sound in 1999, said there was powerful evidence that pesticides triggered the September 1999 die-off. He described lobsters as ''nothing but big mosquitoes'' that were highly sensitive to mosquito pesticides. 
 Mr. Jones said two pesticide manufacturers named in the suit had agreed to a settlement for an undisclosed amount, but reported in Newsday last Wednesday as $3.75 million. He said that Cheminova, the manufacturer of malathion, had declined to settle. A hearing is scheduled Dec. 10 before Judge Thomas C. Platt in Federal District Court in Central Islip.
 ''The lobstermen are absolutely certain about what happened in September 1999,'' Mr. Jones said. ''It happened when Hurricane Floyd came through around Sept. 19, and suddenly hundreds of thousands of lobsters were pulled up dead in their traps. And this industry never recovered. It is essentially over.''
 But the researchers said that even assuming all the pesticides applied in counties around Long Island Sound at the time of the die-off had been washed into the water, the amounts were too small to kill lobsters or to weaken them enough that they would succumb to already hostile water conditions.
 Though Sea Grant officials billed the findings as definitive, they stopped short of exonerating the pesticides and said more research was needed. They also acknowledged that pesticide concentrations in Long Island Sound in the crucial September 1999 time frame were difficult to gauge. 
 ''It's really hard to go back and take measurements five years later,'' said Sylvain DeGuise, a researcher from the University of Connecticut who has studied the impact of pesticides on lobsters.
 Researchers were emphatic, however, in depicting what they concluded were the principal causes of the 1999 die-off. They also described the die-off as a more gradual event, foreshadowed in 1997 and 1998 when smaller die-offs were already signaling trouble ahead.
 By the time of the September 1999 die-off, they said, lobsters had already been exposed for more than two months to water temperatures above 68 degrees, considered the upper limit they can endure. As they withdrew from shallower, warmer waters to the cooler bottom waters, they were also subjected to low oxygen levels, or hypoxia. 
 Researchers said that by late summer the lobsters, in moving away from hypoxic areas, crowded more closely together, only to be overtaken by hypoxia again. Hypoxia occurs as water grows warmer, and when algae and other marine organisms die, sink to the bottom, and consume oxygen on the bottom, already low in oxygen, as they decompose.
 Conditions grew even more hostile because there was too little oxygen for aerobic bacteria to continue this decomposition, leaving the job to anaerobic bacteria -- or bacteria that don't use oxygen -- which release ammonia and sulfides toxic to lobsters.
 The researchers said winds from a storm on Aug. 30 thoroughly mixed waters of Long Island Sound that had stratified during a dry summer, with warmer water near the surface.
 Carmela Cuomo, a marine ecologist and geologist at the University of New Haven, said the mixing brought fresh oxygen to the depths but also raised bottom water temperature by 1.5 to 2 degrees in just six hours, pushing it into the red zone for already weakened lobsters.
 Robert Wilson, an associate professor of marine sciences at Stony Brook University, said the increase in oxygen, in combination with high temperatures in the bottom waters, could also have contributed to a rise in toxicity linked to releases from heavy metals in the sediments.
 A tiny parasite, the paramoeba, which spread through the packed-together lobsters, emerged in the research as an opportunistic organism that overcame already weakened lobsters, but not as a cause of the die-off. 
 Dr. Cuomo contended that even without the mixing event, the lobsters' long exposure to high water temperatures, low dissolved oxygen, ammonia and sulfides were enough to account for the 1999 die-off. She also warned that those conditions in Long Island Sound were far from rare. ''The probability of it happening again is very high,'' she said. 
 She said periods of hypoxia, which generally occur in later summer and early fall and are most severe in western Long Island Sound, were now a persistent annual feature. ''It's year after year after year, and it's getting longer,'' she said. 
 In one of several pointed exchanges between lobstermen and researchers at the symposium, Matthew De Maula, a lobsterman from Mattituck, questioned why only healthy lobsters, some from Maine, were used by researchers, when the effects of pesticides might be clearer in tests using Long Island Sound lobsters weakened by high temperatures and low oxygen. ''Why would you start with healthy animals?'' he asked.
 Dr. Cuomo replied that lobsters placed in waters simulating conditions on the bottom of Long Island Sound in 1999 would be dead before testing could begin.
 The future for the industry looks bleak. A graph of lobster larvae showed an up-and-down pattern leading to 2002, when levels fell to historic lows and stayed there. Penelope Howell-Heller, a senior fisheries biologist at the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection, said it was the first time in 22 years of records that larvae levels had stayed so low for three consecutive years. Research also showed female lobsters were at low levels.
 The low numbers of larvae raised concerns about the use of mosquito pesticides on land because of the extraordinarily lethal effect even tiny amounts could have on the larvae and also on juvenile lobsters.
 Researchers reported that as little at 33 parts per billion of the pesticide malathion in Sound water would kill 50 percent of adult lobsters, with juveniles and larvae deemed even more susceptible. Malathion was used in New York City in August and September 1999. Suffolk sprayed malathion by air over parts of Huntington in late September 1999. Resmethrin, applied by truck in Nassau and Suffolk in the fall of 1999, was found to be nearly as toxic.
 Dr. Michael N. Horst of the Mercer University School of Medicine in Macon, Ga., said in a telephone interview that although methoprene was also toxic in low concentrations to lobster larvae and had been part of what he described as ''a cocktail of pesticides'' applied in New York City in 1999, amounts had apparently been too small to contribute to the lobster die-off.
 But he said the toxicity of the compound raised alarm. ''You would have to be an absolute fool to use methoprene near coastal waters,'' he said. Suffolk County uses methoprene annually as part of a mosquito control program targeting mosquito breeding areas, many of them in coastal wetlands. 
 The Sea Grant programs in New York and Connecticut, the co-sponsors of the symposium, are part of a national Sea Grant network of 30 university programs under the auspices of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. The Sea Grant programs perform coastal research and seek to educate the public about coastal issues.
 In 2001 Congress allocated $6.6 million to N.O.A.A. to research the causes and economic impact of the 1999 lobster die-off and shell disease in Long Island Sound. Connecticut contributed an additional $1 million. The National Marine Fisheries Service and environmental agencies in both states participated.
 The relatively modest amount of money available for research left many questions unanswered and confined researchers to addressing relatively narrow issues. The researchers agreed that more research, data and monitoring were necessary, including research into the role of mosquito pesticides in weakening or killing lobsters. 
 The lobster die-off followed the collapse of the clamming industry in South Shore bays in the 1970's, an event variously attributed to overfishing and pollution, and the decimation of scallops in the Peconic bays beginning in 1985, when the brown tide algae bloomed profusely and sickened the shellfish. The algal blooms, which have occurred periodically since 1985 in the Peconic and South Shore bays, are still a puzzle to researchers. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: RESEARCHERS SAY that sustained high water temperatures, low levels of dissolved oxygen and the toxic impact of ammonia and sulfides caused the lobster die-off in September 1999. Al Dove, a marine researcher, above, examines a lobster. (Photos by Maxine Hicks, above, and Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection, top left)(pg. 1)
 Sylvain DeGuise, top, a researcher who studied pesticide impact on lobsters, spoke at a Stony Brook University symposium during which Matthew De Maula, above, a lobsterman from Mattituck, asked questions. (Photographs by Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)(pg. 11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); CRUSTACEANS (90%); SHELLFISH FISHING (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); PESTICIDES (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); WATER POLLUTION (78%); OCEANOGRAPHY (78%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); MARINE BIOLOGY (77%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (75%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); WEST NILE VIRUS (70%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (68%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (68%); VIRUSES (68%); GRANTS & GIFTS (67%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (63%) Fish and Other Marine Life; Fishing, Commercial; Lobsters; Conventions and Conferences ; Global Warming; Ammonia; Pesticides; Fish and Other Marine Life; Water Pollution 

PERSON: John Rather

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Long Island (NY); Long Island Sound; Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004



227 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: Powering Up

 BODY:
The Long Island Power Authority wants to put a pair of windmills on the site of the abandoned Shoreham nuclear plant.
 Oh, boy: Two little windmills, each able to light up about two dozen homes, spinning in the breeze off Long Island Sound, near what was supposed to have been a mighty 800-megawatt nuclear plant powering Nassau and Suffolk into a blazing, electrified future. (If you didn't live on Long Island back then, an explanation: Shoreham was built but never used, largely because of safety concerns. What's left is a $6 billion sinkhole that Long Islanders are still slowly filling, one jacked-up utility bill at a time.) 
 Windmills rising in the Shoreham ruins sounds like a fable, a scene from one of those end-of-the-world Kevin Costner movies, but we did not make it up. We like it, though, because it tells you all you need to know about the perverse state of affairs afflicting Long Island and its power supply.
 Because there is no Shoreham, we on Long Island don't have to worry the way Westchester does about meltdowns and terrorism at the Indian Point nuclear plant on the Hudson. But we don't have reliable, abundant power, either, and we live in continual fear of brownouts whenever the weather gets hot. Our utility rates are among the highest in the country, and the cost of electricity keeps rising -- three rate increases in 2004 alone. And yet we remain insatiable consumers of energy, and our efforts at developing renewable energy sources remain drawing-board abstractions or inconsequential curiosities -- like the Shoreham windmills.
 LIPA recently unveiled ambitious plans to attack the problem on the supply side. It announced that it would replace a defunct power cable between Connecticut and Northport, which could nearly double the flow of power. It has contracted to bring in a 660-megawatt undersea cable from New Jersey -- an ''extension cord'' plugging the island into the mid-Atlantic power grid, whose energy will most likely be cheaper. The authority is also planning to erect a wind farm -- enormous turbines off the South Shore that might be a headache for fishermen and birds, but a blessing to the rest of us.
 Increasing the area's power supply and making it more reliable are essential, for obvious economic reasons. Our frayed, aging grid is a burden on everybody. But amid all the talk of powering up, a few things have been conspicuously missing from the discussion: serious efforts to support clean, renewable energy, and government leadership to promote the simplest, cheapest and most effective tactic of all, conservation.
 We are heartened by New York State's recent announcement of an ambitious clean-energy plan, which would require that 24 percent of the state's electricity come from renewable resources by 2013. This goal, which puts New York in the same league as farsighted (that is, smog-choked) states like California, is not as far off as you might think, thanks to existing hydroelectric turbines at Niagara Falls.
 But Long Island has no hydroelectric options, nor any other significant supply of renewable energy. And like everywhere else, the dominant cultural imperative here is to consume, not conserve; thermostat-watching and sweater-wearing went out with Jimmy Carter and never came back. Now we hop in the S.U.V. to Best Buy to get a home theater system for the McMansion, guiltless in our gluttony.
 What we do have, though, is lots of sunshine, the wind and sea, and 2.8 million residents who might be more open to reining in their energy appetites, if only the people in charge would make it an urgent priority. Windmills -- even little ones -- are a promising start. It's too bad the start has been so long in coming.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER PLANTS (91%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (91%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); WIND ENERGY (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); UTILITY RATES (88%); POWER FAILURES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); TERRORISM (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Electric Light and Power; Shoreham Nuclear Power Plant; Windmills; Editorials; Atomic Energy

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY (93%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%) Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004



228 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN/Seymour, Conn.; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1375 words

HEADLINE: Creating an Oasis in an Old Mill Town

BYLINE: By C.J. HUGHES

 BODY:
THE older residents of Seymour, Conn., tend to think back on Aug. 19, 1955, as ''Black Friday.'' On that day, the twisting Naugatuck River hopped its banks, slicing a watery path of destruction from the town of Torrington, up north, to Derby, at the river's mouth.
 In Seymour, the rushing river killed two people and destroyed dozens of homes, a bridge and the town library, leaving a gaping hole behind and damaging the city's economy -- already stung by postwar factory closings -- so badly that it would take decades to recover.
 That moment might finally have arrived.
 Buildings that survived the flood have become the centerpieces of a thoughtful renewal project that has turned rundown warehouses and dusty shops into antique stores and art galleries that weekend visitors are slowly discovering. 
 Simultaneously, home buyers who work in Fairfield County but cannot afford to buy there are finding that Seymour, in nearby New Haven County, has similar-sized homes -- running the gamut from Revolutionary War Colonials to 1990's neo-colonials -- that can cost a third less than those along the Gold Coast of Long Island Sound.
 And despite a surge of housing development in the last few years, some of which has touched off fiery local zoning battles, pockets of the hilly comma-shaped city still cling to their rural charm.
 ''Seymour has always been a popular place to move to,'' said Ruth H. Murphy, an independent agent who has sold homes in the city since 1970. ''But we're getting much too busy now. There are so few starter homes left.''
 Home prices have jumped by 40 percent in the last three years, Ms. Murphy said. That means that for $175,000, the low end of the market, a buyer can get a ranch-style home with four bedrooms and one bathroom, on less than a quarter of an acre. On the higher end, a new colonial with four bedrooms and two and a half baths is on the market for $699,900, and a house in the Country Club Estates subdivision is listed for $430,000, doubling in price since it was built 12 years ago.
 Another sign of Seymour's growing popularity: an elevated part of Route 8, which threads through the city, is seeing rush-hour traffic jams for the first time that have the intensity of those on Interstate 95. 
 Still, these hassles can seem negligible after frustrating searches in other parts of the state. After she accepted a new job in Fairfield, Sevi Regis began looking at real estate near her native Westport. She wanted an older home, but she didn't want to take on a mortgage, which limited her options. 
 Ms. Regis discovered Seymour through an Internet search. On the day she visited, she settled on the third home she saw, a two-story colonial-style house on a quarter-acre near Route 67, for $275,000. A 20-minute commute to work and a gym down the road clinched the deal. 
 Plus, she felt downtown Seymour had potential.
 ''They have a good plan to develop it in a quaint and charming way,'' Ms. Regis said.
 That charm in large part comes from red-brick sidewalks flanked by old-fashioned gaslight-style lamps. Park benches shaded by locust trees provide plenty of spots to contemplate Queen Anne, Art Deco and Federal architecture. Much of the city's fresh face is the result of a $400,000 investment from the state in a mid-1990's beautification project.
 Now, a small independently owned movie theater, the Strand -- where $3 buys a ticket to recently released films -- sits at one end of Main Street, while a Beaux-Arts columned post office anchors the other, across from a Metro-North Railroad station that offers six weekday trains to New York City. 
 But it is Bank Street that epitomizes the city's new look, especially in the Seymour Antiques Company, a four-building, 20,000-square-foot pistachio-and-grapefruit-colored confection where 80 dealers sell pieces like Depression-era China cabinets and mid-1800's step-down dressers.
 Joseph Migani, an architect who is often credited as the pioneer of Seymour's rehabilitation, bought the building, a boarded-up former furniture company, for $100,000 in 1995, and moved his architectural firm to offices on the third floor this fall. 
 Other merchants -- a publishing company, art gallery, antiques wholesaler -- soon followed or are about to. Yet Mr. Migani said Seymour needs more upscale food and drink options, and plans on opening a cappuccino cafe in his complex sometime next year. He also wants to install a restaurant in an 1870 post-and-beam structure, attached to a 1917 building, that he recently bought across the street. Two stores and 12 artist studios are also being considered for that pair of buildings.
 ''In 10 years, Seymour will be an oasis in a very, very bland suburbia,'' Mr. Migani said. ''But we're more than hopeful about the recovery here, because we've bet the farm on it.''
 With 1,000 acres of protected public land, Seymour hasn't fully capitalized on its most historic natural asset, the Naugatuck River, which, despite roaring over a rock ledge in the middle of town, is largely hidden from view.
 Some residents want to change that, however, by building a running-and-biking path that will eventually stretch along the river from Derby to Beacon Falls. The Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection has also committed money to build a bypass channel so fish, and kayakers, can skirt a river dam.
 Yet forces for recreation and conservation often clash with town leaders who have a record of approving large subdivisions while resisting efforts to increase the mandatory size of the lots. 
 The most recent dust-up occurred over Seymour's approval of a plan to build 68 homes on part of a 167-acre parcel, with 54 more homes to possibly follow, in the Skokorat section, near the Bethany border. 
 But development does not always mean progress, said Brian Barrett, a fourth-generation Seymour resident and treasurer of the Seymour Land Conservation Trust, a group that has purchased 121 acres of undeveloped land in the town. He said Seymour's ''quality of life is being compromised because of this development.''
 The developer, David Mack, president of David A. Mack Properties of Southport, Conn., said the company has been sensitive about making sure the heavily wooded site maintains its natural beauty. ''The property will be less than 50 percent developed, so there will be lots of open space,'' he said, adding that he could have put in hundreds of condos but thought the market would prefer single-family homes. 
 Sprawling subdivisions are less evident in the older neighborhood around Church and West Streets, where slope-roofed Colonials, often the homes of former mill owners, perch over steep, twisting roads. These homes rarely come up for sale, brokers say, though inquiries about them catch longtime residents by surprise.
 ''When we tell them what their homes are worth, they are like, 'Whoa,''' said Rosalie Averill, a Seymour native and an agent for Rupwani Associates Real Estate. ''It's hard for them to grasp how much their homes have appreciated.''
 Gazing down on the valley, Seymour seems to have made out better than neighboring Ansonia and Derby, where hulks of empty factories are a common sight. 
 In Seymour, the New Haven Copper Company, which has been in the city under different names for 155 years, and the Kerite Company, a 150-year-old manufacturer of cables, are still in operation. 
 Today, Seymour has three elementary schools, a middle school and a high school, which is adding a new science wing that will open for the 2005 school year. The high school posted SAT scores in 2004 of 502 in the verbal part of the test and 497 in the math, compared with the state average of 515 on each part of the test.
 The influx of newcomers and the growing art scene does prompt some worries about higher rents, brokers said, particularly from older residents who live or work downtown. Yet others are taking the city's transformation in stride. Jimmie Principi, the owner of Jimmie's Place, a 47-year-old restaurant in town, said: ''Sundays used to be quiet and now there are people on the streets. Besides, manufacturing isn't what it used to be anyway.''
 But in a nod to an earlier era in a fast-changing town, a sign over the door at Jimmie's says, ''Sports shirts and slacks required after 6 p.m.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: FRESH FACES -- A renewal plan in Seymour, Conn., has invigorated local real estate and turned dusty storefronts into art galleries and antique stores, like these, above, on Bank Street. (Photographs by Douglas Healey for The New York Times)
On the Market -- DAVIS ROAD: This house, built in 1997 at 61 Davis Road, has three bedrooms and two-and-a-half baths, and is listed at $399,900. (203)268-1118.
MANNERS AVENUE: This house, built in 1973 at 49 Manners Avenue, has three bedrooms and one bath, and is listed at $211,000. (203)924-1000.
 DERBY AVENUE: This house, built in 1776, is at 118 Derby Avenue and has three bedrooms and two baths. It is listed at $185,900. (203)888-0430.Chart: ''GAZETTEER''POPULATION: 15,454AREA: 14.57 square milesMEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $52,408MEDIAN PRICE OF A SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSE: $275,000AVERAGE TAX ON A SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSE: $3,000MEDIAN PRICE OF A SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSE FIVE YEARS AGO: $170,000SCHOOL SPENDING PER PUPIL: $7,719DISTANCE TO MIDTOWN: 75 milesCOMMUTING TIME TO MIDTOWN: 2 hours 15 minutes on Metro-NorthZIP CODE: 06483SOURCE OF CITY'S NAME: Gov. Thomas H. Seymour, (Democrat, 1850-53). In 1850, Humphreysville, then a section of Derby, wanted to break away, and thought that by naming the new city for the governor, their request would be quickly honored.Map of Connecticut highlights Seymour.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); RIVERS (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); HOME PRICES (76%); CLOSINGS (71%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (69%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (68%); SEARCH ENGINES (60%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (50%) Geographic Profiles

PERSON: C J Hughes

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Seymour (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004



229 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; SundayBusiness; MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: It's Hard to Be Neutral Nowadays

BYLINE: By J. ALEX TARQUINIO

 BODY:
IN a perfect world, mutual funds would make money no matter which way the markets moved. A small group of funds aims to do that in the real world. Of course, there are catches: the funds don't always reach that goal, analysts say that many charge excessive fees, and the only fund in this group that Morningstar Inc. recommends buying is closed to new investment. 
 Most of the funds in the group either have the words ''market neutral'' or ''long short'' in their names. But beware: not every mutual fund labeled long-short aims to be market neutral, said Dan McNeela, a fund analyst at Morningstar. Some long-short funds operate more like hedge funds, trying to bolster returns with aggressive tactics. 
 Ideally, Mr. McNeela said, managers of market-neutral funds should divide portfolios equally between long and short positions. ''Then they're not hoping for a general increase in the stock market, so they can focus on stock picking,'' he said.
 Mr. McNeela said that three long-short funds from Laudus Rosenberg have generally kept to the market-neutral path since the late 1990's. Although all three are divided equally between long and short positions, they have subtle variations, said Stephen Dean, director of global products strategy at AXA Rosenberg, based in Orinda, Calif., which manages the Laudus Rosenberg funds.
 The Laudus Rosenberg Value Long/Short Equity fund holds more value than growth stocks and short-sells more growth than value stocks, he said. Although performance should not correlate with the overall stock market, the managers are betting that value stocks will do better than growth stocks. ''You've got to make bets, otherwise you get no returns,'' Mr. Dean said.
 And while Laudus Rosenberg Large-Midcap Long/Short Equity invests in larger stocks, the value fund concentrates on smaller companies. ''The small-cap sector offers more opportunities for stock pickers, because it's less efficient,'' Mr. Dean said.
 Each of these funds make up a third of the Laudus Rosenberg Global Long/Short Equity fund, with the remaining third invested in European stocks.
 In 2002, when the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index was down 23.4 percent, the value fund returned 27.9 percent. But all three funds lost money in 2003, with total returns ranging from negative 3.8 percent to negative 7.2 percent, while the S.&P. 500 rose 26.4 percent. Through the first three quarters of this year, the value fund returned 3.4 percent; the large-midcap fund, 1.7 percent; and the global fund, 0.3 percent.
 Mr. Dean said that market-neutral funds could diversify investors' portfolios but that ''people have to be willing to accept lower returns when the market is up strongly.'' The idea behind owning a market-neutral fund, he said, is to smooth out returns in a portfolio over time by making money in down years.
 In theory, Mr. McNeela said, market-neutral funds could be an option for investors who worry that stocks have become too expensive. But he said that most of these funds charge too much. 
 The published annual expenses for all three Laudus funds hover around 3 percent. Mr. Dean said that this was partly because of accounting rules. The funds pay dividends on the stocks they short and receive dividends on those they hold. The dividends they pay are listed with expenses, while the dividends they receive are added to the yield.
 ''In fact, those dividends we pay would be largely offset by dividends paid to us on the long side,'' he said. If the costs of dividends were not included, total expenses for the value fund would drop to 2.05 percent from 3.06 percent, he said.
 But Mr. McNeela said that total annual expenses higher than 1.5 percent ''become questionable.'' The one fund that he does recommend, Calamos Market Neutral, has total annual expenses of 1.51 percent. But this fund has been closed since March.
 Calamos pursues the market-neutral strategy a bit differently, using convertible securities to hedge the risk of a broad market decline. Convertibles generally pay dividends and may be exchanged for another asset, typically shares of common stock. The Calamos strategy worked better than a long-short strategy during the stock market bubble, Mr. McNeela said. ''In 1999, long-short fund managers often shorted stocks that they thought looked expensive,'' he said, ''but then those stocks became even more expensive.''
 The Calamos fund had total returns of 13.7 percent in 1999 and 10.3 percent in 2000. By comparison, Laudus Rosenberg Value Long/Short Equity had negative returns both years, losing 11.7 percent in 1999 and 3.9 percent in 2000. In the first three quarters this year, the Calamos fund returned 1.4 percent.
 ALTHOUGH the fund's use of convertibles should reduce any correlation with the equity markets, the fund may not be immune to a downturn in the bond markets because the fund holds lower-quality debt, in the BBB to BB range, said Nick Calamos, a co-manager of the market-neutral fund for Calamos Investments, in Naperville, Ill.
 ''If there's a shock to the bond markets, and there's a huge flight to higher-quality bonds, then that would hit the fund,'' he said. ''But if we have gradually rising rates, because the Fed is taking the training wheels off of the economy, that could be a really good environment for this fund.''
 The fund will probably reopen once the convertible market becomes more robust, Mr. Calamos said, but right now there is a high demand for convertibles and not enough being issued.
 Although the fund's annual returns have been consistent in all types of markets, investors' perceptions of it vary, Mr. Calamos said. ''During the bull market, nobody had much interest in this fund,'' he said, ''and during the bear market, everybody loved this fund, so we had to close it.''


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Trying to Be Positive''While most mutual funds try to beat their benchmarks, market-neutral funds aim for positive returns every year -- in both up and down markets -- but don't always reach that goal.Calamos Market NeutralGraph tracks the percentage change in total returns from 1999-2004*.Laudus Rosenberg Value Long/ShortGraph tracks the percentage change in total returns from 1999-2004*.*Through Sept. 30(Source by Morningstar Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); BONDS (76%); HEDGE FUNDS (73%); FARM LABOR (69%) Stocks and Bonds; Mutual Funds

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (83%); AXA (57%)

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (83%); CS (PAR) (57%); AXJ (ASX) (57%); AXA (BIT) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (83%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (57%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (57%)

PERSON: J Alex Tarquinio

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (54%) CALIFORNIA, USA (54%) EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004



230 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk; ON THE TOWNS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 4202 words

HEADLINE: GOING OUT

 BODY:
A guide to cultural and recreational goings-on around the state this week. Items may be submitted by mail to On the Towns, Sunday New Jersey Section, The New York Times, 229 West 43d Street, New York, N.Y. 10036; by fax to (212) 556-7219, or by e-mail to njtowns@nytimes.com.

Theater

CAPE MAY STAGE ''Hyde, in the Shadows'' by Michael Carleton. Through Oct. 31. Wednesdays through Sundays at 8 p.m. Tickets: $22 to $18. Bank and Lafayette Street, Cape May. (609)884-1341.

CROSSROADS THEATER COMPANY ''History of the Word.'' Friday through Oct. 24. Tickets: $45 to $20. 7 Livingston Avenue, New Brunswick. (732)545-8100.

EAST LYNN THEATER COMPANY ''Anna Christie'' by Eugene O'Neill. Through Oct. 16. Wednesdays through Saturdays at 8 p.m. Tickets: $20 to $17; ages 12 and under free. First Presbyterian Church of Cape May, 500 Hughes Street, Cape May. (609)884-5898.

GEORGE STREET PLAYHOUSE ''Hallelujah, Baby!'' Premiere of new version, lyrics by Betty Comden and Adolph Green, book by Arthur Laurents. Through Nov. 7. Tickets: $66 to $36. 9 Livingston Avenue, New Brunswick. (732)246-7717.

MCCARTER THEATER CENTER ''Last of the Boys,'' drama about the reunion of soldiers who served in Vietnam by Steven Dietz. Through Oct. 17. Tickets: $50 to $33. 91 University Place, Princeton. (609)258-2787.

NEW JERSEY REPERTORY COMPANY ''Whores'' by Lee Blessing. Through Nov. 14. Tickets: $30. Dwek Theater, 179 Broadway, Long Branch. (732)229-3166.

PASSAGES THEATER COMPANY ''Willie B. Came Into the Sun,'' by Jean Sterrett. Thursday through Nov. 7. Opening night, Oct. 21 at 8 p.m. Tickets: $28 to $22. Mill Hill Playhouse, Front and Montgomery Streets, Trenton. (609)392-0766.

TWO RIVER THEATER COMPANY ''Accidental Death of an Anarchist,'' by Dario Fo. Through Oct. 17. Thursday and Fridays at 8 p.m., Saturdays at 4 and 8 p.m., Sundays at 3 p.m. Additional performances: Wednesday at 1 p.m. Tickets: $24 to $34. Algonquin Arts Theater, 171 Main Street, Manasquan. (732)345-1400.

Museums and Galleries

AMERICAN LABOR MUSEUM ''Every Worker is an Organizer.'' Photography exhibition by David Bacon. Hours: Wednesdays through Saturdays, 1 to 4 p.m. and by appointment. Donation: $3. 83 Norwood Street, Haledon. (973)595-7953.

BARRON ART CENTER ''Perceptions in paper and Steel.'' Collage by Vanessa Van Keuren and sculpture by Glenn Murgacz. Through Oct. 31. Workshops: ''Collage,'' with Ms. Van Keuren, Oct. 16, noon to 4 p.m., fee: $20. Hours: Mondays through Fridays, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Sundays, 2 to 4 p.m. Admission is free. 582 Rahway Avenue. (732)634-0413.

BELSKIE MUSEUM ''Character Studies: A Look at Humanity,'' photography by Jerry L. Thompson. Through Oct. 24. Discussion with artist, Oct. 17, 1 to 3 p.m. Hours: Saturdays and Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Admission is free. 280 High Street, Closter. (201)768-0286.

BEN SHAHN CENTER ''Transformations: Large Scale Prints,'' photo-based prints by Carol Rosen; ''Siggraph,'' computer art; ''Crossroads,'' mixed-media and collages. Through Friday. Hours: Mondays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Admission is free. 300 Pompton Road, Wayne. (973)720-2654.

BERGEN COUNTY Y Paintings by Christopher Kappmeier, Lois Schachter; sculpture by Sara Aldouby; photographs by Steven Gimbel. Oct. 17 through Nov. 14. 605 Pascack Road, Township of Washington. (201)666-6610.

CLIFTON ARTS CENTER ''In Focus,'' exhibition of photographs by the Clifton Camera Club. Through Friday. Hours: Wednesdays through Saturdays, 1 to 4 p.m. Admission is free. 900 Clifton Avenue, Clifton. (973)472-5499.

GROUNDS FOR SCULPTURE ''Twisted Logic,'' installation by Patrick Dougherty; ''Outstanding Student Achievement in Contemporary Sculpture Awards 2004,'' exhibition; ''Earthworks and Geoglyphs,'' Andrew Rogers. Through May 1. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission: Tuesdays through Thursdays, $5 for adults, $4 for students and those 65-plus, $1 for children; Fridays and Saturdays, $8 for adults, $7 for students and those 65-plus, $4 for children; Sundays, $12 for each admission; members, free at all times. 18 Fairgrounds Road, Hamilton. (609)586-0616.

GRUSS CENTER OF VISUAL ARTS ''Myself, My Camera, My World,'' the Ennis Beley Project, photography exhibition of works by children. Through Oct. 30. Hours: Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays, 9 a.m. to noon and 1 to 4:30 p.m.; Wednesdays and Saturdays, 9 a.m. to noon. Marguerite and James Hutchins Gallery, Lawrenceville School, Lawrenceville. (609)620-6026.

HAROLD B. LEMMERMAN GALLERY OF HEPBURN HALL, NEW JERSEY CITY UNIVERSITY ''A New Diversity: Art from Northern New Jersey's Latino Diaspora. Part of the ''Transcultural New Jersey: An Arts and Education Initiative.'' Through Wednesday. Hours: Mondays through Fridays, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. 2039 Kennedy Boulevard, Jersey City. (201)200-2197.

HERSPACE ''The Art of Survival,'' works by artists who have personal experiences with breast cancer. Through Oct. 30. Hours: Thursdays, 9:30 to 11:30 a.m. and 6 to 8:30 p..; Saturdays, 9:30 to 11:30 a.m. Monmouth Park Corporate Center I, Building A, Suite 130, 187 Highway 36, West Long Branch. (973)655-9175.

HOBOKEN HISTORICAL SOCIETY ''Dog Watching,'' lecture and photographs by Robin Schwartz, Oct. 17 at 4 p.m. ''City Animals: A History of Our Changing Relationship With Other Hoboken Residents.'' Through Dec. 23. Hours: Tuesdays through Thursdays, 5 to 9 p.m.; Saturday and Sunday, noon to 5 p.m. Admission: $2. 1301 Hudson Street, Hoboken. (201)656-2240.

HUNTERDON MUSEUM OF ART ''Outrages Home,'' furniture exhibition, Oct. 17 at 1 p.m. through Jan. 9; ''New Acquisitions From the Rutgers Center for Innovative Print and Paper,'' Oct. 17 through Jan. 9. ''The Soul of Hunterdon,'' landscape paintings by Joan Hierholzer. Through Nov. 28. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Donation: $3. 7 Lower Center Street, Clinton. (908)735-8415.

JERSEY CITY MUSEUM ''Ephemeral Balance,'' sculpture by Nancy Cohen, through Nov. 7. ; ''Lorenzo Clayton: Inner Equations,'' through Jan. 5; ''Constructing America III: Industry and Modernity,'' through Aug. 15, 2005; ''Vargas-Suarez Universal: Space Station: Jersey,'' semipermanent. Hours: Wednesdays and Fridays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays, 11 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Free through Wednesday. Beginning Wednesday admission will be: $4; students and those 62-plus, $2; free for children 12 and younger, members and on Thursday nights from 5 to 8 p.m. 350 Montgomery Street, Jersey City. (201)413-0303.

MACCULLOCH HALL HISTORICAL MUSEUM ''The Rise and Fall of Notorious Victoria Woodhull.'' Exhibition about the first woman to run for president of the United States and the first woman stockbroker on Wall Street. Through Nov. 7. Hours: Wednesdays, Thursdays and Sundays, 1 to 4 p.m. Admission: $4; under age 12, free. 45 Macculloch Avenue, Morristown. (973)538-2404.

MAPLEWOOD ARTS CENTER ''Cafe 3: Contemporary Artists Forum Third Annual Exhibition.'' Through Oct. 24. Hours: Saturdays and Sundays, 1 to 4 p.m. Admission is free. 1978 Springfield Avenue, Maplewood. (973)763-6052.

MONMOUTH MUSEUM Juried exhibition presented by the New Jersey Watercolor Society. Through Oct. 31. Watercolor demonstrations given on Sunday afternoons from 2 to 4 p.m.: Bob Heyer, Sunday; Roberta Carter Clark, AWS, Oct. 17; Marge Chavooshian, AWS, Oct. 24; Tony Ventura, Oct. 31. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., and Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Admission: $5. Brookdale Community College campus, Lincroft. (732)747-2266.

MONTCLAIR ART MUSEUM ''Tom Nussbaum: Home Sweet Home and 20 Small Sculptures.'' Painting installation and sculpture exhibition through December. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Admission: $8; students and those 62-plus, $6; free for children under 12, members and on Fridays from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. 3 South Mountain Avenue, Montclair. (973)746-5555.

MORRIS MUSEUM ''Springs, Sprockets and Pulleys: The Mechanical Sculpture of Steve Gerberich.'' Through Nov. 14. ''1920s and All That Jazz.'' Through Jan. 30, 2005. Hours: Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Fridays, Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Admission: $7; age 3 and older and those 65-plus, $5; free on Thursdays from 1 to 8 p.m. 6 Normandy Heights Road, Morristown. (973)971-3700.

MUSEUM OF THE AMERICAN HUNGARIAN FOUNDATION ''Enchanting Modern: Ilonka Karasz (1896-1981),'' exhibition of illustrations best known from the ''New Yorker'' magazine. Through Feb. 26. Donation: $5. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 4 p.m. 300 Somerset Street, New Brunswick. (732)846-5777.

NEW JERSEY STATE MUSEUM ''Fossil Mysteries: Investigating the Pre-Historic,'' ''Cultures in Competition: Indians and European in Colonial New Jersey,'' ''Photographs by African Americans in the New Jersey State Museum Collections'' and ''The Civil War Flag Collection of New Jersey,'' on extended view. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 9 a.m. to 4:45 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Admission is free. 205 West State Street, Trenton. (609)292-6464.

NEWARK MUSEUM ''Southeast Asian Images in Stone and Terracotta,'' ''Courtly Arts of the Indian Subcontinent'' and ''The Ancient Buddhist Kingdoms of South Asia.'' Through Dec. 31. ''Nicholas and Alexandra: At Home With the Last Tsar and His Family.'' Through Jan. 9, 2005. Hours: Wednesdays through Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Admission: $5; students and those 62-plus, $2; free for members. 49 Washington Street, Newark. (973)596-6550.

NEWARK PUBLIC LIBRARY ''Architectural History in the Pre-Digital Age.'' Third floor gallery through Oct. 27. Hours: Mondays, Fridays and Saturdays, 9 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, 9 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. Admission is free. 5 Washington Street, Newark. (973)733-5642.

NOYES MUSEUM OF ART ''Sally McInerney: A Woman's View,'' mixed-media works, through Jan. 2. ''John Langdon: Ambiguity in Language,'' through Jan. 2. ''Icons, Symbols and Altars: Exploring Spirituality in the Arts.'' Through Jan. 16. ''Folk Art From the Noyes Museum Collection,'' including works by Malcah Zeldis, Victor Joseph Gatto, Minnie Evans, Albert Hoffman and Marcia Wilson. Ongoing. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Admission: $3; students and those 65-plus, $2; free for children under 12, on Fridays with a donation and for members. Lily Lake Road, Oceanville. (609)652-8848.

PAUL ROBESON CAMPUS CENTER ART GALLERY, RUTGERS UNIVERSITY ''Landscape and Memory,'' works by Ken Fukushima and Wei Jane Chir, through Oct. 22. Hours: Tuesdays and Thursdays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Wednesdays, 1 to 6 p.m. Admission is free. 350 Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard. (973)353-1610.

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY ART MUSEUM ''West to Wesselmann: American Drawings and Watercolors,'' Oct. 16 through Jan. 9. ''Bringing into Being: Materials and Techniques in American Prints, 1950 to 2000,'' through Jan. 23; ''19th Century Photographs from the Museum Collection,'' including works by Anna Atkins, Edouard Baldus, Francis Frith, Henry Peach Robinson and Carlton Watkins, through Oct. 24; ''Songs, Psalms and Praises: An Eighteenth-Century Ethiopian Manuscript,'' through June 5. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., and Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Admission is free. McCormick Hall, near the main gates of the Princeton University campus at Nassau and Witherspoon Streets, Princeton. (609)258-3788.

PUFFIN CULTURAL FORUM ''The Some People of that Place: 1960's Holmes County, Mississippi. The Local Black People and Their Civil Rights Movement,'' photography exhibition, through Nov. 21 Hours: Mondays through Fridays, 1 to 5 p.m. Admission is free. East Oakdene Avenue, Teaneck. (201)836-2403.

RED MILL MUSEUM VILLAGE ''Hunterdon Takes Flight,'' exhibition that honors pilots from New Jersey, through Thursday. ''Caught on Camera: Clinton 1890 to 1915.'' Photography exhibition, through Oct. 24. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Admission: $6; age 65 and older, $5; ages 6 to 12, $4. 56 Main Street, Clinton. (908)735-4101.

RICHARD STOCKTON COLLEGE ''In Nepal: Linda Connor and William Mebane,'' photography exhibition. Through Oct. 26. Hours: Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays, 11:30 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Tuesdays, 11 :30 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays, noon to 4 p.m. Room H-113, Art Gallery, Pomona. (609)652-4214.

RIDER UNIVERSITY ART GALLERY ''From Stone to Mesh: Sixty Years.'' Sculpture by Margaret Kennard Johnson. Through Oct. 23. Hours: Tuesdays through Thursdays, 11 a.m. to 7 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 4 p.m. Admission is free. Bart Luedeke Center, third floor, 2083 Lawrenceville Road, Lawrenceville. (609)895-5588.

SHIMON AND SARA BIRBAUM JEWISH COMMUNITY CENTER ''Art in Bloom,'' exhibition of works by the Somerset Art Association. Thursday through Nov. 14. Admission is free. 775 Talamini Road, Bridgewater. (908)725-6994.

TENAFLY PUBLIC LIBRARY ''Collage, Collage,'' exhibition of works by Nancy Egol Nikkal. In the Edna Kawulitzki Gallery through Oct. 29. Hours: Mondays, Tuesdays and Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Wednesdays, 10 a.. to 6 p.m.; Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 4 p.m. Admission is free. 100 Riveredge Road, Tenafly. (201)568-8680.

TRENTON CITY MUSEUM AT ELLARSLIE MANSION Sculpture by Irene Gennaro and paintings by Ed Beckett. Through Nov. 7. ''Blue Notes: Chronicling the Blues from Polk County to Trenton,'' through Dec. 5. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 3 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 4 p.m. Admission is free. 319 East State Street. (609)989-3632.

WALSH LIBRARY GALLERY, SETON HALL UNIVERSITY ''43 Contemporary Printmakers: A Traveling Exhibition of Works on Loan From the Old Print Shop.'' Including works by Art Werger, Richard J. Sloat and Gerald Scheck. Through Oct. 30. Hours: Mondays through Fridays, 10:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Admission is free. 400 South Orange Avenue, South Orange. (973)275-2033.

WEINER LIBRARY ''Nine Artists of the Teaneck Artists Coalition.'' Through Nov. 14. Hours: Mondays through Thursdays, 8 a.m. to 11 p.m.; Friday, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturday, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 10 p.m. Admission is free. Fairleigh Dickinson University, River Road, Teaneck. (201)692-7028.

WHEATON VILLAGE ''Native to Neo: Mexican Folk Arts from Oaxaca,'' in the Down Jersey Folklife Center through Nov. 12. ''Glass Threads: Tiffany-Quezal-Imperial-Durand,'' in the Museum of American Glass through Jan. 2. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Admission: $10; those 62-plus, $9; students, $7; age 5 and younger, free. 1501 Glasstown Road, Millville. (856)825-6800.

JANE VOORHEES ZIMMERLI ART MUSEUM ''Beyond Memory: Soviet Nonconformist Photography and Photo-related Work of Art,'' ''Transcultural New Jersey: Residents and Visitors, Works on Paper From the Collection of the Newark Public Library,'' through Jan. 2; ''Pastels in Paris: From the Fin-de-Siecle to la Belle Epoque, Selections from the Zimmerli's Collection,'' through Jan. 30 and ''Beyond the Border: Picturing Mexico in Children's Book Illustrations,'' through Feb. 6. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Admission: $3; free for members. Rutgers University, Hamilton Street at George Street, New Brunswick. (732)932-7237.

Music and Dance

BULA Friday night jazz music. Timoko Ono, Oct. 15. Performances at 8 and 9 p.m. Free with food minimum of $10. 134 Spring Street, Newton. (973)579-7338.

COMMONWEALTH CLUB ''Swinging with Simone's Jersey Bounce!'' Swing dance party and lesson. Friday at 8:30 p.m. Tickets: $15. 26 Northview Avenue, Upper Montclair. (973)746-1475.

COMMUNITY THEATER Paul Anka, Friday at 8 p.m., tickets: $68 to $57; Guarneri String Quartet, Oct. 17 at 3 p.m., tickets: $42 to $30. 100 South Street, Morristown. (973)539-8008.COUNT BASIE THEATER ''One More For the Road,'' Steve Lawrence and Edie Gorme, Wednesday at 8 p.m., tickets: $175 to $45; ''Def Poetry Jam,'' Thursday at 8 p.m., tickets: $55 to $20; Rick Springfield with the Wag, Oct. 16 at 8 p.m., tickets: $60 to $25; Monmouth County Orchestra, performing works by Strauss and Prokofiev, Oct. 17 at 3 p.m., tickets: $25 to $5. 99 Monmouth Street, Red Bank. (732)842-9000.

FIRST PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH Manhattan Music Ensemble, Oct. 16 at 7:30 p.m. Donation. 255 Harding Road, Red Bank. (732)747-1329.

FOLK PROJECT Hickory Project and 36 Madison Avenue, folk music, Friday. Performances at 8 p.m. Admission: $6. Minstrel Coffeehouse, Morris County Park Commission Cultural Center, 300 Mendham Road, Morris Township. (973)335-9489.

GORDON THEATER, RUTGERS UNIVERSITY ''Three Soulful Latina Voices,'' including Toto La Momposina, Mariana Montalvo and Belo Velloso, Oct. 16 at 8 p.m., tickets: $19 to 414. Rutgers-Camden Center for the Arts, Third Street between Cooper Street and Ben Franklin Bridge. (856)225-2700.

GRACE EPISCOPAL CHURCH Harmonium Choral Society, Oct. 16 at 7 p.m., tickets: $25. Madison Avenue at Kings Road, Madison. (973)538-6969.

GROUNDS FOR SCULPTURE Christine Lavin, music and comedy, Oct. 16 at 7:30 p.m., tickets: $20 to $17. 18 Fairgrounds Road, Hamilton. (609)586-0616, extension 20.

MARASCO PERFORMING ARTS CENTER Pan Slavic music festival. Including performances by the Voloshky Ukrainian Dance Ensemble, the Russian Carnival Ensemble, the Sudarushka Ensemble and Village Folk Singers, Vladimir Shvets, Leonard M. Davis and the Gypsies Internationale. Oct. 16 at 8 p.m. Tickets: $14. 1629 Perrineville Road, Monroe Township. (609)395-0404, ext. 220 or 221.

NASSAU PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH Manhattan Music Ensemble, Oct. 17 at 6 p.m., free. 61 Nassau Street, Princeton. (609)924-0103.

NEW BRUNSWICK FREE PUBLIC LIBRARY ''Fuego: The Essence of Flamenco Styles of Yesteryear and Now.'' Alborada Spanish Dance Theater. Sunday at 2 p.m. Free. 60 Livingston Avenue, New Brunswick. (732)745-5108, ext. 22.

NEW JERSEY PERFORMING ARTS CENTER Maurizio Pollini, piano, Sunday at 3 p.m., tickets: $65 to $14. Branford Marsalis Quartet and the Joshua Redman Trio. Oct. 16 at 8 p.m., tickets: $56 to $14. 1 Center Street, Newark. (888)466-5722.

NEW JERSEY SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA ''Bell Plays Tchaikovsky.'' Joshua Bell, violin. Tickets: $82 to $24. Sunday at 3 p.m. State Theater, New Brunswick.(800)255-3476.

NICHOLAS MUSIC CENTER, RUTGERS Helix New Music Ensemble, performing work by John Eaton, Sunday at 2 p.m., free; Musica Raritana, performing works by Handel and Bach, Oct. 17 at 2 p.m., tickets: $20 to $10. Mason Gross Performing Arts Center, 85 George Street, New Brunswick. (732)932-7511.

OUTPOST IN THE BURBS The Strawbs with Little Toby Walker, Friday at 8 p.m. Tickets: $28 to $25. 40 South Fullerton Avenue, First Congregational Church, Montclair. (973)744-6560.

SHARP THEATER, BERRIE CENTER, RAMAPO COLLEGE Fusion Tango, Oct. 16 at 8 p.m. Tickets: $22 to $12. 505 Ramapo Valley Road, Mahwah. (201)684-7844.

SHEA CENTER FOR PERFORMING ARTS ''Jazz Room Series.'' Including Greg Osby, alto Saxophone, Sunday; Rufus Reid Quintet, Oct. 17. Concerts at 4 p.m. and ''Meet-the-Artist'' sessions at 3 p.m. Tickets: $12 to $9. 300 Pompton Road, William Paterson University, Wayne. (973)720-2371.

SOUTH JERSEY PERFORMING ARTS CENTER AT THE TWEETER CENTER ''Music for All Ages,'' Bobby Block and the Klezmer Kings and Moorestown School of Music, Sunday at 2 p.m. All performances free. 1 Harbour Boulevard, Camden. (856)342-6633.

STOCKTON PERFORMING ARTS CENTER ''The Rite of Strings,'' Stanley Clarke, Jean Luc-Ponty and Al DiMeola, Oct. 16 at 7 and 10 p.m., tickets: $45 to $35. College of New Jersey Campus, Pomona. (609)652-9000.

STONE HOUSE MUSIC CLUB ''Ramblin'' Jack Elliott, Jay Ungar and Molly Mason, folk music, Oct. 17 at 7 p.m., tickets: $32.50. Radisson Hotel, 401 South Van Brunt Street, Englewood. (201)503-1332.

TRUMPETS JAZZ CLUB Dick Meldonian Big Band, Sunday, $8; Gene Bertoncini, Tuesday, $8; Cliff Korman and Tinge, Wednesday, $8; Poetry hour, Thursday, free; Trumpets Jam, Thursday, $8; Onaje Allan Gumbs Quartet, Friday and Oct. 16, $15. Showtimes: Sundays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Thursdays, 7:30 to 11:30 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays, 8:30 p.m., 10:30 p.m. and midnight. Admission: $8. 6 Depot Square, Montclair. (973)744-2600.

UNION COUNTY ARTS CENTER ''Jazz Fest 2004,'' Bucky Pizzarelli with Earl May, Harry Allen and Warren Vache Jr, Sunday at 6:15 p.m. Call box office for ticket details. 1601 Irving Street, Rahway. (732)499-8226.

WATCHUNG ARTS CENTER Nancy Nelson, jazz vocals. Friday at 8 p.m. Tickets: $13. 18 Stirling Road on the Circle, Watchung. (908)753-0109.

For Children

BICKFORD THEATER ''Discovering Columbus,'' presented by the Taino/Encore Performing Arts for ages 5 to 9, Oct. 16 at 11 a.m. and 1:30 p.m. Tickets: $8.50. Morris Museum, 6 Normandy Heights Road. (973)971-3700.

JENKINSON'S AQUARIUM ''Shark Encounters,'' Monday, 1 to 2:30 p.m., for ages 7 and older, admission, $10; for ages 7 to 12, $7. ''Rockin' Reptiles,'' Oct. 16, 1 to 4 p.m., free with museum admission. General admission: $8; ; ages 3 to 12 years and age 62 and old, $5; under age 2, free. 300 Ocean Avenue, Point Pleasant Beach. (732)899-1212.

LIBERTY SCIENCE CENTER ''Forces of Nature.'' Movie. Through January. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 9:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Admission: $10 for adults; $8 for those between 2 and 18, and for those 62-plus; free for members. Liberty State Park, 251 Phillip Street, Jersey City. (201)200-1000 or www.lsc.org.

NEW JERSEY AUDUBON SOCIETY ''Hikes with Tykes,'' Oct. 16, 1 to 2:30 p.m. Fee: $7. Weis Ecology Center, 150 Snake Den Road, Ringwood. (973)835-2160.

NEW JERSEY PERFORMING ARTS CENTER ''Guess How Much I Love You'' and ''I Love My Little Storybook,'' dramatic adaptations of books by Sam McBrantney by the Mermaid Theater of Nova Scotia. For age 3 and older. Sunday at 2 p.m. 1 Center Street, Newark. (888)466-5722.

NEW JERSEY CHILDREN'S MUSEUM ''Halloween Spooktacular,'' pumpkin decorating, stories, activities and candy. Oct. 16 through 31. Mondays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. Admission: $10; children, $8. Valley Health Plaza, Winters Avenue. (201)262-5151.

PUSHCART PLAYERS ''Cuentos Del Arbol,'' bi-lingual musical based on three tales from Spanish and Latin-American folklore. In collaboration with the 12 Miles West Theater Company. Sunday at 1 and 3 p.m. 562 Bloomfield Avenue, Bloomfield. (973)857-1115. Also, ''American Sampler,'' musical about America for kindergarten through eighth grade, Oct. 16 at 2 p.m. Tickets: $8. Shea Center for the Performing Arts at William Paterson University, 300 Pompton Road. (973)720-2371.

PRINCETON UNIVERSITY ART MUSEUM Children's talks, ''Horses, Horses and More Horses.'' Jane Fagen, museum docent. Saturday at 11 a.m. admission is free. McCormick Hall, near the main gates of the Princeton University campus at Nassau and Witherspoon Streets, Princeton. (609)258-3788.

Spoken Word

KOZLOWSKI HALL AUDITORIUM, SETON HALL Adrienne Rich, poet. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Free. 400 South Orange Avenue, South Orange. (973)275-2564.

MONMOUTH COUNTY LIBRARY ''Statehood for the Kurds.'' Kani Xulam, a Kurd from northern Kurdistan. Today at 2 p.m. Free. Free. 125 Symmes Drive, Manalapan. (732)431-7242.

Etc.

ALBA VINEYARD Pumpkin festival. Oct. 16 and 17, noon to 5 p.m. Free. 269 Route 627, Village of Finesville. (908)995-7800.

ATLANTIC CITY CONVENTION CENTER ''Atlantique,'' antique show including game-used equipment and baseball memorabilia sale. Oct. 16, 10 am. to 7 p.m. and 17, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Pacific Avenue, Atlantic City. (609)625-7300.

BOONTON FARMERS MARKET Saturdays, 8:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. Through Oct. 30. Upper Plane Street parking lot, Boonton. (973)257-9107.

GARRETSON FORGE AND FARM Harvest festival, celebration of 1800s farm life. Oct. 17, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Donation. 4-02 River Road, Fair Lawn. (201)797-1775.

HISTORIC ALLAIRE VILLAGE Autumn flea market, Oct. 16, 8 a.m. to 3 p.m., Fee: $1. Halloween hayrides, Oct. 16 through 23, 5:30 to 8:30 p.m., fee: $10. Atlantic Avenue and Route 524. (732)919-3500.

MID-ATLANTIC CENTER FOR THE ARTS Victorian Week, celebration of Victorian culture with feasts, demonstrations, tours and concerts. Through Oct. 17. The Carriage House Gallery, Emlen Physick Estate. Cape May. (609)884-5404.

720 MONROE ARTS CENTER Hoboken artists studio tour. Oct. 16 and 17, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. 720 Monroe St, Hoboken. (201)420-2207.

NEW JERSEY AUDUBON SOCIETY ''Family Hike for Fall Foliage,'' Sunday, 1 to 3 p.m., fee: $8; ''Wild Journeys: Hawks in Autumn,'' Oct. 16, 8 a.m. to noon, fee: $10; ''Campfire in the Pumpkin Patch,'' Oct. 16, 7 to 9 p.m., fee: $8; ''Wyanokie High Point Foliage Hike,'' Oct. 17, 9:30 to 2 p.m., fee: $8. Weis Ecology Center, 150 Snake Den Road, Ringwood. (973)835-2160.

NEW JERSEY BOTANICAL GARDEN Harvest festival. Today, 10 a.m. to 5 pm. Admission is free. Morris Road, Ringwood. (973)962-7527.

TATUM PARK HILL ACTIVITY CENTER African American history celebration. Tuesday through Friday. Free. Red Hill Road, Middletown. (732)460-1167.

WILDWOOD CONVENTION CENTER ''Fabulous 50's Weekend.'' Including performances by the Rip Cords, the Orlons, the Dovells, Danny and the Juniors and Charlie Gracie. Friday through Oct. 17. 4501 Boardwalk, Wildwood. (888)729-0033.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Survey of American Art -- ''West to Wesselmann: American Drawings and Watercolors,'' a retrospective of works from the Princeton University Museum's collection of works on paper, will open Oct. 16. It will feature 77 masterpieces by American artists from the 18th through the 20th centuries, including ''Young Woman'' (above) by Mary Cassatt. Princeton University Art Museum -- Through Jan. 9. Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., and Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Admission is free. McCormick Hall, near the main gates of the Princeton University campus at Nassau and Witherspoon Streets, Princeton. Information: (609)258-3788. (pg. 15)
 You Can Leave Your Hat On -- ''The Full Monty,'' Terrence McNally's story of six unemployed steelworkers who learn to accept every part of themselves, will be in New Brunswick this weekend. State Theater -- Friday and Oct. 16 at 8 p.m. Tickets: $52 to $22. 15 Livingston Avenue, New Brunswick. (732)246-7469. (pg. 19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (91%); CALENDARS (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); EXHIBITIONS (76%); PHOTOGRAPHY (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (58%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004



231 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2605 words

HEADLINE: Who Is Richard J. Codey Anyway?

BYLINE: By JOSH BENSON

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
RICHARD J. CODEY, New Jersey's next governor, was irked.
 ''You made some remark to one of the women on my staff that I'm an unlikely reformer,'' Mr. Codey, in his usual calm manner, told an interviewer recently. ''Now, she thinks you're a jerk. And she's right.''
 When it comes to Mr. Codey -- the 57-year-old Senate president and the state's longest-serving legislator -- what you see is not always what you get. 
 In a state infamous for politics that is at once two-fisted and palms up, Mr. Codey -- after more than three decades in the state Assembly and the Senate -- is a deal-maker who gets along well with his colleagues. Even as he has caromed from West Orange to Trenton to Princeton and points in between since Governor McGreevey's stunning decision to step down almost two months ago, Mr. Codey has remained in character: he has kept a low public profile, preferring back-room negotiations to mission statements or grand gestures. 
 But there are also times, as several prominent Democratic power brokers have found out when they opposed him, that Mr. Codey can be less than collegial -- like when he bristled at the suggestion that his longtime insider status made him an unlikely figure to overhaul the way New Jersey's government does business once he assumes the governor's office on Nov. 16. 
 Pointing out the numerous battles he has had with party officials in Essex County and around the state who ''have been after him for a decade,'' Mr. Codey asserted his political independence. 
 ''I'm not going to sit hear and picture myself as some great reformer,'' he said, ''but I think people would certainly say: 'Wait a minute. This is a guy with the guts to buck the party, and the bosses are against him.'''
 ''You'll see, as time goes by,'' he promised, ''I'll take a lot of people by surprise.''
 It is only logical that Mr. Codey, an easygoing family man who is unknown to most voters, should want to establish his credentials as an agent of reform. After all, as he begins his 14-month term -- a term that depending on his decision will either be the pinnacle of a lengthy public career or the prelude to a re-election bid next year -- Mr. Codey will find himself at the head of a party, and a state government, that has been tarnished by scandal. He will also have the unenviable task of overhauling the state's finances, since he will be inheriting from Mr. McGreevey a projected $3 billion shortfall in the next budget year.
 What this means, in all likelihood, is that Mr. Codey's time in office -- and his political future -- will be a test of whether he can bring about fundamental alterations to the very system that created him, from reining in campaign contributions to eliminating dual office holding.
 ''I think that sort of agenda of reform will be a crucial measure of his leadership,'' said David Rebovich, managing director of the Rider University Institute for New Jersey Politics. ''I think if Codey succeeds, he will not only be viewed as a reformer, but in some ways the savior of the Democrats and their social and economic agenda.''
 That Mr. Codey should even have a chance to be a Democratic messiah is something of an accident. Mr. Codey, who is about to assume one of the most powerful and high-profile governorships in the nation, hardly looks the part. With the substantial build of a long-retired shooting guard, Mr. Codey looks slightly uncomfortable in a suit. He wears a large Seton Hall commemorative basketball ring on his right hand. And when he talks, he does not so much project as mutter. He comes across, in short, like a man who is far more likely to be interested in box scores than poll numbers. 
 Mr. Codey said he was as stunned as everyone else when Mr. McGreevey announced in August that he was stepping down after having a relationship with a man whom he made his homeland security adviser, and that it took him a while to digest the notion of assuming the governorship for more than a year. 
 Then, as he was reeling from the news, a controversy erupted when several powerful Democrats tried to block Mr. Codey's ascension by having Senator Jon S. Corzine seek the office in a special election. But Governor McGreevey's intransigence and Mr. Corzine's unwillingness to sow discord within the party assured that Mr. Codey would indeed straddle the offices of governor and Senate president.
 But first he has to get there, and it seems Mr. Codey's takeover will not be entirely without controversy. In a final dramatic flourish, Mr. McGreevey has insisted on remaining governor through the final minutes of Nov. 15, a development that took Mr. Codey and other legislators aback. As Leonard Lance, the Republican minority leader, said dryly, ''If the governor's time frame now is between the 14th, 15th and 16th, that's a decision I will leave to him.''

No Mansion for This Governor
 Even now, with the title acting governor firmly in his future, Mr. Codey says he intends to spend as much time as possible with his wife and two sons -- and with the fifth-grade basketball team he coaches and whose practices are already written into his gubernatorial schedule. Nor does Mr. Codey plan on going anywhere near Drumthwacket, the governor's mansion in Princeton, which, he noted with admirable candor, smells. 
 ''Where I come from,'' he said, repeating his what has become a stock one-liner these days, ''we were always trying to get out of public housing, not into it.''
 However anxious Mr. Codey is to establish some sense of routine, he will not have much of a grace period in office. In addition to satisfying a clamor for governmental reform following the federal investigations and indictments of former McGreevey aides and fund-raisers, Mr. Codey will have to plunge into what will probably be an extremely unpleasant business of slashing spending or generating new revenue to avert what is shaping up to be a potential budget mess. 
 At the same time, Mr. Codey will be under instant pressure to make some sort of announcement about his political future. With Mr. Corzine eagerly waiting in the wings, other Democrats weighing their options and several Republicans already in campaign mode, speculation about Mr. Codey's plans on running for a full term in 2005 have already begun. ''The decision is clearly going to have to be in the next few months,'' he said. ''I understand and appreciate that in politics, the next election starts the day after the last one. And in this case, we might have people announcing before I even take office.''
 Conventional wisdom says the Democratic nomination would be Mr. Corzine's for the asking, with widespread party support and virtually limitless financial resources. But with Mr. Corzine's aversion to intraparty fighting, it is far from clear that he will willingly enter into a potentially divisive primary. On the other hand, Mr. Codey has a history as an effective infighter, having beaten back challenges over Senate leadership positions by two powerful Democrats, George Norcross of Camden and the former senator John Lynch of Middlesex, and come out on top of an ugly internecine struggle in his home county of Essex. 
 Mr. Codey's contentious history with the state's power brokers goes back to 1993, when he was assistant minority leader of the Senate. At the time, Mr. Norcross and Mr. Lynch pushed to weaken Mr. Codey's position, eventually installing two other senators to the same rank. He clashed again with county leaders in 1997 over legislative leadership posts, and once again in 2001 after the election of Mr. McGreevey.
 The pattern continued this year when Mr. Norcross and Mr. Lynch teamed up with Representative Robert Menendez of Hudson County to try to force a special election that would effectively have blocked Mr. Codey from succeeding the governor. And once again, Mr. Codey survived. ''It didn't work,'' he said, allowing a smile.
 Mr. Codey has also been at odds with his local county organization, running and winning on two occasions in opposition to the party-endorsed slate of candidates.
 Still, Mr. Codey said that he did not expect those past clashes to carry over into his governorship, if only because of the impracticality of it for everyone involved. 

No Date, 'but You Can Talk'
 ''I think they understand that it's in their interest, for those 14 months, for it to succeed to a certain extent,'' he said. ''It doesn't mean you have to date, but you can talk.''
 In typically pragmatic fashion, Mr. Codey said that he regarded the unusual influence of some of the power brokers as a fact of life. ''I didn't create that, and I'm not going to change it,'' he said. ''It is what it is.'' 
 For now, Mr. Codey is saying little, except that he is keeping his options open. 
 ''I'm not obliged to do anything,'' he said. ''My decision is not going to be political, but based on what's right for the people in terms of what they've been through and what's right for my family.''
 As for what Mr. Codey will actually do when he gets into office, for now he is playing much of that close to his chest as well, or, as he put it, ''I'm not going to be tied down to any goals.'' 
 What is clear is that Mr. Codey fully intends to take advantage of whatever time he has in the state's most powerful position. Even in the absence of a detailed plan of attack, there are already some broad indications of what the Codey agenda might look like.
 His attitude toward governmental reforms, at least so far, can best be described as purposeful but measured: he favors the finance reforms already mandated in Mr. McGreevey's executive order -- prohibiting the awarding of most state contracts to businesses that have contributed to state or county political committees or gubernatorial candidates -- and will encourage the Legislature to codify those rules into law. And he said he would like to impose limits on how much money people can contribute to county committees each year.
 Moreover, Mr. Codey wants to establish an independent auditor general capable of investigating sitting administrations, and says that he has already ''made it clear'' to Attorney General Peter Harvey that ''there isn't a corruption office unit working it the way they should be.''
 ''It has to be a priority,'' he insisted.
 Although he intends to maintain his Senate title while he is governor, Mr. Codey insisted that he would like to phase out such dual office-holding. And although he is unenthusiastic about the notion of establishing an elected lieutenant governor -- there are already more than a dozen such proposals before the Legislature -- he says he will seek to change the rules of gubernatorial succession in other ways. In addition, he says his goal ''in the next decade'' is the public financing of state elections. 
 ''We in New Jersey, I think, have a good system whereby we have only the statewide office elected,'' said Mr. Codey, referring to the governorship. ''I like our system.'' 
 They are hardly the words of a fiery reformer, but in terms of actual ability to rewrite New Jersey's rules of government, that might turn out to be a very good thing. On one hand, Mr. Codey's affinity for working within the system has never made much of an impression on New Jersey voters; a majority, according to a recent Fairleigh Dickinson University poll, still say they have never heard of him. But on the other hand, Mr. Codey has accumulated enormous influence among the lawmakers whose help he will need in passing laws during his abbreviated term in office.
 If the specifics of what Mr. Codey hopes to accomplish are not yet clear, his legislative colleagues seem to think that he is in a strong position to push for anything he wants.

'A Wholesome Lyndon Johnson'
 ''I think that Dick has an incredible amount of potential to get things done because of his understanding of Trenton and ability to work with people,'' said William Gormley, a veteran Republican senator from Atlantic County. ''You almost could say he's like a wholesome Lyndon Johnson -- you don't have the mean-spiritedness of L.B.J. but you have the ability to bring people together, the respect of members of both parties and an open door to everybody. And because he dealt with it for so many years, he understands the problems we have in our districts.'' 
 Mr. Gormley also said an important asset for Mr. Codey would be the fact that he came to office without an election. ''I think because he hasn't been lying around for eight or nine years, making promises to get the job, he has some unique advantages,'' he said. 
 But another well-known Republican senator, Thomas H. Kean Jr., whose district embraces parts of Essex, Morris, Somerset and Union Counties, suggested that Mr. Codey's greatest difficulty, especially on the reformist parts of his agenda, was likely to be in persuading recalcitrant Democrats to go along with him. 
 ''The real test for Codey will be to determine how effectually he can force the members of the Democratic leadership in the Assembly to recognize that comprehensive reform is needed,'' Mr. Kean said. ''That's the fight that's going to emerge.''
 But Mr. Kean, who is himself weighing a run for governor on a platform of governmental reform, agreed that Mr. Codey was sufficiently adept to do the necessary maneuvering. 
 ''Clearly, Dick's been a competent Senate president, and I think he'll be able to transfer his 31 years of experience in the Legislature to the larger leadership responsibilities of being governor. A lot of people like Senator Codey, even when they don't agree with 100 percent of his agenda.'' 
 Improving the state's mental health care system will clearly be a priority for Mr. Codey, whose wife, Mary Jo, has fought through both breast cancer and mental illness. (Mr. Codey famously conducted his own undercover investigation in 1987 of hiring practices at a state psychiatric hospital, the results of which led directly to reforms.) Among his proposals as governor, Mr. Codey said, would be to provide tuition relief to college graduates who went to work in state psychiatric hospitals.
 ''We want to change the way we treat them, to come up with a game plan for the next century on how we deal with mentally ill patients,'' he said.
 Mr. Codey also wants to go beyond Mr. McGreevey in an area that the departing governor has emphasized in the closing days of his term: public financing of stem cell research. 

Stem Cell Bill 'Was All Mine'
 ''That stem cell bill,'' he said, referring to Mr. McGreevey's commitment to finance a stem-cell research institute, ''that was all mine. My idea. Now I want to continue to make New Jersey one of the leaders in the country in that research.'' 
 Mr. Codey also wants to improve on the environmental record established by the McGreevey administration by amending a measure that he co-sponsored this summer easing restrictions on development of wide swaths of New Jersey's open land, known derisively as the ''fast-track bill.'' 
 ''When you do a major piece of legislation like that quickly, you're bound to make some mistakes,'' he said. 
 And while he is still adjusting to the trappings of his changed status -- he asked sarcastically at one point whether an award he was to receive from a medical college later that day had anything to do with his new title -- Mr. Codey had a ready assessment of the sort of effect he expected to have on state government. ''I'm not telling you I'm going to be able to go into Trenton and reform everything that's wrong,'' he said. ''Nobody can, and that includes me. But you'll see some things that no one's ever done before, I think, that will show that the corruption and waste and fraud is not going to be tolerated any more.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: ''You'll see, as time goes by, I'll take a lot of people by surprise,'' said Richard J. Codey, who will begin a 14-month term as acting governor on Nov. 16. (Photo by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
John Lynch, a former Senate president, above, and George Norcross III, below, tried to block Mr. Codey's ascension. ''It didn't work,'' he said with a smile. (Photos by Associated Press)
Mr. Codey, at home with his two sons, Kevin, 19, left, and Chris 16, plans to keep coaching basketball.
 Richard J. Codey at home in West Orange with his wife, Mary Jo, above, does not plan to move into the governor's mansion. Mr. Codey, at the State House in 1976, center in photo at left, has been in the Legislature more than 30 years. (Photographs by Norman Y. Lono [above, bottom left] for The New York Times)(pg. 10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (50%) Governors (US); Biographical Information; Politics and Government

PERSON: JOHN LYNCH (58%) Richard (Sen) Codey; Josh Benson

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); MADISON, WI, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004



232 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; RESTAURANTS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: Rat Pack Chic

BYLINE: By DAVID CORCORAN

DATELINE: MONTCLAIR 

 BODY:
SITTING in the office of his title search company, overlooking the decaying eyesore that was a half-abandoned century-old paper factory, Richie Cecere allowed himself a daydream. It was a snowy morning about nine years ago, and on that weed-choked triangular lot opposite the Walnut Street train station he imagined something so retro, so early-60's swanky, so utterly un-Montclair that even in hindsight it seems outlandish.
 The dream went this way: He would transform the blighted factory into a Manhattan-style supper club from the era of the Rainbow Room and the Copacabana, the kind of place he loved to visit as a wide-eyed teenager fresh off the train from Jersey. It would have everything: mohair banquettes, mahogany and black leather, glistening tableware, visiting celebrities, chorus girls -- and, of course, a band. Richie Cecere's Jazz Orchestra! Eighteen guys on a banked and spotlighted stage, belting out the brassy, expansive arrangements that laid down carpets of sound for the likes of Frank Sinatra and Dean Martin and . . . ladies and gentlemen . . . the legendary . . . Mis-ter Bobby Darin! 
 For Mr. Cecere (pronounced seh-SEER-ee), now 58 and still an enthusiastic pop singer and occasional drummer, the fantasy was not out of reach. All it took was money, sweat equity and perseverance. 
 He preserved the old building but more than quintupled its floor space, to 14,000 square feet from 2,500. The turret that rises from the onetime factory like a 19th-century clock tower? It wasn't there before. Mr. Cecere added it, to accommodate an elevator. That 10,000-bottle wine cellar? Push a hidden handle and you enter the ''secret room,'' a 25-seat dining room meant for private parties and favored by notables like Eddie Murphy and Danny Aiello.
 The results of this one-man urban-renewal project are (to select just the right early-60's adjective) fabulous. Where Cecere's still needs work is in the kitchen.
 Not that the cooking -- the work of Frank D'Amico, formerly of Brunello in Wayne -- is bad. It consists of high-quality ingredients, turned out with competence if not much imagination. But it is expensive, and it is uneven. On each of two evenings, our table of four dropped well over $300 without breathing hard. At these prices, inconsistency is an affront.
 Dinner starts out promisingly, with a basket of wonderfully fresh and crusty peasant bread from the nearby bakery Gina's Panificio, accompanied by black and green olives, a little foil round of soft Bel Paese cheese and a rousing tapenade of olives, anchovies and capers. The wine list, too, is Italian-accented and well chosen, with many luxury bottles but a reasonable selection at the lower end and by the glass. The genial, tuxedoed staff is good at making recommendations.
 But appetizers -- many of them $17 or more, the price of an entree at many fine establishments in this very town -- are all over the place. Buffalo mozzarella has the yielding texture and creamy, nutty taste of homemade. Why, then, was it paired with slices of tasteless tomato? (The tomato was better on a second visit, but this time it was yellow tomatoes in a portobello mushroom appetizer that lacked flavor.) A panful of scungilli needed better adornment than an unappetizing overdose of oil.
 Three other seafood starters did justify the price tag. ''Richie's Famous Steamed Littleneck Clams,'' a dozen of them, deserve their fame; they were tender and filled with flavor, enhanced by butter and garlic and broth. Six Fisher Island oysters were fresh, sweet and well handled. And four enormous butterflied Maya prawns had a splendid grilled taste that did nothing to block their own considerable flavor.
 Main courses were solid and well presented but otherwise unmemorable, with several exceptions. Dover sole was not boned tableside, or even thoroughly boned, but as a piece of fish it was admirable -- big, tender, mild and perfectly cooked. Pistachio-crusted rack of lamb hit the center of its $42 target. Juicy seared scallops had a surprising accompaniment of avocado-tomato salsa that neatly complemented a thick, sweet pomegranate reduction.
 On the other side of the ledger, full-flavored osso buco was undercut by a salty, canned-tasting sauce. And while chicken Don Ameche was accurately labeled ''very, very spicy,'' nothing prepared me for the innocent-looking red vegetable hidden its brown sauce. As I bit into the thing, I realized, too late, that I was ingesting a habanero pepper. Then my life passed in front of my eyes, and everything went blank -- especially the taste of the overly dry chicken.
 Desserts, by the talented Marisol Ruiz, included a superb orange panna cotta, at once creamy, soothing and beautiful to look at. Strawberry shortcake incorporated excellent berries, almond shortbread and a sauce unexpectedly enlivened by basil. Cappuccino creme brulee was far better than average, and white-chocolate cheesecake on a shortbread crust got the cheesecake job done. 
 Never did a restaurant, even Wolfgang Puck's or Daniel Boulud's, better deserve to be named for one person. Richie Cecere's, which opened in June 2002, is eminently worth a reservation and a self-guided tour. The jazz orchestra, which is every bit as swinging and smooth as Mr. Cecere hoped it would be, plays in the upper-level dining room on Fridays and Saturdays, starting at 8:45 p.m. It and the chorus girls, who are to start this weekend, will make an impression unlike any to be found in this restaurant-crazed town. Now they need a band in the kitchen that plays as flawlessly as they do.

Richie Cecere's
2 Erie Street, Montclair
(973)746-7811
www.richiececere.com

GOOD

ATMOSPHERE -- Great, if expensive, fun. An old paper mill remade into a stylish supper club, with dining on three levels and a jazz orchestra channeling Frank Sinatra on weekends.
SERVICE -- Friendly, professional and polished.
SMOKING -- Allowed on the main floor and a second-floor lounge. Other areas are nonsmoking.
WINE LIST -- Long and pricey, but with a decent selection in the $30's and $40's; wines by the glass ($8 and $10) are well chosen.
RECOMMENDED DISHES -- Grilled Maya prawns, buffalo mozzarella, oysters, steamed clams; Dover sole, pan-seared scallops, rack of lamb; panna cotta, strawberry shortcake, sorbets, creme brulee.
PRICE RANGE -- Appetizers: $8 to $18; entrees: $25 to $55; desserts: $8 to $14.
HOURS -- Open daily. Dinner: Monday through Saturday, 5 to 11 p.m.; Sunday, 5 to 10 p.m. Bar stays open until 2 a.m. Live music starts at 8:45 p.m. on Friday and Saturday.
CREDIT CARDS -- American Express, MasterCard, Visa.
RESERVATIONS -- Necessary on Friday and Saturday.
WHEELCHAIR ACCESS -- Fully accessible, with an elevator to the restrooms.
IF YOU GO -- The restaurant is just north of downtown Montclair, opposite N.J. Transit's Walnut Street Station.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Jim Cummins for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); RESTAURANTS (86%); PAPER MILLS (78%); TRAINS (77%); CELEBRITIES (73%); POP & ROCK (73%); JAZZ & BLUES (73%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (72%); BAKERIES (60%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (50%) Restaurants; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: Richie Cecere's (Montclair, Nj, Restaurant)

PERSON: EDDIE MURPHY (53%) David Corcoran

GEOGRAPHIC: VICTORIA, SEYCHELLES (58%) NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004



233 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2173 words

HEADLINE: The County Formerly Known as Squaresville

BYLINE: By ALEX WILLIAMS

DATELINE: LAGUNA BEACH, Calif. 

 BODY:
THE new MTV show ''Laguna Beach: The Real Orange County'' was a ratings hit with the youth of Laguna Beach when it had its debut two weeks ago, which shouldn't come as a surprise. When a global television network trundles into a bohemian seaside hideaway and attempts to recast it as the American Monaco, that will get the attention of the local kids. 
 Not that the kids didn't have some quibbles.
 ''We're not that rich,'' said Bradley Burdick, 18, who was working the register at Laguna Surf and Sport, the shop where Stephen, the heartthrob, works on the show, a serial following a real-life clique of in-crowd teenagers through five months of parties, cellphone calls, hookups and more parties. 
 ''Everyone from here agrees that that show was just embarrassing,'' added Alex Richey, 22, who was seated nearby; she found the idea that the students would throw a formal ''Black and White'' party at a rented hotel suite laughable -- unless MTV was paying. 
 ''What they show about Laguna, it's like all about materialism,'' complained Ben Tomkinson, 18, who grew up with a few of the cast members. ''Laguna's actually a really artsy, rootsy place.'' 
 But such are the realities in the new, rebranded Orange County. Particularly since ''The O.C.'' a Fox drama, became a pop-culture phenomenon last year, the formerly quiet patchwork of planned communities and insular beach towns south of Los Angeles has become recognized worldwide, however improbably, as the embodiment of all things hip, youthful and glamorous.
 To those of us with roots in Orange County, that is bizarre. It is as if the organizers of New York Fashion Week had pulled up stakes in Bryant Park and relocated their tents to Bergen County, N.J., the newly discovered capital of cool. A little background: Twenty years ago, after decades in Northern California, my parents moved to a recently constructed beige tract house like many, many, many others in Mission Viejo, a town then run by a subsidiary of Philip Morris. 
 In one early conversation with a native, I mentioned Tom Waits. ''Weights?'' she responded perkily. ''My husband and I want to start lifting weights.''
 That, to me, was Orange County. 
 Before I left for good in 1989, I had come to the conclusion that hip culture had made only one great foray into the home county of the Western White House of Richard M. Nixon, and that was in 1970 when bands of Yippies invaded Disneyland and planted a Vietcong flag over Tom Sawyer Island.
 Could it have changed so much? 
 To find out -- as well as to understand the appeal of a mythic Orange County that has suddenly captured the youth-culture imagination -- I ventured back behind the Orange Curtain recently. The locals, I found, are well aware of their new place in the spotlight, and they are not always happy about measuring up to a pop stereotype. 
 Brandon Matteson, 19, who grew up in Irvine, just inland from ''The O.C.'' terrain, complained that at a snowboarding camp he attended at Mount Hood, in Oregon, ''my nickname instantly became 'O.C.' for the entire 15 days I was there.'' 
 He rolled his eyes. No one seemed to recall hearing anybody in Orange County calling it ''the O.C.'' before the Fox show. ''It's so obscene how people think if you're born here, you're automatically issued your Land Rover and your $1 million house on the beach,'' he added. 
 T. Jefferson Parker, author of a number of crime novels set in and around Laguna Beach, most recently ''California Girl,'' said: ''It's wonderful escapism. On 'The O.C.' everyone is bronze and uniform and the beaches are lovely. That plays into everyone's desire for some kind of Shangri-La.''
 The current fascination with Orange County taps the need Americans seem to have to create a bubble in which playful adolescent fantasies can act themselves out in the sun, removed from any real-world complications like war, unemployment or split ends. There are other beach meccas, sure, but Miami, with its cocaine subculture and salsa beat, is just too complicated, and someplace like East Hampton, with its fortress-like hedgerows, too impenetrable. 
 Orange County, by contrast, has always wanted to present to the world a Clearasil-clean face of prosperity and order. It is an update, essentially, on the suburban optimism the Beach Boys conjured 40 years ago. (Nowadays, the kids have fun, fun, fun until Daddy takes the charge cards away.)
 Jon Wiener, a writer for The Nation and a history professor at the University of California, Irvine, believes this region's flawless new television image echoes cultural impulses akin to the county's historic political conservatism. ''It's an attempt to hold onto that California of the 50's and 60's, that paradise for middle-class white people,'' Mr. Wiener said. ''The sun, the beach, the healthiness, the happiness of being young. I see this as a nostalgia for the California of yesteryear.''
 Although the main casts of ''The O.C.'' and ''Laguna Beach: The Real Orange County'' are completely white, during the week I visited, The Los Angeles Times reported that for the first time whites were no longer a majority of the county's nearly 3 million residents. Long a renowned bastion of conservative Republicans, the county's politics are beginning to reflect an influx of Asian and Latino immigrants. 
 Traditionally, the northern border served as a green line with Los Angeles, a place viewed as a grimy inner city by many Orange County residents, experts said, especially those who fled formerly white neighborhoods like Compton a generation ago.
 ''Your typical Orange Countian believes he or she deserves a little slice of perfection,'' Mr. Parker said. ''Nobody wants to drive into the mob of L.A.''
 Ever since Disneyland opened in Orange County in 1955, developers there have tried to conjure residential variations on ''the happiest place on earth.'' ''It's such a bubble -- that's what everyone refers to it as,'' said Meghan Flaherty, 25, a hairstylist who grew up in Irvine, a city sprung from a single master plan.
 Cocooned, homogeneous communities develop cultural codes all their own, which in turn can be distilled into stereotypes quite useful to Hollywood. 
 By the time the first episode of ''Laguna Beach'' was shown on Sept. 28, we already knew that Lo would shop for her M.A.C. cosmetics at South Coast Plaza megamall, the same mall where Marissa infamously shoplifted during ''The O.C.'s'' first season. We already felt we recognized Morgan with her mirror-shiny brunette locks and her affluent, sun-kissed vocal inflections. Doesn't she call to mind a straight-arrow real-life variant on ''The O.C.'s'' Summer?
 MTV is straightforward about what drew it to Laguna Beach, a community just a few miles south of Newport Beach, the setting for ''The O.C.'' (which is actually shot in Los Angeles County). ''The idea that was around here was, 'The O.C.' is so popular with our viewers, but it's a scripted show -- how cool would it be to show the real kids down there?'' said Tony DiSanto, an executive producer of ''Laguna Beach.'' He declined to speculate about any larger meaning the county may embody. 
 The relentless Southern California cliches of ''The O.C.'' set have even turned them into cues for a drinking game by local young people at weekly ''O.C.'' parties. 
 ''Every time Marissa gives some lame dumbfounded look, you have to drink,'' explained Marc Conner, 26, of Huntington Beach. ''Every time Ryan gives the glare, you have to drink.'' And every time someone disses the 909 area code, for humbler Riverside County nearby -- bottoms up.
 A bubble can be a protective shell. Or it can be a trap to those who find it stifling. ''Pretty much everyone I knew talked about wanting to get out as soon as they turned 18,'' said Colin Dunleavy, 22, who helped finance his own escape from Mission Viejo's uniformity by selling his high school yearbook for $75 to another student who forgot to order one. He made it as far as the Underdog Records shop in Laguna Beach, where he now works.
 To anyone who does know ''the real Orange County,'' it is surprising to hear Laguna Beach described as such by MTV. The town, long a liberal bastion hidden away in a G.O.P. Valhalla, has a thriving gay population, and it is still the best place south of Venice Beach where one might search for a shop selling hemp-flour pasta. Culturally it has more in common with Provincetown, Mass., than Garden Grove, the Orange County home of the Crystal Cathedral, with its ''in-car worship'' lot outside. 
 But Laguna is changing. According to a recent report by the California Association of Realtors, the town, with a median home price of nearly $1.4 million, is now the third most expensive address in California, ahead of even Newport Beach, John Wayne's old hometown, Kobe Bryant's new one. 
 ''There's a generation of people who went to that area to enjoy a beachy lifestyle that had the place sold out from under them,'' said Kem Nunn, the author of the surfing novel ''Tapping the Source,'' who lives in south Laguna Beach.
 The same sort of conspicuous consumption seen in Laguna Beach as well as ''Laguna Beach'' is becoming commonplace, as Orange County develops a more worldly culture, befitting its world-class economy. 
 At the LAB Anti-Mall in Costa Mesa, a plus-chic shopping center, one can find a Comme des Garcons top or a pair of custom Nikes fashioned like punk brothel creepers -- a rare outpost of the sort of shopping experiences available on Melrose Avenue in Los Angeles or SoHo in New York. 
 Shaheen Sadeghi, a former fashion designer who once ran Quiksilver Inc. sportswear and who developed the LAB, said urban tastes are creeping in. ''Half the people don't know anything about what's going on, half the people are rocking and rolling through it,'' he said.
 If anything, I was surprised by how much rocking and rolling was going on in Orange County. In the years since I left, a small but assertive counterculture has taken hold, largely in inland towns where the ''O.C.'' types would only tend to land if they took a wrong exit off the 5 Freeway. Artists' lofts and galleries are cropping up in downtown Santa Ana. There is a bit of a coffee-house culture in Costa Mesa, virtually in the shadows of the South Coast Plaza.
 There is now the alternative OC Weekly, which is perhaps even sassier than its parent publication, The Village Voice, from which it was spun off in 1995.
 ''I'm going to show you the real Orange County,'' promised Rebecca Schoenkopf, who writes the salty ''Commie Girl'' nightlife column for The OC Weekly. If that paper functions as something of an id for Orange County, Ms. Schoenkopf, clad in knee-deep red plastic boots and a black micro-mini the width of a weightlifter's belt, is the id's id.
 Over the course of an evening, she led a tour of the barfly underbelly of inland Orange County, populated by skate rats and slumming hipsters. If Seth from ''The O.C.'' had wandered in, any of them would have been happy to grind the Lacoste crocodile on his shirt under the heel of a boot. It was all very ''core,'' to use the word favored in such circles -- that is, deeply authentic.
 We ended up at a gritty Santa Ana bar called the Fling Cocktail Lounge, which was populated equally by tattooed skinheads and Sunbelt rummies with silver pompadours and Marlboro-tinged facial creases. Onstage Eddie Chiaverini, a beloved local lounge singer who performs under the name Eddie Day (imagine if ''fat'' Elvis had packed on a few extra peanut butter and fried banana sandwiches every day) belted out a karaoke version of a song by an Orange County thrash band, Lit. Tattooed hipsters mouthed the lyrics almost solemnly, as if singing their own anthem. 
 That's the energy that has fueled an Orange County alternative rock scene for years, from bands like the Adolescents and Offspring. 
 On Fox and MTV, Orange County may be reaching the apotheosis of its stereotypical image of affluent white privilege, at the very moment that that reality is being blown away. 
 ''They need to do a real reality show on Orange County,'' said Nativo Vigil Lopez, president of the Mexican-American Political Association, in Los Angeles. ''It's surreality that they're presenting to the viewing public. Just take a look at the census.'' 
 Mike Davis, the author of ''City of Quartz'' about Los Angeles and a history professor at the University of California, Irvine, said, ''Orange County demographically is changing very, very fast, and this 'spoiled rich white kids in the sun' stuff is very much a bunkered way of life.'' 
 ''It's like watching Pompeii living at the end of its days,'' he added.
 If any rival producers from CBS or HBO are listening, here's one idea for a ''real Orange County'' show for next fall:
 ''What I want to see is the sitcom about the Latino family that moves into a Vietnamese neighborhood,'' said William Fulton, a senior scholar policy planning and development at the University of Southern California. ''When you see that, you'll know that the perception of Orange County has finally caught up to reality.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: REALITY CHECK -- Alex Richey, left, and Bradley Burdick in Orange County, Calif., the setting of ''The O.C.'' with Peter Gallagher, below left, and Benjamin McKenzie. (Photos by above, Stephanie Diani for The New York Times
left, S. Garfield/Fox)(pg. 1)
 BEAUTY AND THE BEACH -- The ''Laguna Beach'' cast, from left: Stephen, Kristin, Trey, Morgan, Christina, LC and Lo, in front. (Photo by Embry Rucker/MTV)(pg. 10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADOLESCENTS (78%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); FASHION DESIGNERS (62%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (54%); FASHION SHOWS (50%); WEIGHTLIFTING (50%) Geographic Profiles; Television

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (50%) Alex Williams

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Orange County (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004



234 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 2; Arts and Leisure Desk; PLAYLIST; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1251 words

HEADLINE: The Leading Candidates in a Crowded Pop Field

BYLINE: By Jon Pareles

 BODY:
THE furiously contested 2004 election has had an unexpected artistic bonus: more political songs than any election since the dawn of rock 'n' roll, and more openly partisan songs than anyone might expect. In the protest-song heyday of the 1960's, songwriters devoted themselves to denouncing specific injustices and vaguely yearning for peace. This year, folkies and punks, rappers and indie rockers are taking sides and dusting off their rebel credentials by bluntly savaging the Bush administration. The pop polls are completely one-sided: although there were both pro-war and antiwar songs around the Iraq invasion, not one high-profile song currently supports the president. The music may make a political difference -- the six Vote for Change tours that converge for a concert in Washington on Monday are betting that it will -- or it may simply vent or preach to the converted. But rage and frustration are always fine catalysts for music, and at a time when self-absorption rules both rock and hip-hop, politics can provide a wider perspective, one that might even last beyond the current election. No matter who wins in November, here are 10 statements worth a listen.

John Fogerty
 No political songwriter can ignore the 1960's, and the title song of John Fogerty's new album, ''Deja Vu (All Over Again)'' (Geffen), reflects an unhappy nostalgia. The lyrics, more resigned than angry, compare the war in Iraq to the Vietnam War: ''One by one I see the old ghosts stirring/Stumblin' cross Big Muddy.'' Meanwhile, the music makes its own parallel with the Vietnam era, reaching back to a song Mr. Fogerty sang with Creedence Clearwater Revival, ''Who'll Stop the Rain,'' to sound even more plaintive and sadly cyclical.

Babyface
 The sound of the big 1980's benefit single, with stars gathering to share cameos on an uplifting song, re-emerges on the remake of ''Wake Up Everybody,'' produced by Kenneth Edmonds, better known as Babyface; the video is at www.mjblige.com and elsewhere. Mary J. Blige, Ashanti, Faith Evans, Jadakiss, Fabolous and Wyclef Jean, among others, gather to sing and rap on a 1970's-vintage socially conscious soul song about ''hatred, war and poverty'' that was originally recorded by Harold Melvin and the Blue Notes. It's the title track on an album to benefit the Democratic voter-registration group America Coming Together. Amid the old-style invocations of a better world, Missy Elliott's rap cuts through to call for partisan action: ''Listen to me like you listen to 'Fahrenheit 9/11,''' she raps. ''You better go and vote and get up off your back.''

Zack de la Rocha
 ''We Want It All,'' a new song on ''Songs and Artists That Inspired 'Fahrenheit 9/11''' (Epic), is produced by Trent Reznor of Nine Inch Nails, and it's brilliantly relentless: a nonstop beat and layers of frenzied, droning guitars as Zack de la Rocha shouts, ''Silence is security/and war is peace.'' It's not a coherent argument or a manifesto; it's just a blast of concentrated fury.

Bad Religion
 Punk met politics a generation ago, but it has mostly been an on-and-off relationship; the election year has pushed them back together. Greg Graffin and his fellow punk die-hards in Bad Religion have always used buzz-saw chords to carry not just slogans but also critiques. ''Let Them Eat War,'' from the band's new album, ''The Empire Strikes First'' (Epitaph), goes barreling along as it insists the war is a diversion from economic failures, polishing its punk fervor with bursts of vocal harmony. But it stumbles on didactic lines like ''All he ever gave them was a war and a foreign enemy to deplore.''

Dan Bern
 Yes, there are still topical songwriters working coffeehouses, but they try to stay hard-nosed and witty. Dan Bern learned his verbal free association and his nasal vocal projection from early Bob Dylan, and his election-season EP, ''My Country II'' (Messenger), is unabashed agitprop with some twists. It seesaws between the earnestness of ''The Torn Flag'' and ''Bush Must Be Defeated'' (which is an exercise in rhyming as well as partisanship) and the funnier, but equally pointed, ''Tyranny'' and ''President,'' a countryish bounce in which Mr. Bern places himself in the Oval Office, offers statehood to Cuba, legalizes every kind of marriage and withdraws troops from ''Afghanistan, Iraq, Iran/More trouble than they're worth.'' He adds that he's not running for a second term because ''I hate politics!''

Keb' Mo'
 In theory, protest songs hope to make themselves obsolete. In practice, they can be recycled all too often. A National Lampoon parody once advertised a nostalgia collection called ''Golden Protest,'' and the track lineup of Keb' Mo's album ''Peace: Back by Popular Demand'' (Columbia) probably isn't too different. It reaches back to the 1960's and 1970's to remake ''The Times They Are A-Changin','' ''For What It's Worth,'' ''Imagine'' and another version of ''Wake Up Everybody.'' Keb' Mo' treats the songs as soulful, cozy melodies rather than calls to action, and his one new song, ''Talk,'' is strangely undemanding: ''Hello, Mr. President,'' he sings, ''let's talk to each other, that's all.''

Lamb of God
 Metal bands savor the prospect of apocalypse, and life during wartime lets them trade fantasy for reality. In ''Now You've Got Something to Die For,'' from Lamb of God's new album, ''Ashes of the Wake'' (Epic), the band directly addresses the war in Iraq. With crisp and unstoppable thrash momentum, the beat gallops and sputters as Randy Blythe howls about ''Flags for coffins on the screen, oil for the machine/Army of liberation, gunpoint indoctrination.'' Changing riffs as if shifting gears on a Humvee, the music sounds both dire and exhilarating as the song warns, ''We'll never get out of this hole until we've dug our own grave/And drug the rest down with us.''

Colonel Claypool's Bucket of Bernie Brains
 Lyrics tend to be afterthoughts for jam bands, and funk bass riffs are clearly the top priority for Les Claypool's latest jam-band supergroup, which includes Buckethead on guitar and P-Funk's Bernie Worrell on keyboards. But instead of the usual jam-band escapism or philosophical musings, he vents his political disgust on the album ''The Big Eyeball in the Sky'' (Prawn Song). Mr. Claypool cackles his way through songs like ''Junior'' (''Uncle Sam got a master plan like Vietnam'') and ''Ignorance Is Bliss'' (''The market's on the boil/We're down a couple quarts of oil/The President is reacting/Like an old near-sighted mohel''). This time, there's bitterness between the punch lines.

Sum 41
 Until now, Sum 41 has devoted most of its churned-up punk and metal songs to private adolescent identity crises. But in a moment of election-year seriousness, its new album, ''Chuck'' (Island), has a cover full of combat imagery, and the first single, ''We're All to Blame,'' worries that we'll ''supersize our tragedies bought in the land of the free,'' then lavishes a power-ballad chorus on an indictment of American greed: ''Everyone wants it all with no sacrifice.''

The Bots
 ''Fuzzy Math,'' a video and free MP3 download at www.thebots.net, is as cheap as a cheap shot gets. It chops up bits of the president's speeches to have him say things like ''The best way to win an election is deliberate deception.'' The Bots can't transform prose into rapping, but they pace phony sound bites with a snappy electro track that punctuates pronouncements with ratchety percussion and synthetic horns. It's negative campaigning with all its snide panache.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Bad Religion, below left, brings punk and politics together. Keb' Mo', below right, prefers soulful melodies over calls to action. Dan Bern, far right, offers unabashed agitprop. (Photo by Associated Press)
(Photo by Frazer Harrison/Getty Images)
(Photo by Associated Press)(pg. 26)
 Missy Elliott's raps cut through on ''Wake Up Everybody.'' (Photo by Scott Gries/Getty Images)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POP & ROCK (90%); MUSIC (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HIP HOP CULTURE (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); RAP MUSIC (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); SONG WRITING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); VIETNAM WAR (75%); RECORD RELEASES (73%) Music; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush; Jon Pareles

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004



235 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; SundayBusiness; MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1388 words

HEADLINE: Squeezing More Pennies From a Cache of Cash

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr.

 BODY:
YOU'VE been letting your cash reserves pile up but are frustrated by the almost insultingly skimpy returns -- in many cases, well under 1 percent -- that they are producing. A fine reward, you may be thinking, for your thrift when so many feckless Americans are in debt.
 But try to look at the bright side. The Federal Reserve has embarked on a path to raise short-term interest rates, which had sunk to their lowest levels in 45 years. Its latest move came on Sept. 21, when it raised the target for its overnight benchmark to 1.75 percent from 1.50 percent. 
 Yet savers do not have to rely solely on the government to get more for their money, whether it be a stash for emergencies, sidelined stock-market money, an uninvested windfall or just an ordinary household account. There are many things you can do to enhance returns, with little or no additional risk. 
 Money market mutual funds, where nearly $2 trillion of this money already resides, will pay higher rates, of course, as the Fed tightens credit. Despite the usual lag as their portfolios mature and are replaced with higher-yielding securities, most money market funds in mid-August regained the rate advantage they have traditionally held over money-market deposit accounts at banks. At the end of the third quarter, the funds' rates averaged 1.09 percent for the latest 12 months, versus 0.92 percent for the banks' money market accounts. 
 By year-end, according to Peter Crane, a vice president of iMoneyNet in Westborough, Mass., money fund rates should be pushing 1.5 percent. Still, that would be only a little more than half of the consumer inflation rate.
 Because interest rates are so low, it is especially important to keep money fund fees to a minimum. ''Strategy No.1 is to move to a low-expense money market fund,'' said Bruce J. Berno, an independent financial planner in Cincinnati. 
 He pointed to the Vanguard Prime Money Market fund, which costs 0.32 percent a year, less than the industry average of 0.56 percent. The fund had a yield of 1.41 percent at the end of the third quarter, above the industry average. 
 Fees can be especially important at a time when some funds charge almost as much or more in expenses than they are providing in yield. At the end of the third quarter, AllianceBernstein Capital Reserves was charging 0.97 percent in annual fees, and its yield was 0.66 percent. 
 And if you have multiple accounts, it is probably a good idea to consolidate them to get the higher rates that larger balances often command. 
 Investors may also get some help on expenses from the Securities and Exchange Commission. Some S.E.C. officials have expressed worries that some money market fees are excessive. 
 Experts also recommend another look at money you may have parked in brokerage house money funds that are typically used as repositories for periodic sweeps of dividends and other account income. Many brokers have set up banks for this purpose, but whether or not such banks are used, the funds' yields are often substantially less than those of ordinary money market funds. 
 If you keep a lot of money in a brokerage-house fund, it never hurts to ask for a bit more yield, or, if you're depositing fresh cash, to ask that it start earning interest faster. It is not unusual for a fund to make you wait five business days before it starts to credit interest, but an investor with a substantial or active account may be able to win a reduction to, say, three days. 
 Alternatively, consider tax-exempt money funds. Because tax-free rates did not decline as much as others during the interest-rate swoon, returns on these funds are currently nearly as high -- and in a few cases, higher -- than those for taxable funds. Tax-exempt funds for your own state, offering an additional exemption, can be even more appealing. 
 Then there is a highly attractive investment that offers substantially more yield but is widely misunderstood or overlooked, partly because of terminology. This is the category of stable value funds, which are sometimes known as guaranteed interest income funds, as capital preservation funds or even as fixed-income funds. 
 Stable value funds, devised primarily for employer-sponsored 401(k) retirement accounts, have portfolios of high-quality, short-maturity bonds ''wrapped'' with insurance contracts that protect against swings in interest rates. Some $350 billion is already invested in them, but many plan participants who have this option may not know it because of the funds' varying names.
 With returns averaging more than 4 percent -- and with risk that is only slightly higher than for money funds -- stable value funds ''have been the life raft for retirement savers through the rocky times of the last four years,'' said Gina Mitchell, president of the Stable Value Investment Association, a trade group in Washington.
 Because of that record, specialists advise workers to look closely at their 401(k) plans and to take advantage of any stable value option. 
 ''We strongly recommend stable value funds,'' agreed Mr. Berno, adding that this was a particularly good time to switch assets into them from longer-term bond funds, which lose substantially more value than short-dated investments as interest rates march higher.
 Reflecting this strong appeal, eight stable value mutual funds have sprung up outside 401(k) plans and have accumulated some $6.6 billion through individual retirement accounts. But their future is clouded by questions the S.E.C. has raised about the proper valuation of the insurance wrap in funds that are not part of 401(k)'s. 
 One stable value fund, the $60 million Principal Investors Capital Preservation, was converted to a money market fund on July 29, and some other sponsors have converted their stable value funds to bond funds. ''They're potentially taking away a great investment for individuals'' outside 401(k) plans, a high-yielding, secure and diversifying instrument for which there is no good substitute, Ms. Mitchell contended.
 Another way to juice up returns on cash reserves is through ultrashort bond funds. The bonds in their portfolios come due very soon -- typically in one to three years -- which means that your capital can then be reinvested at new, perhaps higher rates.
 Judith Lau, a principal at LauOlmstead, a financial planner in Wilmington, Del., said that her firm was putting clients into such funds. ''We find we can do this with only a small differential in the risk level,'' she said.
 She pointed to Schwab YieldPlus-Select, which has an expense ratio of 0.41 percent and an average maturity of 2.7 years. At the end of the third quarter, it yielded 2.6 percent, according to Morningstar Inc.
 Fluctuations in net asset value have been 5 cents or less for the past two or three years, noted Jacob Weaver, a LauOlmstead investment manager. ''We like the stability,'' he said.
 But be aware that some bond funds, though not Schwab YieldPlus-Select, levy redemption fees to discourage short-term trading. That could disrupt portfolio management, specialists warned. 
 Other alternatives include depositing money in credit unions or Internet banks, which may pay higher rates than brick-and-mortar banks. Funds investing in variable-rate loans and even a tax-deferred fixed annuity may also be appropriate, they said.
 AND if you like the higher returns of longer-term bank certificates of deposit, but don't want to give up much liquidity, you can gradually build a ''ladder'' of C.D.'s -- arranging for them to come due in regular progression, then reinvesting them for the same long terms. The ladder, for example, might have 10 five-year C.D.'s, maturing six months apart. Some five-year C.D.'s now pay more than 4 percent a year. 
 To make C.D.'s more attractive, banks have been introducing varieties that give investors at least some of the benefit of rising rates. Called bump-up, step-up, opt-up or index-linked C.D.'s, they allow an investor, in effect, to refinance for a higher yield at least once before the maturity date. But Mr. Crane cautioned that a C.D. paying 2.5 percent ''may look attractive now, but six months from now money funds might be outyielding it.'' 
 Whatever you do, make sure that it fits your circumstances. ''If you want to pay college tuition next January,'' Mr. Berno said, ''you don't want to buy a 12-month C.D.''


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Skimpy Returns, on $2 Trillion''Money market mutual funds have nearly $2 trillion in investors' cash, but the return on all this money is averaging about 1 percent.MONEY MARKET MUTUAL FUND ASSETS . . .Graph tracks money market mutual fund assets (TAXABLE, TAX-FREE) from 1975-2004*.. . . AND ANNUAL RETURNSGraph tracks the annual returns (TAXABLE, TAX-FREE) from 1975-2004*.*As of Oct. 5(Source by iMoneyNet Money Fund Report)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (89%); BONDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); INFLATION (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (61%) Stocks and Bonds; Money Market Funds; Interest Rates; Personal Finances; Mutual Funds

COMPANY: ALLIANCEBERNSTEIN HOLDING LP (51%)

TICKER: AB (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

PERSON: Robert D Jr Hershey

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004



236 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR: THE STRATEGY; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: Rumsfeld Rallies Allies; In Surprise, Stops in Iraq

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

DATELINE: ABOARD THE U.S.S. JOHN F. KENNEDY, in the Persian Gulf, Oct. 9 

 BODY:
With support for operations in Iraq flagging in some allied nations, Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld gathered 18 defense ministers aboard this symbol of American military might on Saturday to discuss strategy and stiffen any wavering resolve back home. 
 [Mr. Rumsfeld later arrived at an air base in Iraq's western desert on Sunday in a visit that had not been announced beforehand, Reuters reported. He landed at Al Asad air base near Haditha, 125 miles northwest of Baghdad, aboard a C-17 transport plane from Bahrain to meet top Marine commanders and address about 1,500 marines.] 
 Warplanes from the carrier's air wing have been flying about 20 combat missions a day over Iraq and have played a pivotal role in airstrikes in insurgent-controlled Falluja last month that killed an important member of a terrorist network led by the Jordanian-born militant Abu Musab al-Zarqawi. 
 The unusual meeting at sea on Saturday, Mr. Rumsfeld's first stop on a six-day visit to the Middle East and a NATO meeting, assembled defense ministers largely from new NATO members and former Soviet republics, as well as from Iraq, Qatar and Bahrain. The countries have contributed troops, bases and other support to the allied campaigns in Afghanistan and Iraq. 
 In the carrier's cramped, windowless war room, the ministers heard Gen. George W. Casey Jr., the top American commander in Iraq, describe by teleconference from Baghdad the military's plan to defeat an increasingly violent insurgency, to train and equip fully as many as 145,000 Iraqi security forces in time for national elections in January and to start hundreds of new reconstruction and economic projects. 
 In the wake of offensives in Tal Afar, Samarra and northern Babil Province, General Casey said that a majority of Iraq's security problems were concentrated in 4 of Iraq's 18 provinces, including Baghdad and Anbar, to the west. But many of the country's population centers are in those restive areas, scaring off international aid organizations. 
 ''The goal was to mobilize us and show public opinion that we really and truly are together on this,'' Defense Minister Jerzy Szmajdzinski of Poland, which has 2,500 troops in southern Iraq, said in an interview. Public opinion in Poland has been running hard against the Iraq operation, with some leaders there suggesting that Poland should withdraw its forces by the end of 2005. 
 The Iraqi defense minister, Hazim al-Shalaan, dismissed reports that Iraq was descending into a new spiral of violence. ''Samarra is a sign of things to come, and Falluja will soon be next,'' he said in an interview. 
 For Mr. Rumsfeld, a former naval aviator, the four-and-a-half-hour meeting on the carrier allowed him to show off American military prowess as an example to ministers from fledgling NATO countries, prospective alliance members and other nations that the Bush administration has recruited in its efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
 With elections being held in Afghanistan on Saturday, Mr. Rumsfeld exhorted his colleagues to hold fast in that country in a message that could well have applied to Iraq. ''There are always naysayers and doomsayers, and people who are faint-hearted,'' he said. ''But the people who have been determined and steadfast have been proved correct.'' 
 Mr. Rumsfeld often says that more than 30 countries have contributed to operations in Iraq, but the United States has 138,000 of the roughly 160,000 troops there, and has borne a vast majority of the costs. 
 The carrier's air wing is flying 60 missions a day, including flights to Iraq, 250 miles to the northwest, and about 30 others in support of countersmuggling and antiterrorism operations in the Persian Gulf. Capt. Mark Guadagnini, the commander of the 70 aircraft aboard the Kennedy, said, ''We're trying not to bomb unless it's absolutely required.'' He said that a roaring flyby might deter insurgents on the ground. ''We're doing absolutely everything we can to prevent civilian casualties.'' 
 In most cases, the jets fly to an assigned sector in Iraq, and stand ready to help ground troops that come under fire or bomb targets revealed by fresh intelligence. 
 That is what happened on the night of Sept. 26, when intelligence showed suspicious tractor-trailers unloading weapons into buildings in Falluja. Three Navy attack planes, including Lt. Comdr. Ted Heflin's F-14, rolled in on the targets, dropping 1,000-pound laser-guided bombs. ''We took out two buildings,'' he said. American officials said they learned later that the strike killed Abu Ahmed Tabouki, a Saudi believed to be Mr. Zarqawi's right-hand man in Falluja. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TERRORISM (74%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); ELECTIONS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) INDIAN OCEAN (79%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); POLAND (93%); BAHRAIN (92%); QATAR (79%); JORDAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); GULF STATES (58%); CENTRAL EUROPE (52%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004



237 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; SundayBusiness; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3105 words

HEADLINE: Erase Debt Now. (Lose Your House Later.)

BYLINE: By MICHAEL MOSS

DATELINE: DES MOINES 

 BODY:
MICHAEL A. KNOX thought he had run out of ways to pay off his credit card bills when he got the salesman's call two years ago. To wipe out his nearly $20,000 debt, he was told, all he had to do was take out a new, bigger mortgage on his house.
 Mr. Knox, then 60 and on disability, signed up. The mortgage broker sent him eight checks already made out to his creditors, and Mr. Knox dashed to the post office the day they arrived to mail them.
 But the bigger house payment devoured 75 percent of his income. He quickly fell behind. And the full meaning of what he had done suddenly became clear. 
 By using his mortgage to pay off his credit card debt, Mr. Knox had avoided the humiliation of filing for bankruptcy. But he had put at risk something much more important to him than his pride. In late January, with Mr. Knox in arrears, the Wall Street firm that had bought his mortgage informed him that it was taking away his home.
 ''They're going to have to carry me out of here,'' he told a lawyer in early March. Days later, Mr. Knox, who had suffered for years from depression, was found dead of carbon monoxide poisoning in his sealed-up car.
 Encouraged by low interest rates and rising home values, millions of Americans have been using their homes to pay off credit card bills. One-fourth of homeowners who refinanced their mortgages took out larger loans on their homes in order to pay off credit cards and other debts, according to a recent study by the Federal Reserve. 
 The maneuver is known as debt consolidation, and mortgage lenders are using national campaigns -- from prime-time advertising to e-mail spam -- to pitch it as a sound way to ease the sting of credit card debt, which averages $13,000 for people who don't pay off their balance each month, according to CardWeb.com. For many, probably a vast majority, it has been a boon. Experts say the device is a factor in a recent leveling off of credit card debt and a drop this year in personal bankruptcies.
 But each year, tens of thousands of people -- not just the poor -- lose their homes after trying to cope with their debts this way, industry figures show, and their heart-rending tales are raising alarm among consumer advocates, federal regulators and some mortgage lending officials.
 In Bluefield, W.Va., a retired coal miner, William Anderson, 80, and his wife, Kathleen, 79, owned their home of 45 years free and clear, but lost it in March after falling behind on a new $48,000 mortgage that they were persuaded to get in order to pay off their automobile loans.
 Robert and Shirley McCall of Paris, Ill., were trying to pay off $7,720 in medical bills when they took out a new $22,000 mortgage on their house, but in failing to keep up with the larger mortgage payments, they were warned by their lender in August that they were nearing foreclosure.
 In Macon, Ga., Melissa and Shawn Lynch are trying to salvage their home. In order to pay off credit card debts, they took out a second mortgage on the three-bedroom home they bought in 2001 for $71,000, but then were hit with medical bills on top of the new, larger mortgage payments. Three weeks ago, they sought help from a debt counselor and discovered that their house was at great risk. ''We were young,'' said Ms. Lynch, 28, and the lender ''smelled blood, really.''
 While not everyone affected is a poor credit risk, much of the booming business of debt consolidation focuses on such borrowers -- what is known as the subprime market. 
 The industry, which has an estimated four million outstanding loans, has enabled many people with modest incomes to own their homes. But last year, more than 16 percent of subprime mortgages were delinquent or in foreclosure. More than 76,000 families with subprime mortgages tumbled into foreclosure in the first quarter of 2004, and an additional 47,000 in the second quarter. 
 While statistical evidence is piecemeal, the rush to pay off credit cards and other consumer debt by taking out bigger mortgages appears to be playing a growing role in this trouble.
 Many people who refinance mortgages, of course, do so simply to lower their house payments. But the people who refinance for extra cash are as much as twice as likely to lose their homes through foreclosure than those who refinance for other reasons, according to statistics from the PMI Group, a major mortgage insurer. And most subprime loans being made today -- estimates run as high as 70 or 80 percent -- are debt consolidation loans like Mr. Knox's.
 ''Financing credit card debt on your mortgage, in general, is a bad idea,'' Edward M. Gramlich, a Federal Reserve governor, said in an interview last week. ''With the credit card debt you can go into bankruptcy, but if you put it on your mortgage you could lose your house, and that happens a lot.''
 Policy makers see the very existence of these debt-consolidation loans as the next issue in their battle with the subprime lending industry, which until now has been criticized largely about its high costs, prompting new state and federal laws. 
 Some industry officials say lenders have pushed too hard in selling dangerous loans to vulnerable homeowners who may not fully appreciate the risks. Larry Litton Jr., the chief operating officer of Litton Loan Servicing, based in Houston, which collects mortgage payments on behalf of lenders, said that most of the delinquent subprime loans he was handling involved debt consolidation and borrowers who did not realize that they would go back to running up more credit card debt unless they found some way to balance their income and expenses. 
 ''Even though, conceptually, debt consolidation is used to retire debt, it often leads to increased debt burden,'' he said. ''People make decisions sometimes that aren't real rational whenever it comes to incurring debt. I sure hate for people to draw conclusions that these people are irresponsible as a drug addict, but they are similar in the sense that debt can be very addicting.''
 William C. Apgar, an assistant housing secretary in the Clinton administration, said that homeownership ''can't be used as an everlasting reserve fund for folks who have more expenses than income on a perpetual basis.''
 But as the case of Michael Knox shows, many homeowners do use mortgage refinancing that way and some lenders have sold the maneuver aggressively to people hooked on the promise of easy credit. 
 Mr. Knox's story, pieced together from financial documents and from the increasingly despairing letters he wrote to company officials, regulators and others, is a particularly sad look at this dark side of the mortgage refinancing boom. 
 Mr. Knox may have seemed like someone you would not want to lend money to. But by the logic of the subprime market, he looked like a desirable customer.
 Subprime lenders charge higher-than-usual interest rates and can protect themselves by selling the loans to Wall Street, which in turn consolidates large numbers of loans into investment pools and markets them to investors worldwide in the form of asset-backed bonds. 
 But experts say that the market is susceptible to overzealous salesmanship and, sometimes, fraud.
 Mr. Knox had already refinanced twice in six months when he got the call from an Aames Financial broker. In qualifying Mr. Knox for a $90,000 mortgage at 9.23 percent that he ultimately could not afford, company records show, Aames waived its own rules for verifying income and employment. The mortgage was also based on an assessment of his house that was considerably higher than an official county estimate.
 Aames, a medium-size lender based in Los Angeles, said it had done nothing wrong in lending money to Mr. Knox, particularly because he had almost always paid his bills on time. As Aames pointed out to an arbitrator who ruled in its favor after Mr. Knox filed a complaint, ''No one was pointing a gun to his head to do it.'' More broadly, the company said it had stringent measures to avoid problem lending, including a system adopted last year to determine whether borrowers would truly benefit from its loans. 
 In April, the company disclosed that it was cooperating with a Federal Trade Commission inquiry into subprime lending practices nationwide. And in Iowa, the state justice department is investigating Mr. Knox's case, saying that it may show that the lending industry is undermining homeownership by pushing too hard for growth. 
 ''In addition to being appalled by what happened to Michael Knox, we are very concerned about appraisals that are inflated and we are very concerned about incomes that are inflated or completely made up,'' said Tom Miller, Iowa's attorney general.

Serial Refinancings
 Mr. Knox became a homeowner in 1988, using a traditional bank mortgage to buy a wood-frame house built in 1946 just north of downtown Des Moines. He paid $29,000 for 984 square feet; ownership was a huge achievement for him. ''He loved that house,'' said his daughter, Marlene Knox.
 Divorced and living alone after raising four children, Mr. Knox was anxious about money, people who knew him say. He had held various jobs, from welding grain elevators to working as a security guard at parking garages. But he increasingly suffered from depression, compounded by circulation problems, and his disability check of $1,068 a month left him perennially short of funds.
 A neighbor, Janet L. Bequeaith, recalled that he would often buy cream cheese on sale as a substitute for higher-priced protein. He also made his own furniture, dabbled in unlikely inventions and taxied people to the doctor for a few extra dollars. A financial high point came in 1998, when he won $15,000 in a game show sponsored by the Iowa state lottery. 
 But then he found a surer way to instant cash. Or rather, it found him. Credit card companies sent Mr. Knox blank checks, out of the blue, that he had only to fill out to get thousands of dollars. ''I tried to tell him that's not the way to operate,'' said Dennis M. Wilhelm, a neighbor. ''But he couldn't resist.''
 Mr. Knox opened charge accounts at Wal-Mart, Target and Sears. To pay utility bills and other expenses, he used credit cards from Providian, Wells Fargo and three other banks. His luxury was a desktop computer with an e-mail account, neighbors say.
 But eventually Mr. Knox was borrowing cash from one card to pay off another, and when he ran short he would grab a two-week loan from a storefront lender who charged interest at the annual rate of 520 percent.
 That was when he started refinancing his home -- first for $49,400 in September 2001, then for $67,000 in March 2002. Yet it was never enough.
 Aames's brokers hunt for customers by using lists of people who recently refinanced their mortgages. In telephoning these prospects, brokers said they asked about credit card debt, both as an incentive to refinance again and to increase their own commission with a larger loan.
 ''It's a dog-eat-dog world out there, and you do what you have to, to get loans,'' said Stephen Black, a former Aames loan officer in Tysons Corner, Va. ''You don't lie to your client, but you make them feel like you're their best friend and can be trusted.''
 Still, Mr. Knox posed something of a challenge. The real estate agent who sold him the house said its value had risen to perhaps $65,000, which the county confirmed in a recent assessment. That was not nearly enough to get Mr. Knox, who was already spending 55 percent of his income on his mortgage, the new loan he needed to pay off his bills.
 Six months later, in September 2002, Ames said it would lend him $90,900 based on a $101,000 valuation by an independent appraiser. Startled, Mr. Knox said he worried that his taxes would soar. But he later wrote to the arbitrator that Aames had assured him the appraisal would not be disclosed to the county. ''The appraisal was a complete sham,'' Mr. Knox wrote to the arbitrator.
 In an interview, the appraiser, Mark S. Wallace, said all appraisals were matters of opinion, and that he frequently resisted entreaties by lenders who wanted inflated valuations. He has surrendered his license to settle an unrelated case brought by regulators, state records show.
 Aames said it had the appraisal checked for accuracy through a consulting appraisal firm.

Who Wrote the Letter?
 For Mr. Knox, the new appraisal left a major problem. The bigger mortgage would raise his monthly payment to nearly $800, with taxes and insurance, from $643. But he got only $1,068 in disability from Social Security, and Aames required that his income be at least twice his debt.
 Mr. Knox's broker, Matthew Wright, who was then with Aames, first suggested inflating his income by creating a phantom renter, according to Mr. Knox's written account. When he balked, Mr. Knox wrote, Mr. Wright said he could claim income from his attempts to sell a mimeographed book on magic that he had put together.
 Mr. Knox wrote that ''I never made a dime trying to sell my books,'' but his loan papers -- which Mr. Knox later said he did not notice -- reported $820.42 in monthly income from book sales, putting his debt-to-income quotient at 49.9 percent, slipping just under the company's 50 percent cap.
 Still, Aames required additional proof of self-employment, and a reference letter appeared in his file from a local banker. The letter was a fabrication, The New York Times learned by calling the bank, which said the name of the banker on the letter was fictitious; no such person worked for the bank.
 Mr. Knox's family and friends say it is inconceivable that he concocted the letter. In an interview, Mr. Wright disputed each point in Mr. Knox's account of the loan and denied any involvement in the letter. ''I've never, ever committed fraud and never will,'' said Mr. Wright, who said he left Aames for a better opportunity shortly after Mr. Knox got his loan. ''If a customer tells me this stuff you have to believe it.''
 Experts estimate that fraud is at play in at least 20 percent of all loans that end up in foreclosure; inflated valuations are rampant, experts say, and appraisal trade groups say the system needs to be overhauled. Connie Wilson of AppIntell, a firm in Weldon Spring, Mo., that helps lenders avoid problem loans, said employees of the lender and others who profit from the loans are almost always involved in loans that later end up in foreclosure.
 Last month, the Federal Bureau of Investigation warned of a looming ''epidemic'' in mortgage fraud involving loan brokers, appraisers and lending officers. Its caseload of open fraud inquiries surged to 533 investigations in June from 102 in 2001. 
 Aames credits a hot line it set up in 2001 with exposing employees who improperly qualified borrowers. In other cases it was the borrower who discovered irregularities. A disabled elderly woman in Seattle who settled a case against Aames last year found fabricated letters and invoices in her file verifying income she did not have. 
 Whatever the precise origin of Mr. Knox's fake letter, Aames's rules require harder proof of self-employment, like a business license or advertising receipts. Aames said the underwriter who checked the loan had waived this requirement at his discretion.

A New Cycle of Debt
 Mr. Knox had expected the new mortgage to leave him free and clear. But borrowing $90,900 cost him $7,259 in fees and other expenses. After repaying his existing $67,000 mortgage and mailing $15,574 to his creditors, he still owed $3,800 in credit card bills.
 He did what most borrowers do in this situation, debt counselors say: he ran up more credit card debt. Even filing for bankruptcy on this new debt, which he did six months later, could not save his home. The mortgage alone was simply too big.
 ''My health has been ruined, my medical bills have gone up because of the stress this loan has caused me,'' he wrote to Aames.
 To consumer advocates, stories like Mr. Knox's show the need, at a minimum, for some government intervention to warn borrowers of the risk in this debt maneuver. With rising interest rates, some say the pressure on homeowners will only increase.
 ''Credit is not just a benefit; it is also a dangerous instrument,'' said Margot Saunders, a managing attorney at the National Consumer Law Center in Washington. ''Everything from cars to toasters that have some danger are regulated, but loans which can cause such devastation when provided in the wrong situation are not regulated.''
 Aames says it would object to any measures that unfairly restricted access to credit. ''It would be a great disservice to deny millions of prime and subprime borrowers the opportunity to tap into the equity in their homes to pay for important purchases and consolidate debt when the vast majority of these customers repay their loans,'' Ian Campbell, a spokesman for Aames, said.
 In a recent speech on subprime lending, Mr. Gramlich of the Federal Reserve warned that steps being taken to curb lending excesses would apply only to banks and other companies that are closely scrutinized by banking regulators, and not to independent mortgage companies.
 ''We as an industry do a lot of great things in providing liquidity,'' said Mr. Litton, the mortgage servicer. ''But the problem is, we often lose sight of common-sense things. Is it good business practice in principle to do three cash-outs in one year?''
 Mr. Knox pursued arbitration because his loan contract barred him from suing Aames. In November 2003, the arbitrator rejected his case without explanation. Aames, which said it received very few complaints about its loans, said it stopped requiring arbitration because of controversy over the practice.
 In Mr. Knox's case, the loan was sold to Bear Stearns, which says it offered to extend his payments to avoid foreclosure. Consumer advocates say such offers generally involve too little money to help people like Mr. Knox.
 Instead, he bought more lottery tickets. He visited the local casino. And when the foreclosure notice arrived, he phoned his brother, Christopher, in Arizona to say goodbye.
 ''I told him to come out with me,'' Christopher Knox recalled. ''And he said, 'I'm too old to start over again.''' 
 A few weeks later, in early March, he made a last call for help. He phoned a lawyer, and the lawyer contacted former colleagues at the state justice department and told them that Mr. Knox had a strong case. When an investigator there could not reach Mr. Knox, she phoned the police. They found his body in the car. 
 Last Thursday, the sheriff's office held an auction to sell Mr. Knox's home, which had an opening price of $64,200. Nobody bid on it. Bear Stearns will have to dispose of the property by itself.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Michael Knox once won $15,000 in a game show. He was in debt when he was found dead in March. (Photo by Iowa Lottery)(pg. 1)
 Janet Bequeaith and Dennis Wilhelm, neighbors of Michael Knox, at his former home. Mr. Wilhelm said he tried to steer Mr. Knox away from cash offers from credit card companies. (Photo by Mark Kegans for The New York Times)(pg. 9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); PERSONAL DEBT (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (75%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); HOME PRICES (71%); POISONINGS (70%); CONSUMER LAW (66%); CARBON MONOXIDE (65%); EMAIL MARKETING (62%); ENVIRONMENTAL ILLNESS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (59%) IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004



238 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1630 words

HEADLINE: Teaching Mogul Tots to Swim, for the Rent and Stardom

BYLINE: By SUSAN CAMPOS

 BODY:
GIAVANNA SCHOEN entered the Beverly Hills estate of Irwin Winkler on a sunny afternoon in a scarlet bathing suit and flip-flops. Nodding familiarly to the gardeners, she headed to the enormous white-tiled pool evocative of old-style Hollywood, where Mr. Winkler waited with his two grandchildren. 
 Ms. Schoen flashed a megawatt smile and scooped up Maya, 4, for her weekly swim lesson. As Mr. Winkler, the legendary producer of ''Rocky'' and ''Goodfellas,'' looked on, Ms. Schoen coaxed his granddaughter into a proper stance for diving and encouraged her to swim to Ali the Alligator, a floating toy. 
 When the talk shifted to Ms. Schoen herself and her ambitions to be in the movies, Mr. Winkler said he had not heard that before. ''Now that you know I want to be a star,'' Ms. Schoen blurted out with trademark bravado, ''make me a superstar.'' 
 Ms. Schoen, one of Southern California's top private swim instructors, has taught the children of Jodie Foster and those of the actor Gil Bellows from ''Ally McBeal,'' among other celebrities. 
 Not coincidentally, she is also looking for her big break. She rarely misses an opportunity to chat up powerful Hollywood parents while teaching the crawl and the breast stroke to their children (and sometimes to foreign-born nannies).
 Starry-eyed new arrivals in Hollywood once sought jobs at restaurants like Spago or the Monkey Bar, hoping for a chance encounter with a director or producer. Ms. Schoen and many other tan, toned young men and women have found a better way to insinuate themselves: They have made the children's swimming coach a hot job for aspiring actors. 
 Ms. Schoen, 30, is a former lifeguard from Rockville Centre, N.Y., who has the body of a ''Baywatch'' extra and the sassy self-assurance of the actress Drea de Matteo. She worked as a cocktail waitress when she moved to Los Angeles four years ago. ''I met Bruce Willis, Denzel Washington and Tori Spelling,'' she said of that job. ''They knew my first name, but that was it.'' 
 At a wrap party for the television series ''Angel,'' on which she worked one episode as a body double, she met another struggling actress, who moonlighted as a swim teacher. The woman persuaded Ms. Schoen to sign up with her employer, a school called Aquasafe. 
 Two years later Ms. Schoen went out on her own and founded Splish-Splash Swimming, which employs three instructors besides her and teaches 42 children. The swimming season runs from May into October. Parents pay $40 for a 30-minute lesson with the guarantee that 2- and 3-year-olds will be afloat within 10 sessions and swimming across the pool the next year. 
 Meanwhile Aquasafe, now Ms. Schoen's competitor, has 30 teachers in the Los Angeles area, 90 percent of whom are trying to break into show business, said the company's owner, Tracy Carpenter. Few are former competitive swimmers. They are typically trained by more senior instructors and take a class in CPR.
 ''Actors are very versatile,'' Ms. Carpenter said. ''They're animated with children and used to taking direction. And they're usually unemployed, so they have very flexible schedules.'' 
 Until recently Ms. Carpenter was running Aquasafe from Mendocino in Northern California, using a Beverly Hills area code. Two weeks ago she opened an office in Los Angeles. Clients have included the actors Dermot Mulroney and Christian Slater, the producer Chris Moore of ''American Pie'' and the writer and director James Cameron. 
 Mr. Cameron, whose credits include ''Titanic'' and ''The Terminator,'' employs Amanda Ross to coach his two youngest children. Ms. Ross, 21, is a Missourian who said she is often told she looks like ''the cheerleader from 'American Pie.' '' (That would be Mena Suvari.) She has coached for the last two summers while attending film school in the San Fernando Valley. She said Mr. Cameron was aware of her lofty aims. ''James Cameron told me he'd take a look at my short film and pass it on to the person who's in charge of entry-level hiring at his production company,'' she said. 
 Another Aquasafe instructor, Krista Carpenter, has been treading water in Hollywood pools for 10 years. A former track star in a small Indiana town, Ms. Carpenter, 28, the sister-in-law of Aquasafe's owner, is one of the school's most popular teachers. Her most notable dramatic performance was as a high school student strangled in ''Murder by Numbers,'' a 2002 thriller starring Sandra Bullock. It was not a speaking role, but it was a screaming role, and thanks to numerous flashback scenes Ms. Carpenter enjoyed plenty of screen time. 
 Ambitious and seemingly indefatigable, Ms. Carpenter teaches 10 to 12 children during the day and stars in small theatrical productions at night. She is hoping her poolside connections pay off. ''I teach for several big names, and I feel like if I got to the level where I was in the finals, I'd have an edge,'' said Ms. Carpenter, who looks slightly like Reese Witherspoon. She was sitting in a shady area of a client's Westwood pool in a black one-piece suit, waiting for Shane, 3, to show up. 
 Shane's mother, Annette Davis, is a producer on the CBS sitcom ''The King of Queens.'' She said her toddler had tearfully rejected four swimming coaches until Ms. Carpenter came along. A couple of months later he was fearlessly paddling around the pool. Grateful, Ms. Davis has offered to give Ms. Carpenter a career boost. ''I asked Krista to give me a head shot,'' she said, while watching her son splash around. ''I'm happy to do what I can for her, since she's done so much for me. This is a tough business.'' 
 Unlike some other teachers, Ms. Carpenter only recently and discreetly began telling clients about her ambitions to be in front of the camera. ''I don't want to seem like I'm just teaching swimming to advance my acting career,'' she said. But sometimes she scolds herself for not being more aggressive.
 In Ms. Schoen's case, self-promotion knows few boundaries. Using the Internet Movie Database -- a Web site that lists credits and current projects for writers, actors and producers -- she keeps on top of her clients' careers. She is not shy about calling them at home or on their cellphones when she learns they are pursuing new movies.
 Few of the successful filmmakers interviewed about their children's swimming teachers voiced annoyance that breast-stroke lessons in the intimacy of a home pool might segue into a job pitch. It may be that this is the air one breathes as a big shot in Hollywood, where even the guy delivering your Chinese takeout hands over a script he has written. Barbara Dreyfus, a literary talent agent at United Talent Agency, who has had Ms. Schoen teach her daughter, but does not represent her professionally, said: ''She's relentless. She doesn't take no for an answer. She just needs one person to say yes.''
 One of Ms. Schoen's proudest moments was during the making of ''Phone Booth,'' which was filmed in Los Angeles but set in New York City. Ms. Schoen, who was an extra, approached the director, Joel Schumacher. ''I said, 'If you'd like a real, true authentic accent from New York, you have the real deal here, and I would love to have some lines in this movie,' '' she recalled. The next week she was given a speaking part. While her brief role was later cut, her residual checks still arrive. 
 ''I came out here 3,000 miles for one shot'' at stardom, Ms. Schoen said, shaking out her short wet hair at the Winkler pool. ''You've got to put yourself in front of these people.''
 Slipping her red-painted toes into the 85-degree pool, a smile quickly faded from her face. Ms. Schoen, whose proximity to so many Hollywood egos seems to have made her something of a diva herself, insists that the pools she teaches in never dip below a tepid 91 degrees. But Mr. Winkler, an avid swimmer, prefers cooler water. With an acting career to consider, Ms. Schoen decided to relax her rules. 
 As Mr. Winkler watched Maya swim across the pool, he had nothing but praise for her instructor. ''You've got to be talented to do what she does,'' he said. ''She has a specific skill.'' 
 Charles Winkler, his son and producing partner, spoke encouragingly about Ms. Schoen's prospects. ''When the part is right and the time is right, Giavanna will be in one of our movies,'' he said. 
 He has delivered on such promises before. One of Ms. Schoen's fellow instructors, Ian Nelms, is already doing business with the Winklers. A year ago Mr. Nelms and Eshom Nelms, his brother, made a short film for $1,500 called ''Squirrel Trap.'' After a swimming lesson one day, Ian Nelms gave the movie to the younger Mr. Winkler, Maya's father. Impressed, the Winklers hired the brothers to do the trailer and music videos for the DVD of ''De-Lovely.''
 ''It's because he's talented,'' Irwin Winkler said, adding that teaching swimming is ''a good opportunity to meet people, but if you don't have the goods after that, it doesn't do you any good.''
 Ian Nelms, 25, a former wrestler from Bakersfield, Calif., has also caught the attention of another client, the screenwriter and producer John Strauss, whose credits include ''There's Something About Mary.'' Mr. Strauss has two boys taking lessons with Mr. Nelms, and he has read his scripts and watched his film. ''I think he absolutely has a future as a writer-director,'' Mr. Strauss said. 
 Mr. Nelms met his friend and employer, Ms. Schoen while relaxing at the swimming pool of the Hollywood apartment building where they both lived. He was waiting tables at Tony Roma's in Beverly Hills. Ms. Schoen offered him more freedom and more money to come work for her. ''I was just doing it because I like to coach children and thought it would be nice to be stuck in the pool all day,'' he said. ''I had no idea it would lead to all of this.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: TAN, TONED AND LOOKING FOR A BREAK -- Giavanna Schoen, at Irwin Winkler's pool, where she teaches his grandchildren, once had a speaking part.
 NOT TREADING WATER -- Krista Carpenter, above, and Ian Nelms, with Maya Winkler, 4, advance their careers while coaching children of the famous. (Photographs by Ann Johansson for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CELEBRITIES (90%); SWIMMING (90%); SPORTS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (88%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); RESTAURANTS (64%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (60%) Swimming; Children and Youth

PERSON: BRUCE WILLIS (57%); DENZEL WASHINGTON (53%) Giavanna Schoen; Tracy Carpenter; Susan Campos

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%) Hollywood (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004



239 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: Energy Prices Rose. So Did These Funds.

BYLINE: By CAROLE GOULD

 BODY:
IT was a rough third quarter for most stock mutual funds, but some achieved solid gains, particularly funds with energy holdings that benefited from the run-up in oil and natural gas prices. 
 Managers of three of the top-performing diversified funds that have no loads, or sales charges, and are open to new investors talked about their choices -- and their views on the market for the rest of the year.
 Looking for Profit Surprises
 The $840 million CGM Focus fund returned 7.16 percent for the quarter. Its manager, G.Kenneth Heebner, 64, said he looked for ''companies with bigger earnings or faster earnings growth rates than investors had expected.'' The fund, which holds about 25 stocks, can be more volatile than more diversified portfolios. 
 CGM benefited from rising commodity prices during the quarter, Mr. Heebner said. About 40 percent of its assets are invested in gas, oil and oil services stocks, and 18 percent in steel stocks.
 Among its winners was Amerada Hess, the oil and gas company, up 12.4 percent. The rising price of oil has increased the company's earnings estimates, Mr. Heebner said. He forecasts oil prices of $45 to $65 a barrel next year because OPEC countries cannot produce enough to satisfy the growing demand in China and elsewhere in Asia.
 The fund also made money in Nucor, a steel manufacturer based in Charlotte, N.C. Shares rose 19 percent in the quarter. Chinese demand for steel drove up global prices and created higher earnings for the company, Mr. Heebner said.
 Continued strong earnings growth drove up the share price of Mobile Telesystems, a provider of cellphone services in Russia and Ukraine. Shares of the company, which is based in Moscow, rose 18.8 percent in the quarter, and the stock is still cheaply priced, he said, because of ''skepticism about the business environment in Russia.'' 
 Mr. Heebner does not share that skepticism and calls himself ''neutral'' on the overall United States market, which he says is fairly valued. Energy and raw materials companies should continue their strong performance, he said. 

A Good Bet on Commodities
 Rising commodity prices helped the $180 million Permanent Portfolio fund earn 6.13 percent in the quarter. Michael J. Cuggino, 41, the manager, says the fund helps protect investors from unfavorable markets or geopolitical events. 
 Morningstar Inc. classifies it as a conservative allocation fund, meaning that it keeps 20 to 50 percent of its assets in stocks and 50 to 80 percent in fixed-income securities and cash. 
 The fund made money in gold bullion and coins (20 percent of the fund's assets), investments in Swiss government bonds (10 percent), and natural resource and real estate companies (15 percent).
 Rising prices for gold, oil and other commodities helped the fund's profitability, Mr. Cuggino said, adding that commodity prices were being propelled by ''supply constraints and ever increasing worldwide demand.''
 One winner was ChevronTexaco, the big oil company; its shares rose nearly 50 percent in the quarter. Besides benefiting from rising energy prices, the company is able to pass on higher costs to consumers.
 ''It's one of the few industries with pricing power,'' Mr. Cuggino said. 
 Its dividend yield is almost 3 percent, and it repurchases shares regularly, he said, ''giving money back to shareholders rather than reinvesting in further production at inflated prices.''
 Rising copper prices helped Phelps Dodge, the copper producer based in Phoenix. Its shares more than doubled in the quarter. ''It's a classic story of supply constraints and increasing demand,'' Mr. Cuggino said. The company's costs of production have been decreasing as its operations have become more efficient, he added.
 Another winner was the Ryland Group, a home builder based in Calabasas, Calif. Ryland specializes in the market for first homes, focusing on the Southwest and the Southeast. ''Interest rates have been low for quite a while, so more people are opting to buy rather than rent,'' Mr. Cuggino said. While the Federal Reserve has increased short-term interest rates, he added, longer-term rates have been steadier. Ryland's shares rose 18.5 percent in the quarter.
 Geopolitical questions will keep energy prices high, Mr. Cuggino said. And uncertainty in the United States about the presidential election and the direction of the economy will keep the markets unsettled for months, he added.

Dividend Payers Take Off
 The $82 million Philadelphia Fund returned 4.61 percent in the quarter. Its manager, Donald H. Baxter, 61, said the fund started in 1923, presumably in Philadelphia, and has changed hands several times. He is based in Boca Raton, Fla.
 Mr. Baxter says he aims to minimize risk by investing in stocks, particularly dividend payers, that he believes are reasonably valued. That has been difficult lately, he said. 
 Its dividend-paying stocks have rallied recently, Mr. Baxter said. The fund made money in public utilities, which account for 23 percent of its assets. One winner was TXU, a gas and electric utility in Dallas. 
 In February, TXU brought in a new chief executive, C.John Wilder, who has been restructuring its operations, selling off assets and reducing debt, Mr. Baxter said. Shares of the company rose 18.3 percent in the quarter.
 The fund also made money in oil companies, which account for 20 percent of its assets. It owns shares of ChevronTexaco and Occidental Petroleum, an oil and chemical company based in Los Angeles. Shares of Occidental, which has operations around the world, rose 15.5 percent in the quarter. 
 ''Anything to do with refining has done well,'' Mr. Baxter said, adding that ''the price of chemicals has gone up along with the price of gasoline.'' 
 Mr. Baxter says he expects that individual sectors of the economy will continue performing strongly, especially banks and public utilities with steady businesses. 
 ''I'm expecting long-term interest rates will continue to fall a bit, and the economy will continue to grow at a reasonable rate, but somewhat slower than we've been accustomed to during good times,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: G.Kenneth Heebner, who runs the CGM Focus fund, says he is neutral on the overall market. (Photo by Jodi Hilton for The New York Times)
Michael J. Cuggino manages the Permanent Portfolio fund, which profited from pricier commodities. (Photo by Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times)
Donald H. Baxter, manager of the Philadelphia Fund, looks for companies like public utilities with steady businesses that pay dividends. (Photo by John Ricksen for The New York Times)Chart: ''Ahead of the Pack''Here is how three of the best-performing stock funds in the third quarter fared against the overall market and their peer groups.Graph tracks the three best-performing stock funds (CGM Focus, Permanent Portfolio, Philadelphia) in the third quarter and the S.& P. 500 index from July-Sept. 2004.THIRD-QUARTER RETURNSCGM Focus: +7.16%Small-cap blend: -1.69Permanent Portfolio: +6.13%Conservative allocation: +0.95Philadelphia: +4.61%Large value: -0.23(Sources by Morningstar Inc.
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (90%); METALS MARKETS (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); BONDS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (72%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (69%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (60%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Mutual Funds; Energy and Power; Gas (Fuel); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (62%); HESS CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (55%)

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (62%); HES (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (62%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (62%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (62%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (55%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (55%)

PERSON: Carole Gould

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (69%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (68%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (86%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); UKRAINE (79%); ASIA (79%); SWITZERLAND (65%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004



240 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: Cash Is a Dirty Word In Some Value Funds

BYLINE: By ILANA POLYAK

 BODY:
ROBERT TORRAY says he's finding plenty of value in the market these days. As the manager of the $1.6 billion Torray Fund, he has invested every available dime in stocks and does not have anything left over in cash.
 ''I don't see any risk in stocks at all,'' Mr. Torray said. ''I'm a long-term investor. I'm thinking 10 years down the road.''
 His willingness to commit himself fully to stocks at current prices sets him apart from many traditional value investors, who are holding substantial cash reserves. Also known as deep-value investors, members of this group say they will buy a stock only if its price is at a substantial discount to its true worth, including tangible assets, earnings and money in the bank. At current prices, many value managers say, they are not finding bargains. 
 ''I'm looking for companies that are trading at substantial discounts,'' said Steven Romick, manager of the FPA Crescent fund in Los Angeles. ''I don't feel like I have to buy a company that to me doesn't represent value, just because I have cash on hand.'' 
 Forty percent of Mr. Romick's $700 million assets are in cash. His colleague, Robert Rodriguez, manager of the FPA Capital fund, has 33 percent of its assets in cash. The team that runs the Clipper fund, also of Los Angeles, has 27 percent in cash; and Jean-Marie Eveillard and Charles de Vaulx, managers of the First Eagle Global fund, have 23 percent.
 Mr. Torray, who describes himself as a value investor of a very flexible kind, says that even if stock prices are a bit high, they will be offset by multiyear gains. Over the last year, Mr. Torray said, he has plowed cash into stocks like Amgen, the biotech company; Illinois Tool Works, which makes plastic car parts and welding equipment; and J.P. Morgan Chase, the global bank. 
 By some measurements, though, stock prices are not cheap. The average price-to-earnings ratio of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index is 16, based on prospective earnings, higher than the long-term average of 14. But that gap does not scare off Mr. Torray. At the current valuation, he figures that the stock market's rise plus dividends will beat the return of a 10-year Treasury bond, which yields a bit over 4 percent. 
 ''All these assets compete with each other,'' he said. ''You've got to be invested someplace.''
 In fact, several managers of portfolios that are commonly classified as value funds say that even if today's market prices do not meet a traditional definition of value, they are justified by low interest rates and low inflation. If anything, favorable economic conditions make the market look inexpensive from a long-term perspective, said William H. Miller III, manager of the $14.5 billion Legg Mason Value Trust. By some measures, he said, stocks are selling at a 20 percent to 30 percent discount to their fair value.
 If stocks are not the screaming bargain that they were in the summer of 2002, when ''everyone was throwing stocks out the window,'' Mr. Miller said, there are still plenty of opportunities for value investors. ''The market doesn't get cheap unless there are a lot of problems,'' he said. ''Stocks don't get cheap when dividends are growing, when cash flow is strong, when balance sheets are strong, the way they are now.''
 Mr. Miller's sanguine view of equities has led him to hold less than 1 percent of his fund's assets in cash. He has been positive about the market for much of the year, adding to his position in Eastman Kodak stock, which fell over the last few years as the company made a transition from film to digital photography. At $32.22 on Sept. 30, the shares sold for less than half their level of five years ago. He also bought shares of InterActiveCorp, Barry Diller's portfolio of e-commerce businesses. The company generates close to $1 billion in annual free cash flow and dominates the market in most of its business lines. It was down 35 percent for the year through September.
 Mr. Miller is best known for beating the S.&P. index for 13 consecutive years, though his fund was trailing by more than four percentage points through September, largely because of his holdings in technology companies, including Amazon and Nextel, and a lack of investments in energy stocks.
 Mr. Miller, and managers like Brian Rogers, of the $15.8 billion T.Rowe Price Equity-Income fund, acknowledge that their bets may not pay off for a while. 
 ''I accept the possibility that returns aren't going to be stellar by historical standards,'' said Mr. Rogers, whose fund holds just 3 percent in cash. ''But I don't see extreme risks. I'm making the bet that a portfolio of companies trading at reasonable prices is going to outperform two-year Treasuries.'' 
 Edward Maran, associate portfolio manager of the $2 billion Thornburg Value fund, says that he, too, is happy to buy stocks that are cheaper than they were a few years back, even if they do not fit the strict definitions of value investing. 
 ''If you look at a company like General Electric, over the last five years it has a trailing P/E of 30,'' Mr. Maran said. ''Right now it's trading at 21 times trailing earnings. That's a value.''
 By the same measure, Mr. Maran and his co-manager, William Fries, have picked up shares of Microsoft, Southwest Airlines and ExxonMobil. In many cases, the dividend yields of the stocks they buy beat the returns of short-term bonds.
 SOME financial advisers say they do not want fund managers to hold much cash. ''Before we invest in a fund, we've already determined what amount of a person's portfolio should be in equities,'' said Chitra R. Staley, chief investment officer of the financial planning firm Mintz Levin in Boston. ''So when the manager starts to raise large sections of cash, that means that our asset allocation is no longer valid.''
 Others, like Harold Evensky, a financial planner at Evensky, Brown & Katz of Coral Gables, Fla., say that managers who dart in and out of the market had better know what they are doing. ''We respect managers that have opinions,'' Mr. Evensky said, adding, ''That's what we hired them for.'' But he said they would be held to the same standards as those who invest all their assets. 
 Hoarding cash until an investment window opens is a form of market timing, skeptics say. According to Ibbotson Associates, missing the 10 best trading days during the five years from 1989 through 1994 would have reduced a portfolio's average annual gain to 4.3 percent from 10.3 percent. Missing the 20 best days would have produced an average annual return of just 0.14 percent.
 That's the kind of situation that Harry Cohen and Scott Glasser, managers of the $5.5 billion Smith Barney Appreciation fund, say they want to avoid. Their portfolio holds 8 percent cash, which they have raised in order to offset capital gains ahead of their Oct. 31 fiscal year-end. They do not claim to be able to time the market and, from their perspective, prices are reasonable.
 ''We go through our portfolio and there's nothing we don't like,'' Mr. Cohen said. ''I don't understand why you'd want to be 25 percent in cash now.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Claudine Marasigan tries a Kodak digital camera at a store in San Carlos, Calif. Kodak shares fell as digital photography became more popular, but they have recovered recently as the company has shifted its focus. (Photo by Paul Sakuma/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); BONDS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (63%); TREASURY SECURITIES (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (50%) Stocks and Bonds; Mutual Funds

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (56%); AMGEN INC (53%); ILLINOIS TOOL WORKS INC (53%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (56%); JPM (LSE) (56%); 8634 (TSE) (56%); AMGN (NASDAQ) (53%); ITW (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (53%); NAICS333517 MACHINE TOOL MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS332722 BOLT, NUT, SCREW, RIVET & WASHER MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3589 SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY, NEC (53%); SIC3542 MACHINE TOOLS, METAL FORMING TYPE (53%); SIC3541 MACHINE TOOLS, METAL CUTTING TYPES (53%); SIC3452 BOLTS, NUTS, SCREWS, RIVETS & WASHERS (53%)

PERSON: Ilana Polyak

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004



241 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; SundayBusiness; MUTUAL FUNDS REPORT; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: A Manager Falls Hard, But Sticks To the Path

BYLINE: By CHERYL STRAUSS EINHORN

 BODY:
GARRETT VAN WAGONER, one of the hottest mutual fund managers of the 1990's, is grappling with some very serious issues. His style of investing has gone out of vogue, the returns on his funds are terrible, and some of his shareholders are suing him. 
 What is worse, in August, Helane Morrison, the district administrator in the San Francisco office of the Securities and Exchange Commission, said that his firm had ''betrayed the trust investors place in mutual fund directors and managers to report their funds' market values accurately.'' Mr. Van Wagoner and his firm, Van Wagoner Capital Management, agreed to pay $800,000 to settle S.E.C. accusations that they had defrauded shareholders and mispriced securities. 
 As part of the settlement, Mr. Van Wagoner also agreed to step down as president of the company and will be barred from serving as an officer or director of any mutual fund company for seven years. He neither admitted nor denied any wrongdoing, and continues to manage three mutual funds. 
 So what effect has all this had on his approach to fund managing? None, Mr. Van Wagoner says. ''We are going to stick to our knitting,'' he said. ''It isn't fair to shareholders to change strategy. For better or worse, I am still managing my funds on a day-to-day basis and picking stocks.'' 
 Since the Internet bubble burst, Mr. Van Wagoner's fund company has stuck to its strategy of investing in tech companies, and has consistently lost money. The company's five mutual funds had $3 billion in assets under management in early 2000. There are only three funds left, now with just $185 million in assets. This year through September, these funds all had negative returns: Emerging Growth was down 36.16 percent, Small Cap Growth was down 34.91 percent and Growth Opportunity was off 28 percent. 
 Over the longer term, the numbers are also dismal. The flagship Emerging Growth fund gained 291 percent in 1999, but it has lost more than 25 percent, annualized, over the last five years, putting it among the worst performers in the Morningstar fund database. By comparison, the Nasdaq composite index has lost about 7 percent, annualized. 
 Mr. Van Wagoner says he is convinced that his investing approach will pay off again. 
 ''Now, we're doing the same thing,'' he said. ''We have not changed our theme or thesis.'' 
 Some tactics have changed, though. The funds are still invested mainly in tech stocks, but the shares do not change hands as often. The average holding period for a stock was once about three months; now it is six. And Mr. Van Wagoner said that his penchant for buying illiquid, private companies was gone. Today, he said, ''we're basically out of that business with no intention to return.'' 
 IT was Mr. Van Wagoner's illiquid investments that got him into trouble with his auditors and the S.E.C., whose rules require that no more than 15 percent of a fund's assets be in private companies. In 2001, Mr. Van Wagoner surpassed that. Susan LaMarca, a lawyer in the enforcement division at the S.E.C., said that when Mr. Van Wagoner exceeded the limit, he deliberately mispriced the private securities, marking them down sharply to try to get them back under the 15 percent mark. This ''resulted in misvaluing the funds,'' she said, leading to the S.E.C. action. 
 His Emerging Growth fund had nine investments in private companies whose values were suddenly and drastically marked down. Those included Comergent, an e-business software maker, and Kestrel Solutions, an optical networking company. At the end of 2000, well into the tech crash, these investments were being valued at almost $29 million, more than their purchase price. Six months later, Mr. Van Wagoner said they were virtually worthless at the time; he marked down their total value to just $9. 
 Mr. Van Wagoner says he stayed in the market too long. ''Our mistake was not selling at the top,'' he said. As stocks became pricier in 2000, he said that he worried and wanted to sell but did not have the courage to do so. 
 ''The major driver of overall performance of our funds is determined by small-cap high-growth technology, health care and consumer companies,'' he said. ''We're hostage to that by design. In the go-go years of 1999-2000, our shareholders benefited from spikes in stock prices and equally are hurt now by the same thing.''
 The funds have come under criticism not just because of Mr. Van Wagoner's investing judgment, but also because of the funds' governance. The board of Van Wagoner Funds has only two members. Both are independent, but neither owns any stock -- something that Christopher Traulsen, a Morningstar senior analyst, calls ''a red flag,'' raising issues of whether the board is aligned with shareholders. Mr. Van Wagoner said the structure of the board ''avoids conflicts.''
 But Mr. Traulsen added: ''Most fund boards have at least four to five people. I'd never seen a board like this before. It is so small and they don't have any money in the funds -- not a single dollar.'' The Van Wagoner Funds also have among the highest fees in the industry, an average of 2.19 percent, on an asset-weighted basis, compared with 1.44 percent for mutual funds over all, according to Morningstar. 
 Burton Greenwald, an industry consultant, said: ''It will be very difficult to rebuild credibility. Van Wagoner was a high-profile personality, and without making changes in personnel and broadening his product line, I think it will be very hard.''
 Mr. Van Wagoner has not made significant changes in personnel, and he narrowed his product line by shuttering two funds a year ago. As for his credibility, Mr. Van Wagoner said he did not believe that it was an issue. ''With people who already know me, I don't have to rebuild anything, but with strangers I need to do it through an improved information flow and performance,'' he said. 
 As for the funds' poor showing, he said the firm was reliant on the overall performance of tech stocks. The tech-heavy Nasdaq composite index was off about 5 percent this year through September.
 For his mutual funds, Mr. Van Wagoner seeks companies with a stable profit margin and revenue growth of 20 percent or more a year. He said he favors wireless telecommunications. ''We believe there is growth there,'' he said, citing Novatel Wireless, which provides wireless modem cards for computers, Ditech Communications, which makes products to improve cellphone reception, and Alvarion, a radio antenna company. Shares in these companies make up about 10.5 percent of the holdings of each of the three funds. 
 HE also holds shares of eBay, the online auctioneer; Yahoo, the Web portal; and Qualcomm, which makes software and chips for digital wireless communications. Mr. Van Wagoner says his funds are good vehicles for investing in technology and innovation. ''If you are comfortable to be in risky, cutting-edge stocks, then we could be a part of your portfolio,'' he said.
 But some analysts say that after Mr. Van Wagoner's missteps, investors should be wary. ''It is difficult to argue you should invest with him,'' Mr. Traulsen said. ''The risks are so high, and his fall from grace has been so far, that it is hard to justify the role of a fund like this in a person's portfolio.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Garrett Van Wagoner in 2001 at his office in San Francisco. His company's funds have done poorly since the Internet bubble burst. (Photo by Thor Swift for The New York Times)Graph: ''A Faded Star''A $10,000 investment in the Van Wagoner Emerging Growth fund at its inception would have lost half its value by Sept. 30, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index doubled.Graph tracks the Van Wagoner Emerging Growth fund and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index from 1996-2004*.Van Wagoner Emerging Growth: $5,358.78S. & P. 500: $20,854.55*Through Sept. 30(Source by Morningstar Inc.)(pg. 32)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); MUTUAL FUNDS (94%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); LITIGATION (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%) Stocks and Bonds; Mutual Funds; Securities and Commodities Violations; Company and Organization Profiles; Stocks and Bonds

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (90%) Van Wagoner Capital Management; Securities and Exchange Commission

PERSON: Garrett Van Wagoner; Cheryl Strauss Einhorn

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004



242 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 2; Westchester Weekly Desk; IN BUSINESS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: A Full-Service Nest for Fledgling Companies

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS 

 BODY:
A SHIFT is taking place in the executive suites of an office building here that was once home to major corporations like I.B.M., AT&T and Prodigy Services, and where the chief executives plotted the future of their companies. Now the president of SalesWorks, Ben Blumberg, schedules seminars for his fledgling sales-training enterprise, and the owner and president of DocuServe, Chris Kalian, strategizes for the future of his rapidly growing document services company.
 ''We're still talking about potentially influential C.E.O.'s,'' said Adam J. Stark, 31, who opened Stark Business Solutions in late September to provide space for companies like Mr. Blumberg's and Mr. Kalian's, ''but the difference is that these days their companies are much smaller.'' 
 He has leased part of the 11th floor of the office building at 445 Hamilton Avenue and is providing space and services to companies that are expanding but not yet ready for large quarters or long-term leases.
 Since the early and mid-1990's, when downsizings, mergers and acquisitions sharply altered the number of employers, the overall percentage of small businesses in the county has been rising. In 2001, the most recent year for which the county has figures, 80 percent of Westchester establishments had fewer than 10 employees, and 90 percent of all companies employed fewer than 20. Such figures intrigued Mr. Stark.
 ''When I began digging into the data, I noticed that almost all of the county's growth was occurring in the small-business sector,'' said Mr. Stark, whose new undertaking is geared toward home-based businesses that often require professional settings for meetings and conferences. Such businesses include lawyers and financial consultants who primarily work in New York City but who are also establishing second offices in Westchester, as well as women returning to work after taking time off to raise families.
 In contrast to other landlords who lease part-time office and conference space on a ''pay as you need'' basis, Mr. Stark is offering a package of services to go with the sublease space, including e-mail, domain hosting, printing, catering, accounting, Web design, marketing and public relations.
 Smaller businesses that need such services are considered the backbone of Westchester's current economy, said Salvatore J. Carrera, the county's director of economic development.
 ''It's nothing new to rent out just offices and furnishings,'' Mr. Carrera said. ''We've seen that before. But this represents something different in Westchester. It's one-stop shopping for young companies.'' He said he did not know of any other company offering a space and services package. 
 For $99 a month, for example, a business owner can join Stark Business Solutions, and is entitled to rent office space, is listed in the lobby directory, is given a mailbox and can use other services as needed. A typical executive might spend $200 to $400 a month for some part-time office space, phone service, appointment scheduling and other such arrangements. Accounting services are also available for $200 a month; customized Microsoft PowerPoint presentations at $40 an hour; and phone service and appointment scheduling, each for $75 a month.
 Mr. Stark first became aware of the need for a concierge-type service for emerging companies several years ago when he helped his wife, Marisa, start up a small jewelry company. ''I realized how complicated the process of beginning a business is,'' he said. ''You see many people who are good at what they do, but they're not good at running a business. And how do you go about finding the right lawyer? What about your bookkeeping needs?''
 As a mergers and acquisitions adviser before this venture, Mr. Stark witnessed the beginnings of a new trend toward smaller companies. ''I saw a lot of people breaking away from larger companies and starting up on their own,'' he said. ''They believed they could do it better on their own, and often in six or seven years, they were as big as the company they left behind.''
 And while working out of one's house may seem like a practical solution for a start-up, that often delivers the wrong message to clients, Mr. Stark said. ''When you have an office in a Class A building, there's the subtle impression that you give your clients that you're for real,'' he said, pointing out one of his marketing strategies. He currently has three full-time employees.
 Mr. Blumberg, the owner of SalesWorks who had been working from his home in Larchmont, is about to settle into a 170-square-foot office with windows in Mr. Stark's complex, moving in his computer and personal effects like photos of his wife and children. ''Before, I always had to meet clients at their office, or rent a room at a hotel for a meeting,'' he said. 
 As one of Mr. Stark's first clients, Mr. Blumberg has a two-year agreement to use an office with a view of the growing city of White Plains, and on a clear day it even offers a glimpse of the New York City skyline. 
 Mr. Kalian, of DocuServe, said the 130-square-foot space from Mr. Stark provided growing room for his company, which already has other office space in White Plains. With his BlackBerry and his laptop, he said, he can set up an office almost anywhere. 
 A third-quarter report issued the first week of October by Newmark & Company Real Estate showed that the vacancy rate for office space in the central business district of White Plains was 15.6 percent, compared with 22.1 percent for the third quarter of 2003. Some of the slack was later taken up by small and mid-size technology-related companies -- until when the dot-com industry crashed and rates once again rose. 
 In tapping into the revitalization of downtown White Plains, Mr. Stark is aware of the cyclical nature of the economy and of the inherent risks. He has a long-term lease for more than 7,000 square feet in the building, which has weathered many economic ups and downs and periods of vacancy. He won't disclose how much of an investment he has made in his new business, only that ''it's substantial.'' But a comparable class A office space in White Plains rents for more than $20 per square foot. 
 With money in the bank from the career he pursued when was in his 20's, Mr. Stark said, ''If I didn't do it now, I probably wouldn't do it at all.''
 ''I don't want to look back and regret not doing it,'' he said, ''and if I didn't come up with this idea, someone else would.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: At 445 Hamilton Avenue, far left, Adam J. Stark, left, is offering new businesses a home, as well as services like e-mail, printing and accounting. With the help of Stephen Samuels, below right, Ben Blumberg makes a new office his own. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (88%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); SALES TRAINING (77%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (76%); HOME BASED BUSINESSES (73%); COUNTIES (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (52%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%) Small Business; Renting and Leasing

ORGANIZATION: Stark Business Solutions (Co)

PERSON: Adam J Stark; Elsa Brenner

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) White Plains (NY)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004



243 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: A Hard Look at Yonkers

 BODY:
You think it's fun being mayor? Look how Philip A. Amicone suffers in Yonkers. 
 Everyone's a critic. People say his financial plan doesn't add up, just because one little chunk of it -- O.K., $200 million -- is fictional. The mayor says the fault is not his but Albany's, where he says lawmakers have shortchanged Yonkers for years. But the state budget director is not buying it. She rejected his plan in September, calling it unrealistic. 
 People concerned about the schools are saying mean things, too. Parents, teachers and other district employees are furious about a $25 million hole in the school budget that Mr. Amicone tried to close with imaginary money. Imaginary money, of course, can be spent only on imaginary teachers, librarians and security guards. But when the school year started, hundreds of real people were fired. That left the schools staggering under the effects of drastic layoffs and program cuts. 
 Now the N.A.A.C.P. wants a court to determine whether the cuts have harmed school programs that were established under a settlement agreement to lift student achievement. Mr. Amicone's critics fear the city may be violating the settlement. That would be just what the mayor needs -- more trouble with a federal judge.
 The second-guessing does not stop there. Politicians with ties to Yonkers -- State Senator Nicholas A. Spano; Assemblymen Richard L. Brodsky, Gary Pretlow and Michael Spano; and City Council members John M. Murtagh and Dee R. Barbato -- have gone public with their concerns about Mr. Amicone's money problems. The local paper has pointed out numerous ways that the mayor and his allies have been piggy with city finances and lax with conflict-of-interest rules -- taking no-bid city contracts for sideline businesses, for example, and driving around in sleek, city-leased S.U.V.'s. Even the Chamber of Commerce president has weighed in, joining others who have frowned at the tangled web connecting Mr. Amicone and his City Hall friends with various autonomous, unaccountable institutions set up to promote development in Yonkers, notably the Yonkers Industrial Development Agency. 
 The agency and various spinoff corporations -- whose members include Mr. Amicone; his predecessor, John R. Spencer; and a few friends -- have been moving around millions of dollars for a range of projects in Mr. Amicone's strapped city. Do these ties constitute a conflict of interest, and could the money that flows to these corporations be used in better ways to patch Mr. Amicone's tattered budgets to benefit all the residents of Yonkers?
 It's all so confusing. But help is on the way. Alan G. Hevesi, the state comptroller, already has his hands full with a financial crisis at Westchester Medical Center and a school district scandal on Long Island. But he's a sharp money guy, and if anyone can get to the bottom of the Yonkers muddle, he can. Mr. Amicone may have been too shy or proud to ask for help. But those politicians named above were not, and since they asked, Mr. Hevesi has agreed to audit Yonkers's books. He is starting with the city's overall financial operations, and may expand his investigation into other areas, like the schools and the industrial development agency. 
 Perhaps the Hevesi investigation will yield good news for Mr. Amicone, because if everything the mayor says about how he runs Yonkers is true, then the numbers -- hard, solid, audited numbers -- will bear him out. And that will finally get the grumblers, do-gooders and naysayers off his back. The the investigation could also turn out badly for the mayor. Either way, we can only hope that Mr. Hevesi's arrival is the beginning of the end of Yonkers's troubles. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); MAYORS (89%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (75%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (74%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (72%); ETHICS (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); LAYOFFS (70%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (70%); SCANDALS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); JUDGES (67%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (58%) Ethics; Finances; Editorials

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (56%)

PERSON: Philip A (Mayor) Amicone; Alan G (Comptroller) Hevesi

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Yonkers (NY); New York State

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004



244 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 173 words

HEADLINE: Rockefeller Drug Laws

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''An Eye on Albany'' (editorial, Sept. 26):
 The recent lopsided Albany primary win of P. David Soares, who made reform of the Rockefeller drug laws the centerpiece of his campaign, indicates that New Yorkers are aware of and opposed to the dreadful Rockefeller drug laws, which mandate long prison sentences for nonviolent drug offenses.
 Ill conceived from their enactment 30 years ago, the laws' social and economic consequences have been devastating -- the ripping apart of families and communities, and the ruin of individual lives. Mr. Soares's victory makes it clear that the number of people who accept the laws' mistaken premises and shamefully racist results is rapidly decreasing. Unfortunately, the ones with the power to change the laws -- the unaccountable triumvirate of Gov. George E. Pataki, Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader, and Sheldon Silver, the Assembly leader -- are in this shrinking group.

Mary-Elizabeth Fitzgerald
Park Slope, Brooklyn

The writer is executive director, JusticeWorks Community.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE LAWS (91%); DRUG POLICY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (88%); LEGISLATION (88%); WRITERS (73%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); EXECUTIVES (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); SENTENCING (56%); JAIL SENTENCING (56%) Drug Abuse and Traffic; Editorials; Law and Legislation

PERSON: Mary-Elizabeth Fitzgerald

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004



245 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 156 words

HEADLINE: Zoning Changes, No. Parking Garage, Yes.

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 The Ridgewood Chamber of Commerce's proposal to amend zoning ordinances to limit the number of banks, restaurants and personal-services businesses in downtown Ridgewood (''Too Much of a Good Thing?'' Oct 3), is an asinine way to address our current shortage of parking for shoppers.
 Instead of proposing more restrictive zoning ordinances, which might burden an already frazzled zoning board, prompt expensive legal challenges and curtail future economic growth, chamber members' time and efforts would be better spent lobbying the Ridgewood Village Council to expeditiously build an adequately-sized, off-street, municipally-owned-and-operated parking facility.
 If leaders of local private-and public-sector groups would collaborate and focus their collective energies on this solution, perhaps the construction of a parking garage will not fall through this time as it has so many times in the past.

Boyd A. Loving
Ridgewood

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ZONING (94%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); ORDINANCES (90%); COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (88%); RESTAURANTS (88%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (88%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (87%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (68%); PARKING LOT OPERATORS (67%) Zoning

PERSON: Boyd a Loving

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Ridgefield (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004



246 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; 'T'; Column 2; T: Design Magazine; The Remix; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 319 words

HEADLINE: Thoughtful Gifts

BYLINE: By Edward McPherson

 BODY:
In 1879, Friedrich Nietzsche wrote: ''Merchant and pirate were for a long period one and the same person. Even today mercantile morality is really nothing but a refinement of piratical morality.'' What, then, would the philosopher make of seeing his likeness on a Nietzsche's ''Will to Power'' Bar? 
 For the last 10 years, modern pirates calling themselves the Unemployed Philosophers Guild have been toiling in their cave under the Manhattan Bridge, turning the faces of the great philosophers, artists and writers into commercial plunder. ''I was very surprised this took off,'' says Stephan Shaw, one of the company's founders. The guild has come a long way since Shaw and his brother, David, sold homemade earrings -- depicting both sides of the German reunification debate -- in SoHo. Back then, Shaw begged his mother to make a prototype for a silk-screened pillow with Edvard Munch's painting ''The Scream.'' When a catalog company ordered 5,000 more pillows, Mom said, ''I'm not making them.''
 This year, the guild expects to gross $1.75 million. Its catalog features Little Thinker dolls (a heavy-lidded Poe; a prim Emily Dickinson) and finger puppets of luminaries like Kierkegaard and Gandhi, as well as assorted Freudiana: pillowcases inscribed with chapters from ''On Dreams,'' and Freudian slippers. There is also an assortment of Shakespeareana -- watches, ties -- and the Will to Power Bar, ''the official nutritional supplement of the 'superman.'''
 What next? ''I would love to do Hegelian dialectics in finger-puppet form,'' Shaw says. The guild does have plans for Adam Smith's Invisible Hand: in essence, clear plastic in the shape of a hand. On the back, Shaw will print an argument claiming there is no such ''invisible hand,'' which is perhaps something the market will bear out, as people part with their money just to prove it to themselves. Go to www.philosophersguild.com. EDWARD MCPHERSON


GRAPHIC: Photo: (Photograph COURTESY OF THE UNEMPLOYED PHILOSOPHERS GUILD)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHILOSOPHY (77%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (74%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (73%); WRITERS (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%); GERMANY (55%)

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2004



247 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: Australians Re-elect Howard As Economy Trumps the War

BYLINE: By RAYMOND BONNER

DATELINE: SYDNEY, Australia, Sunday, Oct. 10 

 BODY:
Prime Minister John Howard of Australia, who went into the country's election with a good-luck message from President Bush, was decisively re-elected Saturday, according to official returns. 
 Mr. Howard's Liberals, a center-right party, defeated the center-left Labor Party, led by Mark Latham. Mr. Howard, first elected prime minister in 1996, becomes only the third prime minister in Australia's history to be elected to a fourth term. 
 Iraq loomed in the background during the campaign, but Australian political analysts cautioned that the voting was not a referendum on the war. The main issue was the economy, and that is booming.
 Mr. Howard sent some of Australia's best combat forces at the beginning of the Iraq war, adopting the arguments of the Bush administration that Saddam Hussein possessed unconventional weapons. Even as evidence has emerged to the contrary, Mr. Howard has steadfastly insisted that he had no regrets about the decision. Mr. Latham had harshly criticized the war. 
 At this point, Australia's contribution to the war is of more symbolic importance to the Bush administration than it is militarily. Fewer than 200 Australian troops are in Iraq now, and none are engaged in combat. Most are security forces at the Australian Embassy, and some are trainers. 
 Labor had faced a formidable challenge in trying to unseat Mr. Howard. The economy has been growing steadily for more than a decade; unemployment is near historic lows, as are interest rates.
 ''This country is too wealthy'' to vote for Labor, said Antonino D'Albora, a 60-year old taxi driver, capturing the political ambience here. He was voting at a school in Bondi, in the heart of one of the wealthiest districts in Australia, within sound and sight of the famed beach.
 Voting is mandatory in Australia, and George Harris, 44, wearing only his bathing suit and tennis shoes, walked into the Bondi surf club to cast his ballot for the Liberals. 
 ''It's purely a matter of economic management,'' he said. A former senior executive with an international company, he now manages his own investments, from stocks to property to cattle and sheep.
 Mr. Harris said whatever people thought about Australia's going to war -- the vast majority were against it at the time -- there was no choice now but to stay until the war was won.
 On the other side of Sydney, in a middle-class suburb, Richard Lo, a 32-year-old computer programmer who immigrated from Hong Kong a decade ago, expressed similar sentiments. 
 ''The economy here, that is the major thing,'' he said. ''I don't like the policy in Iraq. But it is not enough to vote against him.'' He cast his vote for the Liberals.
 Aware of the strong opposition to the war, Mr. Howard has handled it with political deftness, even his Labor opponents concede. Australia's tough special forces played an important role in the early stages of the war, much of it still secret. But as soon as the main fighting was over, in May 2003, Mr. Howard pulled them out. No Australian soldier has been killed in combat.
 The primary differences between Liberals and Labor are on social and environmental issues. ''I voted for Labor,'' Julie Luc, who emigrated from Vietnam in 1978, said in a tone that said, how could anyone think she wouldn't. ''I'm a worker. I'm poor. I'm not rich.''
 Mr. Howard has declined to sign the Kyoto treaty on global warming (again putting him in sync with Mr. Bush), while Mr. Latham said he would sign it. But the real environmental battle is in Tasmania, the island state where environmentalists and loggers are in a heated conflict over the island's old-growth forests. Mr. Latham said he would protect 600,000 acres. Mr. Howard's program would protect only 42,000 acres. ''Howard backs jobs over trees,'' read the headline in The Australian, one of Australia's largest dailies, which endorsed Mr. Howard.
 Labor had held five seats in Tasmania. It lost one, almost certainly because Mr. Latham's forestry policy was seen as hurting loggers. 
 With 77 percent of the vote counted, the Liberals won 71 seats in the 150-seat House of Representatives, it was reported Sunday, and its coalition partners, The Nationals, a conservative rural party, won 12, for a coalition total of 83.
 In his last major appearance before the voting, Prime Minister Howard said the ''good luck'' message from Mr. Bush had been delivered by the American ambassador here, Tom Schieffer, who had been a partner with Mr. Bush when he owned the Texas Rangers baseball team. 

CORRECTION-DATE: October 13, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about the re-election of Prime Minister John Howard of Australia misstated the number of parliamentary seats lost by the opposition Labor Party in the southern state of Tasmania, where the party's promise to protect large areas of old-growth forests had angered loggers. Labor lost two of its five seats, not one. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICS (79%); REFERENDUMS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); HISTORY (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); IRAQ WAR (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (65%); IMMIGRATION (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JOHN HOWARD (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (90%) NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%) AUSTRALIA (99%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004



248 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: ELECTION 2004/THE BRONX; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 442 words

HEADLINE: For Bush And Kerry, Eager Surrogates

BYLINE: By SETH KUGEL

 BODY:
During the first presidential debate, Fernando Mateo, the prominent Latino businessman turned advocate, found it frustrating that President George W. Bush did not defend the administration's record on terrorism more strongly. 
 ''I wish I could whisper in the president's ear while he's debating,'' said Mr. Mateo, founder of the advocacy group Hispanics Across America and a rare Latino Republican with wide name recognition in New York. 
 This week, he will do the next best thing: he will defend Mr. Bush in a shadow presidential debate against Miguel Martinez, a Democratic councilman from Manhattan who will channel Senator John Kerry. 
 Both men are Dominican, and both said the goal of the debate was to address presidential campaign issues from a Latino and immigrant perspective.
 The event will be held Tuesday night at 7 in the French Family Auditorium at the Bronx campus of Mercy College, on Waters Place near Westchester Square. Although the exact format is still to be determined, issues will cover the familiar subjects of Iraq, terrorism, education and the economy. But also on the table will be issues not prominent on the campaign trail but with greater resonance among Latinos: foreign and trade policy toward Latin America and proposed programs designed to help illegal immigrants. 
 Although the debate has not received an endorsement from either campaign, both debaters have been deeply involved in the race. 
 Mr. Martinez has been campaigning for Mr. Kerry in Florida, targeting Latino voters, and will spend the week before the election there. Mr. Mateo spoke at the Republican National Convention in August and snagged an invitation to the president's ranch in Crawford, Tex., as a Ranger, meaning he had raised at least $200,000 in campaign contributions for the president. (To his disappointment, he couldn't make the trip.) 
 In interviews, both men seemed steeped in campaign rhetoric and ready to repeat many of the candidates' attack lines. But there were signs that the clash between the surrogates might get unexpectedly heated and personal.
 Mr. Mateo, for his part, seemed to be preparing a bit of Reaganesque rhetoric. Referring to New York's Latinos, he said: ''All of our local officials are Democrats. What have they done to better the quality of our lives? If you ask, 'Are you better off today than you were 30 years ago?,' I don't think you are.''
 Meanwhile, Mr. Martinez mocked Mr. Mateo's wish that he had been able to whisper in Mr. Bush's ear during the last debate. ''I think Kerry showed leadership and independence,'' he said. ''He doesn't need a little microphone in his ear to know what to say.'' SETH KUGEL


GRAPHIC: Photos: Fernando Mateo, above, and Miguel Martinez will hold a mock debate on issues important to Latinos. (Photos by left, Yoni Brook/The New York Times
 above, Cindy Karp for The New York Times)Drawing (Illustration by The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); TERRORISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); IMMIGRATION (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (71%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (52%); FOREIGN POLICY (51%) Presidential Election of 2004; Debating; Election Issues; Hispanic-Americans

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOHN KERRY (79%) Miguel (Councilman) Martinez; Fernando Mateo; Seth Kugel

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); IRAQ (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004



249 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 2738 words

HEADLINE: Once Again America First

BYLINE: By Franklin Foer

 BODY:
ON May 4, American conservatism took an unexpected turn. That morning, George Will -- the movement's most influential columnist, one of its icons -- slapped George W. Bush with a tart reprimand. For a year, Will had obliquely hinted of his grave misgivings about the Iraq war and the push to democratize the Middle East. But with the insurgency escalating, he now felt obliged to state his frustration bluntly. ''This administration cannot be trusted to govern if it cannot be counted on to think and, having thought, to have second thoughts,'' he wrote.
 From the war's start, a few stray conservatives have criticized it. The columnist Patrick J. Buchanan vociferously opposed Bush's campaign against Saddam Hussein, just as he had opposed the one waged by Bush's father. Other opponents resided in heterodox corners of the movement like the libertarian Cato Institute and the traditionalist Chronicles magazine. But Will's migration toward the antiwar camp represented a significant shift: full-fledged members of the conservative establishment were now expressing doubts about the prospects for American success in Iraq. Indeed, Will has been joined by a small legion, from the powerful Representative Henry Hyde to the influential lobbyist Stephen Moore. ''I supported the war and now I feel foolish,'' the conservative commentator Tucker Carlson confessed to The New York Times. 
 While this backlash against the war may seem unexpected -- the Bush presidency has inspired fierce loyalty from conservatives -- it is hardly surprising if one looks at the movement's past. The right's skepticism of the state has long reverberated within its foreign policy. Conservatives have raised questions about the ability of the American government to spread democracy abroad, just as they have doubted its ability to deliver social welfare at home. They have long feared that wartime is like a strong fertilizer heaped on government, causing it to sprout new departments and programs that never manage to disappear once peace resumes. For most of the cold war, conservatism sublimated these doubts to pursue its overriding objective of eliminating global Communism. But with the Iraq war hitting a rough patch, this anti-interventionist tradition is suddenly poised for revival.
 The conservative movement has its own creation myth, told in books like William A. Rusher's ''Rise of the Right.'' Before the early 1950's, these histories usually begin, there was no such thing as a conservative. Sure, you could find scattered libertarians and traditionalists camped in obscure little magazines. But they hardly constituted a movement, and they certainly didn't have a coherent ideology. In the early 50's, however, the tide began to turn. Whittaker Chambers unleashed his masterwork, ''Witness,'' in 1952, and Russell Kirk published ''The Conservative Mind'' a year later. Two years after that, National Review was founded to bottle this new energy and serve as a vanguard for a coalescing movement. 
 This version of events almost makes it seem as if the right mystically appeared from nowhere. It's easy to understand why conservatives would want their movement's biography to exclude its earlier history. Before World War II, isolationism had been a major tendency, perhaps the major tendency, on the right. And by the 50's, isolationism had been badly (often unfairly) stigmatized. 
 One of conservatism's early and now largely forgotten folk heroes was Albert Jay Nock, the flamboyant author of ''Memoirs of a Superfluous Man,'' who wore a cape and celebrated Belgium as his ideal society. In 1933, Nock wrote about ''the Remnant,'' borrowing the term from Matthew Arnold and the Book of Isaiah. By the Remnant he meant an enlightened elite that rejected the phoniness of mass society. A few historians have used Remnant as a synonym for the pre-National Review right -- a group that included the economic journalists Garet Garrett and Frank Chodorov, Ayn Rand, Rose Wilder Lane (Laura Ingalls Wilder's daughter) and, to an extent, H. L. Mencken. Nock's allusion to Isaiah works nicely for these polemicists, who issued thunderous, Old Testament-like warnings about American decline. Finding themselves at the forefront of opposition to World War II, they turned to the America First movement. Their hatred for war followed from their radical individualism. As the essayist Randolph Bourne (not a conservative) famously put it about World War I, ''War is the health of the state.'' Since these writers disliked the state, they came to dislike war, too.
 While the greatest generation has become deeply etched into the national mythology, only a smattering of scholarly monographs, like Wayne S. Cole's ''Roosevelt and the Isolationists, 1932-1945,'' have dwelt on the opposition to World War II. But the America First Committee achieved a significant following in the late 30's. At its pre-Pearl Harbor peak, it claimed approximately 800,000 members -- and not just angry farmers and protofascists. Its Yale Law School chapter included Gerald Ford and Potter Stewart, the future Supreme Court justice; John F. Kennedy sent the organization a $100 check. 
 Even though the antiwar movement drew support from across the political spectrum, it included many of the intellectuals and activists who would help revitalize the conservative movement in the 50's. Russell Kirk supported the Socialist Norman Thomas because of his antiwar stand. Henry Regnery, the seminal conservative publisher (whose house, now run by his son, Alfred, has had a recent success with ''Unfit for Command''), broke into the business with pro-German tracts critical of the Nuremberg trials. Willmoore Kendall, William F. Buckley's intellectual mentor at Yale and the inspiration for Saul Bellow's short story ''Mosby's Memoirs,'' began on the far left. But when his comrades renounced their neutrality to side with the Allies, a disillusioned Kendall took a major leap in his journey rightward. As a precocious child, Buckley followed his father's anti-interventionist politics and named his first sailboat Sweet Isolation. At times, these conservatives foreshadowed the arguments made by 60's radicals opposing American intervention in Vietnam. In a wartime speech, the Ohio senator Robert A. Taft intoned, ''Political power over other nations, however benevolent its purposes, leads inevitably to imperialism.'' 
 So how did these isolationists turn into the cold war's most fervent hawks? The most persuasive explanation is also the most obvious: Communism. National Review -- filled with Catholics and former leftists -- viewed the Soviet Union as such an overwhelming threat that it willingly set aside its fear that the cold war would create a Leviathan federal government. In fact, anti-Communism's primary importance to the movement came to be enshrined in a doctrine called fusionism, formulated by the National Review writer Frank Meyer, an ex-Communist. The doctrine, which Meyer hashed out in his 1962 book, ''In Defense of Freedom,'' held that conservatism's competing wings, traditionalist and libertarian, should make ideological peace. Above all, they faced a common Red enemy. 
 Even if they hadn't been so eager to combat Communism, conservatives would have had good political reasons to distance themselves from their earlier isolationism. After Pearl Harbor, public opinion swung heavily in support of the war. In the process, isolationism emerged as a synonym for disloyalty and anti-Semitism. At the height of the so-called Brown Scare, Walter Winchell read the names of isolationists on the radio and pronounced them ''Americans we can do without.'' 
 Given the abuse suffered by isolationists during World War II, it may seem surprising that they often became the most fervent boosters of the fierce cold warrior Joseph McCarthy. But in fact, McCarthy helped ease the isolationists into their new hawkish identity. In his history of the postwar era, ''Troubled Journey,'' Fred Siegel argues that McCarthy served as the isolationists' ''tribune of revenge.'' He enabled them to retaliate against the internationalist liberals who had sent our boys to war, and to strike back at the very men who had tarred them as traitors during the struggle against fascism. As George H. Nash put it in his classic book, ''The Conservative Intellectual Movement in America Since 1945,'' Joseph McCarthy's crusade had drawn many of the embattled conservatives together in ''a bruising common struggle.'' 
 But it hadn't drawn all of them together. Conservatism emerged out of the McCarthyite moment with a new enemy: that small band of conservatives who continued clinging to isolationism. National Review, for one, didn't have any place for them in its pages. According to Buckley's biographer John B. Judis, with the founding of the magazine, and its masthead brimming with stalwart interventionists like James Burnham, Buckley ''was turning his back on much of the isolationist and anti-Semitic Old Right that had applauded his earlier books and that his father had been politically close to.'' And he did more than turn his back. He waged war against them. After the John Birch Society announced its opposition to the Vietnam War in 1965, National Review spent 14 pages denouncing the group and its conspiracy theories. (The Birchers considered Communist infiltration of the American government the threat that required attention.) Upon the death of the libertarian isolationist Murray Rothbard in 1995, Buckley quipped, ''We extend condolences to his family, but not to the movement he inspired.'' The historian Jonathan M. Schoenwald has documented many of these struggles between National Review and its fellow conservatives in his book, ''A Time for Choosing.'' 
 Without a home in the conservative movement, the isolationists had no choice but to search for allies in unlikely quarters. During the late 60's, they often teamed up with the New Left, becoming stalwarts of the antiwar movement. Karl Hess, a speechwriter for Barry Goldwater's 1964 campaign and the author of the memoir-cum-political tract ''Dear America,'' argued, ''Vietnam should remind conservatives that whenever you put your faith in big government for any reason, sooner or later you wind up an apologist for mass murder.'' In 1969, Hess joined with a libertarian antiwar faction that quit the Young Americans for Freedom (Y.A.F.), the campus conservative group. And a few on the New Left returned the favor, heartily embracing the apostates. In 1975, the historian Ronald Radosh (then a man of the left) published ''Prophets on the Right,'' a book championing the prescience of Robert A. Taft and other ''conservative critics of American globalism.'' 
 This long history of residing on the fringe ended suddenly with the collapse of the Berlin Wall. In 1992, Buchanan ran a surprisingly strong campaign in the Republican presidential primaries on an explicitly ''anti-imperialist'' platform -- a platform that he further developed in his revisionist history, ''A Republic, Not an Empire.'' ''When we hear phrases like 'New World Order,' we release the safety catches on our revolvers,'' he wrote in one of his newspaper columns. Even if his party ultimately rejected him, it co-opted much of his program, and in 1995, a year after Republicans ascended to the majority in the House of Representatives, 190 of them voted to deny funds for American troops stationed in Bosnia. By the end of the decade, condemnations of ''foreign policy as social work'' and ''nation building'' had become standard in conservative boilerplate. 
 Buchananite foreign policy has an intellectual wing, paleoconservatism. Long before French protesters and liberal bloggers had even heard of the neoconservatives, the paleoconservatives were locked in mortal combat with them. Paleocons fought neocons over whom Ronald Reagan should appoint to head the National Endowment for the Humanities, angrily denouncing them as closet liberals -- or worse, crypto-Trotskyists. Even their self-selected name, paleocon, suggests disdain for the neocons and their muscular interventionism. 
 Clustered around journals like Chronicles and Southern Partisan, the paleocon ranks included the syndicated columnist Sam Francis and the political theorist Paul Gottfried. Their writings have been anthologized in ''The Paleoconservatives: New Voices of the Old Right,'' edited by Joseph Scotchie. The paleocons explicitly hark back to Garrett, Nock and the Remnant, what they lovingly call the ''Old Right.'' Like their mentor, Russell Kirk, the paleocons venerate traditional society, celebrating hierarchy, patriarchy and even the virtues of the antebellum South. They bemoan feminism, immigration and multiculturalism. A foreign policy naturally follows from these domestic views. The dismal state of American civilization so depresses them that they see no point in exporting its values abroad. Kirk announced in a 1990 lecture to the Heritage Foundation that America's contribution to the world will be ''cheapness -- the cheapest music, the cheapest comic books and the cheapest morality that can be provided.'' 
 Counterattacking, the neocons often accused the paleocons of anti-Semitism. David Frum, for instance, built this case in his 1994 book, ''Dead Right.'' Indeed, this is a charge that has dogged isolationists -- from Nock to Charles Lindbergh (who is elected president in Philip Roth's new counterfactual novel, ''The Plot Against America'') to Buchanan. With their pleas for ''America first'' and their rejection of cosmopolitan foreign policy, they have occasionally vilified the oldest symbol of cosmopolitanism -- the Jew. During the gulf war debate, Buchanan spoke of the Israel defense ministry's ''American amen corner.'' Even the best thinkers in this tradition haven't been immune from repeating canards about Jewish dual loyalties. In 1988, Kirk accused the neocons of mistaking ''Tel Aviv for the capital of the United States.'' 
 George W. Bush entered office implicitly promising agnosticism in the long-running debate between neocons and paleocons. On the 2000 campaign trail, he promised a ''distinctly American internationalism'' that would provide ''idealism, without illusions; confidence, without conceit; realism, in the service of American ideals.'' Of course, after 9/11, Bush dispensed with this doctrinal neutrality. And in adopting a neocon foreign policy, he rallied most conservatives behind his ambitious agenda, a dramatic turnabout in opinion from the 90's. 
 Will this consensus hold? Already, many conservative writers seem primed to abandon it. Even when they haven't gone as far as Will or Carlson in their criticisms of the war, they have flashed their discomfort with Bush's goal of planting democracy in Iraq. National Review has called this policy ''largely, if not entirely, a Wilsonian mistake.'' With these signs of restlessness, it's easy to imagine that a Bush loss in November, coupled with further failures in Iraq, could trigger a large-scale revolt against neoconservative foreign policy within the Republican Party. A Bush victory, on the other hand, will be interpreted by many Republicans as a vindication of the current course, and that could spur a revolt too. If the party tilts farther toward an activist foreign policy, antiwar conservatives might begin searching for a new political home. In the meantime, the publishing industry may be providing a test of the Bush consensus: Pat Buchanan's new book, ''Where the Right Went Wrong: How Neoconservatives Subverted the Reagan Revolution and Hijacked the Bush Presidency,'' has already climbed onto the New York Times best-seller list.
 Perhaps the movement's current state of mind is best reflected in its godfather, William F. Buckley. In June, he relinquished control of National Review. When asked about Iraq by The New York Times, he confessed: ''With the benefit of minute hindsight, Saddam Hussein wasn't the kind of extraterritorial menace that was assumed by the administration one year ago. If I knew then what I know now about what kind of situation we would be in, I would have opposed the war.'' It is noteworthy that Buckley's departure from the right's flagship journal should be accompanied by such ambivalence and profound questions about the movement's first principles. Conservatives could soon find themselves retracing Buckley's steps, wrestling all over again with their isolationist instincts.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Robert A. Taft, 1948. (Photograph by John Lindsay/Associated Press
Russell Kirk, 1960.
George Will, 1997. (Photograph by Steve Fenn/ABC)
 Patrick J. Buchanan, 1999. (Photograph by Ron Edmonds/Associated Press)Drawings (Drawings by Ray Bartkus)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (91%); WRITERS (90%); IRAQ WAR (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); BOOK REVIEWS (85%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (78%); COLD WAR (78%); LOBBYING (76%); POLITICS (73%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: CATO INSTITUTE (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004



250 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: As Schwarzenegger Tries to Slow It, Gambling Grows

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 8 

 BODY:
Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger warned this week that approval of two state ballot proposals allowing a significant expansion of casino gambling would turn California into ''the gambling capital of the world.''
 But even if the proposals fail -- as is widely expected -- casino-style gambling will remain one of the fastest-growing businesses in California. At the current rate of growth, the profits from gambling in California will soon rival that of Nevada. 
 The battle over one of the ballot propositions pits Indian tribe against Indian tribe over the pace and terms of gambling expansion. Two alliances of tribes have already raised more than $50 million for competing campaigns over the future of their lucrative casinos. At the same time, the tribes are working in parallel to defeat a second ballot proposal, known as Proposition 68, that would allow racetrack and card club owners to install 30,000 slot machines at tracks and gambling halls, effectively ending the Indians' monopoly on Las Vegas-style casino gambling in California.
 This week the racetrack and card club owners suspended their effort after spending more than $25 million, admitting that they could not match the resources of the newly rich Indian tribes, which have vowed to spend whatever it took to defeat the measure. The track and club owners also said that Governor Schwarzenegger's spirited opposition to the two proposals made public approval unlikely.
 (A card club rents tables to gamblers but does not provide dealers or a house ''bank.'' The setup is much less profitable than Las Vegas-style card games.)
 The first ballot measure, Proposition 70, is sponsored by a handful of casino-operating tribes. It would scrap the current compacts with the state under which 54 tribes operate casinos and replace them with ones allowing unshackled growth of gambling on tribal lands. The new compacts would run for 99 years and give the tribes absolute freedom from competition from non-Indian casino interests. The tribes, in exchange, would start paying the state's standard corporate tax rate, currently 8.84 percent, on net winnings. 
 The tribes, recognized as sovereign nations by the federal government, now pay no state taxes but contribute about $130 million a year to pay tribes in California that do not have gambling operations and to reimburse cities and counties for the costs of providing public services around the casinos. 
 The current compacts, approved by former Gov. Gray Davis and ratified by the voters in 2000, limit each tribe to 2,000 slot machines and expire in 2020. But even under those limitations, gambling at flashy new casinos on Indian reservations has exploded in the past four years, with net revenues now approaching $6 billion a year. In Nevada, where gambling has been legal for more than 50 years, the annual profits are about $9 billion.
 Mr. Schwarzenegger calls Proposition 70 a sweetheart deal for the tribes and a raw deal for the state. At a town-hall-style meeting in Irvine on Wednesday, the governor said the sponsors of the measure were engaged in a deceptive advertising campaign to mask their real intentions, which he said were to ''allow casinos to spread like wildfires all over our state, including our cities and towns.''
 Mr. Schwarzenegger says he believes the tribes should pay what he calls a fair share of their net winnings to the state, which in the past he has defined as 25 percent, the rate tribes in New York and Connecticut with casinos pay. He is urging tribes that want to expand to sit down with state officials and renegotiate their compacts to provide a greater payment to the state. 
 Nine tribes have done so since Mr. Schwarzenegger took office a year ago, agreeing to pay about 15 percent of their net winnings and, and in addition, finance a $1 billion bond to pay for state transportation projects. Revenue from the new compacts is estimated at $200 million a year.
 But some big tribes consider those deals infringements of their sovereignty and are using their new political and financial muscle to battle the governor.
 Deron Marquez, chairman of the San Manuel Band of Mission Indians, which runs a big casino near San Bernardino, said that the governor and his staff did not respect Indian rights or understand the mentality of a people subjugated for 200 years.
 ''To state it mildly,'' Mr. Marquez said in an interview, ''we couldn't agree on elements of sovereignty. They saw it as something to take away and we are just not willing to give it away.''
 He said that the governor's office was demanding not only 25 percent of the casinos' net winnings but also compliance with a host of environmental and labor regulations on tribal lands.
 ''What people forget -- especially in the governor's office -- is that there is no right for the state to share revenue with a sovereign nation,'' Mr. Marquez said. ''Zero is a more appropriate number to be talking about.''
 Mr. Marquez acknowledged that Proposition 70 lacks public support and that the $10 million that his tribe is spending on it could probably be put to better use in the short term.
 But over the long haul, he said, it is an investment in economic survival.
 But not all tribes agree with San Manuel and Agua Caliente. The tribes that negotiated new compacts are spending heavily to oppose both ballot proposals, arguing that the best way to preserve tribal sovereignty and the Indian gambling monopoly is to sit down with Mr. Schwarzenegger and cut a deal.
 ''We got a deal we thought was fair for us and for the state,'' said Robert H. Smith, chairman of the Pala Band of Mission Indians, which runs a casino in northern San Diego County. 
 He refrained from criticizing those whom he called his ''brothers'' who are sponsoring Proposition 70, but said he opposed that measure and predicted it would fail. The millions being spent over these gambling proposals show just how profitable the Indian casinos have become in less than five years, said Robert Stern, president of the Center for Governmental Studies in Los Angeles and a long-time advocate of tougher campaign finance rules in California.
 ''They're spending ungodly sums of money because they have ungodly sums to pour into these things,'' Mr. Stern said. ''These gaming initiatives have made the tribes one of the major players, if not the major player, in California politics.
 ''Ten years ago, when they went to Sacramento, legislators wouldn't even see them. Now legislators fly down to the reservations and beg to be seen. It's the money. And money talks, clearly.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Deron Marquez says the California governor and his staff members do not respect the rights of Indians. (Photo by John Gurzinski for The New York Times)
 Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger is putting his political weight on the line. (Photo by Monica Almeida/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (94%); CASINOS (93%); APPROVALS (90%); REFERENDUMS (90%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BALLOTS (78%); CARD GAMES (73%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (71%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (69%); CORPORATE TAX (61%); GOVERNORS (59%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004



251 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 8197 words

HEADLINE: Kerry's Undeclared War

BYLINE: By Matt Bai. 
Matt Bai, a contributing writer, is covering the presidential campaign for the magazine.

 BODY:
As New York and Washington were under attack on Sept. 11, 2001, a film crew happened to come upon John Kerry leaving the Capitol. The brief moment of footage, included in a BBC documentary called ''Clear the Skies,'' tells us something, perhaps, about Kerry in a crisis. The camera captures Congressional aides and visitors, clearly distraught and holding onto one another, streaming down the back steps of the Capitol building in near panic, following the bellowed instructions of anxious police. Off to one side of the screen, there is Kerry, alone, his long legs carrying him calmly down the steps, his neck craning toward the sky, as if he were watching a gathering rainstorm. His face and demeanor appear unworried. Kerry could be a man lost in his thoughts who just happens to have wandered onto the set of a disaster film. 
 ''I remember looking up at the sky as I walked down the steps,'' Kerry told me recently, when I asked him about the film clip. He said that he and other members of the Senate's Democratic leadership had just watched on television as the second plane hit the World Trade Center, and shortly after that they heard the sonic boom of an explosion and saw, through a large window, the black smoke rise from the Pentagon. ''We'd had some warning that there was some airplane in the sky. And I remember seeing a great big plane -- I think it was a 747 or something -- up there, but it wasn't moving in a way that, you know, I was particularly concerned. I remember feeling a rage, a huge anger, and I remember turning to somebody and saying, 'This is war.' I said, 'This is an act of war.'''
 After leaving the Capitol on that terrible day, Kerry walked across the street to his office in the Russell Senate building, where he made sure that his staff had been evacuated and was safe. Reluctant to leave Capitol Hill, he watched TV coverage in his office and saw the second tower fall. He called his older daughter, Alexandra, who was living in New York, and his wife, Teresa, who was in Washington. Those who saw Kerry that morning recall mainly that he was furious, an emotion, those close to him say, that comes easily to him in times of trial. He thought it was a mistake to shut down the Capitol, to show terrorists that they had the power to send the United States government into hiding. 
 ''You know, my instinct was, Where's my gun?'' Kerry told me. ''How do you fight back? I wanted to do something.'' That evening, sitting at home, he called an aide and said he wanted to go to New York that very night to help the rescuers; he was ultimately convinced that such a trip was logistically impossible. In the days ahead, Kerry would make two trips to ground zero to see what remained of the carnage.
With the terrorist attacks of 9/11, the geopolitical currents that Washington had spent half a century mastering shifted all at once. It isn't clear how long it took Kerry -- a senator for nearly 20 years and, in September 2001, an undeclared candidate for the presidency -- to understand the political magnitude of that change. George W. Bush and his advisers got it almost instantly. Few men get to be president, and far fewer get to be president at a critical, transformative moment; Bush, seizing the opportunity, recast himself as the accidental protagonist of a new and dramatic national narrative. Less than a year removed from a disputed election, he set about elbowing his way into the small pantheon of modern presidents -- F.D.R. after Pearl Harbor, Kennedy during the Cuban Missile Crisis -- who led the nation in profound moments of peril. 
 Before the smoke had even dissipated over Manhattan, Bush presented the country with an ambitious, overarching construct for a new era in foreign relations. ''The war on terror,'' as he put it, was this generation's test of military and ideological resolve, different from the ones that came before with regard to tactics, perhaps, but not in the magnitude of the challenges or the ambition of the enemy. Bush explained that Al Qaeda and its allies and imitators would constitute a new kind of menace in the years ahead, stealthier and less predictable than past enemies. And yet, in their opposition to American principles and the threat they posed to the nation, he suggested, the Islamic terrorists were the equivalent of Hitler and Stalin, and defeating them would require the same steel and the same conviction that guided America in the last century's campaigns.
 While Bush and much of the country seemed remade by the historic events of 9/11, Democrats in Washington were slow to understand that the attacks had to change them in some way too. What adjustments they made were, at first, defensive. Spooked by Bush's surging popularity and the nation's suddenly ascendant mood of patriotism, Democrats stifled their instinctive concerns over civil liberties; and whatever their previous misgivings about intervention, many Congressional Democrats, a year after the terrorist attacks, voted to give Bush the authority to invade Iraq. 
 What few Democrats did at the time was think creatively about the new world of foreign policy. The candidates who began their runs for the presidency last year, from Dennis Kucinich and his peace platform on the left to Joe Lieberman and Dick Gephardt on the other side of the spectrum, attacked the president's foreign policy from different directions, but if any new ideas emerged during those months, they were soon drowned out by the booming anti-war voice of Howard Dean. When Kerry emerged as the most palatable alternative, he at first ran mostly on the viability of his personal story, focusing more on his combat experience in Vietnam than on any plan to fight Al Qaeda or remake Iraq. Only since Labor Day has Kerry begun to sharpen his distinctions with Bush on national security and foreign policy. In a series of combative speeches and statements, and in a crisp performance at the first head-to-head debate, Kerry has argued that Bush's war in Iraq is a disaster, that troops should be brought home before the end of the next presidential term and that the Iraq war is a ''profound diversion'' from the war on terror and the real showdown with Al Qaeda.
 What Kerry still has not done is to articulate clearly a larger foreign-policy vision, his own overarching alternative to Bush's global war on terror. The difference between the two men was clear during the foreign-policy debate in Florida 10 days ago. Kerry seemed dominant for much of the exchange, making clear arguments on a range of specific challenges -- the war in Iraq, negotiations with North Korea, relations with Russia. But while Kerry bore in on ground-level details, Bush, in defending his policies, seemed, characteristically, to be looking at the world from a much higher altitude, repeating in his brief and sometimes agitated statements a single unifying worldview: America is the world's great force for freedom, unsparing in its use of pre-emptive might and unstinting in its determination to stamp out tyranny and terrorism. Kerry seemed to offer no grand thematic equivalent.
 Inside liberal think-tanks, there are Democratic foreign-policy experts who are challenging some of Bush's most basic assumptions about the post-9/11 world -- including, most provocatively, the very idea that we are, in fact, in a war. But Kerry has tended to steer clear of this conversation, preferring to attack Bush for the way he is fighting terrorism rather than for the way in which he perceives and frames the threat itself.
 The argument going on in Washington has its roots in the dark years of the cold war. Just about everyone agrees that many factors contributed to America's triumph over world communism -- but people differ on which of those factors were most important. The neo-conservatives who shaped Reagan's anti-Soviet policy and now shape Bush's war on terror have long held that the ''twilight struggle'' with the Soviet empire was won primarily as a result of U.S. military intervention in several hemispheres and of Reagan's massive arms buildup, without which democracy and free markets could not have taken hold. Many liberals, on the other hand, have never been comfortable with that premise; while they acknowledge that American military power played a role, they contend that the long ideological struggle with communism ended chiefly because the stifling economic and social tenets of Marxism were unsustainable, and because a new leader emerged -- Mikhail Gorbachev -- who understood that. They see Islamic fanaticism, similarly, as a repressive ideology, born of complex societal conditions, that won't be defeated by any predominately military solution. 
 In the liberal view, the enemy this time -- an entirely new kind of ''non-state actor'' known as Al Qaeda -- more closely resembles an especially murderous drug cartel than it does the vaunted Red Army. Instead of military might, liberal thinkers believe, the moment calls for a combination of expansive diplomacy abroad and interdiction at home, an effort more akin to the war on drugs than to any conventional war of the last century. 
 Even Democrats who stress that combating terrorism should include a strong military option argue that the ''war on terror'' is a flawed construct. ''We're not in a war on terror, in the literal sense,'' says Richard Holbrooke, the Clinton-era diplomat who could well become Kerry's secretary of state. ''The war on terror is like saying 'the war on poverty.' It's just a metaphor. What we're really talking about is winning the ideological struggle so that people stop turning themselves into suicide bombers.''
 These competing philosophies, neo-conservative and liberal, aren't mutually exclusive, of course. Neo-cons will agree that military operations are just one facet, albeit the main one, of their response to terrorism. And liberals are almost unanimous in their support for military force when the nation or its allies face an imminent and preventable threat; not only did the vast majority of liberal policy makers support the invasion of Afghanistan, but many also thought it should have been pursued more aggressively. Still, the philosophical difference between the two camps, applied to a conflict that may well last a generation, is both deep and distinct. Fundamentally, Bush sees the war on terror as a military campaign, not simply to protect American lives but also to preserve and spread American values around the world; his liberal critics see it more as an ideological campaign, one that will turn back a tide of resentment toward Americans and thus limit the peril they face at home. 
 Perhaps the most pressing question of the presidential campaign is where John Kerry stands in this debate. The man who would be the first Vietnam veteran to occupy the Oval Office has doggedly tried to merge both worldviews, repeatedly vowing to fight both a more fierce and a more restrained, multifaceted war on terror. Aides say this is evidence of his capacity to envision complex solutions for a complex world; voters, through the summer and early fall, seemed less impressed. In a typical poll conducted by The Washington Post and ABC News just before the first presidential debate, only 37 percent of the respondents agreed with the statement that Kerry would make the country safer. A New York Times/CBS News poll conducted in mid-September found that half the respondents thought Bush would make the right decisions to protect the nation from terrorism, compared with only 26 percent who said the same thing about Kerry. 
 More surprising than the poll numbers, though, is the sense of frustration, expressed not just by voters but by some in Kerry's own party, that even at this late hour, Kerry's long-term strategy for defeating the terrorists remains so ethereal. ''You will lose, and we will win,'' Kerry told America's enemies in the most memorable line of his convention speech in late July. ''The future doesn't belong to fear. It belongs to freedom.'' But how will we win? How do you root out and destroy Islamic radicals while at the same time capturing the ''hearts and minds'' of Islamic students? When John Kerry said, on Sept. 11, 2001, ''This is war,'' what precisely did he mean?
On an evening in August, just after a campaign swing through the Southwest, Kerry and I met, for the second of three conversations about terrorism and national security, in a hotel room overlooking the Ferris wheel on the Santa Monica pier. A row of Evian water bottles had been thoughtfully placed on a nearby table. Kerry frowned.
 ''Can we get any of my water?'' he asked Stephanie Cutter, his communications director, who dutifully scurried from the room. I asked Kerry, out of sheer curiosity, what he didn't like about Evian.
 ''I hate that stuff,'' Kerry explained to me. ''They pack it full of minerals.''
 ''What kind of water do you drink?'' I asked, trying to make conversation.
 ''Plain old American water,'' he said.
 ''You mean tap water?'' 
 ''No,'' Kerry replied deliberately. He seemed now to sense some kind of trap. I was left to imagine what was going through his head. If I admit that I drink bottled water, then he might say I'm out of touch with ordinary voters. But doesn't demanding my own brand of water seem even more aristocratic? Then again, Evian is French -- important to stay away from anything even remotely French. 
 ''There are all kinds of waters,'' he said finally. Pause. ''Saratoga Spring.'' This seemed to have exhausted his list. ''Sometimes I drink tap water,'' he added.
 After months of having his every word scrutinized by reporters and mocked by Republicans, Kerry appeared to sense danger in the most mundane of places. Interviewing him reminded me at times of what I'd read in ''Tour of Duty,'' the historian Douglas Brinkley's flattering account of Kerry's service in Vietnam. The Swift boat crews on the Mekong Delta and the Ca Mau Peninsula did not aspire to be heroic, although they were. Kerry and the young sailors were given patrol missions that seemed unnecessarily dangerous; their job was essentially to prove the point that Americans could traverse the windy rivers of the delta, rife with Vietcong, and lure the enemy out into the open. They traveled slowly and kept watch in all directions, and if their leader got them from point A to point B and back again without serious casualties, he had done his job.
 Kerry seems to find presidential politics in the era of Karl Rove as treacherous as riverine warfare, and he has run for the presidency in much the same way. From the beginning, Kerry's advisers said that the election would be principally a referendum on Bush, whose approval ratings, reflecting public anxiety over Iraq and a sluggish economy, were consistently low for a president seeking re-election. All Kerry had to do to win, the thinking went, was to meet a basic threshold of acceptability with voters and avoid doing or saying anything that might be fatally stupid. The riverbanks were lined with hostile Republicans and reporters, lying in wait for him, and Kerry's goal as he sailed upriver was simple: Stay down. Exercise caution. Get to November in one piece. 
 Which is exactly what it's like to interview Kerry as he runs for the presidency; he acts as if you've been sent to destroy him, and he can't quite figure out why in the world he should be sitting across from you. When I met him for our first conversation, in his cabin aboard the 757 that shuttles his campaign around the country, Kerry didn't extend his hand or even look up to greet me when I entered, and he grew so quickly and obviously exasperated with my questions about his thoughts and votes on Iraq that he cut the interview short. (Embarrassed aides later told me he had been abruptly roused from a nap.) He was far more gracious in our subsequent conversations about terrorism and foreign policy, but he still spent a lot of the time repeating phrases from his stump speech. (''You will lose, we will win,'' and so on.) What some politicians -- Bill Clinton comes to mind -- might have considered an opportunity to persuade and impress voters, Kerry seemed to regard only as an invitation to do himself harm.
 Kerry's guardedness has contributed to the impression that he does not think clearly or boldly about foreign policy. In his short but fascinating book titled ''Surprise, Security and the American Experience,'' the Yale historian John Lewis Gaddis suggests that Bush's framework for fighting terrorism has its roots in the lofty, idealistic tradition of John Quincy Adams and Woodrow Wilson. (The book was so popular in the White House that Gaddis was invited over for a discussion.) ''What Bush is proposing is quite long-term, quite radical and quite Wilsonian,'' Gaddis told me when we spoke; when I asked him about Kerry, he said: ''I don't know where Kerry is on this. I don't have the slightest clue.''
 Kerry's adversaries have found it easy to ridicule his views on foreign policy, suggesting that his idea of counterterrorism is simply to go around arresting all the terrorists. This is what Dick Cheney was getting at when he said last month that there was a danger, should Kerry be elected, that ''we'll fall back into the pre-9/11 mind-set, if you will, that in fact these terrorist attacks are just criminal acts, and that we're not really at war.'' These barbs have some resonance, largely because Kerry is so obviously defensive about them; talking to him, you sometimes get the sense that he would gladly throw on a pair of night-vision goggles and abduct a member of his own staff if he thought it would prove he could be as tough on terror as his opponent. (When I asked one Kerry adviser what it was that voters needed to know about Kerry and terrorism, he replied without hesitation. ''That he's strong and tough,'' he said. ''In the case of John Kerry, unlike Dick Cheney and George W. Bush, he's looked people in the face and shot them dead.'') 
 It's perhaps not surprising, then, that Kerry hasn't been eager to challenge Bush's grand notion of a war on terror; such a distinction might sound weak, equivocal or, worse yet, nuanced. It's equally unsurprising that, in the recent Times poll, 57 percent of the respondents said Kerry hadn't made his plans for the country clear, and 63 percent believed he said what he thought people wanted to hear, rather than what he actually thought. This reflected savage Republican attacks on Kerry's character, to be sure, but it probably also had something to do with the fact that he hadn't made his plans clear and seemed to be saying what he thought people wanted to hear. 
 When I asked Kerry's campaign advisers about these poll numbers, what I heard from some of them in response was that Kerry's theories on global affairs were just too complex for the electorate and would have been ignored -- or, worse yet, mangled -- by the press. ''Yes, he should have laid out this issue and many others in greater detail and with more intellectual creativity, there's no question,'' one adviser told me. ''But it would have had no effect.'' 
 This is, of course, a common Democratic refrain: Republicans sound more coherent because they see the world in such a rudimentary way, while Democrats, 10 steps ahead of the rest of the country, wrestle with profound policy issues that don't lend themselves to slogans. By this reasoning, any proposal that can be explained concisely to voters is, by definition, ineffective and lacking in gravitas. Other Kerry aides blame the candidate and his coterie of message makers, most of whom are legendary for their attack ads but less adept at thinking about broad policy arguments. ''If you talk about this the right way, then the American people, or most of them, will get it,'' one of Kerry's informal advisers told me. ''But you've got to have guts.''
 This is the Republican line on Kerry -- that he lacks guts. Kerry's often wobbly attempt to be both like and unlike Bush in his approach to terrorism and the war in Iraq enabled the Bush team, by the time Kerry and I spoke in August, to portray him, devastatingly, as a ''flip-flopper'' who careens from one position to another. In our conversation, Kerry seemed unusually sensitive to these allegations, to the point where he seemed unwilling to admit to having evolved or grown in the way that politicians -- or human beings, for that matter -- generally do. When I asked Kerry how Sept. 11 had changed him, either personally or politically, he seemed to freeze for a moment. 
 ''It accelerated -- '' He paused. ''I mean, it didn't change me much at all. It just sort of accelerated, confirmed in me, the urgency of doing the things I thought we needed to be doing. I mean, to me, it wasn't as transformational as it was a kind of anger, a frustration and an urgency that we weren't doing the kinds of things necessary to prevent it and to deal with it.''
 Kerry did allow that he, like other Americans, felt less safe after 9/11. ''Look, until a few months ago,'' he said, referring to the time before he was enveloped in a Secret Service escort and whisked around on charter planes, ''I was flying like everybody else, you know, going through things. Absolutely, I've looked at people very carefully on an airplane. I'd look at shoes. I'd check people who I thought might be a little squirrelly. Going into crowded events, I feel very much on the alert.''
 Bush attacked Kerry earlier in the campaign over this question of whether the war on terror was really a war. (''My opponent indicated that he's not comfortable using the word 'war' to describe the struggle we're in,'' Bush said, although whether Kerry had actually said that is debatable.) Now that I'd heard Holbrooke and others say flat out that we weren't in an actual war, I wanted to hear what Kerry thought. Is this a real war, or a metaphorical one? I asked him. Is ''war'' the right word to use? 
 ''There's a danger in it,'' Kerry said, nodding. ''But it's real,'' he went on, meaning the war itself. ''You know, when your buildings are bombed and 3,000 people get killed, and airplanes are hijacked, and a nation is terrorized the way we were, and people continue to plot to do you injury, that's an act of war, and it's serious business. But it's a different kind of war. You have to understand that this is not the sands of Iwo Jima. This is a completely new, different kind of war from any we've fought previously.'' 
 Kerry told me he would stop terrorists by going after them ruthlessly with the military, and he faulted Bush, as he often does, for choosing to use Afghan militias, instead of American troops, to pursue Osama bin Laden into the mountains of Tora Bora, where he disappeared. ''I'm certainly, you know, not going to take second seat to anybody, to nobody, in my willingness to seek justice and set America on a course -- to make America safe,'' Kerry told me. ''And that requires destroying terrorists. And I'm committed to doing that. But I think I have a better way of doing it. I can do it more effectively.''
 This was a word that Kerry came back to repeatedly in our discussions; he told me he would wage a more ''effective'' war on terror no less than 18 times in two hours of conversations. The question, of course, was how.
 ''I think we can do a better job,'' Kerry said, ''of cutting off financing, of exposing groups, of working cooperatively across the globe, of improving our intelligence capabilities nationally and internationally, of training our military and deploying them differently, of specializing in special forces and special ops, of working with allies, and most importantly -- and I mean most importantly -- of restoring America's reputation as a country that listens, is sensitive, brings people to our side, is the seeker of peace, not war, and that uses our high moral ground and high-level values to augment us in the war on terror, not to diminish us.''
 This last point was what Kerry seemed to be getting at with his mantra of ''effectiveness,'' and it was in fact the main thrust of his campaign pitch about terrorism. By infuriating allies and diminishing the country's international esteem, Kerry argued, Bush had made it impossible for America to achieve its goals abroad. By the simple act of changing presidents, the country would greatly increase its chances of success in the global war on terror. Both candidates, in fact, were suggesting that the main difference between them was one of leadership style and not policy; just as Bush had taken to arguing that Kerry was too inconstant to lead a nation at war, Kerry's critique centered on the idea that Bush had proved himself too stubborn and arrogant to represent America to the rest of the world.
 But when you listen carefully to what Bush and Kerry say, it becomes clear that the differences between them are more profound than the matter of who can be more effective in achieving the same ends. Bush casts the war on terror as a vast struggle that is likely to go on indefinitely, or at least as long as radical Islam commands fealty in regions of the world. In a rare moment of either candor or carelessness, or perhaps both, Bush told Matt Lauer on the ''Today'' show in August that he didn't think the United States could actually triumph in the war on terror in the foreseeable future. ''I don't think you can win it,'' he said -- a statement that he and his aides tried to disown but that had the ring of sincerity to it. He and other members of his administration have said that Americans should expect to be attacked again, and that the constant shadow of danger that hangs over major cities like New York and Washington is the cost of freedom. In his rhetoric, Bush suggests that terrorism for this generation of Americans is and should be an overwhelming and frightening reality.
 When I asked Kerry what it would take for Americans to feel safe again, he displayed a much less apocalyptic worldview. ''We have to get back to the place we were, where terrorists are not the focus of our lives, but they're a nuisance,'' Kerry said. ''As a former law-enforcement person, I know we're never going to end prostitution. We're never going to end illegal gambling. But we're going to reduce it, organized crime, to a level where it isn't on the rise. It isn't threatening people's lives every day, and fundamentally, it's something that you continue to fight, but it's not threatening the fabric of your life.''
 This analogy struck me as remarkable, if only because it seemed to throw down a big orange marker between Kerry's philosophy and the president's. Kerry, a former prosecutor, was suggesting that the war, if one could call it that, was, if not winnable, then at least controllable. If mobsters could be chased into the back rooms of seedy clubs, then so, too, could terrorists be sent scurrying for their lives into remote caves where they wouldn't harm us. Bush had continually cast himself as the optimist in the race, asserting that he alone saw the liberating potential of American might, and yet his dark vision of unending war suddenly seemed far less hopeful than Kerry's notion that all of this horror -- planes flying into buildings, anxiety about suicide bombers and chemicals in the subway -- could somehow be made to recede until it was barely in our thoughts. 
Kerry came to his worldview over the course of a Senate career that has been, by any legislative standard, a quiet affair. Beginning in the late 80's, Kerry's Subcommittee on Terrorism, Narcotics and International Operations investigated and exposed connections between Latin American drug dealers and BCCI, the international bank that was helping to launder drug money. That led to more investigations of arms dealers, money laundering and terrorist financing. 
 Kerry turned his work on the committee into a book on global crime, titled ''The New War,'' published in 1997. He readily admitted to me that the book ''wasn't exclusively on Al Qaeda''; in fact, it barely mentioned the rise of Islamic extremism. But when I spoke to Kerry in August, he said that many of the interdiction tactics that cripple drug lords, including governments working jointly to share intelligence, patrol borders and force banks to identify suspicious customers, can also be some of the most useful tools in the war on terror.
 ''Of all the records in the Senate, if you don't mind my saying, I think I was ahead of the curve on this entire dark side of globalization,'' he said. ''I think that the Senate committee report on contras, narcotics and drugs, et cetera, is a seminal report. People have based research papers on it. People have based documents on it, movies on it. I think it was a significant piece of work.''
 More senior members of the foreign-relations committee, like Joe Biden and Richard Lugar, were far more visible and vocal on the emerging threat of Islamic terrorism. But through his BCCI investigation, Kerry did discover that a wide array of international criminals -- Latin American drug lords, Palestinian terrorists, arms dealers -- had one thing in common: they were able to move money around through the same illicit channels. And he worked hard, and with little credit, to shut those channels down. 
 In 1988, Kerry successfully proposed an amendment that forced the Treasury Department to negotiate so-called Kerry Agreements with foreign countries. Under these agreements, foreign governments had to promise to keep a close watch on their banks for potential money laundering or they risked losing their access to U.S. markets. Other measures Kerry tried to pass throughout the 90's, virtually all of them blocked by Republican senators on the banking committee, would end up, in the wake of 9/11, in the USA Patriot Act; among other things, these measures subject banks to fines or loss of license if they don't take steps to verify the identities of their customers and to avoid being used for money laundering.
 Through his immersion in the global underground, Kerry made connections among disparate criminal and terrorist groups that few other senators interested in foreign policy were making in the 90's. Richard A. Clarke, who coordinated security and counterterrorism policy for George W. Bush and Bill Clinton, credits Kerry with having seen beyond the national-security tableau on which most of his colleagues were focused. ''He was getting it at the same time that people like Tony Lake were getting it, in the '93 -'94 time frame,'' Clarke says, referring to Anthony Lake, Clinton's national security adviser. ''And the 'it' here was that there was a new nonstate-actor threat, and that nonstate-actor threat was a blended threat that didn't fit neatly into the box of organized criminal, or neatly into the box of terrorism. What you found were groups that were all of the above.''
 In other words, Kerry was among the first policy makers in Washington to begin mapping out a strategy to combat an entirely new kind of enemy. Americans were conditioned, by two world wars and a long standoff with a rival superpower, to see foreign policy as a mix of cooperation and tension between civilized states. Kerry came to believe, however, that Americans were in greater danger from the more shadowy groups he had been investigating -- nonstate actors, armed with cellphones and laptops -- who might detonate suitcase bombs or release lethal chemicals into the subway just to make a point. They lived in remote regions and exploited weak governments. Their goal wasn't to govern states but to destabilize them.
 The challenge of beating back these nonstate actors -- not just Islamic terrorists but all kinds of rogue forces -- is what Kerry meant by ''the dark side of globalization.'' He came closest to articulating this as an actual foreign-policy vision in a speech he gave at U.C.L.A. last February. ''The war on terror is not a clash of civilizations,'' he said then. ''It is a clash of civilization against chaos, of the best hopes of humanity against dogmatic fears of progress and the future.''
 This stands in significant contrast to the Bush doctrine, which holds that the war on terror, if not exactly a clash of civilizations, is nonetheless a struggle between those states that would promote terrorism and those that would exterminate it. Bush, like Kerry, accepts the premise that America is endangered mainly by a new kind of adversary that claims no state or political entity as its own. But he does not accept the idea that those adversaries can ultimately survive and operate independently of states; in fact, he asserts that terrorist groups are inevitably the subsidiaries of irresponsible regimes. ''We must be prepared to stop rogue states and their terrorist clients,'' the National Security Strategy said, in a typical passage, ''before they are able to threaten or use weapons of mass destruction against the United States and our allies and friends.'' 
 By singling out three states in particular- Iraq, North Korea and Iran -- as an ''axis of evil,'' and by invading Iraq on the premise that it did (or at least might) sponsor terrorism, Bush cemented the idea that his war on terror is a war against those states that, in the president's words, are not with us but against us. Many of Bush's advisers spent their careers steeped in cold-war strategy, and their foreign policy is deeply rooted in the idea that states are the only consequential actors on the world stage, and that they can -- and should -- be forced to exercise control over the violent groups that take root within their borders. 
 Kerry's view, on the other hand, suggests that it is the very premise of civilized states, rather than any one ideology, that is under attack. And no one state, acting alone, can possibly have much impact on the threat, because terrorists will always be able to move around, shelter their money and connect in cyberspace; there are no capitals for a superpower like the United States to bomb, no ambassadors to recall, no economies to sanction. The U.S. military searches for bin Laden, the Russians hunt for the Chechen terrorist Shamil Basayev and the Israelis fire missiles at Hamas bomb makers; in Kerry's world, these disparate terrorist elements make up a loosely affiliated network of diabolical villains, more connected to one another by tactics and ideology than they are to any one state sponsor. The conflict, in Kerry's formulation, pits the forces of order versus the forces of chaos, and only a unified community of nations can ensure that order prevails.
 One can infer from this that if Kerry were able to speak less guardedly, in a less treacherous atmosphere than a political campaign, he might say, as some of his advisers do, that we are not in an actual war on terror. Wars are fought between states or between factions vying for control of a state; Al Qaeda and its many offspring are neither. If Kerry's foreign-policy frame is correct, then law enforcement probably is the most important, though not the only, strategy you can employ against such forces, who need passports and bank accounts and weapons in order to survive and flourish. Such a theory suggests that, in our grief and fury, we have overrated the military threat posed by Al Qaeda, paradoxically elevating what was essentially a criminal enterprise, albeit a devastatingly sophisticated and global one, into the ideological successor to Hitler and Stalin -- and thus conferring on the jihadists a kind of stature that might actually work in their favor, enabling them to attract more donations and more recruits. 
This critical difference between the two men running for the presidency, over what kind of enemy we are fighting and how best to defeat it, is at the core of a larger debate over how the United States should involve itself in the Muslim world. Bush and Kerry are in agreement, as is just about every expert on Islamic culture you can find, that in order for Americans to live and travel securely, the United States must change the widespread perception among many Muslims worldwide that America is morally corrupt and economically exploitative. It is this resentment, felt especially strongly among Arab Muslims, that makes heroes of suicide bombers. The question vexing the foreign-policy establishment in Washington is how you market freedom. Is the establishment of a single, functioning democracy in the Middle East enough to win the ''hearts and minds'' of ordinary Muslims, by convincing them that America is in fact the model for a free, more open society? Or do you need to somehow strike at the underlying conditions -- despotism, hopelessness, economic and social repression -- that breed fundamentalism and violence in the first place? 
 ''You've got to do something to acknowledge the gulf that exists between the dispossessed Arab world and us, because it's huge,'' says Bob Kerrey, the former Democratic senator who is now president of New School University and who served on the independent 9/11 commission. ''We don't have enough money, we don't have enough parents who are willing to give up their sons and daughters, to win this with our Army, Air Force, Navy, Marine Corps and Coast Guard. We don't have the bodies to do it. So if you don't have a real agenda of hope that's as hard-headed and tough as your military and law-enforcement agenda, we're not going to win this thing.''
 The neo-conservatives have advanced a viral theory of democracy. In their view, establishing a model democracy in the Arab world, by force if necessary, no matter how many years and lives it takes, would ultimately benefit not only the people of that country but also America too. A free and democratic Iraq, to take the favorite example, will cause the people of other repressive countries in the region to rise up and demand American-style freedom, and these democratic nations will no longer be breeding pools for nihilistic terrorists. Like so much of Bush's policy, this kind of thinking harks directly back to the cold war. The domino theory that took hold during the 1950's maintained that an ideological change in one nation -- ''going'' communist or democratic -- could infect its neighbor; it was based in part on the idea that ideologies could be contagious. 
 Bush crystallized the new incarnation of this idea in his convention speech last month, notable for the unapologetic sweep and clarity of its vision. ''The terrorists know that a vibrant, successful democracy at the heart of the Middle East will discredit their radical ideology of hate,'' the president said. ''I believe in the transformational power of liberty. As the citizens of Afghanistan and Iraq seize the moment, their example will send a message of hope throughout a vital region. Palestinians will hear the message that democracy and reform are within their reach, and so is peace with our good friend Israel. Young women across the Middle East will hear the message that their day of equality and justice is coming. Young men will hear the message that national progress and dignity are found in liberty, not tyranny and terror.'' 
 Kerry, too, envisions a freer and more democratic Middle East. But he flatly rejects the premise of viral democracy, particularly when the virus is introduced at gunpoint. ''In this administration, the approach is that democracy is the automatic, easily embraced alternative to every ill in the region,'' he told me. Kerry disagreed. ''You can't impose it on people,'' he said. ''You have to bring them to it. You have to invite them to it. You have to nurture the process.'' 
 Those who know Kerry say this belief is in part a reaction to his own experience in Vietnam, where one understanding of the domino theory (''if Vietnam goes communist, all of Asia will fall'') led to the death of 58,000 Americans, and another (''the South Vietnamese crave democracy'') ran up against the realities of life in a poor, long-war-ravaged country. The people of Vietnam, Kerry found, were susceptible neither to the dogma of communism nor the persuasiveness of American ''liberation.'' As the young Kerry said during his 1971 testimony to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee: ''We found most people didn't even know the difference between communism and democracy. They only wanted to work in rice paddies without helicopters strafing them and bombs with napalm burning their villages and tearing their country apart. They wanted everything to do with the war, particularly with this foreign presence of the United States of America, to leave them alone in peace.''
 Biden, who is perhaps Kerry's closest friend in the Senate, suggests that Kerry sees Bush's advisers as beholden to the same grand and misguided theories. ''John and I never believed that, if you were successful in Iraq, you'd have governments falling like dominoes in the Middle East,'' he told me. ''The neo-cons of today are 'the best and the brightest' who brought us Vietnam. They have taken a construct that's flawed and applied it to a world that isn't relevant.''
 In fact, Kerry and his advisers contend that the occupation of Iraq is creating a reverse contagion in the region; they say the fighting -- with its heavy civilian casualties and its pictures, beamed throughout the Arab world, of American aggression -- has been a boon to Al Qaeda recruiters. They frequently cite a Pentagon memo, leaked to the media last year, in which Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld wondered whether Al Qaeda was recruiting new terrorists faster than the U.S. military could capture or kill them. ''God help us if we damage the shrine in Najaf,'' Richard Holbrooke told me on a day when marines surrounded insurgent Shiites inside the shrine, ''and we create a new group of Shiites who some years from now blow up the Statue of Liberty or something like that, all because we destroyed the holiest site in Shiism.'' 
If forced democracy is ultimately Bush's panacea for the ills that haunt the world, as Kerry suggests it is, then Kerry's is diplomacy. Kerry mentions the importance of cooperating with the world community so often that some of his strongest supporters wish he would ease up a bit. (''When people hear multilateral, they think multi-mush,'' Biden despaired.) But multilateralism is not an abstraction to Kerry, whose father served as a career diplomat during the years after World War II. The only time I saw Kerry truly animated during two hours of conversation was when he talked about the ability of a president to build relationships with other leaders. 
 ''We need to engage more directly and more respectfully with Islam, with the state of Islam, with religious leaders, mullahs, imams, clerics, in a way that proves this is not a clash with the British and the Americans and the old forces they remember from the colonial days,'' Kerry told me during a rare break from campaigning, in Seattle at the end of August. ''And that's all about your diplomacy.'' 
 When I suggested that effecting such changes could take many years, Kerry shook his head vehemently and waved me off.
 ''Yeah, it is long-term, but it can be dramatically effective in the short term. It really can be. I promise you.'' He leaned his head back and slapped his thighs. ''A new presidency with the right moves, the right language, the right outreach, the right initiatives, can dramatically alter the world's perception of us very, very quickly. 
 ''I know Mubarak well enough to know what I think I could achieve in the messaging and in the press in Egypt,'' Kerry went on. ''And, similarly, with Jordan and with King Abdullah, and what we can do in terms of transformation in the economics of the region by getting American businesspeople involved, getting some stability and really beginning to proactively move in those ways. We just haven't been doing any of this stuff. We've been stunningly disengaged, with the exception of Iraq.
 ''I mean, you ever hear anything about the 'road map' anymore?'' he asked, referring to the international plan for phasing in peace between Israel and the Palestinians, which Kerry supports. ''No. You ever hear anything about anything anymore? No. Do you hear anything about this greater Middle East initiative, the concepts or anything? No. I think we're fighting a very narrow, myopic kind of war.''
 It is not a coincidence that Kerry's greatest success in the Senate came not during his long run of investigations but in the realm of diplomacy. He and John McCain worked for several years to settle the controversy over P.O.W.-M.I.A.'s and to normalize relations with Vietnam -- an achievement that Kerry's Senate colleagues consider his finest moment. ''He should talk about it more,'' Bob Kerrey said. ''He transformed the region.'' In the same way, John Kerry sees himself as a kind of ambassador-president, shuttling to world capitals and reintegrating America, by force of personality, into the world community. 
 He would begin, if sworn into office, by going immediately to the United Nations to deliver a speech recasting American foreign policy. Whereas Bush has branded North Korea ''evil'' and refuses to negotiate head on with its authoritarian regime, Kerry would open bilateral talks over its burgeoning nuclear program. Similarly, he has said he would rally other nations behind sanctions against Iran if that country refuses to abandon its nuclear ambitions. Kerry envisions appointing a top-level envoy to restart the Middle East peace process, and he's intent on getting India and Pakistan to adopt key provisions of the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty. (One place where Kerry vows to take a harder line than Bush is Pakistan, where Bush has embraced the military ruler Pervez Musharraf, and where Kerry sees a haven for chaos in the vast and lawless region on the border with Afghanistan.) In all of this, Kerry intends to use as leverage America's considerable capacity for economic aid; a Kerry adviser told me, only slightly in jest, that Kerry's most tempting fantasy is to attend the G-8 summit. 
Kerry's view, that the 21st century will be defined by the organized world's struggle against agents of chaos and lawlessness, might be the beginning of a compelling vision. The idea that America and its allies, sharing resources and using the latest technologies, could track the movements of terrorists, seize their bank accounts and carry out targeted military strikes to eliminate them, seems more optimistic and more practical than the notion that the conventional armies of the United States will inevitably have to punish or even invade every Islamic country that might abet radicalism. 
 And yet, you can understand why Kerry has been so tentative in advancing this idea. It's comforting to think that Al Qaeda might be as easily marginalized as a bunch of drug-running thugs, that an ''effective'' assault on its bank accounts might cripple its twisted campaign against Americans. But Americans are frightened -- an emotion that has benefited Bush, and one that he has done little to dissuade -- and many of them perceive a far more existential threat to their lives than the one Kerry describes. In this climate, Kerry's rather dry recitations about money-laundering laws and intelligence-sharing agreements can sound oddly discordant. We are living at a time that feels historically consequential, where people seem to expect -- and perhaps deserve -- a theory of the world that matches the scope of their insecurity. 
 Theoretically, Kerry could still find a way to wrap his ideas into some bold and cohesive construct for the next half-century -- a Kerry Doctrine, perhaps, or a campaign against chaos, rather than a war on terror -- that people will understand and relate to. But he has always been a man who prides himself on appreciating the subtleties of public policy, and everything in his experience has conditioned him to avoid unsubtle constructs and grand designs. His aversion to Big Think has resulted in one of the campaign's oddities: it is Bush, the man vilified by liberals as intellectually vapid, who has emerged as the de facto visionary in the campaign, trying to impose some long-term thematic order on a dangerous and disorderly world, while Kerry carves the globe into a series of discrete problems with specific solutions. 
 When Kerry first told me that Sept. 11 had not changed him, I was surprised. I assumed everyone in America -- and certainly in Washington -- had been changed by that day. I assumed he was being overly cautious, afraid of providing his opponents with yet another cheap opportunity to call him a flip-flopper. What I came to understand was that, in fact, the attacks really had not changed the way Kerry viewed or talked about terrorism -- which is exactly why he has come across, to some voters, as less of a leader than he could be. He may well have understood the threat from Al Qaeda long before the rest of us. And he may well be right, despite the ridicule from Cheney and others, when he says that a multinational, law-enforcement-like approach can be more effective in fighting terrorists. But his less lofty vision might have seemed more satisfying -- and would have been easier to talk about in a political campaign -- in a world where the twin towers still stood. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Candidate in Motion Kerry in St. Louis in September. (video by Taryn Simon)
 Taking Sides: Kerry disagrees with the democracy-at-gunpoint doctrine. ''You can't impose it on people. . . . You have to invite them to it. You have to nurture the process.'' (Photographs by Taryn Simon for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE FILMING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (86%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); TERRORISM (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (66%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004



252 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 998 words

HEADLINE: President of Syria Defends His Nation's Role in Lebanon

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

DATELINE: BEIRUT, Lebanon, Oct. 9 

 BODY:
President Bashar al-Assad of Syria made a rare, often confrontational foreign policy speech on Saturday, suggesting that the efforts by the United States and France to force his country to release its hold over Lebanon would push the Middle East toward even greater chaos.
 Speaking at a conference of expatriate Syrians in the Syrian capital, Damascus, Mr. Assad noted that the region had enough troubles already as the Israeli-Palestinian conflict raged with no peace efforts in sight and as Iraq grew ever more violent.
 The efforts by the United States and France to enforce a United Nations resolution passed last month -- which demands that Syria completely withdraw from Lebanon, that the Lebanese gain full sovereignty and that all militia groups be disarmed -- would serve only to inflame the region further, he said. 
 ''In the Middle East we have become the heart of the volcano,'' Mr. Assad said. ''In comparison, I would say that Syria and Lebanon are the most stable countries in the Middle East despite these circumstances.''
 Although he did not say it directly, he implied that forcing a Syrian withdrawal could reignite Lebanon. 
 ''Do they want to throw this region, with no exception, in the heart of lava inside the volcano?'' he asked, suggesting that the main lesson that should have been learned from the Sept. 11 attacks is that violence in the region feeds extremism.
 Mr. Assad also contended that Syria had done more to stabilize Lebanon than any other country. Although he did not cite the United States and France specifically, he referred to particular low points in the past, like the period when the United States deployed peacekeeping forces here and the United States Navy shelled the country after 241 Americans died in a suicide bombing in 1983.
 ''What did these forces which have been expressing their attachment to Lebanon do for this country?'' Mr. Assad asked, saying the attempt to push through the United Nations resolution was blatant interference in Lebanese affairs.
 He also maintained the fiction that Syria does not interfere in Lebanese matters, suggesting that the two are bound merely by history and geography and that Syria gains no material benefits by its presence here.
 Mr. Assad, already facing American wrath over the constant leak of militants over the Syrian border into Iraq, finds himself in something of an unexpected bind over Lebanon.
 For the past 15 years, the West in general and Washington in particular have let Syria do what it wants here as long as Syria delivered on the peace efforts, figuring any outstanding issues about who controls Lebanon could be ironed out in any final Middle East settlement.
 But in a post-Sept. 11 world, the American administration has far less patience for trading in Middle East politics. France, too, has apparently grown fed up with the Syrian president promising greater democracy and economic reform while delivering virtually nothing.
 Syria made a typically heavy-handed move in August, forcing the Lebanese Parliament to extend the six-year term of President Emile Lahoud for three more years.
 He is widely unpopular locally, not least because public needs get lost in the political squabbling. Because of infighting, much of Lebanon was plunged into darkness last week because the electric company ran out of money to pay for fuel.
 But for a military regime like that in Syria, Mr. Lahoud, a former general, has proved a useful ally. 
 There are those, especially in the right-wing Christian population, who support United Nations Resolution 1559. Some analysts say the armed camp that Lebanon was before the civil war erupted in 1975 no longer exists, especially because the Palestine Liberation Organization is long gone.
 The United States and its other allies believe that Lebanon is stable enough to stand on its own feet, and that Syrian interference is retarding the emergence of a true Lebanese democracy. They accuse Syria of violating the spirit of the Taif accord, which ended the Lebanese civil war in 1990, by not meeting the timetable of a few years for withdrawing its forces. Syria says that under Lebanese consent, it still keeps 14,000 troops and untold thousands of secret police officers here. 
 In his speech, Mr. Assad also emphasized that his country is gradually withdrawing them. Syria made a great show of packing up 3,000 troops from the Beirut vicinity after the United Nations resolution passed last month. But it refused to specify how many went home, and some analysts put the number as low as 300. Even some prominent critics of the Syrian presence, however, do not seek an abrupt departure.
 ''The withdrawal of Syrian troops should be discussed between Syria and Lebanon,'' said Walid Jumblatt, the leader of the Druze community and a major opposition figure, suggesting that they might leave in stages. ''We went through a civil war, we don't want to risk that again.'' 
 Some Lebanese analysts note that the sometimes violent rivalry between Shiite groups, the phenomenon of Sunni fundamentalism and the return of Christian warlords have all been kept in check by the Syrian presence, not to mention armed Palestinian groups.
 Those demanding an immediate withdrawal say the Lebanese Army could handle all these problems, although many Lebanese worry that the Syrians might stir up problems if forced out. 
 Other analysts harbor doubts that the Lebanese are prepared for a post-Syria world. They also worry that the United States is not really committed to Lebanon's stability, using the issue as a stick to make Syria more cooperative on Iraq. 
 ''Nobody can give a real response to the crucial question of what happens the day after,'' said Joseph Samaha, editor in chief of the Lebanese newspaper As-Safir and often a vocal critic of the Syrians. 
 ''The Syrian presence here is appalling, you can easily criticize it, but it works,'' he said in an interview. ''To put it all back into play here is a leap into the unknown.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); TERRORISM (88%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); PEACE PROCESS (71%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (71%); BOMBINGS (70%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (69%); ARMED FORCES (68%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (64%); NAVIES (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (92%); BEIRUT, LEBANON (79%) SYRIA (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); LEBANON (96%); MIDDLE EAST (95%); FRANCE (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ISRAEL (92%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004



253 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; The Nation; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 169 words

HEADLINE: Some Presidential Politics Is Local

BYLINE: By ALAN GREENBLATT

 BODY:
In a tight presidential campaign, little things matter a lot. A senate race could affect turnout. So could controversial state ballot measures. 
And let's not forget the Nader factor.
 Indeed, many state ballot measures -- bans on gay marriage, caps on property taxes -- were partly intended to affect the presidential race. ''The list of battleground states almost exactly matches up with the list of controversial ballot measures this year, except for California,'' said Jennie Drage Bowser, a policy analyst at the National Conference of State Legislatures.
 The following is a snapshot of some hotly contested swing states, chosen because what's happening locally may be just as important as what's happening nationally. (The poll numbers reflect the latest reliable poll numbers, all taken before Friday's presidential debate. And the unemployment figures do not reflect the latest Labor Department statistics, released last week. The state-by-state breakdown of those numbers were not available.) ALAN GREENBLATT


CORRECTION-DATE: October 17, 2004

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a chart last Sunday about local factors affecting the presidential election in eight swing states misstated a result in the 2000 presidential race. President Bush won Colorado by 8.36 percentage points, not former Vice President Al Gore by 0.44 point.


GRAPHIC: Photos: TAKING AIM AT OHIO -- On Saturday, Sept. 4, Senator John Kerry shot skeet in Edinburgh, Ohio, and President George W. Bush held an ''Ask the President'' event in Broadview Heights. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)
(Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)Chart:COLORADOMARGIN OF VICTORY, 2000: GORE -- 0.44 percentage pointsELECTORAL VOTES, 2004: 9RECENT POLL -- Oct. 3 6* Margin of error 5 pts.BUSH: 49%KERRY: 49%UNEMPLOYMENT RATE, 01/01-06/04: up 2.2 percentage pointsNADER ON BALLOT: YesHispanics now represent 18.6 percent of Colorado's population, and they could come out in large numbers for another Democrat: Ken Salazar, the state attorney general, who is Hispanic, is running for Senate. His opponent is Peter Coors, the beer magnate. A ballot initiative would allot the state's electoral votes proportion-ally, meaning the loser could win up to four electoral votes. While the initiative is meant to apply this year, it would certainly be challenged in court. (Under the formula, Al Gore would have won three electoral votes in 2000 instead of none -- enough to have tipped that election.) Ralph Nader won 5 percent here in 2000.FLORIDAMARGIN OF VICTORY, 2000: BUSH -- 0.01 percentage pointsELECTORAL VOTES, 2004: 27RECENT POLL -- Oct. 3 6* Margin of error 5 pts.BUSH: 51%KERRY: 44%UNEMPLOYMENT RATE, 01/01-06/04: up 1.0 percentage pointsNADER ON BALLOT: YesGov. Jeb Bush has earned high marks in responding to the recent hurricanes and President Bush has repeatedly visited the state to hand out water bottles and checks ($2 billion in federal funds so far, with much more to come). The Senate campaign of Mel Martinez, a Cuban who served as President Bush's first housing secretary, should also help attract Cubans and Puerto Ricans. Polls show that Puerto Ricans backed Al Gore in 2000, but voted for Jeb Bush in 2002. The state ballot is also loaded with initiatives -- restricting lawyers' fees and parental notification for minors seeking abortion -- that could appeal to conservatives.IOWAMARGIN OF VICTORY, 2000: GORE -- 0.32 percentage pointsELECTORAL VOTES, 2004: 7RECENT POLL -- Oct. 3 6* Margin of error 5 pts.BUSH: 46%KERRY: 47%UNEMPLOYMENT RATE, 01/01-06/04: up 1.4 percentage pointsNADER ON BALLOT: yesThis year, Democrats, backed by unions, are mounting a big push to win back the State House and the State Senate. The economic picture is mixed, with farm income and job numbers picking up (the state's largest mall just opened in West Des Moines) but some long-established employers, like Maytag, are laying people off. Iowa has a tradition of shrinking from foreign entanglements and antiwar sentiment was strong in the January caucuses, which is one reason the state continues to swing between Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry.MINNESOTAMARGIN OF VICTORY, 2000: GORE -- 2.41 percentage pointsELECTORAL VOTES, 2004: 10RECENT POLL -- Oct. 3 6* Margin of error 5 pts.BUSH: 45%KERRY: 45%UNEMPLOYMENT RATE, 01/01-06/04: up 0.8 percentage pointsNADER ON BALLOT: yesMinnesota has not voted for a Republican for president since 1972. But a third of the voters are now in outer-ring suburbs outside Minneapolis-St. Paul that are largely Republican. Gov. Tim Pawlenty, a Republican who hails from these suburbs, has been credited with closing a $4.6 billion budget shortfall last year by cutting spending and not raising taxes. But many residents have health coverage through a state insurance plan that resembles Mr. Kerry's health proposals. And Mr. Pawlenty's crusade to allow in prescription drugs from Canada may also help Mr. Kerry. In 2000, Mr. Nader took 5 percent of the vote.NEW HAMPSHIREMARGIN OF VICTORY, 2000: BUSH -- 1.27 percentage pointsELECTORAL VOTES, 2004: 4RECENT POLL -- Oct. 3 6* Margin of error 5 pts.BUSH: 47%KERRY: 47%UNEMPLOYMENT RATE, 01/01-06/04: up 1.3 percentage pointsNADER ON BALLOT: yesNormally, a Republican governor can be counted on to help a Republican president, but that may not be true here. Gov. Craig Benson faces a tough race for re-election, because of a contentious debate over state spending and government scandals. When Mr. Bush appeared at a rally in Nashua in August, Governor Benson appeared on stage, but Mitt Romney, the Republican governor of Massachusetts, introduced the president. New Hampshire voters are very familiar with Mr. Kerry, but this may not help him. After all, some voters moved from Massachusetts to lower their tax bill.NEW MEXICOMARGIN OF VICTORY, 2000: GORE -- 0.06 percentage pointsELECTORAL VOTES, 2004: 5RECENT POLL -- Oct. 3 6* Margin of error 5 pts.BUSH: 50%KERRY: 47%UNEMPLOYMENT RATE, 01/01-06/04: up 0.7 percentage pointsNADER ON BALLOT: yesIn 2000, Mr. Gore won New Mexico by just 366 votes, which was the smallest margin of victory in any state, including Florida. New Mexico has the country's largest percentage of Hispanic residents, 42 percent, and Gov. Bill Richardson, a popular Democrat, is hoping to sway them. But the economy is in relatively good shape. High energy prices have helped the state, which is a leading producer of natural gas.OHIOMARGIN OF VICTORY, 2000: BUSH -- 3.51 percentage pointsELECTORAL VOTES, 2004: 20RECENT POLL -- Oct. 3 6* Margin of error 5 pts.BUSH: 48%KERRY: 47%UNEMPLOYMENT RATE, 01/01-06/04: up 1.8 percentage pointsNADER ON BALLOT: uncertainOhio has lost about 230,000 jobs since Bush took office, making the economy the dominant issue. But a ballot measure to ban gay marriages is likely to increase the turnout of conservative voters. Gov. Bob Taft, a Republican, is not of much help to Mr. Bush. Mr. Taft's tax increase proposals have been unpopular, and he sits atop a party organization mired in scandal. In 2000, Mr. Gore pulled his advertising early after falling behind by double-digit margins in the polls, yet he finished just 3.5 percentage points behind Mr. Bush. That's a history that's lost on no one.PENNSYLVANIAMARGIN OF VICTORY, 2000: GORE -- 4.17 percentage pointsELECTORAL VOTES, 2004: 21RECENT POLL -- Oct. 3 6* Margin of error 5 pts.BUSH: 46%KERRY: 48%UNEMPLOYMENT RATE, 01/01-06/04: up 1.1 percentage pointsNADER ON BALLOT: uncertainPennsylvania's status as a swing state is confirmed by the unclear picture of its own races. Arlen Specter, the moderate Republican senator, is favored to win a fifth term. But that's not necessarily good for Mr. Bush, because Mr. Specter, as usual, picks up support from Democratic constituencies, including the A.F.L.-C.I.O., that won't back the president. Contentious Congressional races will prompt Democratic turnout in the suburbs of Philadelphia. Teresa Heinz Kerry is well-known in the Pittsburgh area for her philanthropy, but Pittsburgh's budget struggles under a Democratic mayor may not help Democratic turnout.Maps of states listed above highlighting 2000 election results for Gore and Bush by county.(Sources by Dave Leip's U.S. Election Atlas
Ballot Access News
 Polls by *CNN/USA Today/Gallup Poll, +Quinnipiac University, $SUniversity of Minnesota and *American Research Group)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); BALLOTS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REFERENDUMS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); POLITICS (88%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); STATISTICS (85%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (66%); MARRIAGE (56%) Presidential Election of 2004; States (Us) 

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (59%); NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES (57%)

PERSON: AL GORE (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%); RALPH NADER (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); ARLEN SPECTER (73%); BILL RICHARDSON (73%); TIM PAWLENTY (71%); KEN SALAZAR (58%); MEL MARTINEZ (58%) Alan Greenblatt; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%); NASHUA, NH, USA (79%) MINNESOTA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004



254 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; SundayBusiness; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: Speeches Won't Trim This Deficit

BYLINE: By DANIEL ALTMAN

 BODY:
DO deficits matter? Both presidential candidates seem to think they do. Yet so far, their comments about the federal government's shortfalls have largely missed the point.
 President Bush and Senator John Kerry have both pledged to halve the deficit by the end of the next presidential term. For the 2009 fiscal year, that would mean a reduction of $156 billion, according to the projections of the Congressional Budget Office. 
 Mr. Kerry would start by restoring the top income tax bracket of 39.6 percent for people earning more than $200,000. That would bring in about $50 billion, judging by Internal Revenue Service data for 2002. But Mr. Kerry has proposed other tax cuts to offset the gain. Mr. Bush has said he wants to make the big tax cuts of the past few years permanent. In the budget office forecasts, doing so would almost double the shortfall.
 Of course, the government could also cut spending. In 2009, $156 billion would be about one-seventh of discretionary spending. Can you imagine cutting one-seventh of your own spending, let alone all government programs? It would be like buying nothing for seven weeks each year. Mr. Kerry has said he would save money by cutting bureaucracy. Well, $156 billion would be equivalent to about two million government jobs -- a number requiring a very large ax. Mr. Bush has said he would ''maintain spending discipline in the nation's capital,'' though evidence that there is any discipline to be maintained is hard to find.
 If the economy grows faster than 3 percent a year -- the budget office's prediction -- then that $156 billion reduction will become easier. But either way, that would be small potatoes: while both candidates have talked almost exclusively about the next four years, the nation's long-term fiscal problems have loomed ever larger.
 It may sound like a tired refrain by now, but the real action is in Social Security and Medicare. Yes, pity the nation's biggest entitlement programs. No one seems to want to cure what ails them. 
 In testimony before Congress last month, Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, said the budget's longer-term prospects remained troubling. ''With the baby boomers starting to retire in a few years and health spending continuing to soar,'' he said, ''our budget position will almost surely deteriorate substantially in coming years if current policies remain in place.''
 JUST how substantially the budget position will deteriorate or, in plain English, how much the government will dip into the red, has been a popular subject among economists of late. Laurence J. Kotlikoff, a professor at Boston University, has offered figures in the tens of trillions of dollars.
 The government would not have to borrow those trillions all at once. The debts would climb over decades. It would, however, have to make sure it was in a position to borrow at least some of the money.
 That means it would need a plan. Just as investors will not lend to a struggling airline with no strategy to control its debts, investors will not lend to a government whose ability to repay looks as if it can only worsen.
 At the moment, as Mr. Greenspan noted, financial markets have not started to worry about the big debts to come. Interest rates are still very low. But research has shown that markets care most about long-term expectations for deficits. At this point, investors may still believe that the government will do something about Social Security and Medicare, before it is too late.
 Both candidates have spoken briefly about how they would try to reduce health care costs. These promises have failed to impress health policy experts like Dr. Arnold S. Relman, a former editor of The New England Journal of Medicine, who criticized both candidates in a letter in The New York Times last month. Furthermore, neither candidate has offered a viable program for Social Security during the campaign.
 Part of the reason is probably self-serving and political. If the president does nothing about the fiscal problem for the next four years, then the problem will just be slightly worse for the next president. It is unlikely that the voters would hold Mr. Kerry or Mr. Bush accountable, and neither one would want to be known as the man who cut benefits for the elderly or raised payroll taxes.
 But how does ''the president who saved Social Security and Medicare and defended the nation from economic ruin'' sound? Surely that is a legacy that either candidate would cherish.


GRAPHIC: Graph: ''Deficit Shift?''Graph tracks the Federal budget deficit projections for 2004-2014.Portion if the 2001-03 tax cuts become permanent(Source by Congressional Budget Office)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (76%); INCOME TAX (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); MEDICARE (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (70%); BABY BOOMERS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (83%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (88%); ALAN GREENSPAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004



255 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Page Two: Oct. 3-9; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 182 words

HEADLINE: A Rousing Round 2 In the Campaign

 BODY:
FRIDAY night's debate in St. Louis took place as polls showed the presidential race becoming a dead heat and after a week of news that cast doubt on the administration's economic policy and its rationale for going to war in Iraq (see below). 
 The debate, which grew heated at times, took the form of a town meeting, in which the two candidates alternately answered questions submitted in advance from the audience. Topics ranged from Iraq to abortion, from health care to jobs, from the USA Patriot Act to stem-cell research, from the Supreme Court to the deficit. The president was more focused than in the first debate. He defended the Iraq war on the ground that Saddam Hussein presented a ''unique threat,'' and he accused Senator Kerry of changing positions and of being a liberal with a bias toward big government. 
 The senator pledged to one questioner, and to the television audience, that he would not raise taxes on those earning less than $200,000 a year, and he attacked the president's economic, health care and education policies, as well as his decision to ''rush to war'' in Iraq.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%); NEWS BRIEFS (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); US PATRIOT ACT (69%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (54%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (54%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004



256 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1733 words

HEADLINE: THE PUBLIC EDITOR; How Would Jackson Pollock Cover This Campaign?

BYLINE: By DANIEL OKRENT

 BODY:
SEPTEMBER 26, re ''Kerry as the Boss: Always More Questions'': Faith C. McCready thinks ''the Kerry campaign ought to be paying The Times a consultant/advertising fee'' for the article. Scott Libbey of Chevy Chase, Md., calls it ''another negative article on Kerry,'' and concludes: ''I don't know how you guys can look at yourselves in the mirror anymore. I really don't.'' 
 October 5, regarding a few stories: From Michael Malone of Darien, Conn., ''I know that many of the Times reporters and editors are breathlessly trying to get Kerry elected.'' And from John Owens of San Francisco, ''I often won't read your paper because of the relentless pounding on Kerry.'' 
 Al Markel of San Francisco asks why The Times hasn't reviewed the anti-Kerry ''Unfit for Command'' while Samuel Leff of Manhattan wonders why Justin Frank's critical psychoanalytic study, ''Bush on the Couch,'' has been ignored by the Book Review editors. Francis Moynihan of Avon, Conn., congratulates The Times's Web site for ''finally, a headline critical of Kerry'' that uses the word ''pander''; John Owens objects, saying that ''a comparable headline about Bush would read ' according to the poll Americans find Bush to be a liar and an idiot.''' I'm tempted to refer all these correspondents, and the many hundreds of others they represent, to my colleague Mike Needs, ombudsman of The Akron Beacon Journal. ''On Monday and Tuesday,'' Mike wrote in an e-mail last week, ''my calls were all from conservatives saying the paper leaned left.''
 ''On Wednesday, Thursday and Friday,'' he continued, ''my calls were all from liberals saying the paper leaned right. But I did have one caller who said we were getting the balance just right. I discounted that one.'' 
 A definition of irony: what an ombudsman or public editor must appreciate to survive this campaign.
 I've been reading The Times's campaign coverage like any other interested (and, by now, exhausted) citizen for months, but with special care, a pair of scissors, two marking pens and three other papers to use for comparison since Labor Day. Along the way, my own research has been richly amplified by reader mail, the buzzing of the blogs and the occasional complaint registered by party officials. Two readers generously provided me exhaustive analyses of the photographs of each candidate published in The Times (and came to opposite conclusions). 
 I will stipulate here that I'll be voting for John Kerry next month and will further admit that I have bent over backward to listen to pro-Bush complaints, in a conscious effort to counterbalance my own prejudices. I don't buy the argument a couple of Times editors have made, that because charges of bias come from both liberals and conservatives, the paper must therefore be doing things right. This makes as much sense as saying that a man with one foot on a block of ice and the other on a bed of hot coals must feel just fine. 
 In fact, I can find many things to criticize in The Times's election coverage. I'm as interested in the inside baseball of campaigns as the next politics nerd, but the paper's obsessive attention to backroom maneuvers and spin-room speculation obscures, rather than enhances, my understanding of the candidates. Much seems directed not at readers but at the campaign staffs and other journalists. The chronic overreliance on anonymous comments from self-serving partisans in news stories is equally maddening. (I prefer the pieces tagged ''News Analysis'' or ''Political Memo,'' where at least we can hear the sound of the writer's own voice, and take into account the writer's apparent views.) And why the paper would ask a reporter to provide ''real-time analysis'' online during the debates is beyond me. The very phrase is an oxymoron; analysis requires reflection. 
 But there are plenty of press critics in print and on the Web, so I'll cede the general criticism to them. Here's the question for a public editor: Is The Times systematically biased toward either candidate?
 No.
 So farewell, legions of the left and armies of the right -- all of you who have been faithful supporters when I've endorsed your various positions in past columns, but who will believe I have either lost my mind or sacrificed my credibility. I'm grateful for your close attention and your stimulating company, and I admire your passionate commitment.
 But passion is a distorting lens that makes it hard to perceive the shape of things. Partisans will see the depredations committed against their man, but won't notice similar articles or headlines or photographs that may damage the other guy. Readers outraged by the Sept. 26 piece on Kerry's decision-making style ask when The Times will do a similar piece on Bush apparently because they didn't notice the one that ran Aug. 29. 
 A Bush-hater will see a front-page picture of the confident president greeting enthusiastic crowds and shout ''Bias!'' much more quickly than he will remember the nearly identical photo of Kerry that ran the day before. Republicans who object to the play given a recent story about scientists campaigning against the president are unaware of the Democrats' cries of bias after The Times failed in June to report on an anti-Bush statement signed by 27 retired diplomats. 
 If there's a commissariat at The Times ordering up coverage to help or hurt a specific candidate, it's doing a lousy job; close reading shows bruises administered to each (and free passes handed out) in a pattern adapted from Jackson Pollock. Many people want to know why the other guy's position is in the first paragraph of a story, and their side doesn't weigh in until the sixth; they don't notice when it's the other way around. Sherrie Sutton of Manhattan, who describes herself as ''the only possible Bush vote on the Upper West Side,'' asked why Times headlines consistently use ''attack'' when Republicans criticize Democrats, but not when Democrats criticize Republicans. Intrigued, my associate, Arthur Bovino, determined that in the past year, headlined Republicans attacked Democrats 12 times and Democrats attacked Republicans 22 times. Ms. Sutton replied: ''Statistics don't lie, and you've got 'em. Interesting, that in the face of facts, I could still feel unsatisfied that campaign coverage by the NYTimes is balanced.'' 
 Interesting, and honest, and for most of us, inevitable as well. Conservatives thought Cheney won the vice-presidential debate; liberals thought Edwards did. I can look at pictures of my children and see that they are flawless; you will see them differently (even though they are, of course, flawless). Write a book, get a lousy review -- it's happened to me several times -- and you challenge the reviewer's judgment, not your own. We see, and we are more vulnerable to, those things that matter most to us.
 UNQUESTIONABLY, individual articles, headlines or photographs do cast one or another candidate in a colored light, either rosy or dark. Headlines are especially toxic because of their reductive nature. Eric Kessin of Scarsdale, N.Y., wrote to say that the Friday, Sept. 2, headline ''Jobless Figures Could Emphasize Bush's Big Weakness'' might as easily have read ''Jobless Figures Could Emphasize Bush's Claim of Economic Growth.'' He was right and, in fact, the Saturday story was headlined ''Job Figures Help President Promote Economic Record.'' 
 That was accurate, but it, too, was not without its own coloration. Nothing is, especially when removed from the context of the long slog of the campaign and The Times's extended coverage. If The Times fails to give prominent space to a candidate's speech because it's a repeat of yesterday's, the paper is helping the opposition; if it does cover it, it's promoting the interests of the repetitive candidate. Show me an interesting photograph, and I'll show you an opinion. (I can't wait to hear what readers think of the Kerry portrait today on the cover The New York Times Magazine, much less the article itself.) (Check that: Yes, I can.)
 Those readers who long for the days of absolutely untinted, nothing-but-the-facts newspapering ought to have an Associated Press ticker installed on the breakfast table. Newspapers today and especially this newspaper are asking their reporters and editors to go deep into a story, and when and where you go deep is itself a matter of judgment. And every judgment, it appears, offends someone.
 It is axiomatic that the facts or characterizations a journalist chooses to include can tilt a reader's impression. So can the choice of articles, the prominence they're given, the immense weight of the entire, cumulative chronicle of a too-long campaign. 
 But it is equally axiomatic that the reader who has already tilted toward a particular candidate or position will instinctively view the world and The Times -- from his or her own personal angle.
 This piece turned out to be more of a rant than I intended, but given the vicious nature of some of the attacks levied against certain reporters, I wasn't inclined to be temperate. There are many critics of The Times's election coverage who are measured and reasonable, and their views -- very different from my own -- will be represented in this space next week. I also don't wish to discourage readers who in good faith find errors, misrepresentations or unfair characterizations. They may occur randomly, but their frequency is disappointing, and I'll continue to forward meritorious complaints to the appropriate editors and reporters. Many will find expression in the corrections column, or in this one.
 But before I turn over the podium, I do want you to know just how debased the level of discourse has become. When a reporter receives an e-mail message that says, ''I hope your kid gets his head blown off in a Republican war,'' a limit has been passed. 
 That's what a coward named Steve Schwenk, from San Francisco, wrote to national political correspondent Adam Nagourney several days ago because Nagourney wrote something Schwenk considered (if such a person is capable of consideration) pro-Bush. Some women reporters regularly receive sexual insults and threats. As nasty as critics on the right can get (plenty nasty), the left seems to be winning the vileness derby this year. Maybe the bloggers who encourage their readers to send this sort of thing to The Times might want to ask them instead to say it in public. I don't think they'd dare.

CORRECTION-DATE: October 24, 2004

 CORRECTION:
LETTERS TO THE PUBLIC EDITOR; Other Voices: Political Bias and the Eye of the Beholder
Many people were distressed by my mention of various readers' names in my Oct. 10 column, and particularly by my singling out one who had sent an especially vituperative message to Times reporter Adam Nagourney. My policy: I consider all messages sent to me, or forwarded to me by Times staff members, to be public unless the writer has stipulated otherwise.
 Every message sent to my office gets an instant response asking if the writer wishes his or her name to be withheld. No signed comments are published without confirmation of authorship, either by telephone or e-mail. 
 I published the name of the man who wrote to Nagourney for the same reason that newspapers publish the names of people who commit other grievous acts. The man who vandalizes a church, say, doesn't want his name in the paper either. But I don't think his wishes should protect him from public responsibility for what he has done. 
 Same goes for public editors: I was wrong to call the reader a coward; that was engaging in the same debased discourse that I condemn. I apologize.

DANIEL OKRENT

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US LABOR DAY (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); BOOK REVIEWS (71%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (71%); NEWS BRIEFS (70%); VOTERS & VOTING (69%); CONSERVATISM (67%); LIBERALISM (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); MARYLAND, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2004



257 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: How to Rescue Education Reform

 BODY:
Americans are generally stunned to learn that their schools perform poorly and have been losing ground when compared to those of industrialized nations abroad. This country once led the world in high school graduation rates, but it has dropped to 14th, well behind nations like France, Germany and Japan. We have tumbled even further when it comes to student achievement in reading, math and science. At a time when a college degree is the price of admission to the new economy, the college-going rate has flattened over all and appears to be dropping among the poor.
 Most of the nations that are passing us by educationally have a national commitment to strong curriculums and intensive oversight of teacher training and educational progress. The United States employs a radically decentralized system under which the states do as they choose. The result is a wildly uneven system littered with educational dead zones. 
 Congress responded over the last 10 years with a series of laws that required the states to raise standards and student performance in exchange for the more than $50 billion in annual federal education money. The Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1994 set the reform in motion, but the states have largely ignored these laws, abetted by waivers from the Department of Education. Desperate for change, Congress responded to President Bush's call and passed the No Child Left Behind Act, which required the states to provide regular testing and highly qualified teachers. The goal is to wipe out the achievement gap between rich and poor children by the school year of 2013.
 The states have adopted regular testing and have, to some degree, been pressured to focus on poor, minority and disabled children who were once shunted aside and even excluded from testing regimes. Test scores have begun to rise and the achievement gap has narrowed noticeably in several states. The administration deserves considerable credit for pushing the law through Congress. 
 But it undermined the measure when it saddled the states with new responsibilities and shortchanged them by $6 billion -- or about 30 percent of what Congress approved. And the Department of Education has focused on divisive, politicized issues like school prayer while failing to provide state and local authorities with the oversight and technical help they need to get their accountability systems up and running and to comply fully with the law.
 Parents and community leaders who had wanted the presidential candidates to steer a course out of this mess have been gravely disappointed. President Bush brags about No Child Left Behind, but characteristically refuses to acknowledge any problems. Senator John Kerry is critical about the way the law has been implemented -- a crowd pleaser with the many teachers who take part in his town hall meetings. He promises better funding but could be more emphatic about compliance. 
 Meanwhile, the debate has burned on without them. The emerging consensus is that the Department of Education, the most politicized department in recent memory under Secretary Rod Paige, may be structurally incapable of providing the oversight and technical assistance needed for the most important school reform in a century to actually succeed.
 Part of the problem is the lingering presumption that public schooling is largely ''a local matter'' -- even when states contravene the national interest by doing a horrendous job. Beyond that, however, the department lacks the resources to help the states create the complicated, data-driven systems they need to achieve true accountability. At bottom, the department seems unable or unwilling to point out shoddy education plans and plainly tainted data when it sees them.
 This is borne out in a new report from the Government Accountability Office, excoriating the department's handling of the No Child Left Behind compliance process. The G.A.O. said the department had approved some state plans even when they were piecemeal and lacked such basic things as a method for calculating graduation rates. It said that as of last July, 23 states and the District of Columbia had not received full approval for their plans. The department's performance did not satisfy the requirements laid out in the law, despite administration claims that all was proceeding well.
 As incredible as it sounds, the G.A.O. found that the Department of Education had failed to provide written, state-specific instructions that made it clear how states could win full approval of their plans. This laissez-faire approach has characterized Mr. Paige's operation from the start of the effort. The department has blithely accepted bogus graduation rates and unrealistic progress schedules, and simply rolled over for plans that depict teacher preparation as just fine -- when the whole country knows that the teacher corps, especially in poor areas, is riddled with unqualified and inexperienced people. This is enough to sink the reform by itself.
 Despite its difficulties, the No Child Left Behind Act is potentially the most important education reform since the nation embraced mandatory schooling. The Bush administration nearly capsized the law when it gave the cash-short states new educational burdens without providing the money it had promised. But the recent revelations about the Department of Education offered by the G.A.O. and other, nongovernment critics reveal an equally serious problem: The government agency in charge of the most important education reform in 100 years lacks the capacity, courage and leadership to do its job. 
 Congress can stand idly by and wait for the reform effort to collapse, or it can provide the states with the money it promised and build the capacity and authority that the Education Department needs to further reform. The clock is ticking and time is short.

Campaign 2004/The Big Issues: Editorials in this series remain online at nytimes.com/issues.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACADEMIC STANDARDS (90%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION REFORM (90%); GRADUATION RATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION LAW (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); CURRICULA (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (78%); TEACHER CERTIFICATION (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); TEACHER EDUCATION (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); APPROVALS (71%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (50%); RELIGION (50%); CHURCH & STATE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (88%); FRANCE (88%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004



258 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: FAMILY BACKGROUND; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2814 words

HEADLINE: Wealth of Others Helped to Shape Kerry's Life

BYLINE: By ROBERT F. WORTH

DATELINE: ST.-BRIAC-SUR-MER, France, Oct. 4 

 BODY:
The estate that belonged to John Kerry's grandparents sits high on a bluff in this Brittany resort town, a massive stone house overlooking a stunning landscape of wind-tossed ocean and jagged headlands. Villagers still speak in awed tones about his grandmother, who was known for her generosity and her regal horseback rides along the hilltops.
 It was here, on childhood summer visits with his cousins, that Mr. Kerry played on the beach and fished for octopus in the tidal pools. And it was here that the boy from Massachusetts glimpsed a much grander life than he had known back home, and began, perhaps, to acquire the sheen of privilege and sophistication that would become an inescapable part and a persistent liability of his life in politics. 
 ''Look -- the best view in all of northern France,'' said Ian Forbes, Mr. Kerry's maternal uncle, speaking in French, as he led a reporter to the back of the family house in St. Briac with its vast lawn stretching toward the sea. 
 Today, Mr. Kerry's life is defined against similarly grand settings. In winter, he goes helicopter skiing while staying at his wife's Idaho retreat, a 15th-century farmhouse transported from England and reassembled on the banks of the Big Wood River in Sun Valley. In summer, he windsurfs and sails off the coast of Nantucket, where she has another home. The couple have an 18th-century town house in Boston where the kitchen is two stories high. There is a 23-room town house in Washington, an 88-acre Pittsburgh area estate, a private Gulfstream jet and a personal staff of six, including caretakers and a cook.
 If Mr. Kerry is elected, he and his wife will be the richest couple ever to live in the White House, said Kevin Phillips, a political commentator and the author of ''Wealth and Democracy.''
 Even adjusting for inflation, their net worth far surpasses that of such wealthy predecessors as John F. Kennedy and his wife. In an election driven in large part by the candidates' personalities, that extraordinary wealth and the air of privilege Mr. Kerry seems to carry with him have often been a stumbling block, exacerbating the perception that he is an aloof man whose elite tastes separate him from the concerns of ordinary people.
 Mr. Kerry's friends and advisers say the patrician label is unfair. Unlike President Bush, he did not grow up rich, and his parents relied on relatives to pay for his education at private boarding school. In college, he worked for two summers loading trucks at a Massachusetts warehouse to earn pocket money. Even as a first-term senator, he was sometimes so short of cash that he slept on friends' couches during weekends in Boston. And before marrying Teresa Heinz in 1995, he told a close friend that her enormous wealth made him uncomfortable.
 But Mr. Kerry's elitist reputation goes deeper than his wife's fortune, now estimated at $1 billion. Mr. Bush, despite his own family's legacy of wealth and political power, manages to come off as a simple-hearted Texan who likes to clear brush and go bass fishing in his spare time, a man whose indulgences are barbecue and nonalcoholic beer. 
 Mr. Kerry, by contrast, exudes a Brahmin reserve. His accent is no longer the upper-class drawl of his youth, but his soft vowels and formal diction still hint at a privileged lineage. On the campaign trail, he sometimes calls people ''man,'' a habit that may grow from his 1960's youth but now sounds like a strained effort to connect with ordinary folk. 
 Mr. Kerry and his wife are also cursed with the kind of good taste that suggests old money. On the walls of their Boston and Washington town houses hang a collection of Dutch and Flemish still lifes mostly from the 17th century, so precious that the insurance company asks that the artwork not be photographed. Visitors comment on the restrained stylishness of the couple's homes, at least two of which were decorated by Mark Hampton, the New York designer who counted Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, Estee Lauder and Pamela Harriman among his clients.
 Many of these details reflect the influence of Ms. Heinz Kerry, who owns four of the five homes (the Boston town house, acquired after their marriage, is owned jointly). She is the art collector, the wine connoisseur and the gourmet, friends say. Mr. Kerry is happy to enjoy all those things with her, but his own tastes tend to be much simpler. His favorite foods are peanut butter and jelly sandwiches and chocolate chip cookies, said his brother, Cameron F. Kerry. He is essentially a man of the outdoors, and his indulgences are much more likely to focus on buying boats, cars, bicycles or windsurfing gear, friends say. ''Teresa has all these wine cellars, but John's not a big wine drinker,'' said Wade Sanders, who has known Mr. Kerry since 1966, and is currently making appearances on behalf of Mr. Kerry. ''He'll occasionally bring a bottle or two out to Nantucket, that's about it.'' 
 He remains surprisingly frugal about clothing, friends say, often wearing shoes and jackets until they are nearly worn out. ''We were packing clothes for him one time in Boston, and he was deciding which jackets to bring,'' said Danny Barbiero, who has known Mr. Kerry since high school and has occasionally traveled with him during the campaign. ''I said, 'John, when you buy something, why not just buy four, and put one in each house?' He would never do that.''
 Still, Mr. Kerry has never been able to escape the aroma of class privilege that clings to him. His political enemies have used it against him ever since his first run for public office in 1972, when a Massachusetts cartoonist portrayed him sitting in an armchair at the Yale Club in New York, with a butler visible in the background.

World of Privilege
 Class is not a new weapon in American politics. 
 ''The vast majority of our presidents have been wealthy, often very wealthy,'' said Ted Widmer, a former speechwriter for Bill Clinton who teaches American history at Washington College in Maryland. ''But they need to find ways to counter the perception that they are effete, that they care about the trappings of wealth for their own sake.''
 If Mr. Kerry is more vulnerable to such impressions than many other politicians, perhaps that is because of his unusual background. He grew up in a family with little extra money, but he was constantly pressed up against the windows of a more glamorous and wealthy world, thanks to his mother, Rosemary Forbes. (His mother, as one of 11 siblings in the Forbes family that made its fortune in the China trade, inherited little of her own parents' fortune.) As a boy, he often stayed at Groton House, the 300-acre Massachusetts estate owned by a maternal aunt and uncle, Angela and Frederick Winthrop. And in the summers, he stayed in Brittany at Les Essarts, as the Forbes estate is known.
 Mr. Kerry also spent time in the summers on Naushon, a pristine private island off the Massachusetts coast that has been owned by another, more distant set of Forbes cousins since the mid-19th century. Only family members and their guests are allowed onto the island, which is in the Elizabeth Islands chain, near Woods Hole. 
 Mr. Kerry has revisited both Brittany and Naushon over the years. After his mother died two years ago, he helped scatter some of her ashes in Naushon, said his sister, Peggy Kerry. The rest are to be scattered near the family house in Brittany, she added. 
 Unlike Mr. Bush, whose family had similar New England roots, Mr. Kerry was drawn to the elite world he glimpsed as a young man, friends say, perhaps because his lack of family money made him something of an outsider. Relatives helped pay for his education at St. Paul's School in Concord, N.H. Later, at Yale, he formed a bond with the college president, Kingman Brewster, another scion of an old New England family and the embodiment of what used to be called the liberal establishment. 
 ''John's drive to succeed came from being surrounded by people who had it all,'' said George Butler, who has known Mr. Kerry since 1964 and recently released a documentary film about him.
 After college, Mr. Kerry continued to orbit a world of unusual privilege, thanks in part to his first wife, Julia Thorne, who came from a very wealthy family with Colonial origins. When the couple divorced in 1988, Mr. Kerry went through some lean years, relying on his government salary as he shuttled back and forth from Washington to Boston, where he was busy helping to raise two young daughters. This was the time later dubbed his ''gypsy period'' by his second wife -- when he sometimes lacked a place to live in one city or another, and had to rely on friends or supporters for help. But all that came to a decisive end in May 1995, when he married Teresa Heinz. 
 About 100 close friends and relatives attended the ceremony, which took place during a chilly spring afternoon on the lawn outside her Nantucket home. Afterward, the wedding party took over a highly regarded island restaurant, the Chanticleer Inn, where every place setting was decorated with a tiny bottle of Heinz ketchup. At one point, the bride's son, Chris Heinz, teasingly daubed Mr. Kerry on the forehead with ketchup, to welcome him into the family and its tomato-based fortune, recalled Mr. Sanders, one of the guests. Later, the guests danced to a band called -- inauspiciously, perhaps -- the French Millionaires. 
 Mr. Kerry's life changed at that point, and not just because the marriage made him happier. The couple bought and renovated a five-story 18th-century town house on Louisburg Square in Beacon Hill, giving the senator a permanent home in his home state at last. He also gained a Washington home, Ms. Heinz Kerry's 23-room town house in Georgetown, and the two vacation homes in Idaho and Nantucket.
 Seen from the outside, those houses are not especially ostentatious. The Sun Valley house, for instance, at the end of a 100-yard driveway about a mile north of town, is smaller than many of its neighbors, and rendered invisible from the road by landscaping. The Nantucket house is set on a small lot, with a screened-in porch, and a green and white loveseat swing on the front lawn. 
 It is the neighbors who are unusual. In Idaho, the billionaire financier George Soros lives next door. Just across the river is Steve Wynn, the billionaire Las Vegas casino executive; also nearby are the actor Tom Hanks and Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California. The Nantucket house is on Brant Point, an area so sought after that a vacant lot there sold last year for $8 million after the house on it burned down, said Dalton Frazier, an island real estate agent. 
 Inside, the Heinz-Kerry houses are elegantly decorated but comfortable and unpretentious, and full of details that express the personalities of their owners, visitors say. ''There are not huge bathrooms with Jacuzzis,'' said Wren Wirth, an old friend of Ms. Heinz Kerry's whose husband is former Senator Tim Wirth. ''They are modest by current standards, and sensible and cozy.''
 The Boston house, Mr. Kerry's main residence, is full of curious nautical items, including a telescope and a model 19th-century sailing ship, that reflect his love of the sea. In a library near the entrance is a striking painting of Herman Melville, whose writings, friends say, Mr. Kerry treasures. (He also loves the poetry of Rudyard Kipling, Robert Frost and T.S. Eliot, and can recite many poems from memory.) On the wall in the master bedroom is a framed original letter written by Abigail Adams, the wife of the second president, about the influence women can exert in politics, Mr. Barbiero recalled.
 Although they employ a cook, both Mr. Kerry and his wife take great pleasure in cooking, several friends said, and do so whenever they have time. 
 ''The kitchen is where everybody spends their time,'' Ms. Wirth said of the Boston house. ''There's somebody chopping, somebody answering the phone, somebody mixing.''
 Mr. Kerry and his wife guard their privacy scrupulously, friends say, in part because they do not want to burden their children or other relatives with their celebrity. Some of the people who work for Ms. Heinz Kerry, including a caterer who often cooks for her and the caretaker of her Idaho house, said they had signed confidentiality agreements barring them from disclosing details about their employer. A number of friends declined to answer questions about the way Ms. Heinz Kerry and her husband live, saying they feared the details could give the wrong impression.
 However, the couple are anything but reclusive, and like to give dinner parties.
 ''They are wonderful entertainers,'' said Jessica Catto, who has been friendly with Ms. Heinz Kerry for several years and served on an environmental board with her. ''They make you feel at home and relaxed; it's an atmosphere that is bubbly and fun and conducive to great discussions.'' 
 Mr. Kerry mostly ignored the social world in Washington before getting remarried, said David McKean, his Senate chief of staff. Starting in the mid-1990's, the couple began having salon-style gatherings at their Georgetown home, where policy experts, politicians and diplomats would be invited for freewheeling discussions over dinner on subjects ranging from climate change to China policy. Their social life often crosses party lines, and in 2001 they gave a dinner party for Paul O'Neill after he became treasury secretary. 

An Indelible Image
 Some aspects of Ms. Heinz Kerry's wealth have been exaggerated in news reports. Her private jet, for instance, is often described as a ''$35 million Gulfstream V'' model. In fact, said a broker with knowledge of the sale, it is a Gulfstream II, bought used in 1993 for about $3 million, the low end of the scale for private jets. It is hardly a cheap item, costing about $1.5 million a year to operate. Mr. Kerry rarely flies on it, preferring to take commercial flights on his routine trips to and from Washington, said David Wade, a Kerry spokesman.
 Ms. Heinz Kerry bought the jet in the wake of her husband's death in a charter plane crash in 1991, because she believed owning their own plane would make her and her family members safer, said Grant Oliphant, the associate director of the Heinz Endowments. 
 Mr. Kerry and his wife also have at least eight cars, including three sport utility vehicles at the Idaho house. He also has a Harley-Davidson motorcycle. The cars are not flashy; there are two Chrysler sedans, and Mr. Kerry still drives his 1985 Dodge convertible.
 Another area where Ms. Heinz Kerry's wealth has left a visible imprint is sports. Mr. Kerry had always been an outdoorsman and a superb athlete who went skiing, biking and boating whenever he could. 
 ''Now he carries those on in more places,'' Cameron Kerry said. 
 The senator owns two bicycles made by Serotta, including an Otrott model, which usually sells for about $8,000. In summer, he goes windsurfing and kite-boarding off the coast of Nantucket. He has had a number of boats over the years, but about three years ago he bought a more opulent one: a 42-foot Little Harbor powerboat, purchased for about $500,000. The boat has sleeping berths for two, and Mr. Kerry mostly uses it to cruise along the Massachusetts coast, or to ride with friends out to Nantucket.
 It is on the water, Mr. Kerry's friends and relatives all say, that he is most at ease. Seven or eight years ago, Mr. Sanders recalled, Mr. Kerry invited him to Cape Cod, where the two men got into Mr. Kerry's boat to ride out to Nantucket. As the boat reached open water, Mr. Kerry took the throttle up to full speed. Flicking on the boat's stereo system, he shouted, ''Check it out!'' and a broad grin lit up his face. The music blasting from the speakers was Wagner's ''The Ride of the Valkyries,'' the same sequence played by Robert Duvall's character in the Vietnam movie ''Apocalypse Now.'' 
 Images of Mr. Kerry windsurfing off Nantucket have become a staple for his Republican critics, who sometimes deride it as an elitist hobby. Windsurfers say this is not fair: The basic equipment for the sport can be had for about $1,000. Mr. Kerry's total investment is about $6,000, said Nevin Sayre, the former American windsurfing champion, who often sails with him. 
 Last month, Mr. Kerry visited his old windsurfing pal John Chao, founder of American Windsurfer magazine, near the Columbia River Gorge in Oregon. The weather was calm, forcing them to cancel their windsurfing jaunt, and Mr. Kerry said he would fly back in a few days if the breeze picked up. Mr. Chao, sensing that a flight across country just to go windsurfing might play into the rich sportsman stereotype, advised him against it. 
 Mr. Kerry agreed not to fly back, but added that he did not want to change his lifestyle for the sake of appearances. Mr. Chao recalled, ''He said: 'I'm not going to live my life in fear. I'm going to be who I am.'''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator John Kerry and his wife, Teresa Heinz Kerry, have a 23-room town house in the Georgetown section of Washington, above. At right is his family's house in the Brittany resort town of St.-Briac-sur-Mer, where he spent summers as a child, providing a glimpse of a grander life than he had known back home. (Photo by J. Scott Applewhite/Associated Press)
(Photo by Maisonneuve/Sipa)
An aerial view of some of the buildings on Teresa Heinz Kerry's 88-acre family farm in Fox Chapel, Pa., just outside Pittsburgh, one of five properties the couple have. (Photo by Keith Srakocic/Associated Press)
The Heinz-Kerry properties include two vacation homes, with this one, second left, just outside Nantucket, Mass. It was the site of the couple's wedding in May 1995. (Photo by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)
 Senator John Kerry and his wife enjoy a boat ride in Nantucket harbor. They have also bought a 42-foot powerboat, with sleeping berths for two, for about $500,000. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)(pg. 24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (86%); US PRESIDENTS (85%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BEACHES (77%); FAMILY (75%); POLITICS (74%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (71%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (68%); WRITERS (67%); SKIING (66%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (63%) Presidential Election of 2004; Biographical Information; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (94%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%) Robert F Worth; John (Sen) Kerry; Teresa Heinz Kerry; Julia Thorne

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); IDAHO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (92%); ENGLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004



259 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 10, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; SUNDAY MONEY: INVESTING; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1469 words

HEADLINE: One Eye on Drug Stocks, the Other on Election Day

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
A DRUG that helps people lose weight and stop smoking ought to be a big seller, but when Sanofi-Aventis, the French pharmaceutical company, announced success in trials of just such a drug, the company's stock barely budged.
 A few days later, in early September, American regulators recommended that AstraZeneca, the British drug maker, not be given permission to market an anticlotting drug, citing safety concerns. There was no muted reaction this time: the stock sank as much as 6 percent the next day.
 Shareholders of Merck meted out far worse later in the month. They marked the stock down 27 percent in one day after Merck, based in Whitehouse Station, N.J., said it would halt sales of Vioxx, a top-selling anti-inflammation drug, because of safety concerns. 
 Investors' tendency to react to negative events and ignore positive ones reflects prolonged adverse sentiment toward drug stocks, which have underperformed the broad market since February. That was around the time that Senator John Kerry consolidated his grip on the Democratic presidential nomination, analysts point out. They note that many investors fear that if Mr. Kerry wins in November, prices of prescription drugs may rise at lower rates than in recent years, or perhaps even decline, dealing a significant blow to drug makers' profitability.
 The sector's weakness has reduced the shares of large pharmaceutical companies to prices that analysts and fund managers consider cheap. Many remain leery of buying them, however, and prefer stocks in other segments of health care.
 ''Without question, large-cap pharma is one of the groups likely to see the most intense regulatory pressure should the presidency change hands,'' Jami Rubin, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, said in a report on the sector, articulating Wall Street's fears. ''The Democratic Party continues to seek greater government involvement in the health care system and is expected to hasten a move toward price controls on prescription drugs if given the political power to do so.''
 Mr. Rubin finds the market's apprehensions unwarranted. For one thing, Mr. Kerry by no means has a lock on the election; in polls, he has been running at best neck and neck with President Bush. Even if Mr. Kerry wins, Mr. Rubin said, Congress is likely to remain controlled by Republicans, limiting wholesale changes in health care policy.
 Nevertheless, the political worries have reduced valuations of American industry leaders. Pfizer and Wyeth have been trading at 15 percent discounts to Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, as was Merck before the recent sell-off. The undervaluation exists ''despite our belief that return on invested capital has bottomed out and is likely to show some improvement over the next several years,'' Mr. Rubin wrote, referring to the pharmaceutical industry.
 Gil Knight, senior fund manager at Gartmore Global Investors in Conshohocken, Pa., agrees that valuations are low, but he finds good reasons for them to remain so, no matter who wins the White House.
 ''I'm not one of those who thinks Kerry's going to destroy the health care system,'' he said. ''A lot of these companies have drugs that are going off patent; the margins are not going to be there.'' But he said, ''Margins would be worse under Kerry than Bush.''
 Spiros Jamas, a global drug and biotechnology analyst at State Street Global Advisors in Boston, noted that ''the pharma industry seems to go through cycles of patent expirations'' and that ''sales drop significantly and transfer to generic companies.'' 
 Still, he said: ''The pipeline is improving. There are going to be a number of important drug launches in the next 12 months, which will improve earnings in these companies. Valuations are pretty close to a floor.''
 An exception he cited is AstraZeneca, which he said he had been avoiding even before the bad news about its anticlotting drug because he saw its shares as too expensive.
 State Street holds Sanofi in its portfolios, Mr. Jamas said. Part of its appeal, he said, is the ''significant cost savings'' achieved through the merger that created the company from Sanofi-Synthelabo and Aventis.
 ''More important,'' he said, ''the merger creates quite a balanced pipeline, where the company will have a smoothed transition from drugs going off patent to new drugs.''
 State Street also holds Eli Lilly, based in Indianapolis; GlaxoSmithKline of Britain; and Novartis and Roche, both based in Switzerland. Glaxo has ''quite a cluster of patent expirations,'' he said, but it also has a ''broad pipeline'' of drugs under development, including treatments for breast cancer and cardiovascular disease.
 Mr. Jamas said he liked Lilly because ''a fairly high percentage of its drugs are specialty products,'' including several introduced in the last three years, making this their peak sales period. Highly specialized drugs are preferred because they command higher prices than those that must compete with similar products, he explained.
 Niall Kirk, a manager of health care funds at F&C Management in London, is less optimistic than Mr. Jamas about the prospects of large drug makers. He pointed out that drug prices had already come under pressure.
 ''The numbers that have come out from drug distributors show that price rises are fairly muted now,'' he said.
 ''They could be trying to look good before the election'' to try to limit government involvement in pricing after November, Mr. Kirk said. Another possibility, he said, is that health maintenance organizations have been unable to raise premiums as much recently as in the more distant past and are driving harder bargains with drug makers.
 He and Mr. Knight have mostly left the major drug stocks alone and have put their money to work in related fields like medical instruments and biotechnology.
 ''We have diversified into other parts of the health care universe,'' Mr. Kirk said. ''We're overweight health care, but we don't do it through Big Pharma.''
 Mr. Kirk's favorites include C.R. Bard, a Murray Hills, N.J., company that makes tubes and other simple devices used in vascular surgery. In 2001 and 2002, the company was to have been acquired by Tyco International, but when Tyco ran into trouble over accounting and management issues, Bard remained independent. He says Bard is ''quite undercovered by the Street.'' 
 He also favors Bausch & Lomb of Rochester, the maker of optical equipment and eye care products. Mr. Kirk cited a number of its new products, and said an investment in Bausch & Lomb was also an indirect bet on economic growth. As employment goes up, he said, more people get health insurance, and they take advantage of their coverage to have surgery to correct vision problems.
 A biotech stock he likes is Biogen Idec, which he says has a promising treatment for multiple sclerosis coming to market.
 Mr. Kirk's portfolios are not devoid of large drug makers. Like State Street, Mr. Kirk owns Novartis and Roche. Offering a less than wholehearted endorsement, he said of the two, ''Nothing bad is happening.'' He also owns Pfizer, a company that he says is well managed and has ''a decent pipeline'' of drugs under development.
 MR. KNIGHT owns an assortment of medical equipment companies, including St. Jude Medical, , a maker of heart valves and other cardiovascular products; Stryker, which makes surgical tools; and Beckman Coulter , a leader in laboratory diagnostic equipment. 
 Stryker also makes artificial joints, a specialized product line. ''It's so unique, there isn't much competition,'' he said. That gives the company good pricing power.
 Two biotechs that Mr. Knight prefers are Amgen and MedImmune. Unlike many others in this industry, which are developing drugs that may someday hit it big, Amgen, based in Thousand Oaks, Calif., is marketing drugs now. ''It has real products, with good patent protection,'' he said.
 Its products are successful enough to help it increase its earnings by 20 percent a year, making its stock cheap at about 20 times earnings, Mr. Knight said.
 MedImmune, based in Gaithersburg, Md., which makes treatments for immune system disorders, is another fast grower, with earnings rising about 22 percent a year, he said.
 Mr. Knight holds one large drug maker, Abbott Laboratories, based in Abbott Park, Ill. But he suggested that Abbott's days in Gartmore's portfolios were numbered.
 Abbott is cheap, in his opinion, but he said that was for good reason: its earnings are likely to increase by only 5 percent to 7 percent a year. ''It's an elephant type of stock that lumbers along,'' he said. ''There's a defensive nature to Big Pharma. You could probably make the case that the stocks are cheap, but unless they come up with new products, they're not going to give you the kind of growth investors are looking for, so they're not going to pay up for them.''


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''Few Rewards, but Much Punishment''Wall Street recently punished two drug companies, AstraZeneca and Merck, that announced unfavorable news, but did not reward another, Sanofi-Aventis, that released favorable news about what could be a big-selling drug.AUG. 31ACOMPLIAAnti-obesity, antismokingThe company announces the success of the drug in trials.Graph tracks the share price for Sanofi-Aventis (American depository receipts) from July-Sept. 2004.SEPT. 10EXANTAAnticlottingAmerican regulators recommend against allowing the drug to be marketed in the U.S.Graph tracks the share price for AstraZeneca (American depository receipts) from July-Sept. 2004.SEPT. 30VIOXXAnti-inflammatoryThe company announces that it will remove the drug, one of its top sellers, from the market.Graph tracks the share price for Merck from July-Sept. 2004.(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (95%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (93%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); DRUG PRICES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); ELECTIONS (87%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); SMOKING (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (78%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (77%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); ANTI-INFLAMMATORY AGENTS (73%); ANTICOAGULANTS (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); POLITICS (72%); HEALTH CARE (69%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SANOFI SA (93%); ASTRAZENECA PLC (90%); MERCK & CO INC (85%); PFIZER INC (84%); MORGAN STANLEY (53%)

TICKER: SNY (NYSE) (93%); SANF (BIT) (93%); SAN (PAR) (93%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (93%); AZN (STO) (90%); AZN (NYSE) (90%); AZN (LSE) (90%); MRK (PAR) (85%); MRK (NYSE) (85%); PFZ (LSE) (84%); PFEB (BRU) (84%); PFE (NYSE) (84%); MS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (90%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (84%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2004



260 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1377 words

HEADLINE: In Pitch to Older Customers, Static for Cellphone Industry

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Oct. 10 

 BODY:
Having equipped most adults and half of all teenagers with cellphones, the mobile phone industry is turning its attention to the last untapped demographic -- people over 65. 
 But its dreams of collecting monthly subscription fees from grandparents talking to their grandchildren, retirees calling friends from their recreational vehicles or patients checking in with their doctors may exact a hefty and unexpected price. The mobile phone industry has roused the interest of AARP, the powerful lobby and advocacy group for older Americans.
 And AARP is not happy with what it has heard from its members: complaints about incomprehensible service contracts, confusing bills and dead zones that are not clearly marked on coverage maps. They are the same concerns that have been expressed for years by other consumer advocates, who now have a new champion in the 35-million-member AARP. 
 We're hoping ''to make the industry stand up and say, 'We've got to fix what's going on here,''' said Susan Weinstock, national coordinator, economic and utility issues, with AARP. The group has already prompted the introduction of legislation in New York State that would provide more flexibility in canceling cellphone contracts, and it plans similar efforts in other states. AARP's campaign, which includes lobbying Congress, the Federal Communications Commission and state legislatures, and talk of running its own cellphone service, has caught the cellphone industry off guard and ill tempered. Consumer advocates say AARP's aggressiveness also reflects its own internal dynamics, that AARP is focusing on such a universally and easily agreed upon position to unite a membership angered and torn by the turmoil of last year's divisive Medicare fight. The cellphone industry has argued that it has done a good job of serving the needs of older customers and that what is best for people on fixed incomes is an industry free from taxation and regulation and thus, theoretically, able to offer lower prices.
 Late in September, the two groups met for the first time to discuss common ground and their differences.
 ''For whatever reason, the AARP has been coming after us,'' said Steve Largent, president and chief executive of the Cellular Telecommunications and Internet Association. He is also a former congressman and a member of the National Football League Hall of Fame. ''It is very troubling.''
 In the middle of the debate are people like Silvio Scocca, 77, a retired import-export broker in San Francisco.
 Mr. Scocca and millions of other senior citizens are an alluring lot for the mobile phone industry, which has virtually tapped out the rest of the adult market. While about 80 percent of people 19 to 65 own mobile phones and more than 45 percent of those 10 to 18 do, only 39 percent of people 65 and older use them, according to the Yankee Group, a research firm. Moreover, older people who do use phones spend less money for fewer minutes each month than Americans under 65, the firm says.
 ''There are only so many 18-year-olds to market to,'' said Jeff Nelson, a spokesman for Verizon Wireless. ''The senior population is a clear opportunity for growth.''
 But first marketers must overcome the concerns of Mr. Scocca and his peers, who say the phones are too small, too hard to hear and cost too much. Mr. Scocca ought to know. Two years ago, he bought service from AT&T Wireless. But he canceled it in May after the phone sat mostly unused on his kitchen table, though he spent $32 a month for service.
 ''It shouldn't be so perplexing to use,'' Mr. Scocca said, as he waited for lunch to be served at a Y.M.C.A. in San Francisco recently. 
 The feeling is not universal. Some customers, like Charles R. Temple, 77, said that they had adapted to the wireless era just fine. Mr. Temple, a retired book publisher who still writes and publishes newsletters in San Francisco, said he used his phone every day. Besides, he said, ''It's good to have in case you faint, or stumble or get in trouble.'' 
 To create more converts, analysts said, the big phone makers are developing phones that will be easier to see and hear -- and that will reverse the trend toward miniaturization. 
 If so, they would be mimicking efforts in Korea and Japan, where the higher penetration among older people has led to development of more elderly-friendly gadgets, said Peggy Johnson, a division president for Qualcomm, a company that makes software and computer chips used in cellphones worldwide.
 In Korea, Ms. Johnson noted, the phone maker LG recently introduced a phone that allows people to measure their glucose levels. In Japan and Korea, she said, phone makers have added tracking features that let loved ones know their whereabouts.
 Carriers in the United States are putting pressure on phone makers to be sensitive to the needs of older users, said Alan D. Ferber, vice president for marketing for U.S. Cellular, which has 4.5 million subscribers.
 Last year, in the hope of attracting more older customers, the photos in U.S. Cellular brochures started to include older people using cellphones. So, too, did those at Sprint; one of its brochures, from November 2003, had a picture of a white-haired woman playing with a young girl.
 Mr. Ferber said the older demographic was not only growing, but becoming more technology savvy as baby boomers aged. ''The senior of today is primarily a safety user,'' he said. ''The senior of tomorrow has been a wireless user for 15 or 20 years.''
 It also is a group with a powerful lobbying arm in AARP, which, Ms. Weinstock said, had begun letter and phone campaigns at the state legislative level. Its first significant effort prompted legislators to introduce a measure two months ago in New York State that would permit people to cancel their wireless phone contracts within 15 days after receiving the first bill. 
 The idea, Ms. Weinstock said, is to permit older people to see the full cost of their bill after taxes and surcharges have been added. She would like to take the proposal next to Pennsylvania and Illinois. The group is also lobbying Congress to require the cellphone companies to ask consumers before including their names and phone numbers in a wireless telephone directory. The industry has said it plans to use such an ''opt-in'' process, but consumer groups want it to be required by law, not done voluntarily by cellphone carriers.
 AARP believes that if the opt-in process is not made law, the cellphone industry could ultimately decide unilaterally to put names in a cellphone directory, thus, AARP says, jeopardizing consumer privacy.
 In addition, Ms. Weinstock said AARP wanted companies to publish more precise maps of their coverage areas. That way, she said, people who use a phone infrequently or for emergencies only will not be surprised to find it does not work as expected.
 In each of the last five years, AARP has asked members what service or product they would most like AARP to provide, and cellphone service was the No.1 answer. The organization is considering marketing its own branded plan, by reselling access to the network of a major phone carrier. 
 In the meantime, AARP plans to try to make the existing companies more responsive to older customers' needs.
 ''I don't see how the industry is not going to have to stand up and take notice,'' Ms. Weinstock said. 
 Gene Kimmelman, executive director of Consumers Union, publisher of Consumer Reports magazine, said AARP had another motive -- getting its own membership to take notice.
 He said that the lobbying group angered a lot of its members last year during a brutal fight over the future of Medicare. AARP is taking on telecommunications issues in a way it hasn't in many years, he said.
 ''AARP is trying to get more in tune with its members' day-to-day needs,'' Mr. Kimmelman said. ''This is an obvious issue where they can tap into resentment and confusion over cellphones -- and score a lot of points with members.''
 Ms. Weinstock disputed that the internal dynamics were driving the matter. She did say that the emphasis on telecommunications was not new on the state level, though the AARP was putting in new effort at the federal level.
 ''We took up the wireless issue because it's a big issue and consumers are unhappy about it,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Charles R. Temple, 77, a retired book publisher who still writes and who lives in San Francisco, says he uses his cellphone every day. Besides, he said, ''It's good to have in case you faint, or stumble or get in trouble.'' (Photo by Thor Swift for The New York Times)(pg. A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (92%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (91%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); LOBBYING (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MATURE MARKET (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); GRANDPARENTS (77%); MEDICARE (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); CONSUMER LAW (74%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); EXECUTIVES (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (57%) Telephones and Telecommunications; Cellular Telephones; Advertising and Marketing; Aged; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Law and Legislation ; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Telephones and Telecommunications; Telephones and Telecommunications

COMPANY: YANKEE GROUP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AARP INC (94%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (82%) Aarp; Federal Communications Commission

INDUSTRY: NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (50%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: Matt Richtel

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2004



261 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; AN APPRAISAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: The Man Who Showed Us How to Take the World Apart

BYLINE: By EDWARD ROTHSTEIN

 BODY:
The way I recall the lecture archaeologically digging beneath a quarter-century of accumulated intellectual detritus in my mind is as a kind of highfalutin entertainment, an embrace for the initiate, a coy extravaganza of pyrotechnics and puns and peculiarities. In a lecture room at the University of Chicago, Jacques Derrida drew an enormous circle on the blackboard. As he spoke, he dramatically added lines and curves, each signifying another form of textual interpretation, intersecting or glancing off the circle. A Venn diagram of Deconstruction seemed to be taking shape. And Deconstruction was, of course, Derrida's much-vaunted interpretive method of making sense out of non-sense (or vice versa). 
 That diagram also turned out to be an enormous eye -- complete, if I remember correctly, with pupil and cornea. A cartoon. But the eye, Derrida explained, as if mentally winking in our direction, was really an ''I.'' And the ''I'' was how we come to see. Another cartoon, this time in words. Or was the point something else that I would be able to discern only by studying further, trying to pin down his mercurial weaving and wobbling while juggling allusions to Rousseau, the Talmud and Heidegger? 
 It hardly seemed worth the effort, because by that time, despite the presence of the charismatic figure himself, despite the fact that his work still carried the promise of esoteric knowledge and that he had yet to reach his peak of influence in the American academy, the seductive lure was gone. 
 But what a lure it was! And how many still feel its pull! Now, with Derrida's death last week and the promise of accumulating assessments and reconsiderations, I can almost summon up a bit of nostalgia for the initial encounter with the Algerian-born French philosopher's works, the thrill of learning his language, piecing together paradoxes to get at his idiosyncratic vision, his eye's ''I.'' Here is a writer of almost impenetrable obscurity who nevertheless managed to overturn traditions in American literary teaching, feed the postmodernist maw of relativism, redefine the acceptable limits for academic prose and even give popular culture one of its most overused words: deconstruction. 
 Derrida partly provided the thrill of sheer nerve: daring to write something that wouldn't just modify interpretations but challenge the entire philosophical and literary enterprise. His was an imperial ambition, one inherited from Nietzsche and Heidegger: don't reinterpret. Uninterpret. Show not just that some formulations are mistaken, but that all are. And that, moreover, they have to be. Show how all of Western thought is based on a type of ignorance or incompleteness, that everyone who claimed to get the point was missing the point. 
 We have all learned that great works of art and literature may contain ideas and assumptions that their creators may not have been entirely aware of. There is the Freudian unconscious, the Marxist theory of superstructure, the learned dissections of metaphor and allusion in literary criticism. Who would be surprised to learn that things are seldom what they seem?
 But for Derrida, things can also never be what they say. Any attempt to explain or reason or demonstrate or communicate already contains the seeds of its undoing; any statement must conjure up its opposite. Pay close attention and it becomes clear how much energy is being expended on pretending to make clear what really cannot be. Look even more closely and there is always a small point in the text -- a paradox, an unexplained word, a knotty phrase -- that when properly probed can undermine the pretense, pull aside the curtain of ideology and show what indeterminacy and uncertainty lie beneath the surface. 
 There is a great appeal in this promise, because it is, in part, a familiar part of ordinary experience. We already know that all cannot be as it appears. Perhaps it is also the case that it is impossible to make a seamless system. Perhaps there is no way to tie up all loose ends. We know that this is often the case: few human activities can be tidily organized by orthodoxies. Why not endorse a kind of radical suspicion, one that would be particularly useful in challenging traditions and orthodoxy?
 Such were the secrets and lures promised in Derrida's texts, a dizzying undermining of presuppositions. Take any received opinion, aesthetic judgment, historical analysis or cultural activity, find its hidden premises, its unacknowledged preferences, its knots and feints, and its authority is undone. Applying this method to the works of the West, Derrida became a kind of prophet for counter-Western thought. He found his intellectual liberation by closely reading works by Rousseau and Levi-Strauss. If these works could seem to break down the pretense of Western civilization while heralding the virtues and values of a pre-civilized world, for Derrida they did not go far enough: they too embodied Western orthodoxy. 
 But, of course, one reason for the extraordinary success of Derrida's ideas is that they also followed an orthodoxy in which rebellion is privileged over tradition and iconoclasm over authority. Independence is declared; obeisance is dismissed. This devotion to autonomy, accompanied by a spirit of play, is partly what gave Derrida a following in America far more enduring than that in France. His radical anti-authoritarianism and counter-Western ideas also gave him an empathetic reception on the international political left.
 But this orthodoxy, too, can be as ruthless and demanding as any other. This may have been why Derrida could often become mannered and puerile, endlessly turning rebellion on itself. And late in his life, Derrida, bristling at charges that he was a relativist, tried to find some sort of firm, unshakeable ground upon which to stand a notion of political activity and justice that might justify his triumphant orthodoxy. To no avail. In the recent book, ''Philosophy in a Time of Terror,'' here is what he said about 9/11: 
 ''We do not in fact know what we are saying or naming in this way: September 11, le 11 septembre, September 11. The brevity of the appellation (September 11, 9/11) stems not only from an economic or rhetorical necessity. The telegram of this metonymy -- a name, a number -- points out the unqualifiable by recognizing that we do not recognize or even cognize that we do not yet know how to qualify, that we do not know what we are talking about.'' 
 The rest is silence. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHAEOLOGY (89%); LITERATURE (85%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (78%); PHILOSOPHY (77%); WRITERS (66%) Philosophy

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (58%)

PERSON: Jacques Derrida; Edward Rothstein

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) ILLINOIS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2004



262 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 6; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: Orchestra Reaches Agreement On Contract

BYLINE: By DANIEL J. WAKIN

 BODY:
The musicians and management of the New York Philharmonic have agreed to a new labor contract on the eve of an 18-day tour in Asia.
 The contract raises salaries at six-month intervals so that by the end of the three-year agreement, in 2007, the Philharmonic's minimum wage, now $103,000, will rise to $113,360. However, the orchestra will no longer be the highest paid in the country, lagging slightly behind the Boston Symphony.
 The agreement leaves three of the so-called Big Five orchestras in a state of labor disarray: those in Chicago, Cleveland and Philadelphia. 
 Both sides expressed happiness with the Philharmonic deal yesterday, and pointed out that negotiations had been relatively amicable compared with sometimes bitter relations in those cities. The financially healthy Boston Symphony is in the second year of a cushy contract.
 The new Philharmonic contract also builds in a certain measure of procrastination. The largest raises come only toward the end of the three years, and the parties have put off discussing pensions until next season. The players will be granted extra salary bumps if the orchestra does not increase pensions over $60,000, said Dawn Hannay, the chairwoman of leader of the players' committee. Retirement benefits are a major concern for the musicians of the New York Philharmonic, where the pensions are now $53,000, compared with $65,000 in Boston and $63,000 in Chicago.
 ''We feel that it's a good agreement given the situation around the country,'' Ms. Hannay said, though the increases were below what the players were used to. ''This is the first time that we've actually settled for less than another major orchestra,'' she said. However, ''It's a fair settlement given the situation,'' Ms. Hannay said. She pointed to the fact that the Philharmonic was running a deficit and had to inject $10 million in August to stabilize the pension fund. 
 The musicians were also happy that Philharmonic management did not make ''draconian'' demands as other orchestras have, including personnel and pension cutbacks, Ms. Hannay said. ''They decided not to go along with the herd in that,'' she said, adding that she hoped the settlement would give a boost to the New Yorkers' colleagues in Chicago, Cleveland and Philadelphia in their negotiations. ''It was at the top of our minds,'' she said. Orchestras around the country have been facing deficits, shrinking endowments and weak ticket sales.
 The New York players voted to approve the contract on Saturday night, nearly three weeks after the previous one expired. 
 Philharmonic officials said delaying raises and pension talks was intended to buy time to deal with financial issues and audience building. 
 ''On first look, someone from the outside might say, 'Uh-oh, we're just postponing the inevitable,''' said Paul B. Guenther, the orchestra's board chairman. ''We don't feel that way at all.'' The orchestra now has breathing room, he said, to deal with its deficit (currently projected at just under $1 million), cut costs, raise more money and figure out ways to increase the audience.
 ''The contract's done,'' he said. ''Now we can focus on those needs.'' He cited the orchestra's summertime series of lighter fare and popular ''Candide'' performances last season as examples of ways to increase revenue.
 Regarding pensions, Zarin Mehta, the orchestra's president, said, ''The economy and everything is so uncertain, we didn't feel like at this stage making a major commitment,'' and added, ''We wanted to be as much in control as we could have with that figure.''
 The agreement also called for changes in working and touring conditions. One of the work rule changes was extending the amount of time the orchestra stays in a city while on tour, to reduce the number of one-stop concert dates, for example. As for health insurance, musicians will have to bear higher co-payments and deductibles. They also agreed to another increasingly common feature of recent orchestra negotiations, a free fund-raising concert. Life, disability and insurance benefits improved, the orchestra said.
 The Philharmonic's previous pact was for six years, which resulted in a long period of labor peace. Coincidentally, contracts in Chicago, Cleveland and Philadelphia also expired just ahead of this season, and negotiations there are continuing.
 Musician income is usually far higher than the minimum, depending on overtime, extra fees and individually negotiated deals by principal chairs. Among the 52 American orchestras in the International Conference of Symphony and Opera Musicians, the average salary is $57,000. About five musicians earn more than $300,000, 24 in 11 orchestras make more than $200,000, and about 100 in 19 orchestras earn more than $150,000, the conference said.
 The Philharmonic players were leaving today for a tour of South Korea and Japan. At least one member of the orchestra said the players might have stayed home if the deal was not settled, although others said that threat was not serious. The Philadelphia Orchestra put aside strike plans in September, perhaps mindful of last week's gala concert at Carnegie Hall, where they opened the season with a taped performance for public television.
 ''We wanted to make sure everything was done before we went on tour so we can all concentrate upon what's happening in next three weeks,'' Mr. Mehta said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (91%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (76%); APPROVALS (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (67%); TICKET SALES (60%) Music; Labor; Wages and Salaries; Pensions and Retirement Plans

ORGANIZATION: New York Philharmonic

PERSON: Daniel Wakin

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2004



263 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE CONFLICT IN IRAQ: THE DEFENSE SECRETARY; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: Rumsfeld Visits Troops In a Tour Across Iraq

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

DATELINE: KIRKUK, Iraq, Oct. 10 

 BODY:
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld paid an unannounced visit to Iraq on Sunday, greeting American and allied troops, conferring with commanders fighting the insurgency and mapping out strategy with Iraqi leaders to ensure that elections can be held in January.
 No new policies or battle plans were adopted, aides said afterward. Rather, the 12-hour trip, Mr. Rumsfeld's first to Iraq since May, was intended to give him a firsthand look at several pivotal issues. It was his sixth trip over all since the end of major combat in 2003. 
 Training and equipping more Iraqis to defend their country, and eventually to allow American troops to withdraw, is one of the Pentagon's top priorities. The American commander in Iraq, Gen. George W. Casey Jr., told Mr. Rumsfeld at a meeting in Baghdad that he expected 45,000 additional Iraqi security forces to be trained and ready by January, to bring the total to about 145,000.
 If there is a model for how the Americans hope Iraqi security forces will perform in the months ahead, it may be here in Kirkuk, Iraq's fourth-largest city, in an ethnically mixed, oil-rich area in the north. 
 Twice in the last several weeks several hundred Iraqi police officers and national guard members, operating together for the first time, planned and executed successful counterinsurgency missions with Americans acting only as observers. Just a few days ago, a similar joint operation broke up a kidnapping gang here and rescued three Iraqi children who had been held for ransom.
 During the first week of this month, 2,000 Iraqi national guard, army and special interior police forces joined 3,000 American soldiers in retaking Samarra, to the south of here. 
 It was one of several recent offensives aimed at driving insurgents from rebel-controlled towns and cities, particularly in the Sunni heartland north and west of Baghdad.
 Despite those successes, American commanders here warned Mr. Rumsfeld that economic aid must be accelerated to provide jobs to vast numbers of unemployed young Iraqis who are being recruited by the rebels to attack allied forces. 
 ''We have to be more agile than the insurgents in getting our message out,'' said Col. Lloyd Miles, commander of the 25th Infantry Division's brigade in this region.
 Meeting with several Iraqi military and police chiefs here, Mr. Rumsfeld praised their efforts and said Iraqis must control their own destiny. ''We can help, but we can't do it,'' Mr. Rumsfeld said. ''You have to do it.''
 Other American officers said it was too soon to tell whether more American troops would be needed beyond the 138,000 in Iraq now to secure fair and free elections, and he warned that administrative problems could plague balloting even if rebel attacks do not. ''If I need more troops, I'll ask for them,'' General Casey told reporters traveling with Mr. Rumsfeld.
 Mr. Rumsfeld, who is 72, kept up a breakneck pace on Sunday, hopscotching across Iraq in Black Hawk helicopters and a C-17 cargo plane with tight security at every stop. It was unclear whether he was aware that two car bombs exploded in Baghdad shortly before his arrival there. Commanders said they were bracing for a new round of violence to coincide with the start of the monthlong Ramadan holiday, which begins later this week.
 In his first stop on Sunday morning, at Al Asad Air Base in Iraq's western desert, Mr. Rumsfeld met top Marine commanders and addressed about 1,500 marines and other service members, praising their efforts. The Iraqi defense minister, Hazim al-Shalaan, joined Mr. Rumsfeld on stage, drawing a large roar from the crowd when he was introduced.
 The assembled marines had been told by their superiors not to ask Mr. Rumsfeld when they were going home. Marines have taken a large share of American casualties in Iraq in recent months. In August, for example, they had 32 deaths, marking the first time since the military's invasion in 2003 that their monthly toll exceeded that of the Army, which has four times as many troops in Iraq.
 In a theme he repeated throughout the day, Mr. Rumsfeld warned that the struggle against militants around the globe would take decades, but also chided critics of the administration's handling of Iraq and reporters traveling with him for giving short shrift to the accomplishments allied forces were making in Iraq, from rebuilding schools and sewers to creating an environment for new Iraqi civilian governance to take root.
 Mr. Rumsfeld then flew to Baghdad where he received briefings on military operations, the Iraqi training program and planning for the elections from General Casey and two of his principal deputies, Lt. Gen. Thomas Metz and Lt. Gen. David H. Petraeus, as well as from John D. Negroponte, the United States ambassador to Baghdad.
 Afterward, Mr. Rumsfeld met with Iraq's interim prime minister, Ayad Allawi, before flying here to inspect Iraqi security forces. Mr. Rumsfeld ended his day with a visit to Camp Zaytun, where 2,800 South Korean troops have recently arrived to oversee security in the northern region near Erbil.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld aboard a C-17 plane yesterday with Lt. Gen. Thomas Metz. (Pool photo by Susan Walsh) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); ARMIES (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); POLITICS (72%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (69%); CITY LIFE (66%); CITIES (66%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Elections; Politics and Government

PERSON: Eric Schmitt; Donald H (Sec) Rumsfeld

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (96%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2004



264 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: Congress Approves Doubling U.S. Troops in Colombia to 800

BYLINE: By JUAN FORERO

DATELINE: BOGOTA, Colombia, Oct. 10 

 BODY:
The number of American military personnel here will double, to 800, in the coming months, based on a weekend vote in the United States Congress.
 The action was welcomed by President Alvaro Uribe's government for its fight against Marxist rebels but condemned by human rights monitors, who warned of a sharp escalation in Colombia's conflict.
 The 2005 United States Defense Department authorization act, approved Saturday by Congress, also permits the Bush administration to increase the number of American citizens working for private contractors in Colombia to 600 from 400.
 The soldiers and many of the contractors will, among other things, develop and analyze intelligence on rebel movements, do surveillance and train Colombian troops in counterguerrilla operations. 
 American officials who lobbied Capitol Hill to lift restrictions said more American personnel were urgently needed to help Colombia in its nine-month offensive in the south that pits 18,000 Colombian soldiers against the country's most formidable rebel group, the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia. ''That requires logistical capabilities, maintaining supply lines, getting food and fuel to the front, providing medical evacuation capabilities,'' said Adam Isacson, a senior analyst at the Center for International Policy, a Washington group that tracks Colombia. ''They need a lot more American personnel to fill those gaps.''
 Though the United States has contributed $3.3 billion to Colombia, most of it in military aid, Mr. Uribe has lobbied hard for a larger American role in the 40-year-old, drug-fueled conflict.
 Lifting the Congressionally mandated limits on troops and contractors, a little-noticed measure in the 5,000-page Pentagon authorization bill, is seen by some political analysts and rights advocates as a major step toward even larger American troop commitments. In the months before the passage by the United States in 2000 of Plan Colombia, a $1.3 billion antidrug initiative, members of Congress hotly debated whether involvement in Colombia could lead to a Vietnam-like quagmire.
 ''The main concern is two years from now: what is going to stop them from coming back for more, until Colombia becomes one of our most serious military commitments,'' Mr. Isacson said, referring to American military planners.
 The work Americans and others do in Colombia's conflict is perilous. Eleven contractors, American and other foreign nationals, working for American companies under Pentagon contracts have been killed since 1998. Three Americans whose plane crashed in a surveillance mission over rebel territory remain in guerrilla hands 17 months after being taken hostage.
 Under Mr. Uribe's administration, violence has ebbed in Colombia, the economy has improved and the security forces have made gains eroding rebel forces and destroying vast fields of coca, the crop used to make cocaine. But combat remains common, and political assassinations and kidnappings occur with staggering frequency.
 American involvement is being ratcheted up as the United States steadily increases training for police and military forces in Latin America. 
 In 2003, American soldiers trained 22,831 Latin American troops and police officers, 52 percent more than in 2002, said a report released last week by three Washington-based policy groups, the Center for International Policy, the Washington Office on Latin America and the Latin America Working Group Education Fund. In Colombia, nearly 13,000 troops received American training, up from 6,477 in 2002.
 Even before the new policy in Colombia was approved, American officials and military officers had hinted that support for Mr. Uribe's government would be expanded. 
 ''We will stay the course,'' Gen. James Hill, the commander of American military operations in Latin America, said last week in Bogota in a farewell address before he retired. He said that the United States would ''assist the Colombian people in ways that are necessary to win the war.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (94%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); LOBBYING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (78%); ASSASSINATION (78%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HOSTAGE TAKING (77%); POLITICS (77%); REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); DRUG POLICY (71%); COCAINE (69%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (67%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (63%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (60%) Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Foreign Aid

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE (57%); REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (56%)

PERSON: ALVARO URIBE (90%) Juan Forero; Alvaro (Pres) Uribe

GEOGRAPHIC: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (79%) COLOMBIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%) Colombia

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2004



265 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: Walking a Beat With Officer Muhammed

BYLINE: By Sean Flynn. 
Sean Flynn is the author of ''3,000 Degrees: The True Story of a Deadly Fire and the Men Who Fought It.''

DATELINE: SWAMPSCOTT, Mass. 

 BODY:
When President Bush boasts, as he has several times lately, of ''100,000 fully trained'' security personnel in Iraq, he is talking about men like Adnan Majeed Muhammed. I met Mr. Muhammed in February on the sprawling, cratered campus in Baghdad where American Army reservists were teaching him how to be a police officer. He was a tool-and-die man by trade, but with unemployment running at about 60 percent, Mr. Muhammed, who is 26, signed on for one of the few relatively well-paying jobs to be had in the new Iraq.
 After almost eight weeks at the academy, Mr. Muhammed had learned the basics of law enforcement: how to handcuff prisoners and search cars, how to properly detain a suspect, the fundamentals of Iraqi law. ''But what surprised me totally,'' he told me through a translator, as his fellow cadets nodded in wondrous agreement, ''was this whole concept of human rights!'' 
 A few days later, Officer Muhammed was sent out with a pistol to protect and serve in a city under constant attack from car bombs and rocket-propelled grenades.
 ''That's a standard of training Americans would never accept,'' said Gerald F. Burke, a retired Massachusetts State Police major who spent more than a year as an adviser to Baghdad police commanders. ''It's a standard the Iraqis wouldn't accept if they didn't have to. Really, it's just an excuse for us to be able to say, 'Hey, we tried.'''
 So even if Mr. Bush's numbers are correct, to claim 125,000 Iraqis will be ''fully trained'' for the Iraqi Army, National Guard, police and security services by year's end is to redefine the term so far downward as to be meaningless. Adnan Muhammed, in fact, is among the best trained police officers, one of only about 8,000 raw recruits who completed the full eight-week academy course. Thousands more were simply handed a badge and blue shirt on their first day.
 The blame does not lie with Mr. Burke or the other civilians and American soldiers running the academies and advising Iraqi commanders. Rather, the Iraqi security forces are in such dreary shape for the same reason the rest of the country is a spiraling disaster: the Bush administration ignored the advice of its own people and tried to do the job on the cheap.
 Mr. Burke was one of a half-dozen experts sent to Iraq by the International Criminal Investigative Training Assistance Program, a Justice Department group, in May 2003 to figure out how to build a credible police force. The program sent other experts to assess prisons, courts and the rest of the criminal justice system. 
 The group's first and most critical recommendation was to bring in 6,000 international police advisers -- civilians who would work in the stations and on the streets with Iraqi officers. It's a reasonable number for a nation of 25 million, based on data from the program's efforts in dozens of other war-torn countries. Yet more than a year later -- with conditions having deteriorated so horrifically that the advisers could only travel in heavily armed convoys -- there were still fewer than 500 outside experts.
 It's part of a broader pattern of half-steps and shortcuts. Officer Muhammed's academy program was initially scheduled to be 16 weeks, still dangerously minimal (a Massachusetts state trooper, by comparison, is trained for nearly six months before he's allowed to patrol the turnpike, where he'll probably never be attacked with a roadside bomb). Yet American officials, in a rush to improve the numbers of cops on the street, ordered the curriculum cut in half. Given that every lecture, question and answer has to be translated from English into Arabic and back again, Mr. Burke said the Iraqi recruits are being let loose into a war zone with the equivalent of roughly four weeks of instruction.
 And that may be a generous estimate, considering that Iraqis begin with little, if any, understanding of how law enforcement is supposed to function in a democracy. They might have seen a bootlegged ''Dirty Harry'' movie or a few pirated TV shows, but the only flesh-and-blood police officers they've ever known were Saddam Hussein's.
 Under the Baathist regime, the police were at best lazy extortionists and at worst outright criminals. Corruption was endemic; even good officers took cash ''tips'' from the citizenry to supplement their poverty-level wages. A tempering legacy is that they were outranked by at least 13 other security agencies, so they were a relatively minor source of terror.
 Thousands of those former officers, though, are back on the job -- only with a lot more authority. ''Now,'' one grinning colonel told me, ''we are the only ones.'' Some 32,000 have been put through a three-week reprogramming course. These lessons are also taught through translators, and some seem more intended to satisfy political constituencies abroad than to improve Iraq. Case in point: a two-hour seminar on domestic violence seems futile in a country were honor killings are common and, in some cases, legal. One police major I met dismissed that short lecture and the rest of the course-work: ''Your system,'' he told me, ''will not work in our country.''
 Of course, right now the lack of law-enforcement training might not be so important, because the Iraqi police aren't being used for what they've ostensibly been trained for, anyway. ''We're not even asking them to protect the public,'' said Mr. Burke. ''We're asking them to protect the new regime. We're not sending them out to walk a beat -- we're sending them into Najaf and Samarra and Sadr City. We're sending them into a combat role.''
 And so Adnan Muhammed finds himself billeted to a Baghdad police station surrounded by canyons of blast barriers and strips of tire spikes to keep the car bombers at bay. He told me he hopes the old men, the holdovers who control the precincts, won't corrupt him; that his station won't get mortared; that his family won't be killed as collaborators; and that he won't be one of the hundreds of Iraqi officers blown up or shot since the invasion. He thanks Allah for the Americans who taught him and gave him a pistol. He believes he is fully trained to protect his country, and so, apparently, does George W. Bush.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by David Suter) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); VEHICLE SEARCH (76%); CRIMINAL LAW (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (62%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) Sean Flynn; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (96%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2004



266 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 737 words

HEADLINE: Webs Of Illusion

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT. 
E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
It's understood that incumbents campaigning for re-election will spotlight the good news and downplay the bad. The problem for President Bush, with the election just three weeks away, is that the bad news keeps cascading in and there is very little good news to tout.
 So the president and his chief supporters have resorted to the odd tactic of claiming that the bad news is good.
 The double talk reached a fever pitch last week after the release of two devastating reports -- the comprehensive report by Charles Duelfer, the chief U.S. weapons inspector, which destroyed any remaining doubts that Iraq had weapons of mass destruction; and the Labor Department's dismal employment report for September, which heightened concerns about the strength of the economic recovery and left Mr. Bush with the dubious distinction of being the first president since Herbert Hoover to stand for re-election with fewer people working than at the beginning of his term. 
 Mr. Bush turned the findings of the Duelfer report upside down and inside out, telling crowds at campaign rallies that it proved Saddam Hussein had been ''a gathering threat.'' It didn't matter that the report, ordered by the president himself, showed just the opposite. The truth would not have been helpful to the president. So with a brazenness and sleight of hand usually associated with three-card-monte players, he pulled a fast one on his cheering listeners.
 Vice President Cheney had an equally peculiar response to the report, which said Iraq had destroyed its illicit weapons stockpiles in the early 1990's. Referring to the president's decision to launch the war, Mr. Cheney said, ''To delay, defer, wait wasn't an option.''
 The September jobs report, released on the same day as Mr. Bush's second debate with Senator John Kerry, was deeply disappointing to the White House. Just 96,000 jobs were created, not even enough to keep up with the monthly expansion of the working-age population. 
 The somber findings forced the president's spin machine into overdrive. Reality, once again, was shoved aside. The administration's upbeat public response to the Labor Department report was described in The Times as follows: ''The White House hailed it as evidence of continued employment expansion, saying that it validated Mr. Bush's strategy of pursuing tax cuts to support a recovery from the 2001 economic downturn.''
 In the president's parallel universe, things are always fine.
 Mr. Bush sold his tax cuts as a mighty force for job creation. They weren't. The Times article that reported the sunny White House response to the disappointing job creation figures also said: ''In September, an estimated 62.3 percent of the working-age population was employed, two full percentage points below the level at the beginning of the recession in March 2001. That difference represents over 4.5 million people without work.''
 Hyperbole is part of every politician's portfolio. But on the most serious matters facing the country, Mr. Bush's administration has often gone beyond hyperbole to deliberate misrepresentations that undermine the very idea of an informed electorate. If unpleasant realities are not acknowledged by the officials occupying the highest offices in the land, there is no chance that the full resources of the government and the people will be marshaled to meet those challenges.
 The president continues to behave as if he's in denial about the war. Iraq remains a tragic mess and the electorate needs to know that. 
 In yesterday's Week in Review section, The Times's Dexter Filkins wrote movingly from Baghdad about the reporters trying to cover the war. There's been a relentless expansion, he said, of areas that reporters dare not venture into because they are too dangerous. Most European reporters have left the country, and there are far fewer Americans than just a few months ago.
 Forty-six reporters have been killed and Mr. Filkins himself has been attacked by a mob, shot at and detained by the Mahdi Army.
 If Mr. Bush has a plan to clean up the mess in Iraq, he should say so. If he has a strategy -- besides more tax cuts -- to bolster employment in the U.S., he should tell us. If he's in touch with the real world in which these and other very serious problems exist, he might consider letting us know.
 Spinning gets old after a while. A president who spends too much time spinning webs of illusion can find himself trapped in them. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (75%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (74%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (74%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (70%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); STATISTICS (62%) Presidential Election of 2004; Biological and Chemical Warfare; Atomic Weapons; Labor; Election Issues; United States International Relations; Presidential Election of 2004; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN KERRY (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (77%); DICK CHENEY (58%) Bob Herbert; Charles Duelfer; Saddam (Pres) Hussein; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (92%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2004



267 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Metro Matters; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: Out of the Park, More Baseballs Than Benefits

BYLINE: By JOYCE PURNICK

 BODY:
NEW YORK, ignored in the presidential race, has its own tussle going on -- not over candidates, but over City Hall's plans for a stadium and expanded convention center on Manhattan's far West Side.
 The two sides are fighting fiercely, with the pro-stadium forces saying the proposed complex would generate jobs, promote the city's economy, reclaim a shabby neighborhood and boost New York's Olympics bid. The anti-stadium side says the plan would worsen traffic and pollution, waste resources and pose a long-term fiscal risk.
 The arguments are familiar, rehearsed in every debate over the proposed sports stadium, and never fully resolved. But New York is lucky. The last administration built two minor league baseball stadiums: KeySpan Park in Coney Island and the Richmond County Bank Ballpark at St. George in Staten Island. 
 No two stadium projects are alike. The plan for the far West Side is substantially more complex than the plans for two relatively small baseball parks. But the Brooklyn Cyclones and the Staten Island Yankees have been around for four seasons. Worth taking a look, it would seem.
 In brief, the Mets' Brooklyn farm team is thriving, the Yankees' farm team is struggling, and neither has stimulated the kind of economic renewal that their optimistic City Hall champions predicted. Former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani pushed hard for the ballparks, with his top administration officials contending that each stadium would improve its community, draw new visitors and serve as an economic catalyst. 
 Coney Island has improved in recent years. The Stillwell Avenue subway station is getting a facelift, and the boardwalk has toned up a little. But thanks to the stadium? KeySpan Park itself remains surrounded by weedy vacant lots. The Brooklyn borough president, Marty Markowitz, counseling patience, says he has gotten feelers from developers. 
 In Staten Island, the St. George ferry terminal is being rebuilt, a Sept. 11 memorial stands across the road from the ballpark, along a handsome, publicly financed waterfront promenade. Nearby Bay Street is gentrifying. Again, because of the stadium? Several civic and political leaders do not see a direct connection. 
 Economists have long argued that stadiums don't help their immediate neighborhoods much. ''They may redistribute economic activity within a region, but don't increase it,'' said Ronnie Lowenstein, director of the city's Independent Budget Office.
 Andrew M. Alper, director of the city's Economic Development Corporation, sees the stadiums as essential elements in revitalization. ''I think what we have with all of these facilities -- the Mets and Yankees teams, the convention facility on the West Side -- they are part of overall redevelopment. No building by itself is sufficient to revitalize a neighborhood.''
 ANOTHER invariable question is whether the investments in various projects are worth it, and whether the estimates hold up. Each of the two publicly financed minor league ballparks was first projected to cost $20 million, but the Brooklyn stadium cost twice that, and the Staten Island stadium cost $52.75 million, including $12.75 million for the land, according the Economic Development Corporation. That was part of an overall $71 million waterfront plan in Giuliani-friendly Staten Island.
 Ticket sales for the 6,800-seat Staten Island ballpark averaged 4,900 in the 2004 season, while the Cyclones, with more than 7,500 seats, often have a standing-room only crowd and sell and average of about 7,900 tickets a game. Only in its first season did the Yankees team draw enough fans -- 125,000, not counting absent ticket-holders -- to meet a threshold that triggers rent payments; the team pays other fees to the city. The team's chief operating officer, Josh Getzler, said it had hurt that 7 of 38 games this summer were rained out, and that his team is ranked last in its division; the Cyclones ranked first. 
 But more than winning matters -- especially location. The Coney Island ballpark is near a subway station and the Belt Parkway, making it easily accessible. 
 Getting to the St. George ballpark can be more difficult, and since the island's population is only 457,000 (compared with Brooklyn's nearly 2.5 million), attracting fans from elsewhere is essential, said Mr. Getzler, who was optimistic about doing so. 
 Staten Island and Brooklyn love their new ball fields, use them when possible for public school games and concerts, already consider them local landmarks. Would they have loved spending that money for something else? A theoretical question, but one worth asking now and again.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (96%); BASEBALL (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CITIES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); MAYORS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); OLYMPICS (71%); JOB CREATION (71%); TRENDS (68%); FERRIES (68%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (64%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (63%) Baseball; Minor Leagues; Stadiums and Arenas; Keyspan Park (Coney Island, NY); Richmond County Bank Ballpark (Staten Island, NY); Baseball; Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: NATIONAL GRID PLC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (93%); NEW YORK METS (82%) New York Mets; Brooklyn Cyclones; New York Yankees; Staten Island Yankees

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (56%); NG (LSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (56%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (56%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (56%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (56%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (59%) Joyce Purnick; Rudolph W Giuliani

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2004



268 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: In an Overture, Taiwan's President Calls for Opening Peace Talks With Mainland China

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER; Chris Buckley contributed reporting from Beijing for this article.

DATELINE: TAIPEI, Taiwan, Oct. 10 

 BODY:
President Chen Shui-bian of Taiwan on Sunday called for opening peace talks with mainland China, in a conciliatory overture following President Hu Jintao's consolidation of power last month in Beijing,
 In a National Day speech here, Mr. Chen called for an emphasis on arms control, in light of mainland China's buildup of ballistic missiles pointed at Taiwan and a recent threat by Taiwan to aim rockets at Shanghai if the mainland attacks.
 ''I propose that both sides should seriously consider the issue of arms control and take concrete actions to reduce tension and military threats across the Taiwan Strait,'' Mr. Chen said. ''In the long term, both sides should formally end the state of hostility across the Taiwan Strait and establish confidence-building measures through consultations and dialogues,'' he said later. 
 Mr. Hu asked President Bush in a telephone call last Thursday to abandon plans to sell Taiwan surveillance aircraft and other military equipment. After talks in Beijing on Saturday with Mr. Hu, President Jacques Chirac of France warned at a news conference, ''We are worried about the tense situation in this region that is currently worsening.''
 Beijing had no response to President Chen's proposal. Foreign policy analysts predicted that mainland officials would initially reject it.
 Beijing officials deeply distrust and dislike Mr. Chen for his decades of advocacy of greater political independence for Taiwan -- which made his conciliatory tone on Sunday all the more noteworthy.
 But Mr. Hu's recent consolidation of power in China -- he became chairman of the Central Military Commission after former President Jiang Zemin resigned -- has increased interest in Taipei and Washington in trying to reduce tensions across the Taiwan Strait. Mr. Hu, who leads the fourth generation of political leadership in Communist China, has said practically nothing publicly about Taiwan since becoming president two years ago. 
 ''Cross-strait relations are not necessarily a zero-sum game, there will never be a winner unless it's a win-win situation for both sides,'' Mr. Chen said. ''I believe the fourth-generation leadership on the other side of the strait should be able to fully understand this point.''
 Next January will be the 10th anniversary of a speech by Mr. Jiang that laid out a fairly hard line on Taiwan. Taiwanese officials have been hoping that by taking a softer tack now, they might prompt a review and revision of that policy. Mr. Chen's room for political maneuvering is limited, at least until legislative elections on Dec. 11. His Democratic Progressive Party, which has traditionally favored greater independence, looks increasingly likely to capture a majority for the first time with its allies, the smaller Taiwan Solidarity Union.
 The two parties favoring closer relations with the mainland -- the Nationalist Party and the People First Party -- are in a fratricidal struggle and are expected to lose seats under Taiwan's complex electoral rules.
 In the section of President Chen's speech that is likely to receive the greatest scrutiny in Beijing, he suggested for the first time that officials from Taiwan and mainland China revive a brief flurry of contacts in Hong Kong in 1992 and Singapore in 1993. Those contacts were possible because the Nationalist Party was still ruling Taiwan and Taiwan and China agreed then that they both had a One-China policy, and agreed to disagree on exactly what that was.
 But Mr. Chen also made a series of assertions of Taiwanese sovereignty that were certain to infuriate mainland officials. Most notably, he seemed to define the Republic of China, the legal name the government here has used for decades, as the island of Taiwan but not the mainland.
 ''The sovereignty of the Republic of China is vested with the 23 million people of Taiwan,'' he said. ''The Republic of China is Taiwan, and Taiwan is the Republic of China. This is an indisputable fact.''
 Andrew Yang, the secretary general of the independent Chinese Council of Advanced Policy Studies, said Mr. Chen seemed to want to revive the 1992 contacts while distancing himself from the acceptance of the One-China policy. ''It seems that the premise is to reopen the dialogue on an equal footing,'' as talks between sovereign countries, something that Beijing is unlikely to accept, he said.
 Persuading the mainland to accept limits on arms purchases could also be difficult: rapid economic growth on the mainland has allowed the People's Liberation Army to invest heavily in new missiles and other equipment. Taiwan is still struggling to find the money to pay for American weapons that President Bush approved for sale three years ago.
 Mr. Chen said his government was planning chartered flights between the mainland and Taiwan and wanted to improve protections for cross-straits investments. Taiwan is one of the biggest sources of investment on the mainland.
 A parade preceding the president's speech reflected his conciliatory tone. Instead of rows of soldiers shouting martial slogans about retaking the mainland, honor guards from the army, navy and air force performed a dancelike drill with twirling rifles to the melody from ''La Bamba.'' Girls in traditional southeast Chinese attire twirled parasols, and boys pulled streamers of bright green, the color of President Chen's party.
 The choice of music was partly to honor visiting diplomats from several small Latin American countries that are among the handful of nations, mostly dependent on Taiwanese aid, that still have diplomatic relations with Taipei instead of Beijing. In another measure of Taiwan's eroding diplomatic clout, ceremonies here gave prominence to an obscure ally who came up: Prime Minister Absalom T. Dlamini of Swaziland.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Performers prepared for Nation Day ceremonies yesterday at the Presidential Building in Taipei, Taiwan. (Photo by Wally Santana/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); ARMS TRADE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); ELECTIONS (74%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (65%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%) United States International Relations; Arms Sales Abroad

PERSON: HU JINTAO (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%); JACQUES CHIRAC (59%) Keith Bradsher; Chen Shui-Bian (Pres); Hu Jintao (Pres); George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (93%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); EAST CHINA (73%) TAIWAN (99%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%) Taiwan; China; Taiwan

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2004



269 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE DEMOCRATIC RUNNING MATE; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: Edwards Raising His Profile As TV Appearances Increase

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD

DATELINE: MAPLE GROVE, Minn., Oct. 10 

 BODY:
If there was any doubt that Senator John Edwards is trying to raise his profile in the final weeks of the campaign, it should have been put to rest Sunday when he appeared on five news and political talk shows. 
 His television blitz followed appearances last week on the ABC morning talk shows ''Regis and Kelly'' and ''The View.'' And on Tuesday, on the eve of the final presidential debate, he is a scheduled guest on NBC's ''Tonight'' show.
 It is all a decidedly higher profile for a vice-presidential candidate who until recently had mostly been campaigning heavily in rural areas and small- to medium-size cities. Those trips earned the Kerry campaign a presence in local media markets but also drew questions from some Democrats about why Mr. Edwards was not more visible nationally. 
 Aides said they were now trying to build on Mr. Edward's debate last week with Vice President Dick Cheney. ''The campaign felt really good about his debate performance Tuesday night and the reaction to his performance around the country,'' said Peter Scher, Mr. Edwards's campaign manager. ''We're taking advantage of that and getting him out.''
 His appearances on Sunday kept the Democratic ticket in the public eye as Mr. Kerry limited his campaigning -- as he plans to do in the next few days -- to prepare for the third and final presidential debate on Wednesday in Tempe, Ariz.
 The choice of venues like ''The View'' was no accident. Kerry campaign officials said that after last week's vice-presidential debate, internal and independent polls suggested that Mr. Edwards appealed strongly to independent and women voters, groups the Kerry campaign is courting heavily.
 Along with the appearances on talk shows aimed at women, Mr. Edwards last week campaigned heavily on national security, accompanied at one event in New Jersey by five women related to victims of the Sept. 11 attack on the World Trade Center. In some polls, women rank national security ahead of the economy as their issue of greatest concern.
 In West Allis, Wis., on Sunday Mr. Edwards sat at a diner for a ''conversation with working women,'' addressing topics like special education, health care and welfare reform. Outside, people held up campaign signs reading ''It's up to the women.''
 Mr. Edwards hugged one woman who sobbed as she told of her health care troubles and children and husband sick with asthma. To another concerned about business opportunities for women, he promised tax credits to spark development of new businesses owned by women and minorities.
 ''Twenty-two million women did not vote in the last election, which means basically they left it to somebody else to decide who was going to be president, and the consequences have been devastating,'' Mr. Edwards said.
 On the Sunday talk shows, however, Mr. Edwards reached for a broader audience.
 On the CBS news program ''Face the Nation,'' Mr. Edwards defended his past as a trial lawyer in the face of Republican attacks on him as a malpractice lawyer who won huge settlements that have contributed to rising health care costs.
 ''This is a fundamental difference between us and them,'' Mr. Edwards said, portraying himself as someone who battled large corporations. ''You know, John and I have always fought for regular Americans, against big insurance companies and big drug companies and big H.M.O.'s. They've always been on the other side.''
 On the NBC program ''Meet the Press,'' Mr. Edwards was shown video of himself from October 2002 declaring Saddam Hussein ''the most serious and imminent threat to our country.'' But as he did on other shows, Mr. Edwards said he would make the same decision to vote to authorize the use of force in Iraq. 
 Mr. Edwards told CBS it was right to confront Mr. Hussein but added, ''We didn't authorize this president and vice president to make the mess that they've made.''
 He also sought to explain away Republican criticism of his Senate attendance record, saying it deteriorated as he stepped up his campaign for president. The Bush campaign has noted that Mr. Edwards missed a third of the meetings held by the Senate's intelligence and judiciary committees.
 ''The first several years I was in the Senate, I had almost a perfect attendance record,'' Mr. Edwards said on ''Fox News Sunday,'' adding that Republican efforts to block legislation he advocated helped to push him into the presidential race.
 ''I came to the conclusion that the only real solution to this was to get George Bush out of the White House,'' he said. ''And that's when I decided to run for president, and that's the period of time that they're talking about,'' he said.
 Mr. Edwards also appeared on the CNN program ''Late Edition,'' and the ABC program ''This Week.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John Edwards, at a ''conversation with working women'' on Sunday in West Allis, Wis., also appeared on five TV news programs. (Photo by Morry Gash/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); WOMEN (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); WOMEN'S MARKET (73%); DAYTIME TELEVISION (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (66%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (65%); WOMEN WORKERS (62%); WOMAN OWNED BUSINESSES (60%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (60%) Presidential Election of 2004; Television

PERSON: JOHN EDWARDS (93%); DICK CHENEY (58%); REGIS PHILBIN (56%) Randal C Archibold; John (Sen) Edwards; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2004



270 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: VOTERS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1688 words

HEADLINE: Among Black Voters, a Fervor To Make Their Ballots Count

BYLINE: By JIM DWYER

DATELINE: JACKSONVILLE, Fla. 

 BODY:
Her bus was coming, but Charlotte Marshall had not yet finished talking about what mattered to her in the election. Social Security and health insurance, definitely. The Vietnam War, absolutely not. And she had still more to say.
 The campaign for president has entered its final leg crackling with rare energy on the streets, in workplaces and in homes, perhaps with no greater vigor than among black Americans like Mrs. Marshall, who works for Stein Mart, a discount store. 
 It was nearly time for Mrs. Marshall to board, so she spoke quickly, definitively and passionately about the bleakness of Iraq. Finally, she turned to the voting process. 
 No matter whom she ends up choosing -- maybe Senator John Kerry, said Mrs. Marshall, or perhaps President Bush, to untangle his Iraqi knot -- she will work Election Day as a poll watcher. ''What happened in 2000 got me into it,'' she said.
 Like Mrs. Marshall, many African-Americans are speaking about the fundamental act of voting this year with rekindled fervor, throwing a high-wattage backlight behind the issues and personalities of the campaign. The disqualified ballots, excluded voters and contentious ending of the 2000 election -- when black precincts in Florida had votes rejected at three times the rate of white precincts -- have formed a galvanizing memory. ''We feel betrayed,'' said Rod Owens, 22, a student at Florida A&M University in Tallahassee. ''We're looking for revenge.'' 
 Mr. Owens, active in a young Democrats group on his campus, put the matter more bluntly than most, but the determination to vote and make it count appears to cross boundaries of age, class and geography. African-Americans, for four decades the most reliable reservoir of Democratic support in presidential elections, now are also part of a torrent of new voter registrations in swing states like Florida, Pennsylvania and Ohio, and elsewhere.
 [Aware of how essential black voters' turnout is for his campaign, Mr. Kerry attended services yesterday at two black churches in Florida. With the Revs. Jesse L. Jackson and Al Sharpton at his side, he told worshipers at his second stop, a Baptist church in Miami, that he had a team of lawyers, led by African-Americans, poised to respond to any charges of disenfranchisement. ''We have an unfinished march in this nation,'' he said, invoking the civil rights struggle.]
 Here in Jacksonville, as the Oct. 4 registration deadline approached, new voters in black neighborhoods were signing up at a pace two-thirds faster than in 2000. In Philadelphia, election officials report the greatest surge of registrations in 21 years, resulting in more than 70,000 new voters added to the rolls since April, with growth heaviest in African-American sections. In Ohio, new registrations in Democratic strongholds, many of them African-American areas, have increased 250 percent over 2000.
 In interviews here in north Florida, in southwest Philadelphia and elsewhere, at bus stops, on porches, in sleek law offices, some two dozen African-American voters spoke about the broad band of issues that define their personal stakes in this campaign: the war in Iraq and what it means to a son or grandson in the military; the economy and how it shapes a bricklayer's week; the tax code and its effect on an independent businessman's prospects; and the seats of aging Supreme Court justices, watched warily by a generation of business executives, many of whom began their climb to prosperity in a society freshly opened by the federal bench. 
 ''I have a son with the military, in a combat-ready unit,'' Mrs. Marshall said. ''I'm scared to death every day. I'm disappointed about the Bush program. I was all for it when he said we were going to fight terror. But they know for a fact where that 9/11 attack originated, and it wasn't Iraq. If they had concentrated all that effort in Afghanistan, maybe by now they would have him, that other fool'' -- meaning Osama bin Laden.
 The voters interviewed -- habitual Democrats, for the most part -- spoke about John Kerry with polite reserve, as if he were a distant cousin, more rumor, so far, than actual family relation. ''I guess he's all right, but he's no Bill Clinton, downright homey-like,'' said Eddie West, a maintenance worker with the Salvation Army in Jacksonville. 
 Black voter participation has been increasing in recent presidential elections, and 57 percent of eligible black voters turned out in 2000, according to the Census Bureau. In 2000, Mr. Bush received one vote from African-Americans for every nine cast for Al Gore, the lowest share for any Republican since 1964, according to exit polls. 
 Both Mr. Bush and the chairman of the Republican National Committee, Ed Gillespie, have pledged to do better, and Republican officials are emphasizing home ownership and business opportunities before black audiences. 
 While both parties maintain they hope for a heavy vote from African-Americans, Democrats say history shows that would be to their benefit.
 ''We will equal the 2000 turnout or do better,'' said Bill Lynch, a deputy campaign manager for Mr. Kerry. ''The community is not going to vote for George Bush in any real numbers. But we've got to get them excited about John Kerry.''
 Over the last 15 years or so, a rising black middle class has dispersed from cities into integrated suburbs, creating a demand for political messages that reflect the diverse circumstances of African-Americans.
 During a town hall meeting with Mr. Kerry in Jacksonville last month, Robert and Anna Lee sat impassively in the rear, offering mild applause, not rising to join ovations. Even so, both Lees said they had no reluctance about supporting Mr. Kerry, who is seen by some as stiff and distant. 
 ''Would I want to go have coffee with him?'' Mr. Lee said, shrugging. ''That kind of thing doesn't bother me. I'm just not satisfied where I see us going on the international scene.''
 The Lees moved to Florida from Michigan after Mr. Lee retired from the Internal Revenue Service. Mrs. Lee said she was astounded by Florida's problems in the 2000 election. ''It seemed to have affected our people more,'' she said.
 When Mr. Kerry took questions, the Rev. James Sampson, a Baptist minister, spoke of what many in his community perceived to be a feeble effort in north Florida by Mr. Gore's camp in the recount of 2000. About 27,000 votes were disqualified in Duval County, many from black neighborhoods in Jacksonville.
 ''Will you fight till every vote in Florida is counted?'' Mr. Sampson asked.
 ''I will fight,'' Mr. Kerry said, ''until the last dog dies.'' The crowd roared. 
 At a private gathering on Sept. 20 in midtown Manhattan with a small group of black executives and lawyers, Mr. Kerry heard discussion of ''race and poverty, minority businesses, health care,'' said Gordon J. Davis, a partner with the law firm of LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene & MacRae who once served as parks commissioner in the Koch administration. ''The message was, these issues are very important to us, but we want you to win. We can debate those after you win.'' 
 Mr. Davis continued: ''The next two, three, four appointments to the Supreme Court will be made by the next president. The people in that room had the benefits of growing up in the civil rights revolution.'' 
 In southwest Philadelphia, Terrance Carter and Thomas Robinson, replacing a brick wall in a backyard, took a break to chat about the campaign. Both men said they had turned to construction work after they lost jobs -- Mr. Carter with food service for the Department of Veterans Affairs, and Mr. Robinson with a pharmaceutical packing company. 
 Mr. Carter scoffed at assertions that Mr. Bush's tax cuts had spurred the economy. ''Bush is a spoiled rich boy,'' he declared. ''It's all about a lack of jobs. I don't see no growth; I don't see nothing to be stimulated.''
 An Army veteran, Mr. Carter said he saw the invasion of Iraq as tantamount to ''strong-arming people'' and said he thought Mr. Kerry would be able to persuade the United Nations to take on a bigger role in Iraq.
 ''You don't hear about bin Laden at all any more,'' Mr. Carter said. ''Couple more weeks, near to the election, you'll hear about threats.''
 Mr. Robinson nodded, and said: ''You hear code orange. Or code red.''
 ''Make it up as you go along,'' Mr. Carter said. ''As long as Bush is in office, everybody's a threat.''
 At his home on Hazel Avenue in Philadelphia, Larry Moore, a purchasing consultant, said that he was concerned about Iraq, the environment, the Supreme Court and the tax code but that Mr. Kerry's plans seemed vague. ''Now that we're in Iraq, can Kerry do anything to get us where we need to be faster?'' Mr. Moore asked.
 On taxes, he said: ''I think the code needs to be more equitable. But people should not be penalized for working hard or because they end up doing well.''
 Across Hazel Avenue, June Fike, who is retired from the Campbell Soup Company, spoke about the unsettled affairs in Iraq.
 ''If you look at the war news, it's just ---- '' She paused, shaking her head, searching her mind for the words to match her distress. ''I get heart trouble from it. I got a grandson, 22, he had a birthday last week. He is in the National Guard. They said it was for home security, so he signed up, but they changed it. Now they got him down in Fort Hood, getting ready to ship him out.''
 Leon Williams, a friend who was listening to Mrs. Fike, confessed to a soft spot for the president.
 ''I like Kerry, but Bush, he ain't no bad guy,'' Mr. Williams said. ''He just got us in a jam.''
 ''Jam?'' said Mrs. Fike. ''That's what you call it, a jam? We got in something looks like we can't get out of.''
 Kimberlyn Short, a voting canvasser from America Coming Together, a group aligned with the Democrats, approached Mrs. Fike and learned that both her 89-year-old mother and 94-year-old father would be voting this year. When Ms. Short asked if she would need help getting them to the polls, Mrs. Fike gave a firm no. ''You look after some others who don't have anyone,'' Mrs. Fike said. ''I don't care if it snows six feet high, we're getting out of here to vote.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Rev. James Sampson, a Baptist minister in Jacksonville, Fla., urged John Kerry last month to ''fight till every vote in Florida is counted.'' (Photo by Chris Garlington for The New York Times)
Senator John Kerry attended services at a black church in Miami on Sunday with, from left, the Revs. Jesse L. Jackson, Al Sharpton and Gaston E. Smith. Mr. Kerry said, ''We have an unfinished march in this nation.'' (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)
 June Fike, 70, of Philadelphia said she was determined that she and her parents would vote. (Photo by Ryan Donnell for The New York Times)(pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (92%); ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (76%); CIVIL RIGHTS (75%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); VIETNAM WAR (72%); RELIGION (61%) Presidential Election of 2004; Blacks; Presidential Election of 2000; Registration of Voters; Presidential Election of 2004; Voter Behavior

COMPANY: STEIN MART INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FLORIDA A & M UNIVERSITY (54%)

TICKER: SMRT (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (57%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (57%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (57%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (57%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); AL GORE (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); AL SHARPTON (63%); JESSE JACKSON (56%) Jim Dwyer; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Al Gore

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (93%); MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%); TALLAHASSEE, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (98%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (92%) Florida; Pennsylvania; Ohio

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2004



271 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE SENATE; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: In Swing-State Wisconsin, Foreign Policy and Domestic Security Stir a Senate Race

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KINZER

DATELINE: WAUSAU, Wis., Oct. 10 

 BODY:
Local and regional issues usually dominate Wisconsin politics, but a sharp debate over the war in Iraq and domestic security is shaping the Senate race here this year.
 Senator Russell D. Feingold, who voted against the Iraq war resolution and was also the only senator to vote against the USA Patriot Act, is campaigning as if events vindicate him. ''By having gone into Iraq, I would say we are weaker,'' Mr. Feingold asserted at a debate here on Saturday evening. ''We lost our focus on the main issue, which is Afghanistan and the people there who attacked us.'' 
 The Republican candidate, Tim Michels, a businessman who makes much of his 12 years in the military, zealously defended the Bush administration. He called Mr. Feingold a ''22-year career politician'' who is ''soft on national defense'' and ''soft on homeland security.''
 The debate here on the two issues is at least as sharp as it is in the presidential race, where Wisconsin is considered a swing state. President Bush has made several appearances in the state recently, and drew 10,000 people to a rally in Wausau on Friday.
 Concerns about trade, the economy and agriculture often dominate Wisconsin politics. This year, however, Mr. Feingold's outspoken opposition to the Bush administration on foreign policy and domestic security has pushed those issues to the fore. Saturday's debate, one of several, focused exclusively on those areas.
 ''Foreign policy has certainly moved to the front of the line here,'' said Joseph P. Heim, a professor of political science at the University of Wisconsin-La Crosse. ''If Iraq continues to look bad, that could be a decisive issue in this state. Many people in Wisconsin are not happy with the way this is going. For Feingold to use the foreign policy card shows two things: that it's a big issue, and that he thinks it gives him an advantage.''
 At the debate, in a high school auditorium before about 350 spectators and a radio audience, the candidates eagerly disagreed with each other.
 Mr. Feingold denounced the Bush administration as deciding ''that the right thing to do was to get bogged down in Iraq and turn it into a haven for terrorists.''
 Like many strong supporters of the war, Mr. Michels spoke passionately about the benefits that a democratic Iraq could bring to the world. ''It will do so much good to help win this war on terror,'' he said.
 That drew an incredulous response from Mr. Feingold. ''I'm glad you want to remake every country in the world now, but that's not what we signed up for,'' he said. ''It's pie in the sky. It's a wonderful dream.''
 ''You're just going to be another rubber stamp for the Defense Department,'' Mr. Feingold said. His opponent did not deny it.
 ''I will be with our troops,'' Mr. Michels said. ''They deserve that. Once this country makes a decision to go to war, our soldiers, marines, sailors and airmen, they deserve the full support of everyone in Washington, D. C.''
 During the debate, Mr. Michels, a veteran of the first Persian Gulf war who became wealthy in the construction industry, seemed slower on his feet than Mr. Feingold, a member of the Senate for 12 years. But Mr. Michels argued his points forcefully and never conceded doubt about either the Iraq war or the Patriot Act.
 ''I will vote to renew the Patriot Act because my priority is to keep terrorism from being successful in this country,'' he said. ''Senator Feingold says it's his No.1 priority, homeland security, but he has a pattern that demonstrates otherwise.''
 Mr. Feingold said he opposed the Patriot Act because it allowed the government to ''demand your library records without any proof at all that you did anything wrong'' and to ''monitor your computer without any proof that you've even committed a criminal act, let alone a terrorist act.''
 ''That's a violation of your rights,'' he asserted.
 Mr. Michels disputed that. ''The previous legislation was outdated,'' he said. ''Terrorists were just going to use different phones.''
 Both candidates are ready to spend millions of dollars on this race. Mr. Feingold has amassed a war chest over the last few years, and Mr. Michels has said he will spend a large sum of his own money. Polls have shown Mr. Feingold ahead but with Mr. Michels in striking distance.
 ''Feingold is a classic Wisconsin maverick in the best tradition,'' said Mr. Heim, the political science professor. ''We love mavericks. They've always played well in this state, on both sides, from Joe McCarthy to Bill Proxmire.''
 ''I'm not sure Michels is the candidate that Republican leaders would have preferred,'' he said. ''Michels is inexperienced. But I still think this is a potentially winnable seat for the Republicans.''
 Jay Heck, executive director of Common Cause in Wisconsin, a good-government group, called Wisconsin ''one of the most classically divided states in the country.''
 ''There's a long tradition of peace activism here, which helps Feingold, but also a strong pro-life community that's not supportive of him,'' Mr. Heck said. ''It's probably safe to say that Wisconsin is trending Republican, more so than 10 years ago. Guys like Feingold always have a tough time, simply because of the demographics of the state.''
 Mr. Feingold said in an brief interview before the debate that Wisconsin voters seemed more focused this year on world affairs. ''Ever since 9/11, foreign policy issues are much more significant than they used to be,'' he said. ''It's a sign of the times.''


CORRECTION-DATE: October 13, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about the effect of domestic security issues and the war in Iraq on the Senate race in Wisconsin misstated the day of a rally for President Bush in Wausau and referred incompletely to a broadcast of a debate between the Senate candidates. The rally was on Thursday, not Friday. The debate was on local television, not just radio. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Russell D. Feingold, left, and his Republican challenger, Tim Michels, during a debate on Saturday. (Photo by Andy Manis/Associated Press, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); TERRORISM (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PATRIOT ACT (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Election Issues; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Law and Legislation 

ORGANIZATION: Senate (US)

PERSON: RUSS FEINGOLD (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Stephen Kinzer; Russell D (Sen) Feingold; Tim Michels; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: WAUSAU, WI, USA (88%) WISCONSIN, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) Iraq; Iraq; Wisconsin

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2004



272 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Universal Looks to Hire A Rap Star as an Executive
As the Universal Music Group nears a deal to buy out the rap star Jay-Z and his partners from their venture, Roc-A-Fella Records, the company has renewed a plan to bring the artist into its executive ranks by naming him president of its Def Jam Recordings label, according to people involved in the negotiations.
 Universal Music is set to pay about $10 million to unravel the partnership in Roc-A-Fella. One twist is the plans of Jay-Z, who said he is retiring from making albums. [Page C9.]

Custom Software for Corporations
While PeopleSoft continues to fend off Oracle's takeover bid, a subplot is unfolding in the world of corporate software. More manufacturers are starting to use corporate Internet software to make their plants more efficient. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. [C8.]

Microsoft's Latest Plan for TV
Tomorrow, Bill Gates, Microsoft's chairman, ventures into Hollywood to announce a renewed assault in his war of the tube, one that builds on the company's greatest strength: Windows. New Economy. [C4.]

Consumer Advice for Advertisers
The theme of the meeting of the Association of National Advertisers was ''Masters of Marketing,'' but it might have been ''Change or Die.'' Executives who oversee the estimated $300 billion a year spent on consumer marketing were told that they must become more accountable, innovative and creative or be doomed to failure. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [C10.]

Running the F.C.C. and Selling TV's
Michael K. Powell, the chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, has been at the forefront of efforts to get consumers to buy high-definition TV's. ''The F.C.C. wants to be a partner,'' Mr. Powell said, ''in helping consumers understand what it will actually take once they bring home their beautiful new high-definition sets to really get it online.'' But a nonprofit group has urged lawmakers to withdraw financing from the campaign. [C9.]

Disney Lawsuit in a Delaware Court
A Delaware court next Monday will begin considering the shareholder lawsuit over the $140 million severance that Walt Disney paid its former president Michael S. Ovitz. [C10.]

Vote Near on Corporate Taxes
The Senate is expected to vote today on a sweeping overhaul of corporate taxes. [C2.]

A Buyout at T-Online Internet
Deutsche Telekom plans to buy out investors in its T-Online Internet unit in a transaction worth at least $2.8 billion. [C2.]

An Offer for a Soccer Team
The owner of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers football team is negotiating with two Irish investors in an effort to buy their 29 percent of the Manchester United soccer team. [C2.]

In Touch With the Inner Reader
Publishers are customizing magazines as a way of trying to connect with consumers. [C9.]

Columbus Day Closings
Though stock markets are open today, the Treasury bond market, government offices and many banks are closed in observance of Columbus Day. They will reopen tomorrow.


GRAPHIC: PhotosChart: ''LAST WEEK''Dow industrials -- 10,055.20 down 137.45Nasdaq composite -- 1,919.97 down 22.2310-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.13 down 0.06The euro -- 1.2418 up 0.0011The dollar -- 109.42 down 0.98

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); RAP MUSIC (90%); HIP HOP CULTURE (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNET & WWW (88%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (87%); SOCCER (83%); ELECTRONIC HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (74%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (72%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (69%); NEW ECONOMY (68%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (68%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (65%); LITIGATION (65%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (50%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (50%); SPORTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (71%); UNIVERSAL MUSIC GROUP (59%); DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); WALT DISNEY CO (52%); MANCHESTER UNITED PLC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF NATIONAL ADVERTISERS (55%)

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (71%); DTE (FRA) (56%); DTE (BIT) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); DIS (NYSE) (52%); MANU (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (71%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (71%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (71%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (71%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (71%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (71%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (59%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (56%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (52%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (52%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (52%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (52%); NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (50%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (50%)

PERSON: JAY-Z (88%); BILL GATES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (76%) FLORIDA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2004



273 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE AD CAMPAIGN; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: A Focus on Lost Jobs and Higher Costs

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

 BODY:

This 30-second commercial is a response by the Kerry campaign to President Bush's new advertisement suggesting that the country should be optimistic about the economy and the pace of job creation. It began running over the weekend in battleground states, before Mr. Bush's advertisement began running today.

PRODUCER -- Shrum, Devine & Donilon

THE SCRIPT -- The narrator says: ''There are many reasons to be hopeful about America's future. And one of them is that Election Day is coming, so we can choose a new direction. Because under George Bush, we've lost 2.7 million manufacturing jobs. He's supported tax breaks for companies that export jobs. Wages are down. The cost of living is up. Middle-class families are getting squeezed. Only Herbert Hoover had a worse record on jobs. It's time for a new direction.'' Mr. Kerry says at the end, ''I'm John Kerry and I approve this message.''

ON THE SCREEN -- The commercial opens with a shot of an American flag waving against a black background. Then excerpts from the narration are flashed on the screen, starting with ''many reasons to be hopeful about America's future'' and ''Election Day is coming.'' The screen dissolves to show parts of the new Bush advertisement that cites ''nearly two million reasons to be hopeful,'' a reference to the 1.78 million jobs created in the last 13 months. Above the shots from the Bush advertisement are the words ''George Bush.'' Below are excerpts from the narration, including ''lost 2.7 million manufacturing jobs.'' As the Bush commercial shrinks away, the screen flashes, ''Only Herbert Hoover had a worse record on jobs.'' The final shots are of Mr. Kerry at a campaign rally.

ACCURACY -- The commercial correctly states that total manufacturing employment fell by 2.7 million between January 2001, when Mr. Bush took office, and last month. It does not mention that manufacturing employment had been declining for several years before Mr. Bush took office and that it has generally been in decline since 1979. The commercial's assertion that Mr. Bush supports tax breaks for companies that export jobs oversimplifies the administration's position. While Mr. Bush has signaled that he would sign new legislation reducing taxes on overseas earnings of American corporations, that bill has bipartisan support, and it includes measures that would reduce taxes on American manufacturers at home. The assertion that wages are down is based on an analysis by the Kerry campaign concluding that jobs in growing industries pay less than those in shrinking industries. That analysis has been questioned by many economists, but by measures like average hourly earnings and median household income, wages and income have fallen in recent years, though other statistics show increases. The statement that the cost of living is up is true, but inflation, while rising somewhat, remains at levels that are quite low. The commercial's assertion that middle-class families are getting squeezed is largely subjective; the Kerry campaign cites evidence like rising health care and college tuition costs. In stating that only Herbert Hoover had a worse record on jobs, Mr. Kerry is on firm ground. No president since Hoover has completed a term without the economy adding jobs.

SCORECARD -- By many measures, including job creation, the economy is lackluster, and just as incumbents take credit for good news even if it is largely the result of forces beyond their control, they are open to blame for bad or disappointing news. Mr. Kerry is ratcheting up his critique of Mr. Bush's economic policy, and the latest job numbers give him new ammunition. But it is striking that the Kerry campaign's commercial ends up responding to the Bush campaign on the subject, rather than the other way around. And in emphasizing the negative, even wrapped in the message that an opportunity for a new direction exists, Mr. Kerry risks being labeled a pessimist by his rival. RICHARD W. STEVENSON


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (83%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); COST OF LIVING (77%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); FAMILY (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (74%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (74%); LEGISLATION (63%) Labor; Political Advertising; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JOHN KERRY (79%) Richard W Stevenson; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2004



274 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE AD CAMPAIGN; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 479 words

HEADLINE: Smiling Faces and Job Numbers

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

 BODY:

This commercial for the Bush campaign is scheduled to begin running today on national cable television networks. It highlights President Bush's message that the latest job-creation figures are reason for optimism.

PRODUCER -- Maverick Media

THE SCRIPT -- The announcer says: ''There are many reasons to be hopeful about America's future. Nearly two million new jobs in just over a year. Nearly two million more people back working. Nearly two million more people with wages. Nearly two million more people with security. Nearly two million more people able to provide for their families. Nearly two million more reasons why Americans are optimistic about our future.'' The spot concludes with the president saying, ''I'm George W. Bush and I approve this message.''

ON THE SCREEN -- The commercial starts with the screen split horizontally, with shots of smiling families, running schoolchildren and happy workers sandwiching a section flashing up text that tracks what the announcer is saying. The screen then shifts to a single frame with the text ''Nearly two million reasons'' and a series of pictures of smiling people. The spot ends with a shot of Mr. Bush, on the porch of what appears to be one of the buildings on his ranch in Texas, with his arm around Laura Bush.

ACCURACY -- In the last 13 months, the economy has created 1.78 million new nonfarm jobs, according to the Labor Department, including 96,000 last month. After losing jobs fairly steadily for more than two and a half years, the economy has now posted job gains every month for more than a year. But the number of jobs being created, on average, has barely kept up with population growth. And the economy still has fewer nonfarm payroll jobs than it did when Mr. Bush took office. Officially, there were 821,000 fewer jobs in September than there were in January 2001. But the Labor Department said Friday that it expected to revise up by 236,000 the number of jobs created last spring, meaning the total job loss during Mr. Bush's term so far would be 585,000.

SCORECARD -- Mr. Bush's campaign is doing its best to put a positive gloss on economic figures that most economists considered disappointing and that Senator John Kerry's campaign is using to make a case that the president's economic policies have failed. The job gain of 96,000 in September was well below the 150,000 that analysts had been expecting. The employment figures for September are the last that will be released before Election Day and ensure that Mr. Bush will be the first president since Herbert Hoover to face the voters with a record of net job loss. But ''nearly two million'' new jobs may sound like a lot to voters who do not follow economic statistics closely, and if nothing else the commercial could help Mr. Bush to paint Mr. Kerry as a pessimist if he talks about the economy in negative terms. RICHARD W. STEVENSON


GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); DISMISSALS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); POPULATION GROWTH (72%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); CHILDREN (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%) Labor; Political Advertising; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JOHN KERRY (79%) Richard W Stevenson; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2004



275 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: Voting Our Conscience, Not Our Religion

BYLINE: By Mark W. Roche. 
Mark W. Roche is dean of the College of Arts and Letters at the University of Notre Dame.

DATELINE: SOUTH BEND, Ind. 

 BODY:
For more than a century, from the wave of immigrants in the 19th century to the election of the first Catholic president in 1960, American Catholics overwhelmingly identified with the Democratic Party. In the past few decades, however, that allegiance has largely faded. Now Catholics are prototypical ''swing voters'': in 2000, they split almost evenly between Al Gore and George W. Bush, and recent polls show Mr. Bush ahead of Senator John Kerry, himself a Catholic, among white Catholics.
 There are compelling reasons -- cultural, socioeconomic and political -- for this shift. But if Catholic voters honestly examine the issues of consequence in this election, they may find themselves returning to their Democratic roots in 2004. 
 The parties appeal to Catholics in different ways. The Republican Party opposes abortion and the destruction of embryos for stem-cell research, both positions in accord with Catholic doctrine. Also, Republican support of various faith-based initiatives, including school vouchers, tends to resonate with Catholic voters. 
 Members of the Democratic Party, meanwhile, are more likely to criticize the handling of the war in Iraq, to oppose capital punishment and to support universal heath care, environmental stewardship, a just welfare state and more equitable taxes. These stances are also in harmony with Catholic teachings, even if they may be less popular among individual Catholics.
 When values come into conflict, it is useful to develop principles that help place those values in a hierarchy. One reasonable principle is that issues of life and death are more important than other issues. This seems to be the strategy of some Catholic and church leaders, who directly or indirectly support the Republican Party because of its unambiguous critique of abortion. Indeed, many Catholics seem to think that if they are truly religious, they must cast their ballots for Republicans.
 This position has two problems. First, abortion is not the only life-and-death issue in this election. While the Republicans line up with the Catholic stance on abortion and stem-cell research, the Democrats are closer to the Catholic position on the death penalty, universal health care and environmental protection. 
 More important, given the most distinctive issue of the current election, Catholics who support President Bush must reckon with the Catholic doctrine of ''just war.'' This doctrine stipulates that a war is just only if all possible alternative strategies have been pursued to their ultimate conclusion; the war is conducted in accordance with moral principles (for example, the avoidance of unnecessary civilian casualties and the treatment of prisoners with dignity); and the war leads to a more moral state of affairs than existed before it began. While Mr. Kerry, like many other Democrats, voted for the war, he has since objected to the way it was planned and waged.
 Second, politics is the art of the possible. During the eight years of the Reagan presidency, the number of legal abortions increased by more than 5 percent; during the eight years of the Clinton presidency, the number dropped by 36 percent. The overall abortion rate (calculated as the number of abortions per 1,000 women between the ages of 15 and 44) was more or less stable during the Reagan years, but during the Clinton presidency it dropped by 11 percent.
 There are many reasons for this shift. Yet surely the traditional Democratic concern with the social safety net makes it easier for pregnant women to make responsible decisions and for young life to flourish; among the most economically disadvantaged, abortion rates have always been and remain the highest. The world's lowest abortion rates are in Belgium and the Netherlands, where abortion is legal but where the welfare state is strong. Latin America, where almost all abortions are illegal, has one of the highest rates in the world.
 None of this is to argue that abortion should be acceptable. History will judge our society's support of abortion in much the same way we view earlier generations' support of torture and slavery -- it will be universally condemned. The moral condemnation of abortion, however, need not lead to the conclusion that criminal prosecution is the best way to limit the number of abortions. Those who view abortion as the most significant issue in this campaign may well want to supplement their abstract desire for moral rectitude with a more realistic focus on how best to ensure that fewer abortions take place.
 In many ways, Catholic voters' growing political independence has led to a profusion of moral dilemmas: they often feel they must abandon one good for the sake of another. But while they may be dismayed at John Kerry's position on abortion and stem-cell research, they should be no less troubled by George W. Bush's stance on the death penalty, health care, the environment and just war. Given the recent history of higher rates of abortion with Republicans in the White House, along with the tradition of Democratic support of equitable taxes and greater integration into the world community, more Catholics may want to reaffirm their tradition of allegiance to the Democratic Party in 2004.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 3, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An Op-Ed article on Oct. 11 about Catholic voters misstated the decline in abortion during the Clinton presidency. The number of abortions dropped 19 percent, not 36 percent.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (97%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (96%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (92%); VOTERS & VOTING (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (89%); ABORTION (89%); BIOETHICS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); IMMIGRATION (78%); POLITICS (78%); IRAQ WAR (76%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (74%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (68%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (64%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (53%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (53%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Abortion; Medicine and Health; Stem Cells; Fetal Tissue; Environment ; Presidential Election of 2004; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Capital Punishment

ORGANIZATION: Roman Catholic Church

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); AL GORE (58%) Mark W Roche; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH BEND, IN, USA (75%) INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2004



276 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 11, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1424 words

HEADLINE: Where Some See Just a Shock Jock, Sirius Sees a Top Pitchman

BYLINE: By BILL CARTER and NAT IVES; Colin Moynihan and Carolyn Marshall contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
When executives at Sirius Satellite Radio committed half a billion dollars to broadcasting's scatological shock jock Howard Stern last week, asking him to carry the company and a new medium into the promised land of popularity and profits, they knew they were getting a talent famed for more than delivering humor and outrage. 
 They were acquiring one of the best pitchmen in the world of media. 
 Sirius executives noted that during Mr. Stern's long career in radio, he has shepherded thousands of people from his fan base of more than 12 million regular listeners to movie theaters, bookstores, cable shows, pay-per-view broadcasts and certain politicians. He is even credited with helping Snapple become a powerhouse brand in the 1980's. 
 ''Howard is an artist first, but we know how enthusiastic he can be when he gets behind something,'' said Scott Greenstein, the president of entertainment and sports for Sirius.
 Still, getting people to buy a bottle of Snapple (about a dollar) is one thing. Convincing listeners of his free morning show to pay $12.95 a month when he moves to Sirius in January 2006, is another. And while Mr. Stern repeatedly proclaims himself the king of all media, some of his forays -- like a late-night variety show he claimed would dethrone ''Saturday Night Live'' -- have not succeeded. 
 Mr. Stern is not shrinking from the task. ''I know I'm sort of the king of self-promotion,'' he said. 
 But he has a difficult task ahead. Sirius, which offers 120 channels of music, talk, news and sports, has only 600,000 paying customers, leaving it a distant second to XM Satellite Radio, which has 2.5 million customers. Last year, Sirius had revenue of only $12.9 million and a net loss of $226.2 million, compared with revenue of $805,000 and a net loss of $422.5 million in 2002.
 But the company has more than $600 million in cash on hand, and it used a big chunk of that for the five-year deal to lure Mr. Stern from his longtime home at Infinity Broadcasting, part of Viacom. Mr. Stern will make more money than he currently does -- his salary will come out of the $100 million he gets each year to cover all the costs associated with the show. And he will get to escape an ever more censorious Federal Communications Commission, which as part of its policing of decency on the public airwaves, has made Mr. Stern's show one of its favorite targets. 
 Mr. Greenstein said the company was already talking about the national marketing campaign that it will undertake with Mr. Stern to build interest in his shift to Sirius. And he said success should not be all that hard to achieve. ''With even just a million of Howard's listeners, this deal works for us,'' Mr. Greenstein said.
 Mr. Stern's track record provides Mr. Greenstein and other Sirius executives with optimism. His Infinity show generates about $50 million in earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, on $100 million in revenue, according to a J.P. Morgan analyst, Spencer Wang. And Mr. Stern's other media pursuits have proved lucrative, too.
 Simon & Schuster printed 800,000 hardcover copies of Mr. Stern's 1993 autobiography, "Private Parts," which spent 20 weeks on The New York Times best-seller list. Pocket Books, a Simon & Schuster paperback imprint, printed another 2.8 million copies. 
 His 1995 follow-up, ''Miss America,'' lasted 16 weeks on the Times best-seller list. A publicist at Regan Books was unable to provide a figure on how many copies were in print. 
 But the movie adaptation of "Private Parts," released by Paramount Pictures in 1997, performed more modestly. It took in $41.2 million at movie theaters, according to Exhibitor Relations, while the production budget was estimated at $28 million by boxofficemojo.com, a movie industry Web site.
 Television has proved more bumpy. Mr. Stern's long-running weeknight show on the E network, a condensed but visual version of his radio show, so far this year has been drawing an average of 744,000 viewers, according to Nielsen Media Research. ''The bottom line is that on an average basis, Howard Stern is the highest-rated regular series program on E,'' said Ted Harbert, president and chief executive of E Networks.
 But his other television ventures have not performed as well. ''Son of the Beach,'' a parody of ''Baywatch'' that was produced by Mr. Stern, lasted 43 episodes on the FX network before being canceled in 2002.
 And then there was ''The Howard Stern Radio Show,'' a syndicated Saturday night program that, its name notwithstanding, appeared on television. Mr. Stern had predicted the show would turn ''Saturday Night Live'' into ''Saturday Night Dead,'' but it suffered from disappointing ratings and discomfort over its content at the local television stations carrying it. (During one show in its first season, Mr. Stern shaved the pubic hair of a female guest; five stations promptly dropped the show.) The show was on the air for three seasons, ending in 2001.
 Mr. Stern has tried to extend his imprimatur outside the media world, too. A case study on Snapple in The Harvard Business Review found that Mr. Stern helped turn Snapple from an upstart New York company begun in the back of a Queens pickle store into a brand that Quaker Oats paid $1.3 billion to acquire in 1993.
 ''On the radio, the brand grew by sponsoring shockmeisters Howard Stern and Rush Limbaugh,'' John Deighton wrote in a 2002 article. ''Stern was an especially effective spokesperson. He got to know the founders of the business personally and conveyed to his listeners a genuine and infectious regard for the products and the people behind them.''
 Mr. Stern has also tried to influence the political sphere. He has taken credit for helping elect an array of politicians, all of whom happen to be Republicans, from Gov. George E. Pataki to former Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato and most famously former Gov. Christie Whitman of New Jersey. Ms. Whitman promised to repay Mr. Stern's support by naming a turnpike rest stop after him, placing him with other luminaries like Walt Whitman, Thomas Edison and Vince Lombardi. 
 (What Mr. Stern actually got was a $1,000 plaque in his honor at a rest stop on Interstate 295 south of Trenton, paid for by the New Jersey Republican Committee; but the plaque, showing a caricature of Mr. Stern peering out of an outhouse, was stolen within a week and mailed to Mr. Stern. The toilets at the rest stop were taken out of service as an economy measure last year.)
 Lately, in part because of the F.C.C.'s crackdown, Mr. Stern has begun what he calls a jihad to oppose the re-election of President Bush, with his Web site becoming a repository of links to anti-Bush sites and articles attacking his policies. 
 Stuart Rothenberg, editor of The Rothenberg Political Report, said the degree of Mr. Stern's political influence was unclear. ''It remains a very interesting question whether he's influential and has affected political careers or whether it's just marketing shtick, riling people up and taking strong positions,'' he said.
 And it is too soon to tell whether Mr. Stern's listeners will be loyal enough to follow him to pay radio. 
 ''I listen to him every morning, but I'll never buy satellite radio,'' said Joseph Atkinson, 27, as he sipped a beer last week inside the Trax Raw Bar and Grill in Pennsylvania Station in Manhattan. ''Radio is meant to be free.''
 Others are more willing to part with their money. ''Twelve dollars a month?'' said Chris Carroll, 30, a restaurant manager from Miami visiting New York. ''It should be a hundred dollars to listen to Stern say whatever he wants.''
 Then, Mr. Carroll, who said he had listened to Howard Stern since he was 15, reflected on the possibilities of a Howard Stern show freed from federal regulations. ''It's going to be sick,'' he said. ''Hilariously sick.''
 Rusty Eltringham, 33, said he would consider buying a satellite radio and would probably pay to hear Mr. Stern, whom he listens to during his morning commute from Pittsburg, about 35 miles east of San Francisco. 
 ''If the F.C.C. continues to barrel down on people, which is making commercial radio more generic, that would also be a big selling point, because I don't want to listen to sanitized versions of commentary,'' said Mr. Eltringham, who works for a food distribution company. 
 He said the F.C.C. should spend more time worrying about what he called ''unchecked'' advertisements by drug and food supplement companies. ''People accept them as fact,'' he said. ''That's dangerous. Not whether you listen to Howard Stern.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Howard Stern dressed in drag to greet his fans in 1995. Sirius Satellite Radio is banking on Mr. Stern's fans following him when he joins Sirius in January 2006. (Photo by Todd Plitt/Associated Press)(pg. C1)
The line was three blocks long in New York in 1997 for tickets to Howard Stern's movie ''Private Parts.'' (Photo by Peter Morgan/Reuters)
 Howard Stern and his engineer, Fred Norris, portrayed themselves as they appeared in the 1980's in the 1997 movie ''Private Parts.'' (Photo by K.C. Bailey/Paramount Pictures)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SATELLITE RADIO (90%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (87%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (78%); PAY PER VIEW (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); FILM (75%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (69%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (65%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (60%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (50%) Radio; Satellites; Advertising and Marketing

COMPANY: SIRIUS XM RADIO INC (92%); VIACOM INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Sirius Satellite Radio Inc

TICKER: SIRI (NASDAQ) (92%); VIA (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (92%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (52%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (52%)

PERSON: HOWARD STERN (95%) Howard Stern; Scott Greenstein; Bill Carter; Nat Ives

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (59%)

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2004



277 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: A beleaguered Mitsubishi decides that a campaign stressing its warranties is the way to sell its cars.

BYLINE: By Danny Hakim

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
IF no one seems to want to buy your cars, it's probably a good idea to talk about something else. Like, say, a big fat warranty.
 ''Nobody stands behind their cars like Mitsubishi,'' a narrator says during ''Anthem,'' a commercial from Mitsubishi that will make its debut this week. In the commercial, set to the song ''Draggin' the Line'' by Tommy James, cars and sport utility vehicles cruise by a seemingly infinite line of Mitsubishi mechanics outfitted in red coveralls. The mechanics stand shoulder to shoulder on bridges and in tunnels, during rain, sunlight and snow. 
 In one yuk-yuk moment, as a Mitsubishi Endeavor S.U.V. whizzes through the suburbs, one mechanic maintains his rigid posture as a sprinkler squirts him in the face. 
 A second commercial, set for later this month, is called ''Road Trip'' and shows one of the same dedicated Mitsubishi mechanics -- red jumpsuit still spotless -- on a rolling dolly underneath a car, servicing the vehicle as it zips down the road. 
 The commercials, by the Los Angeles office of Deutsch, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, promote Mitsubishis as ''the best-backed cars in the world'' on the strength of the company's new 10-year, 100,000 mile, powertrain warranty -- which covers engine and transmission troubles -- and a five-year warranty for everything else. The company is also offering three years of free regularly scheduled maintenance, including oil changes and tire rotations, and five years of free roadside assistance. 
 ''We want to assure people that we are a high-quality product,'' said Ian Beavis, senior vice president for marketing at Mitsubishi Motors North America, in an interview. ''It's a much bigger idea than just the warranty. 'Best backed cars' says to consumers: 'Mitsubishi is here to stay.'''
 Mitsubishi, of late the industry's most beleaguered car company, certainly had to come up with a new pitch after a devastating recent turn of events. A little over a year ago, the once hot Japanese automaker ousted its top American executive, Pierre Gagnon, after aggressive lending to buyers with poor credit left the company saddled with defaults. 
 In April, Mitsubishi's corporate problems boiled over when the company was abandoned by DaimlerChrysler, a large shareholder that no longer had an appetite for bailing out its Japanese partner from losses. Daimler said it would stop financing the turnaround efforts of Mitsubishi and began to scale back its investment. Top executives in Japan also came under a cloud after a safety scandal in that country. 
 In the United States, the most lucrative auto market, the company has ranked below average in recent J.D. Power & Associates assessments of quality over the first 90 days of ownership, as well as longer- term dependability. Sales are down a jarring 35 percent through the first nine months of the year in the United States, according to the Autodata Corporation, and in September the company's market share was just 0.6 percent, half of what it was a year ago. 
 ''We're trying to rebuild the brand,'' said Mr. Beavis, who was hired last November by Mitsubishi's new North American chief executive, Finbarr J. O'Neill. ''We're trying to get a stronger emotional connection with our customers and give them a more rational reason to buy.''
 Many of Mitsubishi's previous ads, also by Deutsch, have focused on the sizzle rather than the steak. The company had a big Super Bowl campaign that looked at what might happen if a Mitsubishi Galant and a Toyota Camry had to swerve to avoid cars jettisoned from the back of an 18-wheeler -- the ad directed viewers to a Web site to see the outcome. 
 Also memorable were earlier TV spots featuring young people riding in Mitsubishis and grooving to pulsing techno beats. 
 ''They were all about image and music and had no connection with the product,'' said Mr. Beavis, referring to the techno ads. ''What I'm trying to do here is build a connection with consumers and give them a rational understanding about why they should consider us.''
 ''We're not walking away from that,'' he said of the old ads. 
 Mr. O'Neill previously found success with a similar strategy. He used lengthy warranties to help establish Hyundai, where he served as top United States executive until last year, as a formidable newcomer. Korean automakers had not yet established a reputation for quality. 
 Will selling on warranty, as well as service, help Mitsubishi?
 ''Their backs are to the wall and they have no choice but to make as much noise in the market as possible,'' said Peter M. DeLorenzo, a consultant and former adman in Detroit who publishes autoextremist.com, a Web site that critiques the industry. 
 ''Whether or not the warranty will be a ticket to success remains to be seen. They're just looking for consideration at this point,'' he said. ''They're virtually off the radar screen and they're pretty much in desperate shape.''
 The company has also pared back its television advertising from 75 percent of its total advertising spending to about half, and will no longer run spots on national broadcast television networks. Instead, it will focus on commercials in local markets, and on national cable networks like TNT, USA and the Food Network, as well as increase its radio and Internet presence.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mitsubishi's new commercials, like the one above, seen in a photo from a Web site, feature a seemingly endless line of auto mechanics. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); PRODUCT WARRANTIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (86%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); ROADSIDE SERVICES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (72%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (70%); RANKINGS (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (67%); INTERVIEWS (67%); SHAREHOLDERS (64%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (50%); SCANDALS (50%) Automobiles; Advertising and Marketing

COMPANY: INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (82%); MITSUBISHI MOTORS CORP (58%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Mitsubishi Motors Corp; Deutsch (Ad Agency)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (82%); 7211 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (82%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (82%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (82%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%)

PERSON: Danny Hakim

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); JAPAN (77%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004



278 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1366 words

HEADLINE: CLERIC'S MILITIA BEGINS TO YIELD HEAVY WEAPONS

BYLINE: By DEXTER FILKINS and EDWARD WONG; Iraqi employees of The New York Times contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Oct. 11 

 BODY:
Militiamen loyal to the rebel Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr surrendered hundreds of weapons on Monday, in what appeared to be an encouraging start to a deal struck with the Iraqi government and the American military to end months of fighting in the rundown eastern Baghdad neighborhood known as Sadr City.
 On another violent day in which 3 American soldiers were killed and 14 wounded in two separate incidents, dozens of guerrillas came forward to hand over heavy weapons like mortars, grenade-launchers, machine guns and hundreds of artillery shells. 
 The group's surrender of its heavy weapons is the principal element of an agreement struck over the weekend with the interim Iraqi government and American military forces.
 In exchange, American commanders agreed to halt military operations against the group, known as the Mahdi Army, and to begin hundreds of millions of dollars worth of reconstruction projects in the impoverished and dilapidated area. The Iraqi government also promised to release any member of the Mahdi Army, among the dozens picked up in sweeps here, who has not been charged with a crime. 
 By day's end, an undetermined number of weapons had been turned over, though by the look of the piles of guns and ammunition stacked up, the numbers appeared to reach into the hundreds. Under the agreement, the Iraqi government agreed to pay above-market prices for the weapons: $250 for a mortar, $170 for a grenade launcher and, for a bullet, 25 cents. Still, given the firepower deployed by the militiamen, the total turned in Monday probably represents only a fraction of what the group presumably has stored away. Under the agreement, the Mahdi Army has until Friday to turn over its heavy weapons, after which American commanders said they would assess Mr. Sadr's compliance and, if necessary, resume military operations and conduct house-to-house searches.
 Mr. Sadr, who has been in hiding for weeks, has not spoken publicly about the agreement, although his senior aides say he has endorsed it. In the past, Mr. Sadr has shown a penchant for making deals amid great fanfare and then failing to follow through.
 In addition, because the Mahdi Army itself is less a discrete military organization than a populist movement, it will be difficult to tell whether it has actually disbanded. Col. Robert B. Abrams, the commander of the First Brigade of the First Cavalry Division, which is overseeing Sadr City, said he intended to examine the militia's command structure to see if it hangs together after the disarmament.
 Still, for all the reservations harbored by the Americans and the Iraqi government, the first day of the weapons surrender suggested a level of cooperation on the part of Mr. Sadr that has been missing in the past. If the guerrillas did not turn in all of their weapons on Monday, they at least made a start, and there were indications that more weapons were on the way.
 ''We have decided to give up our weapons, to disband,'' said Syed Aziz Abid, a representative of Mr. Sadr who was dispatched to one of the police stations where the weapons were being turned over. ''God willing, there will be no more fighting.''
 Mr. Abid, like other acolytes of Mr. Sadr, indicated that the Mahdi Army might be holding onto the bulk of its heavy weapons until later in the week, to make sure that the Americans and the Iraqi government were serious in keeping their part in the bargain.
 The disarming of Mr. Sadr's militia in Sadr City, his stronghold, would represent a major victory for the Iraqi government and its intention to hold nationwide elections by the end of January. But the Mahdi Army would still retain hundreds of fighters in other cities across southern Iraq, and officials here have expressed fears that the militia could still hold what amounts to veto power over the elections.
 But circumstances have changed drastically for Mr. Sadr in recent weeks, and American and Iraqi leaders are confident that he might finally be truly ready to disband.
 Mr. Sadr's attempt to commandeer the Imam Ali Shrine in Najaf failed two months ago, when his militia was mauled by American forces and he was personally upstaged by the mainline Shiite religious establishment. In Sadr City, Mr. Sadr's militia has been under relentless military pressure. Mr. Abid, the emissary sent to inspect the weapons sites, said he harbored no love for the American forces. Two of his brothers, both Mahdi Army fighters, have died in recent weeks at their hands, he said.
 ''If it were not for Moktada's orders, I would still be fighting,'' he said.
 The weapons drop-off sites brought out an array of characters, some of them Mahdi Army loyalists following orders to turn in their weapons and some of them unemployed Iraqis looking to exchange their old army equipment for some quick cash. 
 One Mahdi Army member named Ali Abdullah approached the Habibiya police station to drop off his AK-47 assault rifle, his face wrapped in a white scarf for fear that someone would try to photograph him. He said he would use the $150 he received for his rifle to buy a cart to sell sandwiches on the street.
 ''If Moktada says drop our weapons, then why should I resist?'' Mr. Abdullah said. ''He is the leader and he knows better than me what to do.''
 ''Look at my clothes,'' he said, pointing to his oil-spattered shirt and pants. ''I can do any work you ask me, just give me a chance. I've got a family to support. I'll take the $150. Believe me, most of the people here are just ignorant and oppressed.''
 Colonel Abrams said he was ''cautiously optimistic'' about the chances for peace in the area, in part because he believed Mr. Sadr had concluded that this was probably his last chance to enter the political mainstream.
 ''If he were to bring his militia back together, he knows he'll never have that chance again,'' Colonel Abrams said.
 Mr. Sadr began to move toward the negotiating table about a month ago, about the same time as the Americans began staging almost nightly airstrikes in Sadr City, using fighter jets and an AC-130 gunship to rake the streets with missiles and cannon fire.
 Even on even a slow day, Colonel Abrams said, his troops kill at least 10 Mahdi Army fighters, more than 40 on a medium-paced day and on a busy day, more than 100. Asked how many busy days his soldiers had experienced, he said: ''A lot, a lot.''
 One of the most daunting problems faced by the Iraqi government and the Americans in the area is setting up a viable Iraqi security force that can replace Mr. Sadr's militia. At the moment, Colonel Abrams said, only about 500 Iraqi police officers show up for work out of the 800 assigned. He estimated that a force of about 7,000 officers would be needed in the area, which has a population of more than two million.
 ''They're out-manned, out-gunned and until recently, out-led by the militia,'' he added.
 Indeed, at the gates of one of the weapons-disposal sites, the Iraqi security officers checked the identification card of an American reporter and then made him an offer.
 ''Do you want to buy the weapons inside?'' he asked. ''Just $150 for a Kalashnikov.''
 The American casualties on Monday resulted from a pair of attacks in Baghdad and Mosul. In the first, 2 American soldiers were killed and 5 wounded in a rocket attack in south Baghdad. In the second, one American soldier was killed and 9 wounded when a car bomb crashed into a convoy in Mosul.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Nuclear Materials Reported Missing
 UNITED NATIONS, Oct. 11 (Reuters) -- Equipment and materials that could be used to make nuclear weapons are disappearing from Iraq, but neither Baghdad nor Washington appears to have noticed, the United Nations nuclear watchdog agency reported Monday.
 Satellite imagery shows that entire buildings in Iraq have been dismantled. They once housed high-precision equipment that could help a government or terrorist group make nuclear bombs, the International Atomic Energy Agency said in a report to the Security Council.
 Equipment and materials helpful in making bombs have also been removed from open storage areas in Iraq and have disappeared, according to the satellite pictures, the agency's director general, Dr. Mohamed ElBaradei, said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Iraqis counted weapons handed over yesterday at a Baghdad police station by members of the Mahdi Army. (Photo by Ashley Gilbertson for The New York Times)(pg. A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TERRORISM (79%); CIVIL WAR (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (78%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Bombs and Explosives; Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare; Prisoners of War; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: PRISONERS OF WAR (59%)

PERSON: MOQTADA AL-SADR (88%) Dexter Filkins; Edward Wong; Moktada Al- Sadr

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq; Baghdad (Iraq); Sadr City (Iraq); Mosul (Iraq); Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004



279 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 379 words

HEADLINE: Congress Passes Bill to Tighten Lending Rules

BYLINE: By GREG WINTER

 BODY:
Congress has unanimously passed a bill to close loopholes that have enabled student loan companies to bill the federal government more than $1 billion in what lawmakers and regulators describe as unnecessary subsidies since the mid-1990's. 
 Despite the short tempers and partisanship that accompanied the close of the session, the Senate approved the legislation on Saturday without opposition. The House had approved the same bill 414 to 0 last Thursday. 
 With the savings, estimated at $270 million or more for the coming fiscal year, Congress agreed to help pay off the loans of math, science and special education teachers who commit to working in schools with low-income children for a least five years. The White House said yesterday that President Bush had not yet signed the legislation, but as recently as last month the administration applauded Congress for trying to fix the problem.
 ''The choice was simple: pass this legislation and provide more student benefits, or block this legislation and allow some lenders to continue taking advantage of this loophole,'' said Senator Judd Gregg, Republican of New Hampshire. 
 Because of a controversial policy within the Department of Education, student loan companies have been able to collect 9.5 percent interest on some loans, paid mostly by the government, at a time when students pay less than 3.5 percent. The department had urged Congress to take the action. 
 But the legislation Congress passed lasts only one year and does not close all the loopholes, just the ones used most aggressively by lenders in recent years. Republican leaders said they kept intact one provision that allowed lenders to reinvest their profits at the same subsidy rate because ending it would have harmed nonprofit lenders, which often pass the benefits on to students. 
 Some Democrats argued that the bill was inadequate because it only looked forward and did little to address what they called the price gouging that lenders had engaged in for the last 18 months. They also said they feared that leaving open any loopholes meant that the opportunity for future abuse remained. Congressional leaders said they would try to close the loopholes permanently as they reauthorized the nation's higher education laws over the next year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CREDIT REGULATION (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); EDUCATION LAW (78%); POOR POPULATION (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); SPECIAL EDUCATION (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (65%) Colleges and Universities; Credit; Teachers and School Employees; Education and Schools; Law and Legislation; Interest Rates; Special Education (Handicapped); Mathematics; Science and Technology; Colleges and Universities

PERSON: JUDD GREGG (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) Greg Winter

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004



280 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: 2 Mavericks In Economics Awarded Nobel

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
An American and a Norwegian economist were awarded the Nobel in economics yesterday for their efforts to demonstrate that innovative technologies and shocks, like a sharp increase in oil prices, play a much greater role in causing booms and recessions than fluctuations in demand.
 The $1.3 million Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science went to Edward C. Prescott, 63, and Finn E. Kydland, 60, for two papers they wrote between 1977 and 1982. Their findings contradicted Keynesian theory, which held that changes in demand, particularly consumer demand, played the greatest role in business cycles. The Prescott-Kydland papers ''transformed academic research in economics'' and also transformed policy making, the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences said in its citation. 
 Their first paper, which appeared when both were at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, argued in effect that government officials should adhere to rules rather than resort to short-term policy shifts when circumstances change. If holding down inflation is the Federal Reserve's goal, for example, then the Fed should refrain from sharp cuts in interest rates during hard times, an approach that might result in too much stimulus and too much inflation later on. Better to resist changes in policy and suffer through some hardship if minimizing inflation makes people better off in the long run, their thesis maintained. 
 The two economists developed their second paper in the summer of 1980. Mr. Kydland had returned temporarily to his undergraduate alma mater, the Norwegian School of Economics and Business Administration in Bergen, and Mr. Prescott had gone there as a visiting professor with his wife and three children. Out of that collaboration came the view that supply shocks or new technology produce booms and busts, not changes in demand.
 The two men, and Mr. Prescott in particular, ''got people to think more broadly about what influences the economy over time,'' said Gary Stern, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis. 
 Mr. Prescott divides his time between a teaching post at Arizona State University and a staff job at the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, making him the first Nobel laureate employed by the Fed. From 1980 through 2003, he had served as an adviser to the Minneapolis bank while holding a regular job as a professor of economics at the University of Minnesota. 
 Mr. Kydland has taught almost continuously at Carnegie Mellon since 1978, but is on leave this academic year at the University of California, Santa Barbara. 
 There was one catch in their work that has riled a faction of the economics profession. The Prescott-Kydland finding assumed that demand was always at a high level. Everyone who wanted to work did so at the prevailing wage and all production could be sold at the existing market price. Supply, in effect, created its own demand. Thus, they posited, changes to the economy came not from fluctuations in demand, but from shocks. 
 The oil embargo that caused sharply higher prices and the 9/11 terrorism would be negative shocks, while the Internet and high-speed computers would have a positive impact, increasing productivity and growth. The negative supply shocks, and not policy, cut into consumer spending and job creation. 
 ''Everyone thought that monetary policy shocks -- sharp changes in interest rates -- made economic growth fluctuate,'' Mr. Prescott said in a telephone interview yesterday. ''We found, to our surprise, that persistent changes in real factors gave rise to fluctuations in the business cycle.''
 That thesis in the second paper was controversial because it went directly against the worldview of John Maynard Keynes, the famed British economist who held that the Depression was a result of weaker employment and weaker demand for the goods and services than the nation was capable of producing.
 To make supply and demand balance each other at a high level, policy makers had to step in with sharply lower interest rates or increased public spending or well-aimed tax cuts, or some combination of the three.
 That is still a strongly held view among some economists who criticized the Nobel award to Mr. Prescott and Mr. Kydland. ''I am not alone in feeling that the Kydland-Prescott model of business cycles was a significant step backward,'' said Robert Gordon, an economist at Northwestern University. 
 The second paper was published at a time when Keynesian theory was in retreat, partly as a result of the stagflation, or rising inflation despite a weak economy, that appeared in the 1970's. Some economists argue that the Prescott-Kydland paper, rather than rule out demand as a cause of business cycle fluctuation, simply added supply shocks as an additional cause.
 ''What they did was layer supply shocks into the description of how the business cycle worked,'' said Achuthan Lakshman, managing director of the Economic Cycle Research Institute. 
 Mr. Gordon argued yesterday that numerous economists had already achieved this integration and the Prescott-Kydland paper followed in their footsteps, with the additional questionable thesis that demand is always optimal.
 Mr. Prescott was asleep at his new home in Tempe, Ariz., when the call about the award came from Sweden.
 ''An important person on the Nobel committee gave me the news at 4 a.m.,'' Mr. Prescott said. He had just returned from a family wedding in San Francisco. His wife had stayed behind and he called her there before dawn. He also tried to reach Mr. Kydland at the university in Santa Barbara. 
 Mr. Prescott said he left a message on an answering machine, not knowing that Mr. Kydland was in Norway giving a guest lecture at his alma mater. In the middle of the lecture, Mr. Kydland was told there was a call from Stockholm and he broke off to take it, Reuters reported. 
 Mr. Kydland and Mr. Prescott began their collaboration at Carnegie Mellon while Mr. Kydland was studying for his Ph.D. and Mr. Prescott was his thesis adviser. ''There were not many graduate students at Carnegie Mellon and they were like colleagues,'' Mr. Prescott said.
 The first paper cited in the Nobel award, titled ''Rules Rather than Discretion: The Inconsistency of Optimal Plans,'' is considered by many economists to be a valid and innovative framework for considering public policy over a wide range -- not only Fed interest rate policy but policies on such matters as building homes on flood plains. 
 If houses go up in such high-risk areas and a flood destroys them, policy makers are faced with the question of whether to provide aid to help the victims rebuild or to let them bear the financial burden of rebuilding. Prescott-Kydland would say it is best not to provide aid, because in the long run it is better if homes are not constructed on flood plains where there is a risk of their being destroyed. While the government typically extends aid, of course, the Prescott-Kydland perspective is a useful tool for examining such policy issues, says Alan Blinder, a Princeton University economist. 
 ''One of the hallmarks of a great intellectual achievement is that it brings into a common framework a wide variety of seemingly different problems,'' Mr. Blinder said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Finn E. Kydland met his collaborator when both were at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh. (Photo by Reuters)
 Edward C. Prescott was asleep when a phone call from Sweden informed him of his award. (Photo by Jeff Topping/Reuters)(pg. C16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOBEL PRIZES (91%); AWARDS & PRIZES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (88%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (87%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RECESSION (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (75%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (70%); INTEREST RATES (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (62%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (50%) Economics; Awards, Decorations and Honors; Nobel Prizes; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF MINNEAPOLIS (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (82%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (82%)

PERSON: Louis Uchitelle; Edward C Prescott; Finn E Kydland

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (90%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (90%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (51%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (90%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) NORWAY (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SWEDEN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004



281 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: Rumsfeld Eyes Base for Rent In Romania

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

DATELINE: CONSTANTA, Romania, Oct. 11 

 BODY:
Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld is looking for some new real estate these days. 
 The Romanian military told him on Monday that it has just what the Pentagon needs: a huge, under-utilized army base next to a sprawling airfield and port; unencumbered training ranges nearby; lying strategically on the Black Sea within a few hours' flight of some of the world's nastiest hot spots; very negotiable terms, and available upon request. 
 After President Bush's announcement in August that the United States would withdraw up to 70,000 troops from Europe and Asia over the next decade in the military's biggest realignment since the end of the cold war, the Pentagon and State Department are scouting out new locations where American forces can operate. They are looking in formerly Communist nations of Eastern Europe, in the Middle East and across Central Asia. 
 Nations like Romania are lining up to offer their facilities in exchange for economic gains and enhanced strategic alliances with Washington. The United States is moving away from big permanent bases in places like Western Europe in favor of agreements with many countries around the globe to use their ports and airfields for training, exercises or quick deployments in a crisis. 
 That is what happened three years ago after the Sept. 11 attacks. The Pentagon was looking for more bases closer to Afghanistan from which to move cargo, materiel and refueling planes, and the Romanians offered the airfield here.
 At the height of the Afghan war and during the Iraq conflict, as many as 3,500 American troops were based here temporarily. About 7,000 American troops flew through here on their way to duty in northern Iraq. No Americans are stationed here now. 
 For those deployments, the American and Romanian governments spent more than $3 million in infrastructure improvements, including building a $900,000 security fence around the base. 
 The Bucharest government has been supportive in other ways, dispatching nearly 600 troops to the NATO-and American-led operations in Afghanistan, and about 700 more to southern Iraq, where they are working alongside British forces. Now the Romanians are trying to nail down a longer-term arrangement. 
 Mr. Rumsfeld, who arrived here after a brief visit to Macedonia and will travel later this week to a NATO meeting at a Romanian ski resort, stopped in to tour the base at the Romanians' invitation and to hear their pitch. By all accounts, Pentagon aides said, it was persuasive. 
 What is perhaps most attractive to Pentagon planners is Constanta's strategic locale, at the crossroads of Europe and Asia, within striking distance of Iraq, Afghanistan and other hot spots. ''It's all about location, location, location,'' said a senior official traveling with Mr. Rumsfeld. 
 Asked as he emerged from his final briefing here whether he had closed any deals, Mr. Rumsfeld shot a smile but said nothing to tip his bargaining hand. It is, after all, a buyer's market for the Pentagon. 
 No decisions have been made, aides said. Specialists from the Defense and State departments, which recently returned from Central Asia, are expected to visit Romania and Bulgaria as early as next month. 
 Romanian officials seemed pleased with their prospects of burnishing an important military partnership and landing what they consider a major new basing deal. 
 Asked if he hoped such an arrangement was in the cards, Defense Minister Ioan Mircea Pascu said in an interview: ''Of course, I hope so, you know. But it's not in our hands.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ARMIES (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); COLD WAR (79%); MILITARY TRAINING (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); RELOCATIONS (74%); RESORTS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); TRENDS (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) United States Armament and Defense; Military Bases and Installations; United States Armament and Defense; Economic Conditions and Trends; Foreign Aid ; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: State Department

PERSON: Eric Schmitt; Donald H (Sec) Rumsfeld; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (90%) UNITED STATES (98%); ROMANIA (97%); EUROPE (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); ASIA (94%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%) Romania; Europe; Middle East; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; Black Sea

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004



282 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1890 words

HEADLINE: Security Grants Still Streaming To Rural States

BYLINE: By DEAN E. MURPHY

DATELINE: ANCHORAGE, Oct. 10 

 BODY:
In the nationwide scramble for domestic security dollars, officials in Alaska are in a predicament that would be the envy of most other states. They must figure out how to spend $2 million in federal money.
 The Department of Homeland Security rejected a proposal by Alaska to use the money to buy a jet, but indicated it would be ''happy to entertain'' further proposals for the $2 million. Officials are now obliging. 
 One of the nation's least populous states, Alaska is flush with domestic security grants, on a per-resident basis second only to Wyoming and about three times the amount allocated to New York over the past two years. 
 Money is so readily available that the Northwest Arctic Borough, a desolate area of 7,300 people that straddles the Arctic Circle, recently stocked up on $233,000 worth of emergency radio equipment, decontamination tents, headlamps, night vision goggles, bullhorns -- even rubber boots.
 Alaska's good fortune highlights what many critics say is a serious failing in the way that America is fighting the battle against terrorism at home. While there is consensus that the threat of an attack should supersede politics as usual, the billions of federal dollars for terrorism preparedness are being doled out to states in much the same way as money for schools, bridges and other routine federal projects.
 Despite repeated efforts in Congress to address the situation -- the latest recently announced by House Republicans -- federal money continues to be distributed by a formula that places a higher value on spreading the wealth among states than on assessing where the risk of a terrorist attack is greatest.
 ''No member wants to go home and say my state didn't get any of the money but you are paying for it,'' said Slade Gorton, a former three-term senator from Washington who was a Republican member of the independent commission that investigated the Sept. 11 attacks. The commission's final report in July harshly criticized the spending pattern, admonishing Congress to ''not use this money as a pork barrel.''
 The administration of Gov. Frank H. Murkowski of Alaska, a Republican, wanted to purchase a jet to help ''defend, deter or defeat opposition forces'' that might threaten the state. ''Security and transportation'' for the governor was another stated priority. But amid complaints by some Democratic state lawmakers that the jet amounted to ''an expensive chariot'' for the governor, the Department of Homeland Security rejected the plan in August.
 Though Democrats and Republicans feuded in Alaska, the bigger battle among states for homeland security spending is not being fought along partisan lines. Gary Winuk, chief deputy director of California's Office of Homeland Security, said that population, not party, had determined how the sides lined up.
 ''It is purely big state-small state,'' Mr. Winuk said. ''Just look at what the small states get.''
 Alaska, which has 649,000 residents, received nearly $92 per resident in security funds over the last two years, compared with states like New York, which received $32; California, which received $22; and Texas and Florida, $21 each, according to a recent survey by the nonpartisan Congressional Research Service. The survey estimated $8.2 billion was allocated in 2003 and 2004 to state and local governments in so-called first responder domestic security assistance programs by the Departments of Homeland Security and Health and Human Services.
 One result is that in the Alaska capital, Juneau, an isolated town of 31,000 that virtually shuts down when the last cruise ship leaves in September, the emergency programs manager says he is awash in federal money. The town has bought or ordered a robot for deactivating bombs, decontamination equipment, night-vision goggles, pharmaceutical stockpiles and a back-up emergency radio system. So far in 2004, Juneau has received $962,000 in security grants, and opportunities for more keep arising.
 ''I don't have to go looking for grants, they are coming to me,'' said the manager, Michael R. Patterson. ''The chief of police said very succinctly, 'I don't need more stuff anymore; I need more people.'''
 Richard Ben-Veniste, who was a Democratic member of the 9/11 commission, said distribution of the funds nationwide had lapsed into a ''general revenue sharing program'' with ''political muscle flexing,'' not terrorism considerations, as the driving force. 
 ''We recognize that it is broken,'' said Mr. Ben-Veniste, adding that some requests for financing ''strain credulity.''
 In an interview last week, Tom Ridge, the homeland security secretary, said that President Bush recently tried to shift money to higher-risk areas but that it was uncertain how Congress would respond. ''We would like to see more of the dollars go toward areas where the population density is greater, where there is more critical infrastructure, and where the threat seems to be higher,'' Mr. Ridge said. 
 Political scholars say the problem is as old as Congress itself. Its origins can be traced to the Constitutional Convention in Philadelphia in 1787, when big states and small states reached the ''Great Compromise'' on how to apportion Congressional representation. 
 The deal resulted in a lower house apportioned by population and an upper house that gave the states an equal voice. That system has allowed smaller states to demand a piece of almost everything over the past two centuries, and the latest pot of gold -- domestic security dollars -- is no exception.
 A provision in the USA Patriot Act passed by Congress in 2001 guaranteed each state at least 0.75 percent of the total in terrorism preparedness grants for states and a minimum allocation for some territories as well, locking up nearly 40 percent of the money, according to a study by the House Select Committee on Homeland Security. The rest of the grants for states have been allocated based on a state's percentage of the national population. 
 ''It is the price we pay for the kind of federal system we have,'' said Gerald A. McBeath, a professor of political science at the University of Alaska in Fairbanks. ''It creates an opportunity that a state like Alaska gets all that it does. It is nice for Alaska, but from a national perspective it is not justifiable.''
 Alaska has a particularly storied history of working the system, typically drawing more federal dollars per person than even the District of Columbia, Professor McBeath said. He attributes that success in recent decades to the political clout of Senator Ted Stevens, who is chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee and the Senate's senior Republican, having held the seat since 1968.
 The other states with the highest per-resident spending of domestic security funds are also rural states with a single Congressional district: Wyoming, North Dakota, South Dakota and Vermont. Together, these five states have a population of 3.2 million, about one-third that of Los Angeles County, one of many urban jurisdictions that would benefit from a formula based on risk because of its big ports and other potential targets. 
 The downside of the current arrangement is so apparent that even some beneficiaries have voiced objections. Lloyd B. Omdahl, a former lieutenant governor in North Dakota, said it made no sense that his state was among the domestic security winners -- the state received $91 for each resident over the last two years -- when the only plausible terrorist targets, he said, are two air bases that are already protected by the military.
 Mr. Omdahl, a Democrat who is a professor emeritus at the University of North Dakota, said the fight against terrorism had not resonated with enough Americans to cause a public outcry for change. Short of that, he said, there is no incentive for elected representatives to rock the boat.
 ''No amount of logic will change opinions under those circumstances,'' Mr. Omdahl said. 
 Mr. Ben-Veniste said the 9/11 commission was advised that it would be difficult to change the status quo, both in terms of moving toward a risk-based financing formula and, in a related matter, limiting oversight of domestic security functions in Congress. Currently, more than 80 committees and subcommittees have some say in the matter, he said.
 ''Members of Congress privately told us that there was no way that they could achieve these reforms on their own, without some external force making the argument,'' Mr. Ben-Veniste said. ''The notion of those with authority ceding authority is more or less equivalent to the notion of water running uphill.''
 Some scholars of Congress are doubtful that the formula will change. Frances E. Lee, an associate professor of government and politics at the University of Maryland, said that the last time Congress suspended the traditional guarantees for small states on a major spending program was in 1956, when it authorized $31.5 billion over 13 years to construct the interstate highway system.
 Professor Lee, an author of the book, ''Sizing up the Senate: The Unequal Consequences of Equal Representation,'' said one difficulty was that larger states often gave up fighting over the money. Because the amounts involved mean much more to the smaller states, she said, they have a greater incentive to hold their ground. In Alaska, for example, the $54.9 million it received in first-responder grants in 2003 and 2004 is a small fraction of the $777.6 million awarded to California, the most populous state.
 Yet solving the problem is not as simple as taking money away from Alaska and giving it to California, as some of the most populous states would like. Population, many argue, is an equally imperfect measure of need, because potential threats vary greatly from one urban area to another. 
 Former Senator Gorton said there were serious concerns that small states would be left vulnerable if money was funneled only to the most threatened. ''If you harden some targets, you soften others,'' he said, suggesting that terrorists would go shopping for targets in states where there was less protection.
 That is the argument made in sparsely populated areas of Alaska. Mr. Patterson, the emergency programs manager in Juneau, said it was overly simplistic to assume that rural states were undeserving. 
 Mr. Patterson said Juneau received about 880,000 tourists each year, mostly passengers on cruise ships. The Coast Guard, he said, requires that the town have an emergency plan to deal with an attack involving the ships, and that, he said, costs money.
 ''You have to understand that larger communities have historically been the economic power base and are used to bullying their way around and getting 95 percent of the pie all of the time,'' Mr. Patterson said. ''It makes them mad when they only get 90 percent.''
 Even critics of the proposed jet purchase were quick to defend Alaska's disproportionate share of federal dollars, noting the vast federal holdings in the state and the economic significance of the Trans-Alaska Pipeline. 
 William Tandeske, the state's commissioner of public safety, said the state truly needed the jet, but even its rejection should not be fodder for Alaska's critics. ''If you thought the request was inappropriate, then the system worked,'' he said. ''The extra level of scrutiny resulted in a denial of it.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Storage tanks at the Trans-Alaska Pipeline terminal in Valdez. The pipeline is cited as one reason the state needs domestic security money. (Photo by Al Grillo/Associated Press)
 Firefighter Mike Mathers of Fairbanks, Alaska, with a stairway chair bought with federal money. (Photo by Charles Mason for The New York Times)(pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (74%); EDUCATION FUNDING (73%); POLITICS (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); NIGHT VISION DEVICES (53%); BROADCAST EQUIPMENT (53%) Terrorism; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Security and Warning Systems; States (US) ; Terrorism; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (84%) Homeland Security Department

PERSON: LISA MURKOWSKI (58%) Dean E Murphy

GEOGRAPHIC: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%); FAIRBANKS, AK, USA (73%) ALASKA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); ARCTIC (73%) United States; Alaska; Wyoming; New York State

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004



283 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: Growth Pace Slackens in Singapore

BYLINE: By WAYNE ARNOLD

DATELINE: SINGAPORE, Oct. 11 

 BODY:
Singapore's economy slowed unexpectedly in the third quarter, according to preliminary government estimates, as it eased out of a yearlong sprint of recovery from last year's deadly outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome.
 After posting double-digit growth rates for four consecutive quarters, Singapore's gross domestic product slowed to a 7.7 percent pace from 12.5 percent in the second quarter, the minister of trade and industry said on Monday. Growth fell 2.3 percent in the third quarter from the second quarter.
 The island-state still predicts that its economy will grow 8 percent to 9 percent this year. Economists had expected a slowdown once the economy bounced back from the effects of the SARS outbreak in the first half of 2003. 
 But the sudden contraction left economists divided over Monday's data. While some said the economy was merely settling into a more sustainable pace, others said Singapore appeared to be succumbing to a downdraft in the global economy. Slowing growth in China and anemic job creation in the United States, they said, were not only reducing export demand, but were also damping consumer sentiment across Asia.
 ''Singapore, being dependent on external demand, is held for ransom,'' said Joseph Tan, an economist at Standard Chartered Bank in Singapore. The country is the world's largest container port and depends on exports more than any other Asian nation.
 Singapore's central bank, the Monetary Authority, said on Monday that growth in 2005 was likely to slow even more, to 3 percent to 5 percent. Oil prices so far this year appeared to have had little effect on growth, economists said, but government officials have warned that record prices for fuel could damp growth next year.
 The third-quarter slowdown brought into sharper relief the longer-term economic challenges that face Singapore. China's rise as a manufacturing giant has challenged Singapore's role as a high-technology manufacturing center, leaving more of its four million people out of work.
 ''The economy is only generating half the number of jobs it used to,'' said Song Seng Wun, regional economist at G.K. Goh Research. Unemployment stands at 4.5 percent.
 Singapore's government has responded by pushing industry into even higher levels of technological sophistication and prodding citizens to forsake an assembly-line mentality for more creative endeavors, biomedical research and entrepreneurial ventures.
 Part of the long-range planning involves arresting Singapore's declining birthrate. In addition to providing incentives for having children, the government has quietly loosened restrictions on immigration, particularly for highly educated foreigners in industries like life sciences. Schools are giving greater access to children of expatriates and local universities plan to begin accepting foreign students willing to pay full tuition. 
 In the meantime, Singapore is trying to lure both tourists and residents by reversing its image as an uptight, boring company town. Censors recently lifted bans on the magazine Cosmopolitan and allowed a censored version of the television series ''Sex and the City'' to be broadcast here. There is talk that a large casino may be built.
 Pharmaceuticals play a major role in Singapore's economic overhaul. The country's planners have been luring drug companies to base production and research here to offset the country's traditional dependence on electronics exports. 
 But success in attracting pharmaceutical investments has proved a double-edged sword. Drug factories employ relatively few people and cannot make up for the jobs lost in electronics manufacturing, economists say. 
 Drugs have also proved a volatile component of Singapore's economy, with growth rates fluctuating from one month to the next as pharmaceutical factories halt production to clean out their vats and then start producing a new batch of drugs.
 The ministry blamed this phenomenon for the slower growth in manufacturing in the third quarter. The manufacturing sector, which accounts for roughly one-third of the economy, grew 12.5 percent in the third quarter from the year before, slowing from 20.6 percent year-on-year growth in the second quarter. It said electronics and chemicals showed much stronger growth in the third quarter. And the latest data does not include the potential impact of Merck's decision late last month to pull the painkiller Vioxx from the market. 
 The Merck factory in Singapore makes an unknown portion of the active ingredient for Vioxx and stopped production immediately after the announcement, according to a spokesman, Ong See Hee. The plant was already scheduled to switch production next year from Vioxx to the active ingredient for the arthritis drug Arcoxia, he said, but will now miss three months of production.
 By contrast, the services sector is a bigger source of jobs, employing as many people as all Singapore's manufacturers combined. Tourism-related industries account for just 5 percent of the economy, but employ a disproportionately large number of Singaporeans. 
 The services sector, however, also slowed in the quarter, the ministry said, to 7.2 percent year on year from 11.5 percent in the previous quarter. The ministry said growth in visitor arrivals slowed, reducing income growth at hotels and restaurants. 
 Tourism data has also swung wildly because of the effects of SARS. According to Singapore's Tourism Board, visitor arrivals rose 48 percent in July from the year-ago month and by 24 percent in August, led by an increase in tourists from Indonesia and China. That seems impressive until compared with the numbers for June, when visitor arrivals more than doubled, or May when they nearly quadrupled as tourists returned after the SARS scare of 2003.
 While the number of tourists is rising, economists say visitors are spending less time and less money in Singapore before hopping somewhere else. High oil prices, moreover, are likely to force airlines to raise fares, which will curtail demand, they said.
 Still, some economists said the economic data was not cause for alarm. Growth rates in the United States are still high enough to support Asian export markets, said Tim Condon, head of financial markets at ING here.
 ''Obviously, if the U.S. falls off the cliff, Singapore won't be spared,'' he said. In the meantime, ''the potential is there for upside surprises.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The docks in Singapore, the world's largest container port. Singapore depends on exports more than any country in Asia. (Photo by Wong Maye-e/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); SARS (90%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); JOB CREATION (72%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (70%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); GLOBALIZATION (68%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (67%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (62%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (62%); TUITION FEES (60%); IMMIGRATION (60%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (60%); BIOMEDICINE (60%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (60%) Gross Domestic Product; Economic Conditions and Trends

COMPANY: STANDARD CHARTERED AUSTRALIA LTD (55%); STANDARD CHARTERED BANK ZIMBABWE LTD (55%); STANDARD CHARTERED BANK (THAI) PCL (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (55%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (55%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%)

PERSON: Wayne Arnold

GEOGRAPHIC: SINGAPORE (99%); ASIA (93%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) Singapore

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004



284 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: Shares Edge Up as Investors Anticipate Earnings Reports

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Stocks drifted higher yesterday, brushing aside another record high for oil prices amid hopes that third-quarter profit reports will override worries about a struggling economic recovery.
 With no major economic or earnings data to steer market sentiment on Columbus Day, and with the United States Treasury bond market closed, investors appeared to be betting that the quarterly reporting season might divert attention from Friday's disappointing employment report and rising fuel costs. 
 Analysts were skeptical, however, that the market could build much momentum on profit news alone without some resolution of other concerns. 
 ''The big troika here is economic data, oil and the election, and those things are keeping a stranglehold on the market,'' said David D. Legeay, investment strategist for McDonald Financial Group. ''Barring anything to the extreme in earnings season, we're just in a market now that will move sideways and in concert with economics, whether jobs data or retail sales data,'' and with energy prices, he said.
 Stocks managed to hold their modest gains even as oil futures pushed toward $54 a barrel. Contracts for next month's shipments rose 33 cents a barrel, to $53.64, on the New York Mercantile Exchange as a strike began in Nigeria, Africa's largest exporter of crude oil, adding to supply concerns at a time when hurricanes have reduced output in the Gulf of Mexico.
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 26.77 points, or 0.3 percent, to 10,081.97, a modest rebound following a drop of 1.35 percent last week.
 Broader market measures also posted modest gains. The Nasdaq composite index rose 8.79 points, or half a percent, to 1,928.76, while the S.&P. 500-stock index rose 2.25 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,124.39.
 The biggest movers among the Dow 30 were Home Depot, up $1.05 to $40.07; Altria, up 50 cents, to $47.01; and American International Group, up 58 cents, to $67.48. Drug makers also lifted the Dow, with Merck rising 39 cents, to $30.74, and Pfizer rising 51 cents, to $30.31. 
 Despite a spate of worrisome earnings previews over the last month, Wall Street expects the companies in the S.&P. 500 to show at least a 10 percent increase in profit from a year ago, and the newly tempered outlook may allow most of the reports to exceed Wall Street forecasts.
 But even with a strong showing, third-quarter profits are expected to come in lower than the second quarter's results, breaking a string of six straight quarters with improving profits.
 The stall in earnings growth in the last quarter ''has been accompanied by a stall in the equity market,'' said Ed Keon, chief investment strategist for Prudential Financial, in a note to investors yesterday. ''We doubt that this is a coincidence. We think that growth will be hard to come by for the next several quarters.''
 The reporting season will hit full stride today with updates from Intel, Yahoo and Merrill Lynch. Big names reporting later in the week include General Motors and Citigroup. In all, more than 100 companies are scheduled to report by week's end.
 Advancing and declining issues were nearly even on the New York Stock Exchange, while decliners held a small lead on the Nasdaq stock market. Volume was light, with many traders taking a long holiday weekend.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Table: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BONDS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); FUTURES (79%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); FUEL MARKETS (77%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); WEATHER (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (72%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (66%); RETAIL SALES (53%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (64%); ALTRIA GROUP INC (53%); PFIZER INC (52%); PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (64%); 8685 (TSE) (64%); MO (NYSE) (53%); PFZ (LSE) (52%); PFEB (BRU) (52%); PFE (NYSE) (52%); PRU (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (64%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (64%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (53%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (52%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (52%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (52%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (50%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (50%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (50%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); NIGERIA (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004



285 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1383 words

HEADLINE: Eggs and Charges Fly in Ukraine's Ever-Nastier Election

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS

DATELINE: KIEV, Ukraine, Oct. 7 

 BODY:
One leading candidate has been debilitated by what he said was an attempt to poison him. A thrown egg did more than smear the coat of another. A mysteriously rescheduled military parade has fueled rumors of plans for a state of emergency. Attack ads have explored the depths of what is known here as ''black propaganda.''
 ''It's like 'The Matrix,''' said Andrei Gurin, who was not the only voter here to describe Ukraine's presidential campaign as something close to cinematic. ''Nothing to trust, nothing to believe.''
 President Leonid D. Kuchma's decision not to seek a third five-year term -- after maneuvering to change the Constitution to allow it, if he wanted to -- has opened a fierce and increasingly nasty presidential campaign. The leading candidates are offering starkly different visions, especially in foreign relations. 
 With Election Day less than a month away, on Oct. 31, polls suggest a tight race between the most prominent of two dozen candidates: Viktor A. Yushchenko, a former prime minister and now the leader of the anti-Kuchma opposition, and Viktor F. Yanukovich, the current prime minister, who promises to carry out much of Mr. Kuchma's legacy.
 Neither front-runner is expected to win an outright majority. A runoff is scheduled for Nov. 21. 
 The race has turned farcical at times and ominous at others. But it is one of the most competitive in a former Soviet state, and its outcome could significantly alter the course of this country with 47 million people at an important crossroads of Europe.
 Mr. Yushchenko, who appears to hold a slight lead in the polls, has promised to steer Ukraine toward a more open and democratic society, ending what he calls the cronyism and corruption of Mr. Kuchma's 10 years in power. 
 He vows to improve economic and political relations with the European Union and NATO, while withdrawing Ukraine's 1,600 troops from Iraq. Like many here, he argues that Mr. Kuchma dispatched the force largely to improve tattered ties with the Bush administration.
 Mr. Yanukovich's economic and social pledges echo his opponent's, but in his view Ukraine's future depends on closer relations with Russia, the country's largest trading partner. He remains more reserved about Europe and the United States, but has said he would not withdraw Ukrainian troops from Iraq until democratic elections are held there.
 ''Whoever is the victor, the direction will be clear,'' said Yuliya V. Tymoshenko, a supporter of Mr. Yushchenko's who criticized President Kuchma's alternating efforts to improve relations with the West and then with Russia. ''At least a choice will be made. We are tired of the president and his team pulling the compass of foreign policy everywhere.''
 Each side has used foreign policy to attack the other. Posters found in a warehouse and confiscated by Mr. Yushchenko's supporters last week depicted the candidate as a tool of the United States. One showed President Bush riding Ukraine like a horse under Mr. Yushchenko's campaign logo.
 Mr. Yushchenko's supporters in turn deride Mr. Yanukovich, accusing him of seeking to appease Russia. [Mr. Yanukovich gave his opponents ammunition with a trip to Moscow that included a meeting on Saturday with President Vladimir V. Putin, who all but endorsed his candidacy.]
 Whether the candidates' competing visions decide the vote remains very much an open question, largely because they have been overshadowed by the strange twists of the campaign.
 Mr. Yushchenko has spent much of the last month in a hospital in Austria, after falling ill on Sept. 6 from what he and his supporters called an attempt to poison him. After returning to Kiev to resume campaigning on Sept. 18, he accused Mr. Kuchma's government of an assassination attempt.
 ''You will not poison us,'' he said to the government at a large rally of supporters in Kiev that day. ''You do not have enough bullets and trucks to break us.''
 On Sept. 30, however, he returned to Austria for treatment of his ailments, including paralysis in the left side of his face. ''The illness is much worse than we thought,'' Oleksandr O. Zinchenko, a member of Parliament and chairman of Mr. Yushchenko's campaign, said in an interview.
 [Mr. Yushchenko returned to Ukraine only on Sunday night, appearing wan and visibly weakened in Lviv, the western city where his support is deepest, according to televised reports. On Monday, he returned to the campaign trail in Kiev. ''I am alive, I am O.K., and I am back,'' he told a large crowd of supporters.]
 In his absence, surrogates have stumped on his behalf, even as Parliament, controlled by a coalition opposed to Mr. Kuchma, authorized an investigation into his accusations. The hospital in Vienna, Rudolfinerhaus, first issued a statement discounting the possibility of poisoning, only to retract it, saying it was impossible to rule it out.
 Then the chairman of Parliament's investigation committee, Volodimir Sivkovich, stunned Mr. Yushchenko's supporters by declaring before Parliament that there was no evidence to suggest an assassination attempt, although he did not rule out that Mr. Yushchenko might have been poisoned. He said in an interview that ''neither Yushchenko nor his headquarters had any legal right to say that someone made an attempt on his life.''
 ''In our country there are a lot of lies, more than any other country in the world,'' Mr. Sivkovich said.
 Mr. Yanukovich's supporters have leveled their own accusations of an attempted assassination. On Sept. 24, Mr. Yanukovich collapsed while campaigning in Ivano-Frankivsk. His aides said at the time that he had been struck in the head by a blunt object and blamed radicals supporting Mr. Yushchenko.
 A video, however, clearly shows that an egg struck him in the chest as he stepped off his campaign bus. After two or three seconds, he clutched his chest and collapsed into the arms of his aides, who whisked him to a hospital, although he appeared to have been unhurt.
 The attack, like all of Mr. Yanukovich's campaign events, received prominent attention on the country's television networks, all but one of which is owned or controlled by the government. That has prompted accusations that the government is using all its resources to favor Mr. Yanukovich. A parade to celebrate the 60th anniversary of Kiev's liberation from Nazi Germany on Nov. 6, 1944, has been moved forward to Oct. 28, three days before the election. Opponents see that as an election ploy or, worse, evidence for a military crackdown.
 Sergei L. Vasiliyev, chief spokesman for Mr. Kuchma's administration, insisted that the election would be free and fair. ''We do not have an experience with any other kind,'' he said, referring to the country's post-Soviet presidential elections. He said Mr. Yanukovich's dominance in news reports reflected his official duties as prime minister.
 The egg attack appears to have engendered little sympathy, prompting ridicule and at least one pointed joke. A grandmother goes to the market, the joke goes, and when finished with her shopping sees an official portrait of Mr. Yanukovich. ''Oy,'' she says, ''I forgot to buy eggs.''
 Mr. Yanukovich's opponents have made accusations of serious violations of election laws, though, as have Ukrainian and international election observers. The Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe reported recently that campaign events have been disrupted, while students and public employees have been pressure to support Mr. Yanukovich's candidacy.
 Oleksandr O. Moroz, a member of Parliament and the Socialist Party candidate for president, accused the government of ''seriously preparing for falsifying the results'' on Mr. Yanukovich's behalf. He said Mr. Kuchma might even cancel the election outright, if Mr. Yanukovich risked losing. Mr. Vasiliyev, the presidential spokesman, called that ''complete nonsense.''
 Mr. Moroz, who trails distantly in the polls, said the furies surrounding the campaign had obscured the country's serious problems. They include, he said in an interview in his office, social inequities, an economy controlled by a handful of tycoons close to the government, corruption and what he called ''state criminality'' under Mr. Kuchma. He called the election an important choice for Ukraine.
 ''People,'' he said, ''are tired of scandals.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: In Kiev, the face of Viktor F. Yanukovich, the current prime minister, who promises to carry out the legacy of President Leonid D. Kuchma.
 Posters of Viktor A. Yushchenko, a presidential candidate in Ukraine, on a billboard near Kiev, the capital. (Photographs by James Hill for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); PARADES & MARCHES (77%); ARMED FORCES (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (65%); CORRUPTION (62%) Elections; Politics and Government

PERSON: VIKTOR YUSHCHENKO (91%); YULIA TYMOSHENKO (51%) Steven Lee Myers; Leonid D (Pres) Kuchma; Viktor Yushchenko; Viktor F (Prime Min) Yanukovich

GEOGRAPHIC: KIYEV, UKRAINE (93%) UKRAINE (99%); EUROPE (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) Ukraine; Ukraine

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004



286 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1765 words

HEADLINE: Selling Prescription Drugs to the Consumer

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT and NAT IVES; Milt Freudenheim contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
When Emily Martin was hospitalized for emergency gallbladder surgery last summer, her doctors found that she also had acid reflux, causing erosion of her esophagus. 
 ''My stomach was very unsettled,'' said Ms. Martin, a 26-year-old mother in Oradell, N.J. So she asked her doctor for Nexium, the ''purple pill'' that is the nation's most widely advertised prescription drug. ''I saw the commercial and they showed people talking about immediate and miracle relief,'' she said. 
 It has worked, without side effects, said Ms. Martin, who pays only a $30 monthly insurance co-payment for Nexium, which can cost $200 a month or more. 
 Patients like Ms. Fleming are why the pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca spent nearly $260 million on television and other mass-media advertising aimed at Nexium users last year. 
 Approved by the Food and Drug Administration in 2001 as a treatment for severe acid reflux disease, Nexium is now so commonly prescribed for heartburn and indigestion symptoms that it has become one of the nation's best-selling drugs, with United States sales last year of $3.1 billion -- even though many medical experts say that for most patients, cheaper over-the-counter heartburn remedies may work just as well. 
 The issue of drug advertising directly aimed at consumers was thrust into the news recently when Merck withdrew its arthritis painkiller Vioxx from the market, citing studies indicating a risk of heart attacks or strokes. Critics noted the role that advertising and marketing played in the drug's being widely prescribed to patients who might have done just as well with ibuprofen or other inexpensive over-the-counter remedies. 
 Vioxx, whatever its safety risks, was hardly unique as a prescription drug that became a best seller on the strength of advertising aimed directly at consumers. In the seven years since the F.D.A. lifted longstanding strictures against such ads, prescription drug advertising has grown into a $3.8-billion-a-year business. And the F.D.A. says that, despite the controversy accompanying the withdrawal of Vioxx, it has no plans to place new curbs on such ads. 
 Nexium is typical of the brand-building trend. No one is arguing that the drug poses serious health risks, beyond a slight chance of side effects like headaches and flatulence. Despite clear beneficiaries like Emily Martin, though, many medical experts say most patients would do just as well with various cheaper over-the-counter remedies for indigestion and heartburn, including AstraZeneca's own Prilosec -- a chemically similar predecessor that no longer requires a prescription and sells for $40 a month or less. 
 ''Nexium is no more effective than Prilosec,'' said Dr. Sharon Levine, an executive with Kaiser Permanente, the nation's largest health maintenance organization. ''I'm surprised anyone has ever written a prescription for Nexium.''
 AstraZeneca, a British-based company, says that it is unfazed by the critics and that the Vioxx backlash would have no effect on its own consumer advertising for Nexium or other drugs. ''We're moving forward undeterred,'' said Jim Coyne, a spokesman for the company, whose American division has its headquarters in Wilmington, Del. ''We've got adequate support for what we say in the ads.'' 
 During last Tuesday's debate between the vice-presidential candidates, Senator John Edwards, the Democratic nominee, re-emphasized his criticism of drug advertising. Mr. Edwards said that if he and Senator John Kerry were elected, they would ''do something about these drug-company ads on television, which are out of control.'' 
 The Kerry-Edwards campaign blames the ad-driven demand for pushing up spending on pricey drugs, which contribute to double-digit inflation in the nation's health care costs. Because prescription drugs are often covered by health insurance plans, many patients who take Nexium are making only a small co-payment for their prescriptions, with the insurer picking up the balance. 
 Megan Houk, deputy policy director for the Bush-Cheney campaign, accused the Democratic candidates of exaggerating the issue, saying that a 2002 report by the General Accounting Office showed that the drug industry spent far more providing free samples of drugs to doctors than in advertising to consumers. The ads, she said, provide useful information to the public. 
 ''This administration's position is that all Americans need to get as much information as they can to make informed decisions, with their doctors, about their health care treatment,'' Ms. Houk said.
 And an F.D.A. spokeswoman, Crystal Rice, said late last week, ''There are no additional changes expected at this time in light of the Vioxx withdrawal.'' 
 In fact, the agency is already studying a proposal aimed at further loosening the rules. It would allow drug makers to simplify magazine and newspaper ads that are now required to list detailed data about benefits and risks -- often rendered in tiny type.
 The change would permit the print ads to be more reader-friendly, concentrating on the most important or common side effects, for instance, by summarizing the risks in larger type, highlighted with typographical symbols. 
 The research firm Nielsen Monitor-Plus estimates that AstraZeneca spent $257 million last year on consumer advertising for Nexium. Of that, the biggest part went to television commercials, largely on broadcast and cable news programs, followed by spending on consumer magazine ads in Time, Newsweek and elsewhere. 
 That is a huge ad budget for a product of any type, larger than for brands like Olay skin-care products and Tylenol pain relievers and just below the spending for the Acura and Saturn lines of automobiles. 
 The spending helped raise Nexium's sales by 58 percent from a year earlier, moving to No. 7 among all prescription drugs sold in the United States, according to the research firm IMS Health. 
 Nexium has been such a marketing success that the current issue of the trade publication Brandweek identified the AstraZeneca team overseeing both Nexium and Prilosec as among the top 10 marketers of the year, on a list headed by the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority.
 Such a level of advertising can be offputting even to some Nexium patients, like Margaret Taulane, a legal assistant in Huntingdon Valley, Pa., who takes the drug for what she described as long-term digestive problems. 
 ''I sit here every night at 6:30 and see 'the purple pill' on the news, and it's being spoon-fed to the American public like it's candy,'' Ms. Taulane said. ''Nexium is expensive.'' She said her BlueCross/Blue Shield insurance plan covered her prescriptions, except for a $5 co-payment. Ms. Taulane originally took Prilosec while it was still a prescription drug, but then another doctor ''switched me over to Nexium.'' 
 The ''purple pill'' consumer advertising for Nexium was created by the Saatchi & Saatchi Healthcare agency in New York, part of the Publicis Groupe. The campaign was updated last month with new TV commercials, featuring the actor and singer James Naughton. 
 ''Hey, with Nexium you just don't feel better, you are better,'' asserts Mr. Naughton, who had previously been featured in Jeep commercials. ''And better is better.'' 
 Nick Colucci, president and chief operating officer of Publicis Healthcare, said he could not discuss specific clients or campaigns. But generally, he said, ''as long as the companies are responsible in communicating,'' direct-to-consumer drug ads are useful because ''people are demanding more information about health care, to be empowered to make the right decisions.''
 Dr. David A. Kessler, who was the F.D.A. commissioner from late 1990 through 1996 and left before the agency relaxed the advertising rules, said that consumer-directed drug advertising ''works best if the benefits of use outweigh the risks of overuse.'' 
 But too many of the campaigns aimed at consumers are ''about increasing use, which is about increasing sales,'' said Dr. Kessler, who is now dean of the school of medicine at the University of California, San Francisco. ''In certain instances, like drugs lowering cholesterol or vaccines, that may be in the public's interest,'' while in others, like drugs for pain, stomach ailments or allergies, ''it may not be,'' he said, declining to mention any specific drugs.
 Many doctors are unlikely to say no to patients who come to them requesting a certain prescription drug by name, as long as it does not seem wholly inappropriate for the condition. Doctors either do not want to alienate patients who can take their business elsewhere, or are often too pressed for time under insurance payment rules to explore fully the alternative treatments.
 So even if a patient with frequent indigestion might benefit from an off-the-shelf product -- or by better eating and drinking habits -- if that patient asks for Nexium, he is likely to get it.
 ''Patients say, I have a prescription benefit on my insurance, why should I pay for it over the counter?" said Dr. Mary Frank, a family physician in Rohnert Park, Calif. ''Until we address that with the public, we are never going to answer the Nexium-versus-Prilosec question.''
 People involved in consumer drug marketing, meanwhile, are preparing for repercussions from the withdrawal of Vioxx. 
 Vioxx ''is going to be held up as the most recent poster child for why direct-to-consumer should not continue, or continue in sharply limited fashion,'' said Stuart Klein, president of the Quantum Group in Parsippany, N.J., a health care ad agency that is owned by the WPP Group and creates campaigns for some other AstraZeneca drugs and for GlaxoSmithKline. 
 The critics will fail, Mr. Klein said, because ''the series of regulatory checks, both internally at our clients and externally at the Food and Drug Administration'' mean ''the advertising is vetted unlike that in any other industry I've worked in.''
 Dr. Eric Christoff of the Northwestern Memorial Physicians Group at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago remains unconvinced that consumer drug advertising is in the public interest.
 ''I am not one of those doctors who goes around whining about direct-to-consumer because it somehow usurps my 'authority' with my patients,'' he said in an e-mail message. ''The real problem is that it does promote overuse of some drugs, especially those that are newer, without the long track record of safety.''
 And ''there is no reason,'' Dr. Christoff said, ''despite AstraZeneca's claims to providers and patients, to pay $200 a month for Nexium, when Prilosec over the counter is $45 at Costco.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Direct advertising of drugs to consumers, like these ads for the acid reflux remedy Nexium, was approved by the F.D.A. in 1997 and the rules may be relaxed.Chart: ''Household Names''Most heavily promoted drugs, based on total consumer advertising in 2003.NexiumCONDITION TREATED: Acid refluxCOMPANY: AstraZenecaCONSUMER ADVERTISING, IN MILLIONS: U$257.S. SALES FOR 12 MONTHS ENDED JUNE 2004, EXCEPT AS NOTED, IN BILLIONS: $3.4PrevacidCONDITION TREATED: Acid refluxCOMPANY: TAP PharmaceuticalsCONSUMER ADVERTISING, IN MILLIONS: 133U.S. SALES FOR 12 MONTHS ENDED JUNE 2004, EXCEPT AS NOTED, IN BILLIONS: 3.9SingulairCONDITION TREATED: AsthmaCOMPANY: MerckCONSUMER ADVERTISING, IN MILLIONS: 131U.S. SALES FOR 12 MONTHS ENDED JUNE 2004, EXCEPT AS NOTED, IN BILLIONS: 2.0ClarinexCONDITION TREATED: AllergiesCOMPANY: Schering-PloughCONSUMER ADVERTISING, IN MILLIONS: 129U.S. SALES FOR 12 MONTHS ENDED JUNE 2004, EXCEPT AS NOTED, IN BILLIONS: 0.7*AllegraCONDITION TREATED: AllergiesCOMPANY: AventisCONSUMER ADVERTISING, IN MILLIONS: 126U.S. SALES FOR 12 MONTHS ENDED JUNE 2004, EXCEPT AS NOTED, IN BILLIONS: 1.6**Figures are for 2003(Sources by Nielsen Monitor-Plus
 IMS Health) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (91%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (90%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (90%); ANALGESICS (90%); PAIN MANAGEMENT (90%); DIRECT TO CONSUMER DRUG MARKETING (90%); GASTROESOPHAGEAL REFLUX DISEASE (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); ARTHRITIS (90%); GASTROINTESTINAL DISORDERS (90%); GASTROINTESTINAL AGENTS (90%); OVER-THE-COUNTER DRUGS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); HEART DISEASE (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); STROKES (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); DEREGULATION (74%); EROSION (73%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (71%); ELECTIONS (71%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (70%); US FDA APPROVALS (69%); BRANDING (68%); PRODUCT RECALLS (59%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (50%) Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Advertising and Marketing; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Arthritis and Rheumatism; Vioxx (Drug); Recalls and Bans of Products; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Debating; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Ibuprofen (Drug); Heart; Stroke; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Television

COMPANY: ASTRAZENECA PLC (92%); KAISER PERMANENTE (84%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (91%) Merck & Co; Food and Drug Administration

TICKER: AZN (STO) (92%); AZN (NYSE) (92%); AZN (LSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (92%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (84%)

PERSON: Stuart Elliott; Nat Ives; George W (Pres) Bush; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney; John (Sen) Kerry; John (Sen) Edwards; Megan Houk

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004



287 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: Not Just a Personality Clash, It's a Conflict of Visions

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS. 
E-mail: dabrooks@nytimes.com

 BODY:
On Sunday I went for a walk in the country, past some extremely skittish cows, and gazed at a wide-open valley without a single building in sight. Then I drove home to my little patch of Blue America, with the traffic getting progressively worse, and the population densities getting higher. I was struck again by how powerfully the physical landscape influences our view of politics and the world.
 We're used to this in the realm of domestic politics. Politicians from the more sparsely populated South and West are more likely, at least in the political and economic realms, to champion the Goldwateresque virtues: freedom, self-sufficiency, individualism. Politicians from the cities are likely to champion the Ted Kennedyesque virtues: social justice, tolerance, interdependence. 
 Politicians from sparsely populated areas are more likely to say they want government off people's backs so they can run their own lives. Politicians from denser areas are more likely to want government to play at least a refereeing role, to keep people from bumping into one another too abusively.
 Neither group lives up to its ideals with perfect consistency, but this is what both groups say.
 I wonder whether this tension also explains the argument we're now having about foreign affairs. 
 In the current issue of The Weekly Standard, Adam Wolfson argues that the foreign policy debate between George Bush and John Kerry is really a conflict between two values: freedom and internationalism. 
 That's a clarifying insight. When Bush talks about the world he hopes to create, he talks first about spreading freedom. What he's really talking about is a decentralized world. Individuals would be free to live as they chose, in their own nations, carving out their own destinies.
 The optimism built into this vision is that free people would be able to live in basic harmony. There would not need to be any central authority governing their interactions. Indeed, Bushian conservatives talk about central global authorities like the U.N. the way they talk about Washington -- as places where venal elites gather to serve their own interests.
 When Kerry talks about the world he hopes to create, he talks first about alliances and multilateral cooperation. He's really talking about a crowded world. People from different nations would gather to work out differences and manage problems.
 The optimism built into this vision is that nations will sometimes be able to set aside their rivalries and narrow self-interests and work cooperatively to thwart the sorts of global threats posed by Saddam Hussein, or genocides like the one in Sudan. Kerryesque liberals are concerned by the possibility that some nations will go off and behave individualistically or, as they say, unilaterally.
 Put this way, the argument we are having about international relations is the same argument we are having about domestic affairs, just on a larger scale. It's a conflict between two value systems. One is based on a presumption of a world in which individuals and nations should be self-reliant and free to develop their own capacities -- forming voluntary associations when they want -- without being overly coerced by national or global elites. The other is based on the presumption of a crowded world, which emphasizes that no individual or nation can go off and do as it pleases, but should work instead within governing institutions that establish norms and provide security.
 This formulation explains why Bush's foreign policy is not an aberration of conservatism, as Pat Buchanan and the other paleocons argue, but is actually its fruition. This formulation also explains why, in The Times Magazine on Sunday, Kerry compared terrorism to domestic organized crime, gambling and prostitution. In his mind there should exist an effective body of international law. It is a law enforcement problem when some group violates that law.
 Seen in these terms, this election is not just a conflict of two men, but is a comprehensive conflict of visions. Both these visions have been bloodied of late. Still, they do address the central issue confronting us: How do we conceive of an international order in the post-9/11 world? Bush, the conservative, conceives of a flexible, organic, spontaneous order. Kerry, the liberal, conceives of a more rationalist, planned and managed order.
 This debate could go on for a while since both sides represent legitimate points of view, and since both sides have concrete reasons to take the positions they do. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POPULATION DENSITY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); ELECTIONS (75%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (74%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (70%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (69%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (65%) United States International Relations; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; United States International Relations

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (77%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%) David Brooks; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SUDAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004



288 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Is Pressing Donors to Speed Aid for Iraq

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM

 BODY:
Seeking international support for its vision of a new Iraq, the Bush administration will prod other nations to deepen and speed their economic aid to the embattled country at a conference of donors this week in Tokyo. 
 The extent to which the United States is going it alone in Iraq has been debated heatedly in the presidential campaign, so the outcome of the conference, to be held tomorrow and Thursday, could figure in domestic politics as well. The American delegation will be led by Deputy Secretary of State Richard L. Armitage. 
 A year ago, a number of countries and international agencies pledged $13.5 billion in loans and grants for Iraqi reconstruction. But because of rising violence in the country, much of it directed against foreigners and aid projects, little has been spent up to now. 
 At the same time, the Bush administration's crash program to provide $18.4 billion in American funds for reconstruction has moved at a crawl, with only $1.2 billion disbursed by Sept. 22, according to a State Department report released last week. 
 Also, in response to disintegrating security and rising public anger in Iraq, the administration is shifting around $3.5 billion in aid mostly from planned water, sewage and electrical projects to the rapid training of more police officers and soldiers and to make-work programs. 
 If those shifts are not somehow made up, the State Department report said, the number of Iraqis receiving potable water within the next two years will rise by 7.5 million instead of 15 million, as originally planned; the number of people in homes newly connected to modern sewage systems will rise by only by 1.3 million instead of 5 million; and the projected rise in electrical output will fall by one-third. 
 The Bush administration has quietly pushed other countries to say this week that they will fill the gap left by its emergency reallocation. This may not necessarily involve new gifts, but rather the allocation of previously promised aid. 
 Beyond the implications for Iraqi welfare, the quest for aid is colored by presidential politics at home. The Democratic challenger, Senator John Kerry, argues that by making a fresh start with shaky allies, he could more successfully gain international help in Iraq. 
 ''To the extent that Bush can arrange this himself, it will undercut Kerry's argument,'' said Michael O'Hanlon, a foreign policy expert at the Brookings Institution in Washington. 
 Hanging over the aid discussions is the question of Iraq's foreign debts, estimated at $120 billion. Vice President Dick Cheney said during his debate last week with the Democratic vice presidential nominee, John Edwards, that ''the allies have stepped forward and agreed to reduce and forgive Iraqi debt to the tune of nearly $80 billion by one estimate.'' 
 That estimate goes far beyond any publicly revealed figure for debt relief. Until the debt issue is resolved, it may be difficult for governments and international agencies to provide new loans to Iraq.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Money Flow for Rebuilding Iraq''The Bush administration wants to shift some of the $18.4 billion in reconstruction funds to security, quick jobs and elections, hoping that other countries will make up the gaps in electric, water and sanitation needs. Of the $18.4 billion, only $1.2 billion, or 7 percent, has been spent.Security and law enforcementAMOUNT ALLOTTED (in millions)ALLOCATIONS AS OF JULY: $3,235PROPOSED CHANGES IN ALLOCATIONS: $+1,810Figures are rounded.AMOUNT PROMISED OR SPENT As of Sept. 22
in millionsCONTRACTS FOR PROJECTS: $1,971SPENT FOR WORK COMPLETED: ElectricityAMOUNT$623 ALLOTTED (in millions)ALLOCATIONS AS OF JULY: 5,465PROPOSED CHANGES IN ALLOCATIONS: -1,075Figures are rounded.AMOUNT PROMISED OR SPENT As of Sept. 22
in millionsCONTRACTS FOR PROJECTS: 1,971SPENT FOR WORK COMPLETED: 300Justice, public safety infrastructure and civil societyAMOUNT ALLOTTED (in millions)ALLOCATIONS AS OF JULY: 1,484PROPOSED CHANGES IN ALLOCATIONS: +461Figures are rounded.AMOUNT PROMISED OR SPENT As of Sept. 22
in millionsCONTRACTS FOR PROJECTS: 844SPENT FOR WORK COMPLETED: 127Water and sanitationAMOUNT ALLOTTED (in millions)ALLOCATIONS AS OF JULY: 4,247PROPOSED CHANGES IN ALLOCATIONS: -1,936Figures are rounded.AMOUNT PROMISED OR SPENT As of Sept. 22
in millionsCONTRACTS FOR PROJECTS: 716SPENT FOR WORK COMPLETED: 19OilAMOUNT ALLOTTED (in millions)ALLOCATIONS AS OF JULY: 1,701PROPOSED CHANGES IN ALLOCATIONS: 0Figures are rounded.AMOUNT PROMISED OR SPENT As of Sept. 22
in millionsCONTRACTS FOR PROJECTS: 674SPENT FOR WORK COMPLETED: 43Health careAMOUNT ALLOTTED (in millions)ALLOCATIONS AS OF JULY: 786PROPOSED CHANGES IN ALLOCATIONS: 0Figures are rounded.AMOUNT PROMISED OR SPENT As of Sept. 22
in millionsCONTRACTS FOR PROJECTS: 405SPENT FOR WORK COMPLETED: 2Transportation and telecommunicationsAMOUNT ALLOTTED (in millions)ALLOCATIONS AS OF JULY: 500PROPOSED CHANGES IN ALLOCATIONS: 0Figures are rounded.AMOUNT PROMISED OR SPENT As of Sept. 22
in millionsCONTRACTS FOR PROJECTS: 170SPENT FOR WORK COMPLETED: 11Roads, bridges and constructionAMOUNT ALLOTTED (in millions)ALLOCATIONS AS OF JULY: 368PROPOSED CHANGES IN ALLOCATIONS: 0Figures are rounded.AMOUNT PROMISED OR SPENT As of Sept. 22
in millionsCONTRACTS FOR PROJECTS: 143SPENT FOR WORK COMPLETED: 11Education, refugees, human rights and democracyAMOUNT ALLOTTED (in millions)ALLOCATIONS AS OF JULY: 259PROPOSED CHANGES IN ALLOCATIONS: +80Figures are rounded.AMOUNT PROMISED OR SPENT As of Sept. 22
in millionsCONTRACTS FOR PROJECTS: 128SPENT FOR WORK COMPLETED: 25Private sector employment developmentAMOUNT ALLOTTED (in millions)ALLOCATIONS AS OF JULY: 183PROPOSED CHANGES IN ALLOCATIONS: +660Figures are rounded.AMOUNT PROMISED OR SPENT As of Sept. 22
in millionsCONTRACTS FOR PROJECTS: 93SPENT FOR WORK COMPLETED: 34Administrative expensesAMOUNT ALLOTTED (in millions)ALLOCATIONS AS OF JULY: 213PROPOSED CHANGES IN ALLOCATIONS: 0Figures are rounded.AMOUNT PROMISED OR SPENT As of Sept. 22
in millionsCONTRACTS FOR PROJECTS: 29SPENT FOR WORK COMPLETED: 22TotalAMOUNT ALLOTTED (in millions)ALLOCATIONS AS OF JULY: 18,439PROPOSED CHANGES IN ALLOCATIONS: 0Figures are rounded.AMOUNT PROMISED OR SPENT As of Sept. 22
 in millionsCONTRACTS FOR PROJECTS: 7,144SPENT FOR WORK COMPLETED: 1,217(Source by State Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); CIVIL WAR (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); TERRORISM (69%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Foreign Aid ; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare; Economic Conditions and Trends; Politics and Government; Terrorism

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); DICK CHENEY (58%); JOHN EDWARDS (56%) Erik Eckholm; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (96%); JAPAN (88%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004



289 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-16

Rebels Surrender Arms In Sadr City Deal
Militiamen loyal to the rebel Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr surrendered hundreds of weapons in what appeared to be an encouraging start to a deal struck with the Iraqi government and the American military to end months of fighting in Sadr City, a Baghdad district. In exchange, American commanders agreed to halt military operations against the group, among other things. A1

Military and intelligence officials concede that even though American airstrikes in the last month have eliminated about half of the foreign terrorist leadership in Falluja, the porous border with Syria may still be allowing foreign fighters to reach the city, possibly to replace the killed leaders. A14

Seeking international support for its vision of a new Iraq, the Bush administration will prod other nations to deepen and speed their economic aid to the country at a conference of donors to be held tomorrow and Thursday in Tokyo. A14

Talks About Incentives for Iran
The Bush administration is holding talks with its European allies on a possible package of economic incentives for Iran in return for suspension of uranium enrichment activities, European and American diplomats said. Any support for incentives would indicate a significant shift in the Bush administration policy. A1

Vote Inquiry Meets Approval
The main challenger to President Hamid Karzai in Afghanistan's presidential election said he had accepted a proposal by the United Nations and the American ambassador to start an independent inquiry into complaints of electoral fraud. A16

Detainee Is Free in Saudi Arabia
Yaser E. Hamdi, the 24 year-old Saudi-American college student imprisoned since 2001 after being found in the company of Taliban fighters, was flown on a secret military flight from South Carolina to Riyadh, where he was greeted by his family. A15

NATIONAL A17-23

Bush Gaining Support Of Conservative Catholics
Galvanized by battles against same-sex marriage and stem cell research and alarmed at the prospect of a president who, like Senator John Kerry, is Roman Catholic and supports abortion rights, many bishops and like-minded Catholics are intent on putting the weight of the church behind President Bush. A1

The president accused Mr. Kerry of misunderstanding what it takes to combat terrorism, holding up as evidence Mr. Kerry's recent statement that the goal should be to reduce terrorism to a ''nuisance'' along the lines of prostitution or illegal gambling. A23

Mr. Kerry accused Mr. Bush of failing to do anything about record oil and gasoline prices that he said were hitting industries and middle-class consumers alike with the equivalent of ''a tax increase that they can't afford.'' A23

Security Grants Enrich Alaska
In the nationwide scramble for domestic security dollars, officials in Alaska, to the envy of most other states, must figure out how to spend $2 million in federal money. A1

Homicides on the Rise
An informal survey of police departments in 25 large cities shows that homicides have jumped this year in 10 cities, including Boston, Denver, Detroit and Los Angeles, particularly killings by young people. A17

Senate to Recess in Limbo
The Senate came to a pre-election halt with the fate of a crucial initiative -- legislation reorganizing the nation's intelligence service -- still to be decided. A18

Student Lending Rules Updated
Congress unanimously passed a bill to close loopholes that have enabled student loan companies to bill the federal government more than $1 billion in what lawmakers and regulators describe as unnecessary subsidies since the mid-1990's. A19

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

Human Remains Found At Dig for Mob Victims
F.B.I. agents and police detectives unearthed several human bones and bone fragments, along with a wristwatch and pair of glasses, in what they believe is an old mob graveyard in a marshy vacant lot in Queens, officials and investigators said. B1

Jet Maker Knew of Hazard
An airplane manufacturer's memo written in June 1997 explicitly describes the hazards of the maneuver that caused the November 2001 crash of an American Airlines plane in Belle Harbor, Queens, but the pilot was never warned about the procedure. B4

SCIENCE TIMES F1-8

Health & Fitness F5

FASHION B9

SPORTSTUESDAY D1-7

Astros Defeat Braves
The Astros advanced in the playoffs for the first time in franchise history. Led by Carlos Beltran's two home runs they routed the Atlanta Braves, 12-3, in game five of their National League division series. D1

ARTS E1-10

OBITUARIES B7-8

Christopher Reeve
The cinematic Superman who became a real-life inspiration through his painstaking efforts to overcome total paralysis, he was 52. A1

Ken Caminiti
The National League's most valuable player in 1996, but an admitted steroid and cocaine user in recent years, he was 41. B7

BUSINESS DAY C1-22

Senate Passes Tax Bill
The Senate passed a $137 billion corporate tax bill by a 69-17 vote. The bill will now be sent to President Bush, who has indicated he will sign the measure into law. C1

Energy Prices and the Election
Rising gasoline expenses and the looming cost of higher heating bills this winter are beginning to take a toll on Americans' sense of well-being, and their frustration may spill over into the political arena. C1

Nobel Prize for Economics
Edward C. Prescott and Finn E. Kydland were awarded the Nobel prize for economics for their efforts to demonstrate that innovative technologies and shocks, like a sharp increase in oil prices, play a much greater role in causing booms and recessions than changes in demand. C1

Boeing Inquiry May Widen
The Air Force asked the Pentagon to broaden its investigation into a procurement scandal to include more contracts that a former official admitted had been improperly awarded to Boeing. C2

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A24-25

Editorials: Afghanistan votes; the menace from avian flu; Congress gives away the store.

Columns: Paul Krugman, David Brooks.

Crossword E4
Public Lives B2
TV Listings E9
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); DISARMAMENT (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); TERRORISM (89%); RELIGION (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ARMED FORCES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); TALIBAN (77%); COUNTERTERRORISM (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (72%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (72%); ELECTION FRAUD (72%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (68%); TAX LAW (64%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (63%); MARRIAGE (62%); GAYS & LESBIANS (62%); GASOLINE PRICES (60%); OIL & GAS PRICES (60%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (50%); ILLEGAL GAMBLING (50%); ABORTION (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); MOQTADA AL-SADR (73%); HAMAD KARZAI (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (70%); RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (68%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPE (79%); SYRIA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); JAPAN (70%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004



290 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1290 words

HEADLINE: U.S. in Talks With Europeans on a Nuclear Deal With Iran

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 11 

 BODY:
The Bush administration is holding talks with its European allies on a possible package of economic incentives for Iran, including access to imported nuclear fuel, in return for suspension of uranium enrichment activities that are suspected to be part of a nuclear arms program, European and American diplomats said Monday.
 The diplomats said that while the administration had not endorsed any incentives for Iran, it was not discouraging Britain, France and Germany from assembling a package that the administration would consider after the American presidential election on Nov. 2, for likely presentation to Tehran later in the month.
 Any support of a package of incentives, even if it is to be offered only by the Europeans, would indicate a significant shift in the Bush administration policy of demanding penalties, but not offering inducements, to get Iran to halt activities that are suspected to be for a nuclear arms program.
 European diplomats said that the administration was very squeamish about even discussing incentives, in part because it would represent a policy reversal that would provoke a vigorous internal debate, and in part because of the presidential campaign. Senator John Kerry, the Democratic candidate, has made Iran an issue, criticizing the administration for not working more closely with European nations. Mr. Kerry has said that if elected he would endorse a deal supplying Iran with civilian nuclear fuel under tight restrictions and would press for sanctions if Iran refused. 
 Under prodding from the United States, the International Atomic Energy Agency has set late November as the deadline by which Iran must comply with demands that it do more to disclose its nuclear activities. The United States wants to send the matter to the United Nations Security Council for discussion of sanctions if there is no compliance.
 ''The Europeans are in discussion to present some kind of package to present to Iran within the short window of opportunity between the American election and the end of November,'' said a European diplomat. ''If it works, fine. If it doesn't work, we are going to have to talk about sanctions.''
 The package under discussion, besides allowing Iran to import nuclear fuel for the civilian reactor it is planning to install at Bushehr, might also lift certain economic penalties on Iran, allowing it to import spare parts for its ailing civilian airline.
 But the discussions with the Europeans are also said to include specifics on what sanctions would be sought if Iran turns down any incentives presented by the Europeans, the European and American diplomats said. Because there may not be enough votes for sanctions on the Security Council, sanctions might only be adopted by the United States, Britain, France, Germany and Japan.
 ''If there is going to be a substantial Iran policy, it has to have incentives for Iran or it may not work,'' said a European diplomat. Another European diplomat said that although the incentives had not been fleshed out for endorsement in Washington, there had been ''an ongoing process of discussion between the Europeans and the Americans'' and that whatever the Europeans come up with next month ''will not come as a surprise'' to Washington. 
 European officials said that whether or not President Bush is re-elected, the administration could find itself facing a tough deadline and divided over how to proceed. 
 Details of the highly sensitive talks on Iran between Europe and the United States have begun to leak out in Europe and were disclosed by European officials who advocate an approach of some conciliation toward Iran as the only way to change its behavior. 
 Foreign ministers of the European Union, who met Monday in Luxembourg, said that they supported the approach of what officials called ''carrots and sticks'' for the government in Tehran.
 After these disclosures, an administration official subsequently confirmed that the discussions with European nations were under way. ''We are still dealing with theoreticals,'' said the American official, adding that the discussions were intense. 
 Officials knowledgeable about the package under discussion say that many of the details still need to be fleshed out. But they say that American sanctions on Iran would have to be lifted in order for the package to be accepted.
 The package being discussed would, among other things, let Iran import nuclear fuel from Russia for its reactor at Bushehr, under an agreement in which Russia would then re-import the spent fuel and store it. In return, Iran would suspend its enrichment of 37 tons of yellowcake, which is nearly raw uranium. 
 In addition, the package would lift a ban on exports to Iran of certain badly needed civilian aircraft parts, without which its fleet of civilian airliners has been virtually grounded.
 The discussions also concern what to do if Iran turns down the offer, European officials said. One possible step under discussion would be to circumvent the United Nations Security Council, because two members of that body with vetoes, Russia and China, oppose sanctions. Instead, the United States, Britain, France, Germany and Japan, the five biggest economic powers in the world, would impose penalties on Iran. 
 A European diplomat familiar with the discussions with the Bush administration said that Britain, France and Germany were discussing the package of incentives to be offered Iran but that its ingredients were far from settled.
 ''We need to have a quiet discussion with the Americans to know what we put in the package,'' he said.
 He added that there was ''an ongoing process of discussion between the Europeans and the Americans'' so that, even though the United States does not know the details of the incentive package, ''the final proposal will not come as a surprise.''
 There are actually two late-November deadlines looming on Iran. One is the scheduled meeting of the International Atomic Energy Agency, which is supposed to rule on the American demand that its board of governors refer Iran's actions to the Security Council.
 Another is the late-November meeting of an international conference on Iraq, which is to occur in Egypt and involve Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and his Iranian counterpart, in what would be their first face-to-face encounter. 
 The main focus of American and European concern, administration and European officials and experts say, is the recent finding by the atomic energy agency that Iran possesses 37 tons of yellowcake and that it appears determined to enrich the material with the use of centrifuges, producing material suitable for a weapon.
 Another concern is the nuclear reactor at Bushehr, which Russia has agreed to supply with fuel, taking the spent fuel back for reprocessing once it has been used in Iran. That deal has been suspended at the request of the United States. It would resume under the plan being discussed by the Europeans, according to European diplomats.
 Iran maintains that it only wants to enrich the yellowcake for energy purposes, and that it has the right to do so under all international agreements that it has signed. The European approach is to use the incentives to get Iran to suspend its enrichment activities permanently, in a way that respects its sovereign right to enrich for fuel purposes.
 The delicacy of confronting Iran has been underscored by its injection in the last two presidential debates. 
 Administration officials say that their preferred approach so far has been to let the three European Union nations take the lead with Iran and report back to Washington, rather than have the United States get involved in dealing directly with Iran. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); ENERGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); TERRORISM (59%) United States International Relations; Atomic Weapons; Electric Light and Power; Atomic Energy; Uranium; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (54%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%) Steven R Weisman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (78%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); FRANCE (94%); GERMANY (91%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); IRAN (78%) Iran; Great Britain; France; Germany; Iran

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004



291 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: Checking The Facts, In Advance

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN. 
E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
It's not hard to predict what President Bush, who sounds increasingly desperate, will say tomorrow. Here are eight lies or distortions you'll hear, and the truth about each:
 Jobs -- Mr. Bush will talk about the 1.7 million jobs created since the summer of 2003, and will say that the economy is ''strong and getting stronger.'' That's like boasting about getting a D on your final exam, when you flunked the midterm and needed at least a C to pass the course. 
 Mr. Bush is the first president since Herbert Hoover to preside over a decline in payroll employment. That's worse than it sounds because the economy needs around 1.6 million new jobs each year just to keep up with population growth. The past year's job gains, while better news than earlier job losses, barely met this requirement, and they did little to close the huge gap between the number of jobs the country needs and the number actually available.
 Unemployment -- Mr. Bush will boast about the decline in the unemployment rate from its June 2003 peak. But the employed fraction of the population didn't rise at all; unemployment declined only because some of those without jobs stopped actively looking for work, and therefore dropped out of the unemployment statistics. The labor force participation rate -- the fraction of the population either working or actively looking for work -- has fallen sharply under Mr. Bush; if it had stayed at its January 2001 level, the official unemployment rate would be 7.4 percent. 
 The deficit -- Mr. Bush will claim that the recession and 9/11 caused record budget deficits. Congressional Budget Office estimates show that tax cuts caused about two-thirds of the 2004 deficit.
 The tax cuts -- Mr. Bush will claim that Senator John Kerry opposed ''middle class'' tax cuts. But budget office numbers show that most of Mr. Bush's tax cuts went to the best-off 10 percent of families, and more than a third went to the top 1 percent, whose average income is more than $1 million. 
 The Kerry tax plan -- Mr. Bush will claim, once again, that Mr. Kerry plans to raise taxes on many small businesses. In fact, only a tiny percentage would be affected. Moreover, as Mr. Kerry correctly pointed out last week, the administration's definition of a small-business owner is so broad that in 2001 it included Mr. Bush, who does indeed have a stake in a timber company -- a business he's so little involved with that he apparently forgot about it.
 Fiscal responsibility -- Mr. Bush will claim that Mr. Kerry proposes $2 trillion in new spending. That's a partisan number and is much higher than independent estimates. Meanwhile, as The Washington Post pointed out after the Republican convention, the administration's own numbers show that the cost of the agenda Mr. Bush laid out ''is likely to be well in excess of $3 trillion'' and ''far eclipses that of the Kerry plan.'' 
 Spending -- On Friday, Mr. Bush claimed that he had increased nondefense discretionary spending by only 1 percent per year. The actual number is 8 percent, even after adjusting for inflation. Mr. Bush seems to have confused his budget promises -- which he keeps on breaking -- with reality.
 Health care -- Mr. Bush will claim that Mr. Kerry wants to take medical decisions away from individuals. The Kerry plan would expand Medicaid (which works like Medicare), ensuring that children, in particular, have health insurance. It would protect everyone against catastrophic medical expenses, a particular help to the chronically ill. It would do nothing to restrict patients' choices.
 By singling out Mr. Bush's lies and misrepresentations, am I saying that Mr. Kerry isn't equally at fault? Yes.
 Mr. Kerry sometimes uses verbal shorthand that offers nitpickers things to complain about. He talks of 1.6 million lost jobs; that's the private-sector loss, partly offset by increased government employment. But the job record is indeed awful. He talks of the $200 billion cost of the Iraq war; actual spending is only $120 billion so far. But nobody doubts that the war will cost at least another $80 billion. The point is that Mr. Kerry can, at most, be accused of using loose language; the thrust of his statements is correct.
 Mr. Bush's statements, on the other hand, are fundamentally dishonest. He is insisting that black is white, and that failure is success. Journalists who play it safe by spending equal time exposing his lies and parsing Mr. Kerry's choice of words are betraying their readers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (89%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (85%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (73%); POPULATION GROWTH (73%); FAMILY (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (68%); TAX INCREASES (68%); STATISTICS (66%); SMALL BUSINESS (64%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; News and News Media; Debating; United States Politics and Government; Presidential Election of 2004

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (50%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN KERRY (79%); PAUL KRUGMAN (56%) Paul Krugman; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004



292 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 115 words

HEADLINE: Imagining a Different Way on Iraq

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 The lesson David Brooks draws from the report by Charles A. Duelfer, the top American arms inspector for Iraq, is that the sanctions could have been weakened and that Saddam Hussein would have been free to resume production of weapons of mass destruction (''The Report That Nails Saddam,'' column, Oct. 9).
 Fair enough, but let's imagine where we might be today if President Bush had urged the world to strengthen the international system of inspections, thrown the full power and influence of the United States behind the effort, and pointed to the power of the inspectors and sanctions in Iraq as an example of what we could achieve elsewhere.

Tom Yager
New York, Oct. 9, 2004


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (88%); INSPECTIONS (88%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (87%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (87%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Biological and Chemical Warfare; Atomic Weapons; United States Armament and Defense; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%) Tom Yager; Charles A Duelfer; Saddam Hussein; David Brooks

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004



293 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1175 words

HEADLINE: Higher Fuel Costs Starting to Hit Consumers

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
For Ruby Ferguson, a waitress who lives in eastern Ohio, rising energy costs are finally starting to force some tough choices.
 She no longer goes out to dinner in Canton as much as before, partly because of the expense of driving some 25 miles from her home in Munroe Falls. And she decided against visiting her sister in New Jersey, a journey that would have cost her $75 to $85 in gas alone.
 Two weeks ago, Ms. Ferguson, who makes $250 to $300 a week serving tables at the Fairlawn Hilton in Akron, stopped her husband from turning on the heat at home even when the temperature at night fell to the low 40's. 
 ''We need our gas prices to come down,'' she said. ''We need to keep the heat on and be comfortable. It's a big deal; it interferes with people's lives.'' 
 As the price of energy resumes its upward march, the additional expense of gasoline and the looming cost of higher heating bills this winter are hitting ordinary Americans in their pocketbooks, slowing consumer spending on other goods and services. And they are looking for somebody to blame.
 Energy costs first started squeezing households in the spring, when gasoline prices passed $2 a gallon, holding down spending in June. Now, with the recent rise in oil prices beginning to push fuel costs up again, spending growth is flattening out once more.
 More expensive energy is also beginning to take a toll on Americans' sense of well-being, suggesting that some of that frustration may spill over into the political arena in November. Last month, one in 10 respondents to the University of Michigan's most recent consumer confidence survey said they were concerned about high energy prices, according to Richard Curtin, the director of the survey. This was below the roughly 14 percent who mentioned the issue when gasoline prices first flared up in late spring, but far above the 1 or 2 percent that worried about gas prices in January.
 Senator John Kerry's campaign has tried to milk the issue. One commercial by the Democratic candidate earlier this month said that President Bush's ties to Saudi Arabia were to blame for rising energy costs, stating that ''the Saudi royal family gets special favors while our gas prices skyrocket.'' 
 Yesterday, Mr. Kerry blamed President Bush's mismanagement of the Iraq war for rising gas prices and accused Mr. Bush of favoring friends in the oil industry over American consumers. 
 The Kerry campaign also released a document suggesting that uncertainty stemming from the administration's policy in Iraq has added a ''risk premium'' of as much as $15 to the price of each barrel of oil, which hit another record yesterday, at $53.64 a barrel, on the New York Mercantile Exchange. 
 Are Americans blaming the administration for the rising cost of energy? To some extent, the answer is yes.
 In June, 24 percent of respondents to a Los Angeles Times nationwide poll said that the Bush administration was largely responsible for the rise in gasoline prices, about the same as the 25 percent who blamed oil-producing nations in the Middle East. 
 In August, 42 percent of respondents to a Fox News national poll said that Mr. Kerry would be better at dealing with gas prices than would Mr. Bush, who was favored by 31 percent on that question.
 ''Gas prices are just an indication of how awful this administration is doing,'' said Trien Pham, a Vietnamese-American engineer in Royersford, Pa., who voted for Mr. Bush in 2000. ''We've gone into Iraq for oil and nothing else. Now we have to pay more for it -- the gas prices plus the overhead to support the troops in Iraq.''
 But it is not clear that the rising cost of energy is going to matter all that much to voters on Election Day. To start, oil prices have to vie for attention with a host of other issues preoccupying the electorate. In June, 7 percent of Americans thought the high cost of energy was the most important problem facing the nation, according to a Gallup poll. By September, the proportion had declined to 1 percent.
 According to the National Association of Convenience Stores, motorists reacted to rising gas prices mostly by trading down on the octane scale, from premium to regular, and did not do much else. 
 ''We do not see it affecting demand for gasoline,'' said Scott Hartman, who owns 50 gas stations in south-central Pennsylvania.
 While extra energy costs have taken a sharp bite out of those with relatively modest incomes, oil's overall economic impact has been muted so far. In an analysis sent to clients earlier this month, economists at J.P. Morgan estimated that expensive oil would shave a percentage point from overall economic activity this year, mostly because of gasoline prices eroding consumer spending. They argued that consumers have already felt most of the hit, so spending should be stronger toward the end of the year. 
 But if energy prices keep rising in coming weeks, that confidence could prove premature. Futures prices for natural gas are moving ahead, as are the prices of crude oil on commodity markets. Though the price of gasoline at the pump has not yet returned to its spring peak, it is getting closer. 
 On Oct. 4, the average price of regular gas at the pump reached almost $1.94 a gallon, 2 cents above the price a week earlier and just 12 cents under its May high, according to the Energy Department.
 People drive less in the autumn than in the summer, so rising gasoline prices could lose some of their bite. But it is starting to get colder in many parts of the country, and many people will soon receive sharply higher heating bills. 
 The Energy Department estimates that households will spend 15 percent more on natural gas this winter than last year. Heating oil bills should be roughly 28 percent higher, the department estimated, and propane expenditures could be up 22 percent.
 Ultimately, however, any political repercussions could well be muted because of the timing of the big energy price moves. True, the economy has started showing further signs of weakness. Big retailers from Wal-Mart to Sears reported relatively modest sales in September. Employment growth in September, at under 100,000, failed for the fourth consecutive month to keep pace with the normal increase in working-age population.
 But whether much additional pain from higher prices will be felt in the three weeks before the election seems doubtful.
 James Hamilton, an economist at the University of California, San Diego, said that he thought most of the economic impact from this year's energy jolt would not be felt until 2005, as automakers and other companies struggle to adjust to thriftier, more energy-conscious consumers. 
 People will no doubt point their fingers at the government, he said, but for the political system a lot of the steam may be taken out of the issue by then.
 ''There's no question people blame the administration, rightly or wrongly,'' Mr. Hamilton said. ''But there will be no significant ramifications of this until after the election, so I don't think it will be very significant in the election.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ruby Ferguson, a waitress in eastern Ohio, has curtailed her driving because of the higher cost of gasoline. (Photo by Ron Schwane for The New York Times)Chart: ''Pumps to Polls''As the price of gasoline has risen steadily, so has disapproval of the president's handling of energy policy.Graph tracks average weekly U.S. gasoline prices this year, all formulationsDo you disapprove or approve of the way President Bush is handling energy policy in this country?April '01APPROVE: 43%DISAPPROVE: 45%May '01APPROVE: 41DISAPPROVE: 51July '01APPROVE: 45DISAPPROVE: 44March '02APPROVE: 57DISAPPROVE: 29Jan. '03APPROVE: 54DISAPPROVE: 34Aug. '03APPROVE: 47DISAPPROVE: 44June '04APPROVE: 33DISAPPROVE: 58NOTE: The nationwide Gallup Polls were conducted by telephone. The latest was done June 3-6, and involved 1,000 randomly selected adults, aged 18 and older. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus three percentage points.(Sources by Department of Energy
 Gallup Poll)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (86%); US PRESIDENTS (84%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); FUEL MARKETS (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); COMMODITIES TRADING (76%); FUTURES (76%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (74%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); MARKET RESEARCH (71%); FAMILY (71%); ELECTIONS (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (67%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (66%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (66%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (66%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (65%); IRAQ WAR (63%); SECURITIES TRADING (60%) United States Economy; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Heating Fuel; Consumer Behavior; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Futures and Options Trading ; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; United States Economy; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Records and Achievements

COMPANY: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (88%); JOHN KERRY (79%) Eduardo Porter; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: AKRON, OH, USA (58%) OHIO, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004



294 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE ISSUES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3278 words

HEADLINE: Challenging Rest of the World With a New Order

BYLINE: This article is by Roger Cohen, David E. Sanger and Steven R. Weisman.

 BODY:
Jorge Castaneda, Mexico's former foreign minister, has two distinct images of George W. Bush: the charmer intent on reinventing Mexican-American ties and the chastiser impatient with Mexico as the promise of a new relationship soured.
 The change came with the Sept. 11 attacks. ''My sense is that Bush lost and never regained the gift he had shown for making you feel at ease,'' said Mr. Castaneda, who left office last year. ''He became aloof, brusque, and on occasion abrasive.''
 The brusqueness had a clear message: the United States is at war, it needs everybody's support and that support is not negotiable. Mexico's hesitant stance at the United Nations on the war in Iraq became a source of tension. Yet Mr. Castaneda said, ''I was never asked, 'What is it you need in order to be more cooperative with us? What can we do to help?''' 
 It is a characterization of Mr. Bush's foreign policy style often heard around the world: bullying, unreceptive, brazen. The result, critics of this administration contend, has been a disastrous loss of international support, damage to American credibility, the sullying of America's image and a devastating war that has already taken more than 1,000 American lives. In the first presidential debate, Senator John Kerry argued that only with a change of presidents could the damage be undone.
 Mr. Bush had a sharp rebuttal, just as his advisers have long told a different story. In their narrative, Mr. Bush's presidency has been an era of historic change, of new alliances bravely embraced, critical relationships solidified, rapid adaptation to a mortal threat and, above all, a bold undertaking to advance freedom in the Middle East through Iraq. 
 That was the best way, they argue, to confront the terrorist threat to the United States. Along the way, they say, Mr. Bush has used the North Korea crisis to deepen an American relationship with China, steered Pakistan and India away from the brink of nuclear war, and nurtured a relationship with Vladimir V. Putin, the Russian president, even after scrapping the 1972 Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty. 
 ''The charge is, 'You guys are unilateralists and it's a strategy of pre-emption,''' Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said in an interview. ''I just don't think it's true, but it gets repeated often enough that it starts to take on the aura of truth.''
 The Nov. 2 election will see if Mr. Bush's approach to foreign policy -- replete with images of courage and endurance, of moral certitudes and of generational struggle to defeat a new enemy while transforming an entire region -- has proved persuasive to most Americans. It has clearly divided America's friends.
 Some are enthused. ''Relations between Japan and America have never been better than with Bush,'' said Hatsuhisa Takashima, the foreign ministry spokesman in Tokyo, where spines have been stiffened by the North Korean threat and Mr. Bush's blunt approach to terrorism. ''We have more than 500 troops in Iraq because we believe the American-British action prodded Libya to disarm, sent a strong message to North Korea and showed the price of noncompliance with United Nations resolutions. Failure in Iraq is unthinkable.''
 But as things stand, failure, with its potentially dire consequences for American world leadership, cannot be ruled out. Mr. Bush has proved to be a gambler in foreign affairs. Revolutions can bring big rewards. They can also deliver disaster.

New Attitude, New Allies
 The story of the Bush foreign policy is one of startling change: from the promise of a ''humble'' approach in 2000 through the ''dead or alive'' search for the elusive Osama bin Laden to the articulation of a bold, pro-active doctrine summed up last month by Mr. Bush, when he told the United Nations:
 ''Our security is not merely founded in spheres of influence or some balance of power; the security of our world is found in advancing the rights of mankind.''
 In other words, less emphasis on containment -- the policy of slow-squeeze that defeated communism -- and more on the contagion of liberty installed, at least in Iraq, by force of arms. This is stirring stuff that resonates in Eastern Europe, where the wounds of oppression are still felt, as well as with Ayad Allawi, the interim prime minister of Iraq, and many of his compatriots. But it is also the stuff of upheaval, and a policy on which the NATO alliance, long a cornerstone of American security, has been unable to agree.
 ''We have been worried by the absence of debate, the presentation of faits accomplis,'' said Javier Solana, a former NATO secretary-general and now the European Union's chief foreign affairs official.
 In effect, a new spectrum of relations with Washington has emerged. At one end are estranged allies like France and Germany, angered by the war, convinced it is a losing struggle, alarmed by America's use of overwhelming power.
 In the muddy middle are nations like Pakistan, Jordan, Egypt and Saudi Arabia, important allies whose leaders are sometimes supportive, but where many people believe Mr. Bush has ignited a war against Islam. Their reliability is uncertain. 
 It has not helped that the Mideast peace process has stalled and that Mr. Bush has appeared less engaged in resolving the Israeli-Palestinian dispute than his recent predecessors.
 At the other end are nations, including Poland, Italy, Britain and Japan, that have made the choice to fall in line with Mr. Bush after Sept. 11. Others, including Russia, China and Israel, have embraced the war on terror for reasons of their own.
 These divisions get little airing when Mr. Bush campaigns for a second term. The rhetoric at his rallies is of an America unbowed and unrestrained. The day after the first presidential debate Mr. Bush said Mr. Kerry would subject decisions on national security to vetoes ''by countries like France.'' The U.N. is often derided at Republican events. 
 This sort of talk may bring partisan crowds to their feet, but it makes the world uneasy.
 ''If you want to get a cheap cheer from certain quarters in America, it seems that all you have to do is bash the U.N., or the French or the very idea that allies are entitled to have their own opinions,'' Chris Patten, the commissioner for external relations for the European Union, said last month. ''Multilateralists, we are told, want to outsource American foreign and security policy to a bunch of garlic-chewing, cheese-eating wimps.''
 And so the cheese-eaters ask: What would a second Bush administration look like?
 Have Sept. 11 and the bitter diplomatic clashes of the past three years so changed Mr. Bush's mental map of American alliances that every nation will be measured chiefly by whether it embraces his strategy against terrorism, and sign on to the small, reluctant coalition in Iraq?
 Some see small signs since the ouster of Saddam Hussein that this may not be the case. Even in western Europe, the caricature of Mr. Bush as a gunslinger has faded a bit, replaced by a more complex picture of a man who, as Wolfgang Ischinger, the German ambassador to Washington put it, ''is less outlandish in his practice than his rhetoric.'' After all, the ambassador noted, ''We have some real live diplomacy with North Korea.'' 
 In an interview in late August, Mr. Bush waved off the accusation that he had damaged alliances. 
 ''Wait a minute, a lot of people agreed with Iraq,'' Mr. Bush said. ''There was a diplomatic process'' at the U.N., he said, ''that I think the world thought was the right thing to do.''
 But he was unapologetic about short-circuiting that process to invade Iraq. ''It became clear to me that we were never going to get a second resolution out of the United Nations,'' he said. He realized, he added, that it was time ''for an American president to set an agenda, make it clear, not change, not get blown around because of political winds.''
 That, he promised, is how he will operate if re-elected next month.

A World Alienated
 While many nations have criticized Mr. Bush for walking away from certain international institutions and treaties, it is doubtful that any American president would have embraced an International Criminal Court that could put American peacekeepers on trial. Even Mr. Kerry says the Kyoto protocol on global warming that Mr. Bush rejected should be renegotiated. Certainly, any American president would have used force to respond to the attacks on New York and Washington. 
 But the complaint often heard around the world is that from the outset the Bush administration's dismissive attitude set a pattern of take-it-or-leave-it policies that needlessly alienated friends. The Iraq war accelerated that process. Then, the acknowledgment that there were no stockpiles of weapons of mass destruction and no proven links between Mr. Hussein and Al Qaeda cemented the view in Paris, Berlin and elsewhere that Mr. Bush governed from ideology first, facts second.
 ''The United States had to react strongly to Sept. 11, a fact often forgotten in Europe,'' said Alexandre Adler, a French foreign policy expert generally sympathetic to America. ''But Bush has given the image of a warmonger without subtleties and the result is no president since Nixon, and perhaps not even then, has been so unpopular here.''
 There is little question that if Europe were voting on Nov. 2, Mr. Bush would lose by a landslide. But Europe, of course, is not the world, a point driven home by Condoleezza Rice, Mr. Bush's national security adviser, who listed several ways she thought the president had improved relations with foreign leaders. 
 ''The best relationship that any administration has had with Russia,'' she said in an interview. ''The best relationship that any administration has had with China. An outstanding relationship with India at the same time that you have a very good relationship with Pakistan. The expansion of NATO into the Baltics without destroying the U.S. relationship with Russia.''
 China and India, of course, account for more than a third of humanity, a point Ms. Rice underscored as she urged the administration's critics to think hard about who is complaining about alienation and who is not.
 But the complaints are often vociferous. ''The Bush administration started with a belief that in the past 500 years or more, no greater gap had ever existed between the No.1 and No.2 power in the world,'' said Norman Ornstein, a foreign policy expert at the American Enterprise Institute. ''Given this American domination, they believed, especially after 9/11, that it was enough to express the American national interest firmly and everyone would accommodate themselves.''
 They did not. While there was an outpouring of sympathy for the United States after the Sept. 11 attacks, by the end of 2002 the sympathy had vanished. When Mr. Bush arrived this summer in Ireland, he was spirited off to a castle, miles from anyone. Protests marked Mr. Bush's most recent visit to Britain, home of his most steadfast ally, Prime Minister Tony Blair. Even Mr. Blair had to apologize for the intelligence about unconventional weapons in Iraq, something Mr. Bush has resisted. 
 Anti-Americanism has become a winning European platform. In the most recent Spanish and German elections, opposing Mr. Bush's policies proved central to both the upset victory of Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero and the re-election of Chancellor Gerhard Schroder, respectively.
 But recently, Mr. Bush has been buoyed by the overwhelming re-election of a steadfast ally, Prime Minister John Howard of Australia. For the past few days, Mr. Bush has crisscrossed Minnesota, Iowa, and Colorado celebrating Afghanistan's first free election.
 Still, anti-American hostility in the Islamic world is widespread. Last year, Mr. Powell asked Edward P. Djerejian, an experienced diplomat, to travel the world to examine the failures of American public diplomacy in the Arab and Muslim worlds.
 Mr. Djerejian returned shocked at the picture of America he saw on Arab television and the absence of any effective American rebuttal. ''We did not have anywhere near enough people in place with the right language skills or the right sensitivities to respond,'' he said. 
 Mr. Djerejian still believes the outcome in Iraq could be positive, but he added that a chronically unstable Iraq would ''set back the key goals we said we were trying to achieve on the Arab-Israeli front, on energy security and certainly on democratizing the region.''
 His investigation came before the photographs of abuse at Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq emerged. ''The photographs shattered our reputation as the world's most admired champion of freedom and justice,'' said Philip Gordon of the Brookings Institution. ''That is grave, because without the world's trust, America cannot flourish.'' 
 So three years after Sept. 11, Mr. Bush leads a United States whose image has been tarnished, while Europeans, Asians and Latin Americans still feel far less threatened by terrorism than Americans do.
 The president speaks of the threat almost daily, but leaders elsewhere do not. In Europe, terrorism is not new and so seems less menacing; in Asia, the rapid growth of China and India continues to fuel an optimism that dispels, or at least diminishes, the dark clouds from the Middle East; in Latin America, trade and economic issues seem at least as important as Al Qaeda. The shared perception of a common threat that was the cornerstone of America's cold war alliances is gone. 
 ''This America that speaks constantly of war and designates an enemy is not really accepted here,'' said Nicole Bacharan, a French analyst. ''Europeans have a deep desire not to feel threatened. It is sad to observe this divorce in our world views.''

In Spite of Rifts, Advances
 Mr. Bush is aware of the divide, and in recent months has tried to bridge it. In Istanbul in June at a NATO summit meeting where Iraq, Afghanistan, Bosnia, and terrorism were on the agenda, he dispensed with his prepared speech in favor of a direct and emotional appeal.
 An American diplomat in attendance said that Mr. Bush ''spoke strongly, seemed a real leader'' and pressed his case that ''whatever past differences, we all have a stake in the success of an independent Iraq.'' 
 But the next day, President Jacques Chirac of France shot back that NATO would never go into Iraq. ''I don't believe it's NATO's job to intervene in Iraq,'' he said. Mr. Bush was angry, aides say, but pushed on. This summer NATO sent a 40-person team to Baghdad and recently, after long wrangling between the United States and France, agreed to increase the team to about 300 people to train Iraqi officers.
 Ms. Rice and Mr. Powell say such missions prove that any tensions with France are overblown. ''The relationship's fine,'' Ms. Rice said, citing the French role in Kosovo and Afghanistan. Relations with France are always ''better in practice than they are in theory,'' she added.
 Perhaps, but Mr. Chirac and Mr. Bush are no closer in world views than they ever were. The French president said recently that he sought a multilateral world in which the United Nations set the laws by which all nations abide -- code words for limiting American power. Mr. Bush flatly rejects this view. 
 Ms. Rice insisted that Iraq had not thrust all other issues to the back burner.
 ''You have the most comprehensive policy toward Africa that any administration has had, including trade rights and AIDS and intervention with American forces to help solve the Liberia situation,'' she said. ''You have China on the front lines against the North Korean nuclear program.''
 Her voice began to rise. ''You want me to keep going?'' she asked. 
 Certainly, Mr. Bush can cite the democratic opening in Afghanistan and Libya's move to abandon its nuclear weapons program as achievements. An Indian-Pakistani dialogue has begun, in part because of Mr. Powell's intervention last year. 
 At campaign stops, Mr. Bush often mentions the six-party talks with North Korea -- involving China, Russia, South Korea and Japan -- as an example of his diplomatic style.
 ''The difference between Iraq and North Korea, for example, is 11 years,'' Mr. Bush said in his interview. ''Diplomacy failed for 11 years in Iraq. And this new diplomatic effort is barely a year old.'' 
 But the North Korean talks have also been an example of what happens when international diplomacy gets bogged down between hawks in the Pentagon and the vice president's office, and those in the State Department urging engagement. Not until it was clear that North Korea was probably manufacturing new weapons did Mr. Bush intervene.
 ''I give credit to Secretary Powell, who has been a lone voice of sanity on this issue, for creating the six-party talks, which now have the possibility of a potential solution,'' said Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico, who was engaged in negotiating efforts as a member of the Clinton administration and is an active supporter of Mr. Kerry. ''But we should have engaged bilaterally with North Korea sooner.''
 Elsewhere, the record seems mixed. In Africa, Mr. Bush followed Mr. Powell's lead to describe events in Sudan as ''genocide.'' The United States is still working with African, Arab and European nations to make Sudan accept a large force of African peacekeeping troops to stabilize the western region of Darfur.
 Pakistan's continued help against Al Qaeda appears solid, but Islamabad pardoned Abdul Qadeer Khan, the nuclear scientist who had smuggled nuclear technology to North Korea, Libya and Iran. Mr. Bush uttered not a word of criticism, even after Pakistan refused to allow the United States to interrogate him.

A Question of Consultation
 It often appears to his allies that Mr. Bush offers only a veneer of consultation. To deal with the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, the Bush administration has embraced the ''quartet'' -- the United States, Russia, the European Union and the United Nations -- to work on reciprocal steps by Israel and the Palestinians leading to a Palestinian state.
 But Europeans, including Prime Minister Blair of Britain, remain frustrated by what they say has been Mr. Bush's failure to become actively engaged in pressing Israel to freeze the growth of settlements and to ease conditions for Palestinians living in the West Bank.
 While some European states -- though not France -- have come around to the administration's view demanding that Yasir Arafat must step aside as the Palestinian leader, they say they are dismayed that Mr. Bush has listened to conservatives in the White House and the Pentagon on Israel policy rather than the State Department, which has always advocated more conciliatory steps.
 ''When Madeleine Albright spoke, you knew she spoke for the Clinton administration,'' said Joschka Fischer, the German foreign minister. ''Nowadays you never quite know.''
 As a result, European states no longer know how to structure their relationship with the United States. They wonder if there is enough stability in ''coalitions of the willing'' -- Mr. Bush's favorite phrase to describe the nations that have joined the United States in Iraq. 
 Indeed, Iraq, many European officials say, was a costly distraction from fighting terrorism. They argue that the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, whose images feed extremism across the Arab world, has been neglected. Iran, a more real and imminent threat than Iraq, and a source of further European-American division, was ignored for too long. 
 The resulting splits -- those between Europe and America and those between the Arab world and America -- are clear. What remains uncertain is whether Mr. Bush's policies will let terrorists exploit those divisions or whether his determination will crush them.


GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush's decision to invade Iraq, as this First Marine Division convoy did in March 2003, has been the main issue frustrating allies. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)
Allies also say a lack of progress in resolving the Palestinian-Israeli dispute is a concern. Shown is a Jewish settlement in the West Bank. (Photo by Oded Balilty/Associated Press)
 Relations have improved between Pakistan's president, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, left, and India's prime minister, Manmohan Singh. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); HIJACKING (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (70%); POLITICAL DEBATES (66%); AL-QAEDA (62%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (61%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Surveys and Series; Election Issues; United States International Relations; Terrorism; United States Armament and Defense; Presidential Election of 2004; Biological and Chemical Warfare; Atomic Weapons; Hijacking; Airlines and Airplanes; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (59%); UNITED NATIONS (56%) Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JOHN KERRY (79%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); MANMOHAN SINGH (50%) Roger Cohen; David E Sanger; Steven R Weisman; George W (Pres) Bush; Saddam (Pres) Hussein

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); MEXICO (94%); IRAQ (94%); INDIA (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); CHINA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); FRANCE (79%) Iraq; France; Germany; New York City; Washington (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004



295 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; TECHNOLOGY; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 648 words

HEADLINE: Oracle Executive Tells Court PeopleSoft Offer May Be Cut

BYLINE: By RITA K. FARRELL

DATELINE: WILMINGTON, Del., Oct 11 

 BODY:
A co-president of the Oracle Corporation testified on Monday that she expected PeopleSoft's earnings would continue to drop, and while she suggested that Oracle might lower its hostile bid of $21 a share, she acknowledged that a new price was not before the board.
 A decision ''has not been made,'' she said under cross-examination by PeopleSoft's lawyer, Matthew Fischer, in the sixth day of a trial in Delaware Chancery Court, where Oracle has challenged PeopleSoft's anti-takeover defenses.
 At issue are competing claims of the software rivals. PeopleSoft says Oracle's bid on June 9 was a hoax intended to undermine its customer base, second only to SAP of Germany, by creating fear, uncertainty and doubt among potential customers and investors while also driving down the share price. The companies make business software that links programs and databases to handle tasks including accounting, human resources management and supply chain management. 
 Safra Catz, the Oracle co-president, told Vice Chancellor Leo E. Strine Jr. of the Delaware court that Oracle was reacting to the reality that in a consolidating industry, PeopleSoft could no longer ''go it alone'' and that PeopleSoft's decision to merge with J.D. Edwards in June of last year was seen as an effort to distract from its problems. 
 ''If you announce a deal in the last month of the quarter, it signals that you are trying to change the subject'' because a bad quarter is expected, Ms. Catz said. 
 She said Oracle decided against a friendly offer because it feared that PeopleSoft would mount a defensive deal with a white knight or impose a costly breakup fee. She defended the $16 initial bid, criticized by analysts as low ball, as a price that would please Oracle shareholders because it would add to Oracle's earnings rather than dilute them.
 PeopleSoft's takeover defenses include a 1995 poison pill that when activated would increase the number of shares and Oracle's current $7.7 billion purchase price accordingly. A rebate program would allow a customer who bought PeopleSoft products after the tender offer to demand a refund of five times the purchase price if Oracle should fail to support the product. 
 Oracle said repeatedly that it would provide enhanced support for PeopleSoft products for at least 10 years, provide free migration to Oracle products if customers choose to switch, and continue to sell PeopleSoft products but not market them. The assurances were echoed by Ms. Catz and on Friday by the company's co-founder and chief executive, Lawrence J. Ellison, when he testified.
 Even though Oracle has said it will support PeopleSoft products, an executive close to the case said that Oracle wanted the rebate rescinded because ''the contract language is so vaguely worded and broad'' it would lead to widespread litigation. 
 ''It's clear just as an economic matter that there is risk here,'' he said of the estimated $2 billion in potential claims from the rebate program. 
 The judge is expected to weigh whether PeopleSoft's pill and the rebate are excessive defenses in relation to the threat posed by the Oracle takeover. 
 The vice president of the GAF Materials Corporation, Frank O'Dowd, testified that without the rebate program his company would not have closed a $20 million deal being negotiated with PeopleSoft when the Oracle tender offer was announced. 
 ''We had some concerns,'' Mr. O'Dowd said about whether the offer was ''real or an attempt to disrupt sales.'' 
 Under questioning by a PeopleSoft lawyer, Peter Walsh Jr., Mr. O'Dowd said the rebate provisions had been suggested by his company's negotiators.
 ''We would not have gone forward with the project without them,'' he said. After the testimony from Ms. Catz and an Oracle expert are completed on Tuesday, PeopleSoft will begin its case with testimony by its co-presidents, Phil Wilmington and Kevin Parker.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC HUMAN RESOURCES (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (78%); WITNESSES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); TENDER OFFERS (77%); SALES REBATES (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (75%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (74%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (74%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); DIVESTITURES (73%); LITIGATION (72%); PRICE CHANGES (72%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (70%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (68%); HUMAN RESOURCES (67%) Computers and the Internet; Suits and Litigation; Antitrust Actions and Laws; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Computer Software

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (96%)

ORGANIZATION: Oracle Corp; Peoplesoft Inc; Oracle Corp

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (96%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (96%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (96%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (96%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (96%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (96%)

PERSON: SAFRA A CATZ (89%); LAWRENCE J ELLISON (58%) Rita K Farrell; Safra Catz

GEOGRAPHIC: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (77%) DELAWARE, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); GERMANY (76%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004



296 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 12, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: When Yes Or No Won't Do

BYLINE: By Christopher Scanlan. 
Christopher Scanlan, a former Washington correspondent for Knight Ridder Newspapers, teaches at the Poynter Institute, a school for journalists.

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. 

 BODY:
As Bob Schieffer of CBS News polishes his questions for the final presidential debate tomorrow, he might want to take a page from Daniel Farley. And Randee Jacobs. And Norma-Jean Laurent, Matthew O'Brien, James Varner, Sarah Degenhart and Linda Grabel.
 For those who didn't catch the second presidential debate on Friday, these seven were among a group of undecided voters selected by the Gallup Organization to question the candidates. And unlike many of the reporters whose job it is to interview politicians, they displayed an instinctive grasp for the best way to ask a question, one that merits a debate moderator's attention. 
 A question for you, Mr. President, and it comes from Daniel Farley: ''Since we continue to police the world, how do you intend to maintain our military presence without reinstituting a draft?''
 ''Yes, that's a great question,'' the president said. ''Thanks.'' It pleased Mr. Bush because it gave him an opportunity to knock down ''rumors on the Internets'' that a draft is in the offing. But the president's assessment was on the money for another reason. Mr. Farley's question relied on a simple but effective technique, one favored by police officers, salesmen, market researchers and others who are in the business of finding out what's on -- and in -- people's minds: he asked the president an open-ended question. 
 Unlike its rhetorical opposite, the closed-ended question, which limits possible answers to yes, no and ''I don't know,'' open-ended questions require an expansive response. If questions are the traffic signals that direct an interview, open-ended questions are green lights, closed-ended are reds. 
 Journalists tend to ask as many or more red-light questions than green-light ones, according to John Sawatsky, a Canadian reporter who conducts interview-training for journalists. Jim Lehrer and his PBS colleague Gwen Ifill, who moderated the first presidential debate and the vice presidential contest, respectively, epitomized the predilection. Each posed about 20 questions, split almost evenly between the open-ended and closed-ended varieties. 
 At Friday's debate, even though Charles Gibson of ABC News was mainly supposed to choose the questions read by voters in St. Louis, he managed to squeeze in a few of his own. Two were closed-ended, including this of John Kerry: ''Would you be favoring capping awards on pain and suffering?'' The other two were what Mr. Sawatsky likes to call ''statements masquerading as questions.'' ''I have heard you both say during the campaign, I just heard you say it, that you're going to cut the deficit by a half in four years,'' Mr. Gibson stated. ''But I didn't hear one thing in the last three and a half minutes that would indicate how either one of you do that.''
 Closed-ended questions sound tough, but they also seem biased to many ears. Their narrow focus implies that the questioner believes there is only one truthful answer. Their abundance helps explain why so many Americans are critical of the press and accuse reporters of playing ''gotcha'' journalism. 
 The undecided voters who took over the questioning on Friday took a much different approach from campaign journalists. Of the 22 questions asked by the 18 Missourians, all but five were open-ended. 
 How did this affect the debate? Open-ended questions, interviewing experts say, do a better job of uncovering emotional responses. They're also favored by women; of the undecideds asking these ''thinking, feeling, finding questions,'' more than half were female. By inviting Mr. Bush to express his emotions, they helped the president make up for his lackluster performance in the first debate. They may have worked against the more cerebral and chilly John Kerry.
 Still, it was hardly a cakewalk for Mr. Bush. A question for you, Mr. President, and it comes from Nikki Washington: ''What is your plan to repair relations with other countries given the current situation?''
 ''I -- listen, I -- we've got a great country. I love our values,'' the president said, initiating a 340-word litany of unpopular but principled decisions he's made. Fervent, but clearly at odds with Ms. Washington's question, which remained superimposed on the C-Span screen.
 This is not to say that closed-ended questions have no place in an interview or a debate. There are times when nothing but an unequivocal answer will do. That, for example, is how James Varner got Senator Kerry to stare into the camera on Friday and promise that he would not raise taxes on families earning less than $200,000 a year. Having the right mix is what matters.
 So tomorrow Mr. Schieffer can serve the public interest and teach his fellow reporters an important lesson about truth-gathering. He can model his questions on those asked by a handful of Missourians who understand the toughest questions are those that show the country what a candidate won't -- or can't -- answer.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Grady White) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL DEBATES (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); JOURNALISM (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICS (76%); WRITERS (75%); ARMED FORCES (54%) Presidential Election of 2004; Debating; Election Issues; News and News Media; Vice Presidents and Vice Presidency (US); Presidential Election of 2004

COMPANY: ASK ASA (64%); GALLUP ORGANIZATION (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (64%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%)

PERSON: JAMES J O'BRIEN (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%) Christopher Scanlan; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Jim Lehrer; Gwen Ifill; Bob Schieffer; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney; John (Sen) Edwards

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2004



297 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 3; Sports Desk; Sports of The Times; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: A Sure Thing? It Sure Isn't Schilling

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON

 BODY:
JUST when the Red Sox believed they were secure in the saddle with an ace named Schilling, here came the Yankees' Murderers' Duo of Mussina and Matsui.
 Just when the Yankees thought were breathing easy in the Bronx, here came the Red Sox, then a desperate call for their main man, Mariano, accompanied onto the mound last night by an invisible teammate named Mystique. 
 It was as if a lightning bolt had struck, at the moment when the public-address announcer Bob Sheppard, upon introducing the Yankees' pitchers, added, ''And en route to Yankee Stadium, No. 42. . . .'' Who could possibly know how desperately the Yankees would need him?
 By the time Mariano Rivera returned from his sad trip home to Panama and came through the players' gate at 8:53 p.m., the Yankees had two runs on the board. By the time he appeared for hugs in the bullpen and a roar from the crowd, Hideki Matsui had driven in four of his five runs and the Yankees had chased Curt Schilling for a 6-0 lead. By the time Rivera was on in the eighth with the tying run at third to save a 10-7 victory, he was, against all odds, the coolest man in a stadium that was an emotional wreck. 
 This wasn't the way it figured to be, not against Schilling and not after the Yankees' lead had grown to 8-0, with Mike Mussina pitching six and two-thirds perfect innings. ''It was like it was too good to be true,'' Joe Torre said, after the Red Sox rallied with five runs in the seventh, two more in the eighth. Rivera's longest day -- beginning with a funeral for two relatives who died last weekend in a swimming pool accident -- became another late night at the office.
 ''I'm tired,'' he said, ''but my mind kept going.'' 
 After a Florida exhibition for which tickets were scalped at wallet-emptying prices and after 19 regular-season confrontations that were hyped to head-spinning proportions, the Yankees and the Red Sox got down to the business of a postseason conflagration to prove once and for all which of these bitter rivals had the better off-season. Yankees-Red Sox is a year-round blood sport now that doesn't even pause for holiday reflection. Last October's epic Game 7 gave way to the dueling bartering and bank accounts that commenced with the Red Sox' Thanksgiving pilgrimage to Arizona to land Schilling. It concluded in February, with the Yankees' lifting of Alex Rodriguez off the baseball hot stove just after Boston believed it had acquired his rich services for dessert.
 The Red Sox armed Schilling with a lucrative contract extension, and he was every bit the ace they needed to survive as a wild card. A-Rod and his buddy, Derek Jeter, formed a potent left side of the infield worth more than $400 million. As Schilling took the ball for Game 1 and as Rodriguez trotted out to his adopted third-base position and symbol of sacrifice, the series had already been stamped as a referendum on those two headline transactions.
 The timeline of the trades, unfortunately, doesn't support the hypothesis that the Yankees set up themselves up for their ultimate humiliation, losing to the Red Sox for the first time in a postseason, by pursuing the more glamorous A-Rod instead of the rotation anchor they lacked -- at least until Mussina made Moose-meat out of the Red Sox with a performance that until the seventh inning could only be described as Cowboy Up, Cowboy Down.
 The Yankees, meanwhile, were on Schilling from the outset, chasing him after 3 innings and 58 unconvincing pitches. He said the ankle he tweaked recently kept him from driving off it, and now the Red Sox need a commanding effort tonight from Pedro Martinez in front of 55,000 people who believe they're his daddy. 
 Schilling had one-hit the Yankees over seven innings last month. Around New York, you almost could smell the fear of him as the Red Sox rolled into town after sweeping the Angels. You could almost hear George Steinbrenner sharpening his tongue and his ax for his general manager, Brian Cashman, in the event Schilling dominated his $180 million masterpiece.
 Had the Yankees been willing to surrender Alfonso Soriano, Schilling might very well have been a Yankee. Had the players' union signed off on a restructuring of A-Rod's deal, he would have been with the Red Sox. Thanks to modern economics, Jerry Seinfeld likes to say that we're all rooting for laundry. True enough, these teams have turned over enough players the last two years to field a 40-man roster, but some things never change, and Rivera in October is one of them, even under the most dire of personal circumstances.
 ''I had 24 players that were waiting for me,'' he said after a hellish day and a five-hour journey. ''I had a job to do.'' He retired Kevin Millar with two out and the tying run at third in the eighth. He faced the tying run with two on and one out in the ninth. As if scripted by Yankee-Red Sox lore, there stood Bill Mueller, whose game-winning homer off Rivera in Boston last July may have saved the Red Sox' season. Mueller bounced back to Rivera, into a double play.
 The Red Sox made it fun, crazy, scary. But in the end, there was Rivera, punctuating a defeat that began with Schilling, Boston's supposed sure thing. There was Yankee mystique, stamped all over another postseason night to remember. All said and done, it's still not clear if a stain dating back to 1918 comes out in this wash.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); BASEBALL (78%); ATHLETES (76%); THANKSGIVING (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: ALEX RODRIGUEZ (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); BOSTON, MA, USA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (73%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2004



298 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: Debating a Plan for a Blacks-Only Fund to Finance an 'Africa Town' in Detroit

BYLINE: By STEPHEN KINZER; Jeremy W. Peters contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: DETROIT, Oct. 12 

 BODY:
Amid the overgrown vacant lots on Grand River Avenue, punctuated by boarded-up buildings that testify to what might have been, Steve's Soul Food stands as a lonely landmark. It is a vibrant black-owned business, a place where politicians come to meet voters and where people of all races gather every day to feast on fried chicken, collard greens and pigs' feet.
 For years, city officials and others here have been looking for ways to encourage blacks, who make up the majority of the population in Detroit, to build more businesses like Steve's. Their latest and most hotly debated idea is to create an ''Africa Town'' fund that would lend city money to entrepreneurs, but only if they are black.
 The City Council approved a resolution in support of the Africa Town fund in July and is expected to vote soon on an amended version. The proposal has set off an intensely emotional debate in the city. Critics say it discriminates against deserving entrepreneurs from other races. Mayor Kwame M. Kilpatrick, who is black, has denounced it as ''unconstitutional and illegal.'' 
 Other local African-Americans strongly support the idea, however, contending it could help pull struggling communities out of poverty. One such supporter is Hector Phillips, the general manager of Steve's Soul Food.
 ''This is a city that's 70 or 80 percent black, so I don't see what the problem is,'' Mr. Phillips said as he watched a customer pay for her turkey wings and black-eyed peas. ''Believe me, people in this community want to start businesses. But the money's not there. You feel helpless. If this project goes through and a number of black businesses crop up, that helplessness is going to fade.''
 Some of Detroit's Hispanic, Asian and Arab residents have angrily denounced the idea of a city-financed Africa Town, which under the current plan would not have specific geographical boundaries. They wonder why African-Americans cannot duplicate the successes of other ethnic groups here.
 On Bagley Street, the heart of what is called Mexican Town, although it is home to people from more than a dozen Spanish-speaking nations, many shopkeepers live above or near their stores. Restaurants attract not only locals but also people from other parts of the city and beyond.
 Behind the counter of Xochi's Gift Shop, Gloria Rosas waits on customers whenever her husband or one of their children is not on duty. She said neither she nor any other business owner on Bagley Street had received city money. She said her family ''built this place up from nothing, with only our own sweat.'' 
 ''I'm not going to say black people didn't suffer,'' Ms. Rosas said. ''We Mexicans know about suffering. We lost half our country. We've been oppressed and invaded over centuries. It's not something we celebrate, but you have to learn from negative experiences and move on.'' 
 Like other northern cities, Detroit shows the scars of urban decay caused by white flight, unemployment, poor schools and other social and economic problems. In Detroit, these forces have come together in a devastating combination that has made this one of the most depressed big cities in the United States.
 Few here doubt that stimulating business could be a key to Detroit's revival. The idea of an Africa Town modeled after a Chinatown or a Little Italy has won almost unanimous support. It is the creation of a development fund exclusively for black entrepreneurs that is causing the conflict.
 ''It is born out of frustration,'' Robin Boyle, a professor of urban development and city planning at Wayne State University, said of the project. ''But this idea is quite unreal. There's a lot of posturing here.'' Professor Boyle said such a fund would be not only bad policy but illegal.
 In July, the City Council approved a resolution to establish a Detroit Capital Development Corporation and authorized it to lend up to $30 million to ''historically depressed, documented residents of Detroit who are members of the city's majority under-served population.'' The money would come from an existing fund that is financed with taxes on casinos. Mayor Kilpatrick vetoed the resolution, and sponsors are now seeking to rewrite it.
 At a tumultuous City Council hearing on Monday, people on both sides of the issue competed with waves of jeers and catcalls to make their points.
 Juan Jose Martinez, a former member of the Detroit Board of Education, called the proposal ''anti-immigrant, discriminatory, divisive and illegal.'' Jumana Judeh, vice chairwoman of the American Arab Chamber of Commerce, said it was ''an insult to every immigrant who came to this country and succeeded by working hard.'' Marisa C. Ming, executive director of the Asian Pacific Chamber of Commerce, based in nearby Auburn Hills, warned that it would give ''the hostile messages to investors and entrepreneurs of other races that they are not welcomed in Detroit.''
 Some blacks also joined in opposition. Bill Ross, president of the Booker T. Washington Business Association, said his group supported the development of black-owned businesses but declared, ''We do not believe you do it by trampling on the rights and spirits of others.''
 Other speakers, however, passionately urged the council not to back down on the plan.
 The Rev. C.T. Vivian, a Baptist minister, said that establishing a loan fund exclusively for blacks would help remove ''psychological barriers'' to their success.
 ''What we're really talking about is accumulation of capital, which African-Americans have never been able to get in this country,'' Mr. Vivian said. ''To vote against that is to vote against our future as black people.''
 At the end of the debate, several councilors lamented that this issue has pitted one minority group against others.
 ''We don't know how to talk about it with any common sense or decency,'' said Kay Everett, one council member. ''What we do is yell at each other.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Hector Phillips, center, of Steve's Soul Food, supports the idea of an Africa Town paid for out of a city fund directed at black entrepreneurs. Helen Moore, left, being congratulated by supporters, spoke in favor of the idea at a City Council meeting. Gloria Rosas, right, runs a shop in Mexican Town. (Photographs by Tom Pidgeon for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINORITY BUSINESSES (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); TRENDS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); POLITICS (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (75%); ETHNIC GROUPS (75%); RESTAURANTS (73%); ARAB AMERICANS (72%); ASIAN AMERICANS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); APPROVALS (71%); ETHNICITY (71%); RETAILERS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (51%) Blacks; Finances; Credit; Small Business; Economic Conditions and Trends; Discrimination; Hispanic-Americans; Asian-Americans ; Arab-Americans

PERSON: Kwame M (Mayor) Kilpatrick

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (96%) MICHIGAN, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) Detroit (Mich); Detroit (Mich)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2004



299 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 335 words

HEADLINE: HIP's Return Is Seen as Boost For Downtown

BYLINE: By IAN URBINA

 BODY:
The largest health care provider in New York City opened its new headquarters yesterday in Lower Manhattan, representing the biggest corporate relocation to the area since the Sept. 11 attack and signaling a vote of confidence in downtown's ability to bounce back.
 By opening the office space at 55 Water Street, HIP Health Plan of New York will bring 500 new jobs and relocate 2,000 existing jobs to the area, Gov. George E. Pataki said during a ribbon-cutting ceremony at the headquarters. The company received about $10.8 million in city and state funds to return to Lower Manhattan. 
 The relocation is expected to have a positive ripple effect on the neighborhood by creating 1,600 additional jobs in coming years in businesses such as office supply stores and restaurants, officials said. 
 With more than a million members, HIP Health Plan of New York is the largest health maintenance organization in New York City, said Anthony L. Watson, the company's chairman and chief executive. 
 ''When the time came for HIP to move its headquarters and consolidate operations, we were offered many opportunities in other locations, but HIP was not about to move out of this city,'' Mr. Watson said.
 Governor Pataki said: ''We knew that we had to transform Lower Manhattan into a 24-hour community where people wanted to live and to visit. HIP has helped us take a big step in this direction.''
 Saying the area is fully on its way to recovery, Governor Pataki said that 1,800 small businesses have committed to moving back to Lower Manhattan, which would create more than 100,000 jobs.
 If HIP adds another 500 employees by the end of 2006, it will receive an extra $1.2 million in grants, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said. 
 ''Both in terms of space and in terms of the number of people relocating, this represents a seminal point in the redevelopment and revival of downtown after 9/11,'' the mayor said.
 HIP will occupy about 550,000 square feet of office space. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RELOCATIONS (78%); HIJACKING (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); GRANTS & GIFTS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); HEALTH CARE (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); TRENDS (73%); TERRORISM (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); RESTAURANTS (69%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (69%); OFFICE SUPPLY STORES (54%) Medicine and Health; Terrorism; Area Planning and Renewal; Economic Conditions and Trends; Labor; Relocation of Business; Health Insurance and Managed Care; World Trade Center (NYC); Medicine and Health; Airlines and Airplanes; Hijacking

ORGANIZATION: Hip Health Plan of New York

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%) Ian Urbina

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2004



300 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; A Small Island, a Big Exporter of Energy; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1539 words

HEADLINE: Trinidad Is Supplying Most U.S. Imports of Liquefied Natural Gas

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: PORT OF SPAIN, Trinidad, Oct. 7 

 BODY:
Cranes are active here again, working around the clock to erect some of the Caribbean's tallest skyscrapers against a backdrop of colonial-era buildings. Traffic snarls throughout this small island country, with imported luxury cars rubbing up against 70's-era gas guzzlers left from the last time energy prices soared.
 But it is not only the rising price of crude oil that has produced such excitement and activity in Trinidad, the Caribbean's largest petroleum producer and one of the few islands that is thriving these days. Instead, what is transforming the situation here is another fossil fuel: natural gas. 
 Amid a scramble to meet growing international energy demands and to satisfy an American market where the price of gas has risen to about $7 for each thousand cubic feet from just $2 in 1999, Trinidad has emerged as the Western Hemisphere's leading supplier of liquefied natural gas. It has stealthily outpaced rivals, this year accounting for nearly 80 percent of shipments to the United States, up from virtually nothing five years ago. 
 Trinidad's leap to the forefront in liquid natural gas -- a fast-growing area of the energy industry where companies invest billions to chill the fuel to temperatures around 250 degrees below zero and ship it across the seas in supertankers -- has ignited rapid growth here. Economic activity increased 13 percent in 2003 and could grow as much again this year. The economy has expanded for 10 consecutive years on Trinidad and Tobago, a twin-island nation of 1.3 million with an area nearly the size of Delaware. 
 Trinidad's gas resources have fueled a web of chemical factories, including nine ammonia plants, an iron and steel complex, and two of the largest methanol plants in the world. The conglomeration of factories, largely in Point Lisas, an industrial site and port south of the capital, Port of Spain, exports most of its production to the United States. 
 ''We've become a highly industrialized nation, something that was a pipe dream a few years ago,'' said Anthony Bryan, former director of the Institute of International Relations at the University of the West Indies on Trinidad.
 But some experts here worry that the natural gas boom is taking on the same character as the oil-fueled growth burst of the 1970's, which was followed by a ruinous decade-long bust culminating in a violent coup attempt in 1990 by Muslim militants. 
 ''There's the 'here-we-go-again' phenomenon,'' said Ronald Ramkissoon, chief economist at Republic Bank of Trinidad and Tobago, the country's largest financial institution. ''If we're not wise enough to hive away some of the excess money we're getting from this boom, then we stand the risk of getting hit again.'' 
 Weighing over everything are fears about what will happen when the energy bounty runs out. Although Trinidad is envied by other energy producers, it has just 0.5 percent of the world's proven gas reserves, far less than big producers like Qatar and Russia. Unless big new discoveries are made, the Inter-American Development Bank says, Trinidad's existing reserves guarantee only 20 years of gas and oil production at current extraction rates.
 For now, though, economic opportunities in Trinidad are luring people and money from elsewhere in the hemisphere. A growing number of Spanish-speaking immigrants from Venezuela and Colombia have moved here recently to fill service jobs in restaurants and other work shunned by Trinidadians. Continental Airlines began flying this summer to Port of Spain directly from Houston, ferrying energy executives eager to cash in on the bonanza. 
 Trinidad owes much of its current good fortune to a plan conceived a decade ago by BP and BG, two of Britain's largest energy companies, together with Repsol of Spain and the National Gas Company of Trinidad and Tobago, to build the first of four large liquid natural gas plants. That strategy transformed BG, formerly British Gas, into the largest corporate supplier of L.N.G. to the United States. By 1999, the venture was ready to start exporting gas.
 Trinidad quickly leapt ahead of Venezuela, where domestic political quarreling stalled ambitions to exploit ample natural gas reserves. 
 ''I'm reluctant to talk about Venezuela because they're the sleeping giant next door,'' said Frank Look Kin, president of the state-controlled National Gas Company. ''You could say we're doing O.K. with what we've got.''
 The importance of natural gas in Trinidad's economy eclipsed that of oil in recent years, with gas output now worth about $4.8 billion a year compared with $1.4 billion for oil, according to the Inter-American Development Bank.
 The Bush administration has responded by showering attention on Trinidad, amid concern over a prospective shortage of the fuel, which is used to generate electricity, run industrial processes and heat homes and offices.
 President Bush surprised Prime Minister Patrick Manning last December when he came to Washington to meet Condoleezza Rice, Mr. Bush's national security adviser. Instead of limiting the visit to her, the White House granted Mr. Manning an impromptu meeting with Mr. Bush to discuss ways of increasing Trinidad's role in resolving problems in other Caribbean countries like Haiti.
 Seeking to further strengthen ties, Spencer Abraham, the energy secretary, declared in a visit here in April that Trinidad was ''a very effective example of how a country with natural gas resources can enter the international marketplace.''
 Much noticed here as well was a meeting over the summer between Mr. Manning and Henry A. Kissinger, the former secretary of state. Mr. Kissinger's visit to Trinidad aroused speculation that he might have lobbied the government on behalf of Freeport McMoRan Energy, a New Orleans company that allied itself this year with Trinidad to build a terminal for receiving L.N.G. off Louisiana's coast. Mr. Kissinger is a director emeritus of a mining concern controlled by Freeport McMoRan Energy's parent company.
 In responding to questions from local reporters, Mr. Kissinger and Mr. Manning denied that the purpose of their meeting was related to negotiations with the Louisiana company.
 Trinidad's aim to cement its position as the leading supplier to the United States fits into its ambition to help guide the policies of large gas-exporting nations. It has held talks with Algeria and Indonesia to interest them in joining the Louisiana terminal venture. And next year, Trinidad is seeking a more active role in the Gas Exporting Countries Forum, a group of more than a dozen nations that also includes Qatar, Iran and Nigeria. 
 Trinidad, a former British colony that gained independence in 1962, views trade as another priority, with Port of Spain competing against several American cities, including Miami and Atlanta, to be selected as administrative headquarters for the planned Free Trade Area of the Americas. 
 The government, meanwhile, intends to invest about $700 million to build a pipeline that would transport gas to seven islands in the eastern Caribbean, including Barbados and Martinique. Trinidadian officials hope to persuade Venezuela to prepare its own gas for export to the United States from Trinidad plants.
 Despite all the activity, concern persists over the energy industry's influence as memories linger of the painful adjustment Trinidad faced in the 1980's after oil prices plummeted. But that has not prevented natural gas from ascending to the heights of the economy after oil production reached a peak in 1978.
 As in many developing countries that are rich in resources, there is a perception that the wealth generated from Trinidad's oil and gas is not widely shared, creating big problems for a nation whose population is largely divided between people of African and Indian descent.
 Unemployment remains stubbornly high, at around 10 percent. Crime is also a prominent concern, underlined by a spate of kidnappings of wealthy Trinidadians in the last two years. A pressing issue Trinidad faces is how to wriggle more royalties out of the multinational energy producers active in its territory. 
 ''The issue of who gets what and how from our gas and oil needs to be revisited,'' said Winston Dookeran, a member of Parliament and former central bank president.
 [In the budget released on Oct. 8, the government laid out a plan to channel substantial energy revenue to social programs and public security. Included are an increase in old-age pensions of more than 10 percent, lower taxes on brown sugar and funds to hire 744 police officers.]
 Despite a gross domestic product of about $8,000 a person, about a fifth of the population still lives in poverty. On average, Trinidadians are richer than most Caribbean islanders though still poorer than people in nearby Barbados and the Bahamas, where tourism revenue has improved living standards.
 Translating its gas reserves into lasting wealth, of course, depends largely on the growth of the liquid natural gas industry in the United States, where more than 30 projects are in planning phases to import the fuel from countries around the world.
 ''The boom,'' Mr. Dookeran, the former central banker, said, ''is aligning our interests with those of the U.S. like never before.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Gas workers making adjustments at an installation at Point Lisas, where Trinidadian exports are shipped to the United States. (Photo by Gabriel Osorio for The New York Times)Chart: ''Rising Above the Rest''Trinidad has grown to be the United States' leading supplier of liquid natural gas in the last five years.Graph tracks U.S. liquid natural gas imports (in billions of cubic feet) from 1999-2003.Trinidad's contribution:1999: 31.1%2000: 43.8%2001: 41.2%2002: 66.1%2003: 74.6%(Source by Energy Information Administration)Maps of Trinidad and Tobago highlighting Port of Spain: Officials in Port of Spain are working to strengthen U.S. ties. (pg. C15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (91%); IMPORT TRADE (91%); LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS (91%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); TRENDS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (74%); CHEMICALS (73%); LUXURY GOODS (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (71%); ALCOHOLS (71%); BIOFUELS (70%); SOLVENTS MFG (70%); SHIPMENTS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); COUPS (63%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (63%); RELIGION (63%) Gas (Fuel); International Trade and World Market; Production; Economic Conditions and Trends; Politics and Government; Coups D'Etat and Attempted Coups D'Etat; Islam; Gas (Fuel)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%)

PERSON: Simon Romero

GEOGRAPHIC: TRINIDAD & TOBAGO (99%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (94%); UNITED STATES (94%) Trinidad and Tobago

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2004



301 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1416 words

HEADLINE: Mexican-Americans Struggle for Jobs

BYLINE: By CHARLIE LeDUFF

DATELINE: EL PASO 

 BODY:
Ernestina Miranda left Mexico for the United States in 1979 in the trunk of a car. 
 She found a job sewing blue jeans in one of the dozens of clothing factories here. Work was steady, six days a week, 12 hours a day. She married and bought a trailer -- without running water or electricity -- on a plot of land. She was awarded citizenship in the late 1980's.
 Now, those blue jeans jobs that brought Mrs. Miranda and thousands of others like her north have gone south, to Mexico. 
 ''My American dream has turned into a nightmare,'' she said, over a glass of strawberry Kool-Aid in her listing trailer. Until recently, she had made a life on $7.50 an hour. She has become a temporary worker in a plastics plant that used to be based in Michigan, earning minimum wage, no benefits, no security. Her husband, Miguel, is unemployed. The mortgage on the slapdash home is in peril.
 ''I worry about the future,'' she said, echoing the sentiment of blue-collar and increasingly of white-collar workers from Los Angeles to Detroit, people who find their jobs being shipped to countries where wages are a small fraction of theirs. 
 When VF Jeanswear, the maker of Wrangler and Lee jeans, announced in September that it was moving the last of its jeans production and more than 1,000 jobs to Mexico, it was the death of that industry in a town once known as Blue Jean Capital, U.S.A. Levi Strauss, Sun Apparel, Wrangler, Lee and Farah do not make jeans here anymore. 
 Proponents of increased international trade say that it ultimately creates more jobs in the United States and lowers prices for consumers here. 
 But in the 11 years since the North American Free Trade Agreement, known as Nafta, was ratified, more than 17,000 garment manufacturing jobs have gone away, according to the Texas Workforce Commission, some to Mexico, some to China, and some to China by way of Mexico. Gone, too, is the good American life described by women like Mrs. Miranda, who has two teenage children. The $7- to $10-an-hour job, the health insurance, McDonald's double cheeseburgers, the $200 apartments in the back of a day care center with a communal toilet, all gone.
 In a strange post-industrial twist, most people who have lost their jobs in the garment industry here are first-generation Mexican women. They typically are illiterate and speak little English. They came to El Paso in the 60's, 70's and 80's, when the American factories moved down from the Northern states in search of cut-rate border labor.
 With those factories having moved out of El Paso, these American citizens find they are members of the obsolescent class. 
 ''I cannot move back to Mexico,'' said Soledad Renteria, 51, who waded across the Rio Grande with her son on her back nearly two decades ago. ''My life is here, and my family there is poor,'' Ms. Renteria said. ''My son wants to work, but I tell him he has to stay in school or he'll end up like me, working as a janitor.''
 In this election year, the presidential candidates debate the benefits of free trade mostly in the rust-belt swing states like Pennsylvania, Michigan and Ohio that have been battered by the loss of manufacturing jobs. 
 Yet Nafta has affected the low-skilled, low-wage Latino workers near the border more than any other place. According to an analysis by the Economic Policy Institute, which focuses on labor issues, California lost 116,000 jobs from 1993 through 2002 because of Nafta, many of them textile jobs. The federal government has certified that 7,800 workers in El Paso County were displaced by Nafta over the past three years, more than double the number displaced in Cook County, Ill., which was second.
 Immigrants elsewhere find their jobs being shipped back to their motherland. In September, the San Francisco Sewing Association closed its doors after 22 years. Once a provider of clothing for Gap, Esprit and Koret, the company lost the last of its contracts to China. Its 200 unionized employees, almost all Chinese and Mexican, were sent to the breadline. 
 ''We lost the business because Mexico and China are a lot cheaper,'' said Steven Lau, co-owner of the factory. ''One day's salary here is one month's salary in China.'' 
 Economists frequently describe how the departure of low-wage jobs to other places leads to the creation of yet better jobs in the United States, but not everyone displaced is a candidate for these proverbial new jobs. And with Texas safely in Republican hands and polls showing that California is poised once again to vote Democratic, presidential candidates are not rushing to assure these workers that help is on the way.
 Raquel G. Ortiz, the daughter of immigrants who stole across the Rio Grande, speaks English and can write in both English and Spanish. But at 56, she is unattractive to new employers and scared, she said, after 21 years at VF Jeanswear.
 ''Who wants to hire a broken-down old lady?'' she asked. ''I'd like to be an embalmer. That seems nice and peaceful. But they don't offer training classes for that.''
 She recently wrote a letter addressed to 1600 Pennsylvania Ave.: 
 ''President Bush:
 ''I respectfully need your attention in the matter of my termination from VF Wrangler Jeans. The factory is leaving to Mexico for cheap labor. I have three complaints.
 ''1) The company wants to give me $110 for each year service.
 ''2) No extension of health benefits.
 ''3) No implementation of promises in the Nafta treaty to help American workers. I need training for a real job that exists here.''
 Ms. Ortiz said: ''There's nothing left here, and I'm too old to go anywhere else. What am I supposed to do?
 The decision to move its manufacturing jobs to Mexico was a simple economic one, according to an executive with VF Jeanswear. ''We are the last major apparel supplier to move manufacturing out of the United States,'' said Sam Tucker, vice president for human resources. ''If we could, we would stay. But in order to make products competitive, we don't have much choice.'' 
 As part of Nafta, the federal government promised retraining programs for workers who lost their jobs to foreign competition, so that they could obtain a new job that pays at least 80 percent of what they earned previously. 
 The El Paso seamstresses are suing the federal Department of Labor, saying they got only remedial English classes and a course, in Spanish, to earn their graduate equivalency diploma. The Association of Border Workers, which filed the complaint, says that the workers should be in bilingual vocational schools or in on-the-job training. 
 ''What do we need with a G.E.D.?'' Ms. Oritz asked. ''They trained a bunch of people to be nurse's aides, and then all of the sudden there were so many nurse's aides and no jobs for nurse's aides. It's ridiculous.''
 El Paso is a border town, and along with Juarez, Mexico, makes up one of the biggest international urban centers. But El Paso is one of the poorest urban centers in the country, where three of four households speak Spanish and almost a third of the population cannot speak English at all and where one-quarter of the work force has not completed the ninth grade. Unemployment hovers around 7.5 percent, and median household income is $37,000, $20,000 less than the national average, according to Census figures. 
 El Paso has cheap, willing labor. But Juarez has cheaper, more willing labor. And so the older American workers, particularly from the immigrant classes, are the throwaways in the new economic order, said Eliot Shapleigh, the state senator from El Paso County, who is trying to bring new industry to El Paso.
 ''The promise of America is that with drive, with heart, with quality education, anyone can succeed,'' Mr. Shapleigh said. ''We did not make good on our promise to Americans to keep that dream alive.''
 There are still some jobs related to the garment industry in El Paso, at laundries and distribution centers. One garment plant is still hiring because it makes military uniforms, which are required by law to be made in the United States. Beyond that, the garment workers scratch out a living sewing hospital scrubs for minimum wage or doing temporary work with no benefits. 
 And Mrs. Miranda, the marginally educated woman now earning $5.15 an hour -- who is unable to speak English and who failed her G.E.D. exam by five points -- summed up the economic situation for blue-collar workers as well as anyone.
 ''The problem in the United States is bad,'' she said. ''It is worse in Mexico.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Raquel G. Ortiz, left, with fellow workers from the VF Jeanswear company who are losing their jobs. Sam Tucker, vice president for human resources, blames economics. ''If we could, we would stay,'' he said.
 Ernestina Miranda lost her job as a garment worker in El Paso when the company sent the work to Mexico, which she left in 1979. (Photographs by Monica Almeida/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); APPAREL MFG (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (86%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (86%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (86%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (85%); JOB CREATION (78%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); WOMEN (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); LAYOFFS (73%); DISMISSALS (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%) Apparel; Labor; International Trade and World Market; Mexican-Americans; Wages and Salaries; Apparel

COMPANY: LEVI STRAUSS & CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%) North American Free Trade Agreement 

INDUSTRY: NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (58%)

PERSON: Charlie Leduff

GEOGRAPHIC: EL PASO, TX, USA (94%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); MEXICO (96%); CHINA (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%) Mexico; China; Northern States (US)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2004



302 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; HOCKEY; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: Owner Is Criticized for Comments

BYLINE: By JOE LAPOINTE

 BODY:
The day before the regular season was supposed to open, the National Hockey League rebuked a team official yesterday for his comments about the league's strategy in its labor lockout, its second in a decade.
 Seven season openers were scheduled for tonight, including the Stanley Cup champion Tampa Bay Lightning playing at home against the Philadelphia Flyers. But instead, almost half of the N.H.L.'s players are either in European professional leagues, with North American minor league teams or on barnstorming tours beginning this week in Canada.
 Management and the N.H.L. Players' Association have not negotiated for more than a month. 
 In an interview published Sunday in The Boston Herald, Steve Belkin, a part-owner of the Atlanta Thrashers, said: ''If we reach an impasse and it goes on for a year, we will attempt to bring in other players. That's not good for anyone. That's a last resort. But if that's the only alternative, say, a year from now, we'll probably proceed with doing that, and then hopefully start building up the caliber of the players over a period of time.'' 
 A statement issued yesterday by Frank Brown, the N.H.L. vice president for media relations, said, ''In addition to being inappropriate and irresponsible, Mr. Belkin's comments also were factually inaccurate and do not reflect the current views'' of the league.
 Belkin also issued a statement yesterday, saying: ''I deeply regret the comments I made to The Boston Herald, which were my personal, uninformed views, and not those of the Atlanta Thrashers' ownership and management, nor those of the National Hockey League.''
 The league fined Belkin $250,000 yesterday, according to The Associated Press, one day after it issued a written warning about making unauthorized statements to all 30 teams.
 The players union said that Belkin's remarks showed that the league was not bargaining in good faith. It said the league would seek to declare an impasse, cancel its season, impose new work rules and use replacement players for next season in an effort to reduce the average annual salary to $1.3 million from $1.8 million.
 The lockout began Sept. 15, when Commissioner Gary Bettman announced that training camps would not open. The league wants to lower salaries through a ''cost certainty'' formula that would link salaries with revenues; the union regards that as a salary cap. The players union has said that it will make concessions in many areas of collective bargaining but will not consider a salary cap.
 Ted Saskin, senior director of the union, said in a telephone interview yesterday from Toronto that Belkin's statements were ''consistent with what we've suggested is their strategy'' and that the strategy was ill advised. The league has denied that it intended to declare a bargaining impasse.
 ''This puts the lie to what they've been saying,'' Saskin said. ''They will stick to their demand for a salary cap and try to implement one in the future. We fail to see how one can expect to build hockey's popularity by shutting it down for an extensive period of time through an owners lockout, and then try to reintroduce it on a watered-down basis where you wouldn't have any star players who drive interest in the sport.''
 According to the International Ice Hockey Federation, more than 200 N.H.L. players are on the rosters of European professional teams, including stars like Jaromir Jagr of the Rangers, playing in the Czech Republic, and Peter Forsberg of the Colorado Avalanche, playing in Sweden.
 About 50 more N.H.L. players will play in the American Hockey League, the top minor league circuit in North America, said Jason Chaimovitch, director of public relations for the A.H.L. Its season opens tonight.
 Other players have joined barnstorming tours in Canada, including the Original Stars Hockey League, which opens tomorrow in Antigonish, Nova Scotia, and Fredericton, New Brunswick.
 When asked Monday if the N.H.L. was worried that a prolonged lockout would strengthen other leagues at its expense, Bill Daly, executive vice president and chief legal officer of the N.H.L., said no.
 ''The N.H.L. will continue to be the premier hockey league in the world,'' Daly said. ''Players want to play here. Bottom line is they are playing overseas for hundreds of thousands of dollars less.''
 Daly also said that the N.H.L. was not concerned that the lockout had generated considerably less consternation among fans and the news media than the lockout of a decade ago.
 ''It's a different environment in hockey and in sports in general,'' Daly said. The public is more accustomed to strikes and lockouts, he said, and this one was not a surprise.
 ''We'd rather be dropping the puck on Wednesday night, that's clear,'' he said. ''But that doesn't happen to be our reality.''
 The exact nature of the economic reality is disputed. The N.H.L. said that it lost about $500 million in operations in the last two seasons and that players received about 75 percent of $2.1 billion in annual revenues. The union said it did not support the league's accounting.
 In an interview on ESPN Radio last month, Daly said ''the Rangers do lose money'' and seemed to suggest that their high-salaried roster might be part of a strategy to add value to the larger corporate operations of Cablevision, which owns the team and Madison Square Garden.
 ''I am not arguing that point,'' Daly said in the interview, ''but on a pure cash-flow basis, it is hard in this business, with a $90 million payroll, to show a positive bottom line.''
 When asked Monday about the Rangers' financial losses as part of the overall N.H.L. economy, neither Daly nor a Madison Square Garden spokesman would offer specific numbers.
 ''I won't confirm that any were Ranger losses,'' Daly said. ''The players association seems to like to suggest that if we were to discuss who was losing money, the public would have a tough time believing who's losing money.''
 Saskin said he could not reveal specifics of economic statements that individual teams provided to the union.
 ''Having said that, Daly has now acknowledged that the Rangers represented a significant financial loss, according to the way the league does its accounting,'' Saskin said. ''This, coupled with Daly's acknowledgement that the Rangers might intentionally lose money to create greater value for Cablevision as a whole is exactly why we doubt that the N.H.L. financial reports accurately reflect how each of the teams structure their finances.''
 With players like Jagr, who makes a league-high salary of $11 million, the Rangers have missed the playoffs for seven consecutive seasons while paying some of hockey's highest wages. The union has said in recent weeks that it should not agree to concessions that reduce wages while protecting team owners from the results of decisions made by poorly managed clubs. 
 Although the terms of the lockout settlement in 1995 were widely perceived to be a victory for Bettman and the owners, it did not work out that way. The average salary rose to $1.8 million, from $733,000, and the league grew to 30 teams from 26.
 Daly said the league would not consider mediation or arbitration to settle with the union.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Edmonton Coach Craig MacTavish has kept busy during the N.H.L. lockout coaching 10- and 11-year-olds. (Photo by Dan Riedlhuber/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ICE HOCKEY (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); LOCKOUTS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); BAD FAITH (70%); FINES & PENALTIES (68%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (67%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (94%); EDMONTON OILERS (91%); DALLAS STARS (84%); TAMPA BAY LIGHTNING (58%); PHILADELPHIA FLYERS (57%); ATLANTA THRASHERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (72%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (90%); ALBERTA, CANADA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2004



303 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: COMMODITIES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 275 words

HEADLINE: Concerns About Heating Fuel Push Oil Higher for a Time

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Oil prices jumped above $54 yesterday as supply hitches hindered efforts to build winter heating fuel inventories. They later shed more than a $1 a barrel as traders took profits from the surge. 
 Crude oil prices set a record of $54.45 a barrel in overnight trading -- the sixth successive day of all-time peaks -- before slipping to end at $52.51, down $1.13, or 2 percent. 
 Oil prices have jumped 66 percent this year as the strongest demand growth in 24 years caught producers by surprise, leaving a tightly stretched global supply system little leeway to deal with shortages. 
 Winter fuel is in short supply worldwide. 
 In the United States, the weekly distillate stockpile data, which will be available Thursday, is expected to record a fall of 1.1 million barrels, a Reuters poll of analysts showed. United States heating oil inventories are already at a 6 percent deficit compared with last year. 
 ''The fear is that there will not be enough heating oil, and we are already seeing colder weather in the Northeast,'' said John Brady, a broker with ABN Amro in New York. 
 Price gains were bolstered by news that saboteurs had set fire to a major oil pipeline feeding the Bonny export terminal in Nigeria, which exports 500,000 barrels a day of crude. 
 Operator Royal Dutch/Shell said that it was diverting supplies to an alternative pipeline and that 20,000 barrels a day of crude had been shut in for a few days. Nigerian crude is prized for its yield of transportation and heating fuels. 
 Nigeria has managed to keep exports flowing normally despite a series of threats this month, including this week's general strike over fuel prices. 


GRAPHIC: Graph ''COMMODITIES'' tracks crude oil prices (near-month contract), since May 2003. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. (The average price of a barrel of oil is listed for the past 10 days.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); HEATING OIL (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (79%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (79%); FUTURES (79%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (79%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); FIRES (73%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Futures and Options Trading; Heating Fuel; Records and Achievements; Inventories (Economic Indicator)

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (67%); RBS HOLDINGS NV (55%)

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (67%); RDSA (AMS) (67%); RDS.B (NYSE) (67%); RDS.A (NYSE) (67%); ABO (ASX) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (67%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (67%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NIGERIA (91%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2004



304 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE: REGIONAL MARKET -- Brooklyn; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: 3-Story Shopping Complex For Area Short on Retailing

BYLINE: By MARCIA BIEDERMAN

 BODY:
While many parts of Brooklyn have been experiencing well-publicized revivals, this is not the case in the worn commercial area at the intersection of Flatbush and Nostrand Avenues in the Midwood section. 
 Now, however, a Queens developer is preparing to construct a three-story retail complex anchored by a Target store on the site, formerly owned by the city and now home to two parking lots. He expects the project to have a far-reaching impact.
 ''The potential is tremendous,'' said Lester Petracca, the principal of the Triangle Equities Development Company of College Point. Triangle expects to open a sleek 280,000-square-foot shopping center in the fall of 2006 near Flatbush Avenue's jumble of fast-food restaurants and bargain clothing stores. The projected cost is $70 million. 
 Target will occupy about 200,000 square feet on the second and third floors. Mr. Petracca said that his company hoped to lease the ground floor to restaurants and nationally known retailers and that it expected to draw shoppers from throughout central Brooklyn.
 The development, which will also have a five-level public parking garage, is to be called the Junction. It takes its name from a local nickname for the intersection, a transportation hub where buses congregate and the No.2 subway line terminates on Flatbush. 
 Mr. Petracca sees this slice of central Brooklyn as ripe with untapped potential. ''There's affluence there,'' he said. ''We don't see this as a low-income area at all.''
 Diverse both economically and ethnically, the surrounding neighborhoods encompass tree-lined streets of single-family homes as well as blocks of shabby rental units.
 Target has two other stores in the borough, both opened within the last two years. The newest is in the Atlantic Terminal retail center in downtown Brooklyn, which opened during the summer. The other is in the East New York section, in the Gateway retail center. Like the Junction project, the Gateway center was built on land previously owned by the public.
 Although Brooklyn is the city's most populous borough, it ranks near the bottom in service by retailers. In 2002 Brooklyn had 9.4 square feet of retail space per person, compared with a citywide average of 15.9 square feet, according to the city's Economic Development Corporation.
 Still, the Junction project had to deal with public wariness during a lengthy public review process. Triangle Equities won the bid to develop the property four years ago, but the sale of the city-owned land for $2.15 million was not completed until June. In addition to the two parking lots, the triangular property, bordered by Flatbush and Nostrand Avenues and Avenue H, includes air rights over a freight-only rail cut owned by the Long Island Rail Road and operated by the New York & Atlantic Railway. 
 In contrast to other Brooklyn developments that have ignited local opposition, this one seems to have placated its critics. Terry Rodie, district manager for Community Board 14, praised the developer for changes made in response to community concerns. ''We're pleased they were receptive to us,'' she said.
 One modification, related to traffic issues, involved the relocation of berths for trucks making deliveries to the shopping center.
 Another particular concern, Ms. Rodie said, was the potential loss of parking. Though poorly maintained and often occupied by the homeless, the municipal lots scheduled for demolition provided a necessary service. Brooklyn College, with 15,000 commuter students, is just a few blocks from the site, and people who drove to events at the college often relied on the lots.
 The public parking garage to be erected will supply hundreds more spaces than the existing lots, though perhaps at a higher price. Mr. Petracca said the garage would be managed by a private company, which he declined to name.
 Further cultivating its good-neighbor image, the developer plans to offer free parking to Brooklyn College on the property until construction begins. Groundbreaking is not scheduled until spring. Mr. Petracca said designs for the retail center were being redrawn to accommodate Target, which came on board only about one year ago, after other prospective anchors withdrew.
 The developer was encouraged by the community board to take an active role in the creation of a Business Improvement District along this portion of Flatbush Avenue. Through the BID, businesses will be expected to contribute to efforts to spruce up the area with better lighting, more attractive storefronts and improved security. 
 At present, the area is not always an easy place to conduct business. The Canal Jean store on Nostrand Avenue, across from the development, is said to have struggled since its opening in 2001 and it recently closed one of its two selling floors.
 ''As the largest contributor to the BID, we'll have a huge impact on the area,'' Mr. Petracca said. He also predicted that the Junction would have a ripple effect on nearby shopping areas. ''The project will act as a gateway into the Flatbush retail corridor,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: An artist's conception of the retail building to be known as the Junction. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (92%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (72%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (71%); FAST FOOD (71%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (70%); RANKINGS (65%) Retail Stores and Trade; Shopping Centers

COMPANY: TARGET CORP (92%); GATEWAY INC (81%)

ORGANIZATION: Triangle Equities Development Co; Target Corp

TICKER: TGT (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (92%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (92%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (81%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (81%)

PERSON: Marcia Biederman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Midwood (NYC); New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2004



305 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: Second Private-Property Case Accepted by Supreme Court

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 12 

 BODY:
With an important eminent domain case already on the docket, the Supreme Court expanded its examination of private-property rights on Tuesday by accepting a new case on how courts should decide when an economic regulation goes so far as to amount to an unconstitutional ''taking'' of private property.
 The case is an appeal by the state government of Hawaii, where a federal court ruled unconstitutional a law limiting the rent that oil companies can charge to independent dealers who lease its service stations. The district court in Honolulu, in a decision upheld by the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, held that expert testimony on the economic effect of the regulation had failed to prove that it would ''substantially advance a legitimate state interest.''
 This was the wrong standard, the state argued vigorously in its Supreme Court appeal. The state said the Ninth Circuit had established an ''intrusive'' legal test that invited judges to substitute their own views of the ''efficacy or wisdom of the government action'' for the views of elected officials. Courts should limit themselves to deciding whether a government economic regulation has a rational basis, a much more deferential standard, the state argued. 
 The importance of this issue to government officials was underscored in briefs filed on Hawaii's behalf by New York, California, Connecticut and 16 other states as well as by the National Conference of State Legislatures, the United States Conference of Mayors and other government bodies. It has implications not only for rent-control laws like Hawaii's, but for environmental, health and safety rules as well as for the zoning and land-use regulations that have been the focus of the courts' concerns about the Fifth Amendment's ''takings'' clause.
 The Fifth Amendment provides that private property shall not be ''taken for public use without just compensation.'' In the case the Supreme Court accepted late last month, Kelo v. City of New London, No. 04-108, the question is whether private economic development that will add to the city's tax base is an appropriate ''public use'' for which a city can exercise its power of eminent domain to condemn property of lower economic value.
 The new case, Lingle v. Chevron U.S.A. Inc., No. 04-163, presents a related but distinct question: whether the challenged rent regulation is a taking in the first place. The Supreme Court's precedents make clear that the government does not have to physically acquire property in order to ''take'' it and incur the obligation to pay for it. A regulation can be a taking if it strips the property of much of its economic use.
 In a zoning case from 1980, Agins v. City of Tiburon, the court went further and said that a regulation can amount to a taking if it ''does not substantially advance legitimate state interests.'' But the court has never explained exactly what it meant. The Hawaii Legislature passed the rent law in 1997 in response to what it saw as a lack of competition in the retail gasoline market in the state, which is served by only two refiners. The Legislature wanted to protect independent dealers, who lease their stations from oil companies and had to pass rent increases on to consumers. The law capped the dealers' rent at 15 percent of their profits plus certain increases that the oil companies were permitted to pass on.
 Chevron, Hawaii's biggest gasoline refiner and marketer, brought a lawsuit arguing that the rent cap violated due process, equal protection and amounted to an unconstitutional taking. After the district court accepted Chevron's takings argument, the company voluntarily dismissed the other claims.
 The district court conducted a one-day hearing at which the company and the state each presented an economic expert to testify about the likely impact of the regulation on the retail gasoline market. When the experts disagreed, the court found that Chevron's expert was ''more persuasive'' in predicting that the rent cap would discourage investment and lead to fewer independent dealers. Therefore, the court held and the appeals court agreed, the regulation did not ''substantially advance a legitimate state interest.''
 Eliot L. Spitzer, the state attorney general of New York, said in a brief filed in support of Hawaii's Supreme Court appeal that this test ''threatens to establish the federal courts as overseers of state laws, routinely inquiring whether the state has made the 'correct' policy choice to respond to a particular problem.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROPERTY LAW (91%); SUPREME COURTS (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); EMINENT DOMAIN (90%); APPEALS (90%); GAS STATIONS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); ZONING (89%); RENT CONTROL (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); APPEALS COURTS (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); TESTIMONY (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); MAYORS (66%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Rent Control and Stabilization; Renting and Leasing; Garages and Service Stations; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: CHEVRON USA INC (62%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF MAYORS (54%); NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES (54%) Supreme Court (US)

PERSON: Linda Greenhouse

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (54%) HAWAII, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Hawaii

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2004



306 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 773 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Weighs Putting Limits On Textiles From China

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 12 

 BODY:
The administration agreed on Tuesday to consider a petition from a coalition of textile manufacturers, along with the union representing their workers, asking that the federal government limit imports from China next year, an action that could eventually cover nearly $2 billion of goods.
 The petition was the first of what is expected to be dozens filed in the weeks ahead as the United States prepares for the expiration of textile quotas on Jan. 1, 2005, which is intended to allow for free-flowing trade in textiles and clothing.
 In contrast to their previous petitions, in this one the American textile and garment industry has asked for relief in advance of any market disruption by Chinese imports, rather than wait for the imports, which they said would destroy their economic base.
 A spokeswoman at the Commerce Department, Mary Brown Brewer, said, ''Our industry is well within its right to file these petitions based on the threat of a market disruption.'' 
 The coalition said that the timing of the filing had nothing to do with presidential elections, but the government must decide by Nov. 1, the day before the country votes, whether to take steps eventually to impose any limits, or safeguards. 
 Lifting the quota system was aimed at helping developing nations, but China's success in the marketplace has convinced rich and poor countries that some limits or safeguards are needed.
 ''There will be 650,000 jobs lost in the United States if China is allowed to flood the U.S. market,'' said Cass Johnson, president of the National Council of Textile Organizations, during a telephone news conference.
 His coalition has asked the Bush administration to grant its petition to limit increases in Chinese imports to 7 percent higher than the previous year's imports.
 Retailers, who will benefit once the quotas are lifted, accused the American manufacturers of using electoral politics to avoid the consequences of a trade decision made 10 years ago.
 ''We urge the administration to ensure that petitions are adjudicated in a way that advances economic interests of the United States, and does not reflect political considerations,'' said Kevin M. Burke, president of the American Apparel and Footwear Association.
 The European Union announced on Tuesday that it was considering its own system for monitoring China's textile imports when the quotas are lifted.
 Those fears seem well grounded. China was swift to fill the vacuum when some quotas were lifted in recent years. Since 1999, imports of Chinese shoes and apparel have increased 50 percent and now top $27 billion.
 Coalition officials said that China's success was a result of unfair trading practices that included government subsidies to its textile and apparel industry, manipulation of its currency and giving its industry loans that are rarely paid back.
 Those practices, critics said, allowed China to reduce the prices of its goods by as much as 50 percent, pushing out competition from poorer nations as well as the developed world.
 ''The benefits of free trade are being washed away by China which is creating a monopoly,'' said Karl Spilhaus, president of the National Textile Association.
 The World Trade Organization estimated that once the quotas are lifted, China will be supplying half of the clothing imports to the United States.
 If that occurs, the American industry is expected to suffer. North and South Carolina will be directly affected by the administration's decision. Although President Bush is considered the likely winner in both states, the election is so close that the textile industry hopes the administration is inclined to help the thousands of workers who fear for their jobs.
 ''Absent the implementation of safeguards,'' Mr. Johnson said, ''China will destroy the textile and apparel manufacturing complex, one of the largest employment sectors in the United States.''
 The administration agreed last year to limit the growth of imports of robes, bras and knit shirts from China at the request of those American industries.
 Democrats in Congress have accused the administration of failing to prepare to help prevent job losses and further eroding the American textile industry, which has already been cut in half by foreign competitors.
 ''We anticipated problems with China over textiles and crafted legislation to give us tools to deal with them but the administration did nothing,'' said Representative Sander M. Levin, Democrat of Michigan.
 The White House rejected a request last summer by Democratic and Republican lawmakers to delay the lifting of the quotas, saying that decision is best left to the W.T.O. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEXTILES (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); PETITIONS (90%); TEXTILE MFG (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TEXTILE MILLS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); FABRIC MILLS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); APPAREL MFG (89%); GARMENT WORKERS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); FOOTWEAR (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); RETAILERS (72%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%); EUROPEAN UNION (62%) Textiles; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; International Trade and World Market; Treaties; Textiles

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) Commerce Department ; National Council of Textile Organizations; European Union

PERSON: GREGORY E JOHNSON (50%) George W (Pres) Bush; Elizabeth Becker; Mary Brown Brewer; Cass Johnson

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%) China; Europe

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2004



307 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1630 words

HEADLINE: How Tax Bill Gave Business More and More

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 12 

 BODY:
Senator Charles E. Grassley needed every possible vote to pass his mammoth corporate tax bill. So he was more than willing to accept Zell Miller's plea on behalf of imported ceiling fans.
 Senator Miller, the Georgia Democrat who became a Republican hero at the party's convention with his impassioned denunciation of Senator John Kerry, was determined to help Home Depot, the home-improvement chain based in Atlanta. And Home Depot, which sells about half of all ceiling fans in the United States, wanted an end to the tariff on imported fans, most of them from China.
 On Monday, everybody involved was a winner. The Senate gave final approval to Mr. Grassley's bill, which would shower $137 billion in tax breaks into every corner of industry. While the bill's primary purpose is to bolster American manufacturers, it will also help Chinese ceiling-fan companies by eliminating $44 million in tariffs over the next two years. President Bush is expected to sign the bill into law shortly. 
 The Home Depot provision is just one tiny example of how the need to solve a narrow tax problem in 2002 gave birth to the biggest free-for-all in corporate lobbying that Congress has experienced in nearly 20 years.
 The story began nearly three years ago, with an initial impetus simply to replace a $5 billion annual tax break for American exporters that the World Trade Organization had ruled was illegal. It ended this week with a 633-page behemoth that offers new tax giveaways to everyone from corporate titans like Boeing and Hewlett-Packard to an array of oil and gas producers, shopping mall developers, wine distributors, even restaurants. Many companies, like General Electric and Dell, are likely to end up with far more tax relief under the new bill than they had ever received from the old tax break. Some, like Exxon Mobil, never qualified for the old tax break at all but will enjoy tax savings now.
 Even the ''losers'' came away with something. Movie executives are complaining that they were punished at the last minute, when House Republicans stripped out about $1 billion worth of tax credits, in part because the industry is closely identified with the Democratic Party. But they still held on to $336 million in tax breaks for movies made in areas with high unemployment.
 Similarly, the final bill would also raise more than $60 billion by cracking down on major tax shelters and punishing companies that try to avoid American taxes by moving their headquarters outside the country. But in a gesture of mercy to a handful of oil service companies from Texas, House Republicans gave a green light to companies that moved offshore before March 4, 2003. The beneficiaries of that decision include the Noble Corporation, Weatherford International, Cooper Industries and Nabors Industries -- all in or near the district of Tom DeLay, the House majority leader.
 ''It was a perfect storm for pork, in that they added all these provisions that were really important to lawmakers in an election year,'' said Keith Ashdown, vice president of Taxpayers for Common Sense, a nonpartisan public-interest group in Washington. ''It will take days, if not months, to figure out everything that's in here.''
 Within the Washington Beltway, the political logic was in many ways predictable. What was not predictable was how brazen and open the frenzy would ultimately become.
 House and Senate leaders knew from the start that any attempt to tinker with corporate taxes would set off intense lobbying, as every major company and every industry association scrambled to protect existing preferences and push for new ones.
 After nearly two years of feuding among rival interest groups, the House and Senate both passed bills this year that would essentially replace the old tax break with rate cuts on profits from domestic manufacturing.
 But under heavy pressure from big multinational corporations, both chambers also included about $42 billion worth of tax reductions on the foreign earnings of companies based in the United States.
 Corporate executives defended the tax cuts on foreign profits, saying that American companies were at a competitive disadvantage because most other countries tax profits earned only inside their borders.
 To build support for their bills, House and Senate leaders openly invited lawmakers and industry groups to draw up their own wish lists for special tax provisions. By last spring, the Senate bill had ballooned to more than 700 pages. 
 It suddenly included billions of tax breaks for oil and gas companies and renewable energy that had been in last year's energy bill, which collapsed amid bitter partisan and industry feuding in November 2003.
 One of those provisions was Home Depot's tariff reduction on ceiling fans, which was slipped into the House's tax bill this summer and agreed to by Mr. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, to please Mr. Miller.
 The bill also greatly expanded the traditional definition of ''manufacturing,'' enabling a much greater range of companies to qualify for tax reductions. 
 Under pressure from the Bechtel Corporation, the engineering contractor, for example, Senate leaders included engineering as a form of manufacturing. They also included any companies involved in timber and the ''extraction'' of minerals, which extended fresh benefits to companies like Exxon Mobil and BP Amoco, as well as electric companies.
 Meanwhile, lawmakers pressed hard to win approval for pet tax breaks that had been lying around for years but rejected on previous occasions. Among the items that made it into the final bill were a $9 million tax reduction on bows and arrows; $27 million in tax breaks on gambling income of foreigners at American horse-racing and dog-racing tracks; and $11 million in reduced excise taxes on fishing tackle boxes, a longtime pet project of J. Dennis Hastert, the House speaker, whose district includes a big producer of tackle boxes.
 Given the need to pass some sort of bill, if only to spare the costly, escalating sanctions on exports imposed by the W.T.O. to force compliance, every tax lobbyist in town was engaged in the fight to win something for their clients and block changes that might cost them money. That stretched out the process. 
 "It's always difficult when you have a finite pie that you're trying to divvy up,'' said Donald G. Carlson, a former chief of staff on the House Ways and Means Committee who lobbied for numerous provisions in the bill. ''When you have to pick winners and losers within the corporate community, that is always a messy process that Congress is reluctant to undertake.''
 House and Senate leaders were stalled for months by feuding, made all the more difficult as the combination of tax breaks in both the House and Senate versions vastly outstripped the money to pay for them.
 Representative Bill Thomas, Republican of California and chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, rejected most of the energy tax breaks included in the Senate bill.
 But one provision that he included was Mr. Miller's tariff reduction for ceiling fans. Strictly speaking, the tariff reduction had nothing to do with taxes and would, if anything, make life harder for American companies competing with the imports. Mr. Miller argued that the tariff was pointless because there were no American ceiling fan manufacturers, and that there had not been any for many years. In the meantime, he contended, retailers like Home Depot were forced to charge higher prices.
 Mr. Thomas, often known for scathingly denouncing ''extraneous'' provisions in his tax bills, quietly supported the ceiling fan provision in the certain knowledge that Mr. Grassley on the Senate side would go along.
 One reason may well have been Mr. Miller's passionate denunciation of his own Democratic Party in a recent book as well as his keynote speech at the Republican convention. 
 Amid all the horse trading, the biggest deal involved tobacco farmers and cigarettes. Knowing he needed at least some Democratic votes, Mr. Thomas added in a provision in the summer that would create a $10 billion buyout program for tobacco farmers.
 Tobacco state lawmakers had been pushing for such a buyout for years, because demand for tobacco and the value of tobacco-growing quotas had been declining for years.
 The tobacco deal created a sensation in North Carolina, where Republicans and Democrats are in a tight race to capture the Senate seat being vacated by John Edwards, the Democratic vice-presidential candidate. 
 The Senate, pressed by a bipartisan group of lawmakers, voted to link the tobacco buyout with a historic change that would subject cigarettes and other tobacco products to regulation by the Food and Drug Administration. But House Republicans adamantly rejected any new regulation for cigarettes, omitting the provision in a conference bill last week and easily defeating Senate attempts to put it back in.
 ''I got a lot of calls from people in Ohio who were very concerned that the bill might not pass,'' said Senator Mike De Wine, Republican of Ohio, who fought for tobacco regulation. ''But to me it was a bigger principle.'' 
 It remains unclear how soon all the trouble will actually solve the original problem, which is that the European Union is imposing punitive tariffs on up to $4 billion worth of American exports as long as the old tax break remains in force.
 The new bill would eventually eliminate the tax break, but it would provide a ''transition period'' lasting several years, which may leave it still technically in violation of the trade organization's ruling.
 European officials are ultimately expected to go along, but they have been coy. On Monday, Pascal Lamy, the European Union's trade commissioner, said simply, ''We will now carefully study the details in the final compromise.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Something for Almost Everyone''In theory, the new tax bill pays for all the tax breaks it provides by generating revenue from other sources. But the winners, which range from manufacturers and corporations with overseas operations to businesses large and small, far outnumber the losers.REVENUE: +$148.21 bil.EXPORTERS -- Eliminates a tax break for exporters that was declared illegal by the World Trade Organization.: +$49.20TAX SHELTERS AND FEES -- Eliminates several tax shelters, including one that allowed cities to sell public investments, like subway cars, to private investors, so they could lease them back to the cities and depreciate the assets. That will raise $26.6 billion. Also raises customs fees by $18.6 billion.: +$81.97MISCELLANEOUS -- Bookkeeping changes, among them shifting payments of alcohol fuel excise tax credits to the General Fund, which saves $5.9 billion.: +$6.90TOBACCO COMPANIES AND CONSUMERS -- Tax on tobacco products will be used to pay tobacco farmers.: +$10.14 -- -$10.14TOBACCO FARMERS -- Pay them to stop growing tobacco.: +$10.14/-$10.14MANUFACTURERS -- A 9 percent tax reduction for companies manufacturing goods in the United States. According to the legislation, manufacturers include architects, oil refiners and civil engineers.: -$76.51BIG BUSINESS -- Tax reductions, mostly on foreign profits of multinational corporations: -$42.64OTHER BUSINESSES -- Various tax write-offs, including increasing the number of eligible shareholders in S Corporations to 100 from 75. Reduces taxes for film and TV production for the next five years by $336 million.: -$7.33INCOME TAXES AND MISCELLANEOUS -- In nine states where there is no income tax, people will be able to deduct sales taxes from their federal tax returns for two years. Tax breaks for a range of businesses, including reduction of excise taxes on fishing tackle boxes, $10,000 deductions for timber companies for reforestation costs, and temporary suspension of customs duties on imported ceiling fans.: -$11.59LOST REVENUE: -$148.21 bil.(Sources by Joint Committee on Taxation
 Taxpayers for Common Sense)(pg. C15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (95%); TAX LAW (92%); LOBBYING (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (77%); HOME CENTERS (76%); APPROVALS (74%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (73%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (72%); RETAILERS (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (70%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (68%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (68%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (68%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (50%) Taxation; Tax Credits ; Tax Deductions; International Trade and World Market; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Law and Legislation; Taxation

COMPANY: HOME DEPOT INC (85%); NOBLE CORP (80%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (54%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%); BOEING CO (54%); WEATHERFORD INTERNATIONAL LTD (53%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (53%); NABORS INDUSTRIES LTD (50%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (82%) World Trade Organization

TICKER: HD (NYSE) (85%); NE (NYSE) (80%); HPQ (NYSE) (54%); GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%); BOE (LSE) (54%); BAB (BRU) (54%); BA (NYSE) (54%); WH4 (FRA) (53%); WFT (SWX) (53%); WFT (PAR) (53%); WFT (NYSE) (53%); XOM (NYSE) (53%); NBR (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (85%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (85%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (80%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (80%); SIC1381 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (80%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (80%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (54%); NAICS532412 CONSTRUCTION, MINING & FORESTRY MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (53%); NAICS333132 OIL & GAS FIELD MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (53%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (53%)

PERSON: CHUCK GRASSLEY (90%); JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%) Edmund L Andrews; Charles E (Sen) Grassley

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%) GEORGIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2004



308 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-12

Allawi Works to Return Key Baathists To Power
Prime Minister Ayad Allawi, seeking to speed the return of senior officials of the former ruling Baath Party into the government, has tried to dismantle a powerful independent commission that was established after the American invasion to keep such people from power. He argues that the readmission of former ranking party members will help to combat and dampen an increasingly lethal insurgency. A12

The American military staged a series of aggressive strikes in insurgent strongholds west of Baghdad, including firing missiles into the streets of Falluja and conducting raids alongside Iraqi commandos in seven mosques in Ramadi. The wave of assaults inflamed Sunni Muslims in the cities, who said innocent civilians had been killed or arrested in the operations. A12

Afghans to File Vote Complaints
Fifteen of the 17 candidates who ran against the interim president, Hamid Karzai, in Afghanistan's first presidential election met in Kabul to prepare official complaints of multiple voting, ballot box stuffing and other irregularities. The complaints will be investigated by a commission set up by the United Nations; the candidates agreed to abide by the panel's findings. A11

9 Dead in Suicide Pacts in Japan
Nine people were found dead in two rented cars with the windows sealed and charcoal burners at their feet in pacts that the police said were facilitated by Internet suicide sites. A11

Germany Deports Radical
The German police arrested Metin Kaplan, an Islamic radical who was named by the Turkish government as the leader of a failed terrorist attack in 1998 , and deported him to Turkey, which has sought his extradition for years. A11

Sharon Moves Forward in Fight
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon, described by aides as more angry than embarrassed over Parliament's symbolic vote against his term-opening speech, moved to renew discussions with opposition parties over reshaping his minority government. A6

EDUCATION B8

DINING OUT F1-16

OBITUARIES A25

ARTS E1-12

Ruling May Help Screenwriters
An opinion from the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in Jeff Grosso v. Miramax Film Corporation, may help scriptwriters who feel their ideas have been stolen by Hollywood studios. E1

NATIONAL A14-24

Republicans Voice Unease On Eve of Third Debate
Republicans who had been confident of victory before the debates said they were uneasy as President Bush returns to a debate format tonight that has seemed to play to the strengths of Senator John Kerry. They also cited polls showing Mr. Kerry with an edge on many of the domestic issues to be discussed. A1

The candidates are proposing domestic agendas costing $1.3 trillion over 10 years, with no clear way to pay for their promises, analysts say. A1

Commandments Before Court
The Supreme Court agreed to examine whether the display of the Ten Commandments on government property amounts to an unconstitutional establishment of religion. A23

Commission Plan Posted Early
A report drafted for the Commission on Civil Rights criticizing the Bush administration's record was posted on the Internet before being officially adopted by the commission. A22

Former Terror Suspect Freed
An immigrant arrested as part of what prosecutors once called a ''sleeper operational combat cell'' in Detroit was released to a halfway house after his conviction was thrown out. A16

SCIENCE/HEALTH

New Lava Rises on St. Helens
Geologists say new lava has pushed through to the surface of Mount St. Helens for the first time since the volcano resumed stirring. A24

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Gehry Selected to Design Ground Zero Complex
Frank Gehry, admired for his voluptuous buildings of undulating titanium and steel, will be the architect of a new performing arts center at ground zero, his first major cultural project in Manhattan, the development corporation in charge of rebuilding the site said. A1

Bones May Be Mafia Capos'
A watch and a 23-year-old Citibank card found with the skeletal remains of two men buried together in a vacant lot in Queens have led investigators to conclude that the bodies are probably those of two Mafia captains slain more than two decades ago, law enforcement officials said. B3

9 Hurt in Long Island Explosion
A powerful explosion and fire ripped through a car dealership in Huntington, hurting nine employees, collapsing a large building and raining debris that blocked traffic on a major highway for hours, the police said. B5

Head of Panel Steps Down
Mayor Bloomberg accepted the resignation of Raul Russi, the chairman of an obscure review panel that released former State Senator Guy J. Velella from prison 3 months into his 12-month sentence. B1

SPORTSWEDNESDAY D1-7

Yankees Win Game 1
The Yankees beat the Boston Red Sox, 10-7, in the first game of the American League Championship Series. The Red Sox rallied late in the game but failed to overcome an early 8-0 Yankee lead. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Circulation Inquiry Widens
More than a half-dozen newspaper companies have received letters from the S.E.C. seeking information about their circulation practices as part of an inquiry. C1

Profits Rise at Intel
Intel reported that its profit for the third quarter rose 15 percent from a year earlier, though it continued to struggle with an inventory glut that has reduced its profit margins. C1

Cool Response to Accounts
Employers and workers have been slow to accept the health savings accounts that President Bush has used in his campaign. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A26-27

Editorials: The economy unspun; juveniles and the death penalty; Eleanor Randolph on Long Hair and the legislature in Hong Kong.

Columns: Nicholas D. Kristof, William Safire.

Crossword E8
TV Listings E11
Public Lives B2
Weather D8


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); RELIGION (89%); DEATHS (88%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%); EXTRADITION (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (77%); SUPREME COURTS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTION FRAUD (77%); TERRORISM (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (75%); ARRESTS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (66%); DRAMA LITERATURE (66%); SUICIDE (66%); WRITERS (61%); APPEALS COURTS (61%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MIRAMAX FILM CORP (63%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (63%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (63%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); HAMAD KARZAI (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); TURKEY (92%); GERMANY (92%); IRAQ (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2004



309 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: Study of Bush and Civil Rights Draws Fire

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 12 

 BODY:
The report is right there on the Internet as a ''highlight'' on the agency home page: ''U.S. Commission on Civil Rights Assails Bush Administration Record on Civil Rights.''
 It refers to a lengthy draft report that churns out in footnoted detail how President Bush ''has neither exhibited leadership on pressing civil rights issues nor taken actions that matched his words.''
 The draft, prepared by the commission staff, accuses Mr. Bush of civil rights failures in education, voting, gay and lesbian issues, affirmative action, housing, environmental justice, racial profiling and hate crimes and concludes by saying, ''Failing to build on common ground, the Bush administration missed opportunities to build consensus on key civil rights issues and has instead adopted policies that divide Americans.'' 
 There is one problem with the report: It does not necessarily represent the commission's view.
 Like all other commission studies, it was posted on the Internet immediately after the commission's career staff finished researching and writing it. A draft only becomes official after commissioners raise challenges and vote on them and send off a final report to Congress and the White House. It can take months.
 But now, with a presidential election just weeks away, Republican members of the commission say they are angry -- at both the substance of the draft and at a process that allows preliminary findings to be made public immediately -- even though a majority of commissioners voted to approve the process two years ago.
 ''The timing of the report gives it a political cast,'' said Commissioner Peter N. Kirsanow, a Republican. ''No matter whose side of the debate you're on, you wonder about the timing.''
 ''The process is a nightmare,'' said another Republican commissioner, Abigail Thernstrom, who called the report ''an election-driven document.''
 The commission always comprises four White House appointees and four Congressional appointees; neither political party can have more than four members. The current commission has three Republicans, three Democrats and two independents, including the chairwoman, Mary Frances Berry, the principal target of the Republicans' anger.
 Meeting last Friday, the commissioners considered two motions by the third Republican commissioner, Jennifer C. Braceras, to minimize the impact of the draft. The first tried to remove it from the Web site and failed, by a 4-to-4 vote. The second, to delay consideration of the report until after the election -- as the commission had done in 2000 with a report on the civil rights record of the Clinton administration -- passed 6 to 1 with one abstention.
 Even with the delay, Republicans were clearly concerned that politics were trumping fairness. Mr. Kirsanow said that the draft ''evinces a bias and political slant unacceptable from an allegedly nonpartisan agency.'' Ms. Thernstrom said that Ms. Berry had full knowledge of any report the commission staff is developing and, in keeping with her true sentiments, was eager to have this report made public before the election.
 The other independent commissioner, Russell G. Redenbaugh, said he also believed that the posting of the draft report reflected ''politically motivated timing'' at the behest of Ms. Berry.
 Ms. Berry sharply denied that she played any role in the shaping or timing of the report, saying that every commissioner could inquire about reports in progress. She also denied any political favoritism, insisting that she is a true independent and saying, ''Every time a report turns out on a heated subject, people who don't like what the staff does make arguments about the procedures.'' 
 ''They've all known it was coming, they've known for months,'' she added. ''They should have said something to the staff. But to suggest now that the calendar be considered would make it appear that because of political motivations we are violating our own process at the 11th hour.''
 The commission has been churning out reports since it was created in 1957, and most come and go with little controversy, or even notice. But commission procedures changed in 2002 after the draft of a report reviewing election reform efforts in Florida was leaked to the news media. To prevent future leaks, the commission voted, 6 to 2, with Ms. Thernstrom and Mr. Redenbaugh dissenting, to post draft reports on the Internet.
 Ms. Berry said she is willing to reconsider instant Internet access ''as long as we get rid of the specter of somebody leaking a report.''
 Meanwhile, the assessment of the Bush administration record will remain on the Internet for a year, as commission rules allow. It gives Mr. Bush credit for some things -- like promoting programs that help people with disabilities, enhancing the economic power of women and assembling a diverse cabinet -- but the draft gives him lower marks on many other issues.
 It is especially critical in areas in which where he had made campaign promises in 2000 and, in the staff's view, let details slip, like gaps in the No Child Left Behind initiative that ''inhibit equal educational opportunity.''
 While Ken Lisaius, a White House spokesman, defended the administration, saying Mr. Bush ''is fully committed'' to improving the lives of all Americans, the draft report asserted, ''President Bush has neither exhibited leadership on pressing civil rights issues, nor taken actions that match his words.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Abigail Thernstrom, left, a Republican member of the United States Commission on Civil Rights, calls a draft report criticizing President Bush ''election-driven.'' Chairwoman Mary Frances Berry disagrees. (Photo by Kenneth Lambert/Associated Press)
 (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL RIGHTS (98%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); APPROVALS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICS (77%); GAYS & LESBIANS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); RACE & RACISM (75%); WEB SITES (73%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); RACIAL PROFILING (70%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (56%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (55%) Blacks; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Computers and the Internet; Blacks

ORGANIZATION: COMMISSION ON CIVIL RIGHTS (93%) United States Commission on Civil Rights

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) Michael Janofsky; George W (Pres) Bush; Mary Frances Berry

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2004



310 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Is That Your Final Answer?: Questions For Bush; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 267 words

HEADLINE: Deficit Attention

BYLINE: By Alice M. Rivlin. 
Alice M. Rivlin, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, was director of the White House Office of Management and Budget from 1994 to 1996.

 BODY:
According to your former Treasury secretary, Paul O'Neill, Vice President Dick Cheney believes that ''deficits don't matter.'' Do you agree with the vice president? If so, why promise to cut the deficit in half in your next term? If not, what dangers do you think large sustained deficits pose for our economy? Do you worry about burdening your daughters and their children with rapidly growing federal debt and interest payments? 
 You say that you want to allow young workers to put part of their Social Security taxes into personal accounts. They could invest these accounts in stocks or bonds and leave them to their heirs. At the same time, you promise not to reduce scheduled benefits for current and soon-to-be retirees. But taxes paid by working people are used to pay benefits to current retirees. If the taxes paid by younger workers are diverted to their personal accounts, where will the money come from to pay those benefits? Would you try to borrow the additional money (estimated to be at least $1 trillion)? Would you take money from other programs? Would you raise taxes?
 In a recent open letter, 169 economists and business school professors, including 56 professors from Harvard Business School, your alma mater, sharply criticized your economic policies. They said your proposals for Social Security and making the tax cuts permanent ''only promise to exacerbate the crisis'' and that ''your tax policy has exacerbated the problem of inequality in the United States.'' Do you dismiss these critics as uninformed? If not, what would you say to persuade them they are wrong? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (75%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); TAX RELIEF (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); BONDS (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (69%) Presidential Election of 2004; Debating; Election Issues; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Social Security (US); Taxation

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (73%) Alice M Rivlin; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2004



311 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: MONEY MATTERS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: 2 Rivals Push Domestic Plans, But Say Little of Big Price Tag

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 12 

 BODY:
On the campaign trail, President Bush and Senator John Kerry like to highlight elements of their ambitious domestic agendas. But in the last presidential debate, on Wednesday, they are unlikely to dwell on the cost of their own proposals, which budget analysts and tax experts put at roughly $1.3 trillion each over 10 years.
 Under Mr. Bush's proposals, tax cuts account for an overwhelming share of the costs, whereas under Mr. Kerry's proposals, new spending, mainly for health care and education, accounts for about 60 percent of the additional cost. 
 An analysis of the candidates' proposals by the Concord Coalition, a nonpartisan group that advocates deficit reduction, shows that Mr. Bush would cut taxes by $1.2 trillion in the coming decade, while Mr. Kerry's tax proposals, taken together, would reduce projected revenues by $498 billion. 
 New spending proposed by Senator Kerry would total $771 billion in the next decade, dwarfing the $82 billion that Mr. Bush has proposed. 
 Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry have announced similar goals for their fiscal policies, cutting the federal budget deficit by half within five years. 
 But Robert L. Bixby, the executive director of the Concord Coalition, said, ''Given the size of the deficit and the likely explosion of expenses after five years, we need to be looking at a longer time frame and a more ambitious goal.'' 
 The federal government had a record deficit of $375 billion in the fiscal year 2003, and the Congressional Budget Office estimates a deficit of $415 billion for the 2004 fiscal year, which ended 12 days ago.
 The Concord group estimates that Mr. Kerry's proposal to repeal ''tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans'' would raise $278 billion in revenue in 10 years, while his proposal to modify the estate tax, now scheduled to be phased out, would generate $8 billion. 
 The coalition said tax cuts proposed by Mr. Kerry would more than offset the projected increase in revenue from raising taxes on wealthy individuals. Those cuts would total $784 billion over 10 years: $508 billion to extend ''middle class tax cuts'' enacted in recent years, $177 billion of tax credits for health care, $71 billion of tax credits to help college students, $16 billion for energy and environmental initiatives and $12 billion to encourage the hiring of new workers, especially in manufacturing jobs. The health tax credits are intended to help small businesses, laid-off workers and early retirees buy health insurance.
 Mr. Bush has also proposed tax cuts for buying health insurance, including coverage for long-term care. The most expensive item in his platform, at $1 trillion over 10 years, is his call to extend tax cuts enacted in 2001 and 2003. 
 The Concord Coalition cost estimates are conservative. It accepted Mr. Kerry's estimates for his plan to extend health insurance to nearly all Americans, at $653 billion over 10 years, even though some conservative economists have put the cost much higher. 
 The coalition did not include the cost of Mr. Bush's plan to revamp Social Security by allowing younger workers to divert some payroll taxes into individual investment accounts. 
 Mr. Bush has not offered a detailed proposal. Mr. Bixby said the change could substantially increase the deficit. The government, he said, would have to find some way to pay for the transition to new private accounts. Money diverted to such accounts would otherwise be available to pay benefits of current retirees and to finance operating costs of other federal programs, he said. 
 Administration officials have acknowledged that $1 trillion might be needed to cover such ''transition costs,'' but they say the new Social Security system would save money in the long run. The Kerry campaign says the transition costs would total $2 trillion over 10 years.
 Jason Furman, the Kerry campaign's economic policy director, said his tax and spending initiatives would cost $1.1 trillion to $1.2 trillion over 10 years. He added that Mr. Kerry would offset most of the cost by ''closing tax loopholes and cutting corporate welfare.'' 
 Mr. Kerry, he added, wants Congress to restore budget rules that require lawmakers to offset the cost of any new spending or tax cuts. Mr. Bush has proposed a modest version of those rules that would limit new spending but not tax cuts.
 Each candidate portrays the other as a spendthrift. The Kerry campaign says, ''George Bush is proposing over $4 trillion in new deficit-increasing tax cuts and spending'' for the next 10 years. The sum includes Mr. Kerry's estimates of the cost of some Bush proposals like $200 billion for an outpost on the Moon and sending astronauts to Mars.
 The Bush campaign says, ''Kerry's promises cost $1 trillion over five years and $1.9 trillion over 10 years.''
 Mr. Kerry has reduced some proposals, saying the administration has run up a higher deficit than he expected. Mr. Furman said Mr. Kerry would ''scale back'' his spending and tax proposals, if necessary, to meet his goal of halving the deficit. 
 To many economists, reducing the deficit is a worthy goal, but politicians tend to heed voters clamoring for lower taxes and higher spending. Thus, Mr. Kerry boasts of his desire to cut middle-class taxes while Mr. Bush brags he has increased education spending.
 At the vice-presidential debate on Oct. 5, John Edwards, affirmed Mr. Kerry's desire to ''roll back tax cuts for people who make over $200,000 a year.''
 But he added, ''We want to keep the tax cuts that are in place for people who make less than $200,000 a year and give additional tax cuts to those middle-class families, tax cuts for health care, tax cuts to help families pay for their college tuition, tax cuts for child care.''
 The Bush campaign says the president has increased education spending ''more in four years than Bill Clinton did in eight.'' Tables published by the Office of Management and Budget show that spending by the Education Department reached $57 billion last year, up from $36 billion in 2001 and $26 billion in 1992, the last full year before Mr. Clinton took office. Mr. Kerry says that Mr. Bush, after signing a landmark education law in January 2002, has requested and spent much less money than Congress authorized.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The Bottom Lines''Major policy proposals of President Bush and John Kerry would each cost roughly $1.3 trillion over the next 10 years, according to an analysis by the Concord Coalition, a nonpartisan budget watchdog group.President BushTAX PROVISIONSExtend 2001 & 2003 tax cutsCOST IN BILLIONS: $1,052New tax cuts in 2005 budgetCOST IN BILLIONS: 157Agenda for America tax cutsCOST IN BILLIONS: 35TOTAL COST OF TAX PROVISIONSCOST IN BILLIONS: $1,244John KerryTAX PROVISIONSExtend middle class tax cutsCOST IN BILLIONS: $ 508Health care tax creditsCOST IN BILLIONS: 177College opportunity tax creditCOST IN BILLIONS: 71Energy and environmentCOST IN BILLIONS: 16Jobs tax creditCOST IN BILLIONS: 12Repeal upper-income tax cutsCOST IN BILLIONS: -278Revise estate taxCOST IN BILLIONS: -8TOTAL COST OF TAX PROVISIONSCOST IN BILLIONS: President$498 BushSPENDINGRefundable health tax creditCOST IN BILLIONS: $ 54Agenda for America programsCOST IN BILLIONS: 38Cuts in entitlement programs in 2005 budgetCOST IN BILLIONS: -10TOTAL SPENDINGCOST IN BILLIONS: $ 82TOTAL COSTCOST IN BILLIONS: $1,326John KerrySPENDINGHealth care planCOST IN BILLIONS: $ 476EducationCOST IN BILLIONS: 155Add 40,000 troopsCOST IN BILLIONS: 60Veterans and military familiesCOST IN BILLIONS: 55State and local aidCOST IN BILLIONS: 25TOTAL SPENDINGCOST IN BILLIONS: TOTAL$771 COSTCOST IN BILLIONS: $1,269(pg. A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ESTATE TAX (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (75%); LAYOFFS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); SALES PROJECTIONS (73%); TAX CONSULTING (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (70%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (69%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (68%); AFFLUENT MARKET (63%); EARLY RETIREMENT (60%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Taxation; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Debating; Inheritance and Estate Taxes; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%) Concord Coalition

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%) John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush; Robert Pear

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2004



312 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: WEST VIRGINIA; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1557 words

HEADLINE: Where Kerry Is Trying To Avoid Gore's Pitfalls

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO

DATELINE: CHARLESTON, W.Va. 

 BODY:
This state's Democratic roots run as deep as its coal mines. Retirees still speak reverently about the New Deal. Registered Democrats outnumber Republicans by nearly two to one. And since 1928, only four Republicans have won its electoral votes. Three were incumbents riding national landslides.
 The fourth was George W. Bush. But was his upset victory over Vice President Al Gore here an aberration, as Democrats contend, or the start of a new era, as Republican contend? The answer may depend on voters like Roy Blevins, 57, a union coal miner from southwestern West Virginia.
 Mr. Blevins, a registered Democrat, said he considered Mr. Gore an anticoal ''tree hugger'' and did not vote in 2000. But the strip mine where he works closed this year, leaving him unemployed. Now he is helping the Democrats, distributing leaflets that say Senator John Kerry will promote antipollution technology so that factories can keep burning West Virginia coal. 
 ''I think Kerry will be for coal,'' he said. 
 Democrats say voters like Mr. Blevins, worried about health care costs, pension failures and employment losses nearly as deep as in neighboring Ohio, could return West Virginia and its five electoral votes to the Democratic fold next month.
 As a result, they have mounted the type of aggressive well-financed campaign that Mr. Gore failed to run. He virtually ignored the state until the final weeks of the race, waiting to rebut attacks against his positions on the environment and gun control until the damage was too deep, Democrats said.
 ''This campaign is 180 degrees different from 2000,'' Terri J. Giles, Mr. Kerry's West Virginia campaign director, said. 
 But Republicans say history -- and the influential churches here -- are on their side. West Virginians, worried about same-sex marriage, supporting the Iraq war and dismayed with Democrats over gun control and abortion, are inexorably moving into the Republican column, much as voters in the Deep South did two decades ago. 
 ''Our first sea change came in 1932, when F.D.R. ushered in the Democratic stranglehold,'' Greg Abernathy, executive director of the West Virginia Republican Party, said. ''2000 marks a sea change in our direction.''
 Independent polls last month showed either side could be right. Though Mr. Bush leads by about five points in most polls, that is within the margin of sampling error. He won West Virginia by six points in 2000.
 Interviews with voters across the state suggest that although support for him is strong in many areas, broad concerns about the economy and Iraq give Mr. Kerry a fighting chance to win. 
 Goldie Baly is one of those voices of discontent. 
 Mrs. Baly, 82, from Weirton, a steel city battered by layoffs, has been a Republican since she cast her first vote in 1942. But she lost her health insurance when her late husband's employer, Weirton Steel, now part of the International Steel Group, filed for bankruptcy protection last year. Now she is thinking about voting for Mr. Kerry.
 ''I'm a disillusioned Republican,'' Mrs. Baly said recently as she waited to hear Senator John Edwards, the Democratic vice-presidential candidate in Weirton, a few miles from the sprawling, almost empty steel complex. ''All Bush talks about is the war on terror.''
 Democrats say voters like Mrs. Baly and Mr. Blevins are crucial to Mr. Kerry. In 2000, the coal-rich southwestern region, historically a hotbed of Democratic support, had anemic turnout of less than 40 percent, largely because of concerns about Mr. Gore's positions on coal and guns.
 Stronger turnout in the south, combined with anti-Bush sentiment in the northern steel belt, where many voters are angry about Mr. Bush's stand on steel tariffs, could be enough to win the state, they contend. Mr. Bush imposed tariffs on imported steel in March 2002 and lifted them at the end of last year, citing an improving economy and cost cutting by domestic steel makers.
 Mark Glyptis, president of the Independent Steelworkers Union, said many mill workers in the northern panhandle voted for Mr. Bush in 2000 out of disgust with the free trade policies of the Clinton administration. The union even backed Patrick J. Buchanan in 2000 in protest. But it has come out enthusiastically for Mr. Kerry this year. 
 ''People feel betrayed,'' Mr. Glyptis said. ''Bush said he would stay the course on tariffs, and then he lifted them.''
 The Kanawha River Valley around Charleston has also struggled economically, with Dow Chemical, an automobile plant and other companies laying off thousands of workers in just the past year. The toll has been so severe that the long-serving Republican mayor of South Charleston, who is also a presidential elector, recently said he might cast his electoral vote for Mr. Kerry, even if Mr. Bush wins the state. 
 The mayor, Richie Robb, said he was uneasy about Mr. Bush's policies on tax cuts and Iraq. 
 ''I have admired President Bush's resoluteness,'' Mr. Robb said. ''But at a certain point, I have to wonder whether it is a misguided resolve.''
 Republicans say that the economy is improving and that Mr. Bush's proposals for tax cuts and limits on lawsuits will create employment. But they acknowledge continuing problems. 
 ''Our unemployment rate is lower than the national figures,'' said Representative Shelley Moore Capito of Charleston, who edged into office with Mr. Bush in 2000 and now is chairwoman of his state campaign. ''But in certain pockets, in certain industries, we're still spinning our tires. And there is a lot of frustration with that.''
 Republican strategists say cultural issues will trump economic issues, as they did in 2000. And they are counting on three of West Virginia's most potent political forces, the National Rifle Association, the coal industry and conservative churches, to attack Mr. Kerry and deliver the Republican faithful to the polls.
 Many Democrats say a series of rip-roaring speeches by Charlton Heston, when he was president of the National Rifle Association, attacking Mr. Gore in 2000 helped turn the tide here toward Mr. Bush late in the campaign. As Election Day nears, the rifle association plans to gear up a similar campaign against Mr. Kerry, using rallies, gun clubs, the Internet and television commercials to paint him as an elitist liberal who wants to restrict gun owners' rights.
 ''It's an emotional issue here,'' said Bill Miller, an insurance agent from Beckley who is on the national board of the association. ''When people hear that you want to ban assault weapons, as Mr. Kerry does, they say, 'Next they will try to ban my hunting rifle.'''
 The mine workers' union has tried to defuse the gun issue by distributing leaflets featuring Mr. Kerry as a hunter who supports the Second Amendment. The union president, Cecil Roberts, even gave Mr. Kerry a union-made hunting rifle at a Labor Day rally. 
 The rifle association was quick to say the rifle would have been outlawed under legislation where Mr. Kerry was a co-sponsor. Democrats deny that. But Raymond Fink, 50, an architect from Beckley, has no doubts that the rifle association is correct.
 A lifelong Democrat who voted Republican for the first time in 2000, Mr. Fink said, he plans to vote for Mr. Bush again in large part because the president opposes gun control. 
 ''I think the Democrats are out of touch,'' he said as he strolled in a gun store near Beckley recently. ''There's no doubt in my mind that Kerry would ban every gun he could.''
 Church groups have also become active for Mr. Bush. In recent weeks, ministers have begun urging parishioners to vote for the ''moral candidate,'' which Democrats consider veiled references to Mr. Bush. 
 Republican mailings have accused liberals of wanting to ban the Bible. And fliers distributed in church parking lots say Mr. Kerry favors ''anti-Christian, anti-God, antifamily'' judges, same-sex marriage and abortion. 
 Mr. Kerry says that marriage should be between a man and a woman, but that states should be allowed to decide their rules.
 The attacks have clearly affected people like Bill Poston, 47, a printer here. Mr. Poston is upset about the Iraq war and says many of Mr. Bush's domestic policies have been failures. He even likes what Mr. Kerry says about health care. But he is upset about the possibility of same-sex marriage and is convinced that Mr. Bush will be a ''more moral leader.'' ''My minister thinks Bush is a very moral person,'' Mr. Poston said. ''He believes he is being led by God.'' 
 A major unknown factor in the race is what will be the attitudes of veterans and soldiers' families. West Virginia has a high percentage of veterans, and each campaign has focused intensive advertising on national security issues. 
 Interviews with voters suggest that West Virginians are far from monolithic in their attitudes on Iraq. Many are behind Mr. Bush. But many also say they have grown uneasy about the conflict's aftermath.
 Rodney Kuhn, 54, a miner from Boone County, is a member of the rifle association and a former soldier who voted for Mr. Bush in 2000. But he is deeply anxious about the war and is leaning toward Mr. Kerry. 
 ''It's senseless, and we're losing it,'' he said, pulling on his helmet as he prepared to go underground. ''And they are too proud to say they made a mistake.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Outside a coal plant in Boone County, W.Va. Miners make up a sizable voting bloc, and their union president said, ''People feel betrayed.'' (Photo by Tony Kemp for The New York Times)Chart: ''Political and Economic Indicators in a Tight State''Though mostly Democratic, West Virginia voters chose George W. Bush over Al Gore by just 6 percentage points in 2000.HOW THE COUNTIES VOTED IN 2000In each county, squares are sized by the total number of votes cast, and shaded by the winning candidate.Map of West Virginia highlighting total votes cast for Bush and Gore by county.MARGIN OF VICTORYIn percentage points for past presidential elections.'80DEMOCRATPCT. PT. EDGE: 5'84REPUBLICANPCT. PT. EDGE: 11'88DEMOCRATPCT. PT. EDGE: 5'92DEMOCRATPCT. PT. EDGE: 13'96DEMOCRATPCT. PT. EDGE: 15'00REPUBLICANPCT. PT. EDGE: 6WEST VIRGINIA'S ECONOMYGraphs compare West Virginia's and United States's change in real household income versus year earlier, unemployment rate, change in median home price versus year earlier and percentage without health insurance since 1999.ELECTED OFFICIALSREPUBLICANGOV.: --SEN.: 1REP.: --DEMOCRATGOV.: 1SEN.: 2REP.: 2DEMOGRAPHICSW. VA.WHITE: 95%BLACK: 3%HISPANIC: 1%ASIAN: 1%MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $31,210U.S.WHITE: 69BLACK: 12HISPANIC: 13ASIAN: 4MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: 43,527(Sources by Dave Leip's Atlas of U.S. Presidential Elections
Economy.com
Bureau of Labor Statistics
National Association of Realtors
 Census Bureau)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); COAL MINING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); SURFACE MINING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MINE WORKERS (78%); IRAQ WAR (77%); LAYOFFS (75%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); TRENDS (67%); HEALTH INSURANCE (67%); GUN CONTROL (64%); MARRIAGE (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Surveys and Series; Finances; Public Opinion; Economic Conditions and Trends; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: AL GORE (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOHN KERRY (79%) James Dao; Al Gore

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, WV, USA (79%) WEST VIRGINIA, USA (98%); OHIO, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (92%) West Virginia

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2004



313 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Our Towns; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Embracing The G.O.P., In Moderation

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

DATELINE: HARTFORD 

 BODY:
THERE was John McCain, the Republican Party's ambassador to what's left of its moderate wing, touring the withering vineyards of the party's northern tier on Monday on behalf of second-term Representative Rob Simmons.
 ''When he felt it was in the interest of his district, he has gone against the party leadership in the House of Representatives,'' Mr. McCain said before a fund-raising breakfast for Mr. Simmons, who is locked in a tight race with a Democrat, Jim Sullivan, in Connecticut's Second District. ''It shows he is not of the party of Tom DeLay, it shows he's of the party of Abraham Lincoln and Theodore Roosevelt.'' 
 Mr. DeLay, when last seen, was wielding quite a bit more clout in the party from his position as House majority leader than Lincoln or Roosevelt were wielding from the grave. But when Mr. McCain, visited Connecticut supporting the candidacies of Mr. Simmons and Representative Christopher Shays, who is also facing a tough re-election race, it raised at least two good questions: How much stock should voters put in the party label when picking a candidate claiming to be out of step with his party's majority? And just how independent are Mr. Simmons and Mr. Shays, anyway?
 That two of Connecticut's five Congressional districts have competitive races is, of course, a small miracle in a House where only about 50 of 435 seats are considered in play. Of the two, the Cook Political Report, a nonpartisan newsletter that tracks campaigns, rates Mr. Shays's seat as ''likely Republican'' and Mr. Simmons's as the more competitive ''leaning Republican.'' A recent University of Connecticut poll showed Mr. Simmons and Mr. Sullivan in a virtual tie.
 Mr. Simmons, in his second term, said he would always face a competitive race in his eastern Connecticut district, which has more Democrats than Republicans and more independents than either, and in a region becoming more Democratic.
 ''We're liked spotted owls,'' he said. ''I have to swim against the tide, but the people of the Second District are independent, like me.''
 Mr. McCain said it was vitally important for the Republican Party to keep its more moderate members. ''I think the polarization that's around is terrible,'' he said. ''It's unhealthy for the nation, and the Republican message has got to be that there's room for people who support stem cell research, who are pro-choice.'' And while Mr. Shays, on issues like campaign finance and impeachment, has at times been a vocal dissenting voice in his party, Democrats say Mr. Simmons's dissents, on issues like abortion, stem-cell research and veterans' issues, are more symbolic than meaningful and that on the issues of most concern to his district -- the war in Iraq, Republican tax policy, Medicare reform, prescription drug benefits and energy policy, he has never dissented on an important vote.
 ''You get credit for being independent if you oppose your own party on something they really care about where your vote counts,'' said Roy Occhiogrosso, senior adviser to the Sullivan campaign. ''That's what John McCain has done. On the big issues of this president and this national Republican party, Rob Simmons is with them every time.''
 AND Mr. Sullivan, whose campaign has relentlessly tried to deride the idea that Mr. Simmons is a moderate, independent voice, said voters make a mistake if they divorce a candidate from the larger agenda of his party.
 ''What are moderate Republicans doing to move their party to the center?'' he said. ''They're not controlling the agenda and they're not going to. If you care about choice, if you care about stem cell research, you're much better off with Democrats setting the agenda over the next two to four years than with Rob Simmons sitting in the House doing what his leadership tells him to do when they need his vote.''
 Still, one thing that both Mr. Shays and Mr. Simmons have going for them is that Republicans are better political jihadists than Democrats. In the South, for instance, most of the conservative Democrats have long since been demonized and driven out of office or have switched over and become Republicans. Connecticut may lean blue in presidential politics, but both parties agree there's a broadly bipartisan tilt to Connecticut government, even in a district like the Second, where polls show Senator John Kerry leading President Bush by 20 points. So in this race, the big, emotional issues of war and the economy could hurt Mr. Shays or Mr. Simmons, but being a Republican alone won't matter much.
 Said William Salka, a political science professor at Eastern Connecticut State University: ''In this state, the Republicans are not a majority, but it's not a dirty word.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); FUNDRAISING (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (60%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (60%); ABORTION (60%) Elections; Election Issues

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives (US)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (91%); CHRISTOPHER SHAYS (79%) Peter Applebome; Rob (Rep) Simmons; Jim Sullivan; John S (Sen) Mccain

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (72%) CONNECTICUT, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2004



314 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE PRESIDENT; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: Bush Campaign Unleashes a New Assault on Kerry's Health Care Proposals

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON; Randal C. Archibold contributed reporting from Commerce City, Colo., for this article and David M. Halb-finger from Santa Fe, N.M.

DATELINE: PHOENIX, Oct. 12 

 BODY:
President Bush unleashed a new assault on Senator John Kerry's health care proposals on Tuesday, signaling one of his main lines of attack when the two candidates spar over economic and domestic policy in their third and final debate on Wednesday night.
 In a speeches here and in Colorado, Mr. Bush suggested that Mr. Kerry's plan to expand access to health care for many of the 45 million people who do not have insurance would put health decisions in the hands of the federal bureaucracy. 
 ''Of course, the government has something to do with his plan -- it's the cornerstone of his plan,'' Mr. Bush said of Mr. Kerry. ''It's the crux of his health care policy, to expand the federal government.'' To pound home the point, his campaign unveiled two commercials on the issue, which struck themes Republicans have used since President Bill Clinton's proposal for universal health care collapsed, helping Republicans take control of Congress in 1994. 
 One commercial says the Democrat's proposals would bring ''rationing, less access, fewer choices, long waits,'' and the other says the Kerry plan ''puts bureaucrats, not your doctor, in charge of your health care decisions.'' Mr. Kerry made no public appearances as he continued preparing for the debate in Santa Fe, N.M. But his campaign quickly hit back, disputing the Bush campaign's assertions and unveiling its own advertising on health care.
 Tad Devine, a senior strategist for Mr. Kerry, said the Bush campaign's characterizations of the Kerry proposals were ''utterly false and dishonest.'' The Kerry campaign has long said that the Democrats' plan would not create a big new health bureaucracy.
 Mr. Kerry's aides countered with criticism of the administration's own health policies, noting the addition of more than five million people to the rolls of the uninsured under Mr. Bush.
 The Kerry campaign sought to turn the tables on Mr. Bush, pointing to his unwillingness so far to allow the importation of lower-cost prescription drugs from Canada and saying it showed the administration's inability or unwillingness to reduce health care costs and provide increased access to health care for people who do not have insurance or are having trouble paying their premiums. Mr. Bush has said he is studying the issue to ensure that any medicines coming into the United States are safe.
 In its commercial unveiled within hours of the new Bush commercials being made public, Mr. Kerry says that ''one man has stood between America and lower cost prescription drugs: George Bush.''
 Mr. Devine was even more biting. When asked in a conference call with reporters how he could accuse Mr. Bush of standing in the way of lower drug prices when the President had signed legislation creating a new prescription drug benefit in Medicare, he compared the president to the onetime segregationist George Wallace who tried to obstruct a desegregation order.
 ''In my mind, he stands in the way of this the way George Wallace stood in the State House door.'' 
 The exchange over health care illustrated the intensity of a contest that polls show is deadlocked with three weeks to go. And it showed how Mr. Bush is heading into the last debate seeking to portray Mr. Kerry as a big-government liberal whose policies would endanger the economy, while Mr. Kerry is trying to focus attention on the president's record on jobs, health care and Iraq.
 ''There are bright spots all over this country,'' Mr. Bush said at a fund-raiser here. ''And what I'm going to tell the people tomorrow night is we're not going to go back to the days of tax and spend.'' 
 The White House also aimed its fire over health issues at Mr. Kerry's running mate, Senator John Edwards. In a conference call with reporters arranged by the Bush campaign, Senator Bill Frist of Tennessee, the Republican majority leader, harshly criticized Mr. Edwards for suggesting that if Mr. Kerry were elected, research using embryonic stem cells would advance to the point where people like Christopher Reeve, the paraplegic former actor who died Sunday, would be able to get up from their wheelchairs.
 Dr. Frist called Mr. Edwards' comments ''crass'' and ''shameful'' and said it was cruel and dishonest to offer false hope to patients. A spokesman for Mr. Edwards, Mark Kornblau, replied, ''What's crass is George Bush standing in the way of promising stem cell research that holds the hope of cures for millions of suffering Americans.''
 In the exchange of accusations about health care, the two campaigns plunged into one of the most complex issues on the national agenda. 
 Mr. Kerry's plan, which has a goal of providing health insurance to more than 26 million of the 45 million people without health insurance, including all children, has three basic elements.
 It would encourage employers to offer health insurance, and seek to lower the cost of premiums, by having the government subsidize 75 percent of the cost of catastrophic claims -- probably those over about $50,000 -- for businesses that provide coverage to their workers. It would give more children access to health care by raising the income cutoff for Medicaid and state-run health programs. And it would pay for those programs by rolling back the Bush tax cuts for people earning more than $200,000 a year.
 Mr. Kerry's advisers say the plan would not entail the creation of any big new bureaucracies, would be voluntary for employers and would rely heavily on existing government programs. Many independent analysts agree with the thrust of Mr. Kerry's argument, saying that he is basically building on the existing employer-based health insurance system while creating a wider safety net for low- and middle-income families.
 Mr. Bush and his allies say Mr. Kerry has understated the cost of his plan and would inevitably have to raise taxes more than he has said he would. Because the government would pick up much of the cost of the most expensive claims, they say, the government would inevitably set rules and payment schedules.
 Dr. Frist, the Republican majority leader and a heart surgeon, told reporters in a conference call arranged by the Bush campaign that his specialty of heart and lung transplantation would ''be essentially taken over by government because government would be put in charge of these expenses.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John Kerry took a break from debate preparation yesterday for a bicycle ride in Santa Fe, N.M. He made no public appearances. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (94%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (76%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (67%); DRUG PRICES (65%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (65%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Election Issues; Political Advertising; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Medicine and Health; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); International Trade and World Market; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BILL CLINTON (59%) Richard W Stevenson; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA FE, NM, USA (92%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (59%) COLORADO, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%) Arizona; Colorado; Phoenix (Ariz)

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2004



315 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: Disney Is Tailoring New Park To Fit Hong Kong Sensitivities

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Oct. 12 

 BODY:
The Walt Disney Company is taking a series of steps to address local cultural sensitivities as it prepares to open Hong Kong Disneyland a little more than a year from now, the company's president said here Tuesday night.
 The new theme park, long controversial here because of the local government's lavish investment in it, will include local food and music and provide services not only in English but in two Chinese languages, said Robert A. Iger, Disney's president and chief operating officer. He described these steps as part of the company's broad effort to recognize national differences.
 ''We know if we're too U.S.-centric, the products won't be too relevant to those markets,'' Mr. Iger said. ''That's particularly true as it relates to Hong Kong Disneyland.'' 
 Esther Wong, a spokeswoman for Hong Kong Disneyland, said that the company had rotated the orientation of the entire park by several degrees in the early design phase after consulting a master of feng shui, a Chinese practice of seeking harmony with spiritual forces. ''This is essentially an American product, but it's a question of how we tailor it to an audience in this part of the world,'' Ms. Wong said. ''Disney is an American brand, and our guests, our potential guests, believe in this product.''
 As Disney prepares to open the park with the broadcast on Thursday of the first television ads in Shanghai, there are some signs of growing anti-American sentiment here. A survey of nine Asian countries and territories released on Monday found that 47 percent of residents here held a negative opinion of the United States, second only to Indonesia. Gallup and TNS, a market information company, conducted the survey.
 The survey found that the poor opinion here had been shaped mainly by American foreign policy, however, with residents still holding a much higher opinion of the American economy. Eden Woon, the chief executive of the Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce, which played host to Mr. Iger's speech, said that he saw very little chance of any anti-American protests here and doubted that any such sentiments here would hurt Hong Kong Disneyland.
 ''China always is conflicted between accepting foreign things and trying to maintain its own culture,'' he said.
 Many prosperous residents here pursued various stratagems to obtain American passports before Britain returned Hong Kong to China in 1997. Jeffrey K.F. Lam, a member of the Legislative Council here who attended Mr. Iger's speech, said that some were now renouncing their American citizenship. But he said this was mostly to avoid paying American taxes in addition to Hong Kong taxes, and because of renewed confidence in Hong Kong's future, not because of hostility to the United States.
 The park is controversial here because it is being built with $2.88 billion (22.45 billion Hong Kong dollars) in investment from the Hong Kong government. The government provided the land and is building road and rail links, although some of the road and rail costs might have been incurred even if the theme park had not been built.
 The government owns 57 percent of the park, with Disney owning the rest. The government also holds subordinated shares that would convert to ordinary shares, raising the government's ownership as high as 75 percent, if the park does much better than originally envisioned.
 Many here were upset by the disclosure -- made after the deal was signed -- that Disney was in separate talks to open a park in Shanghai. Disney has not concluded any deals in Shanghai, however, and has said that any park there would not open before 2010.
 Michael J.T. Rowse, who negotiated the deal for the government as tourism commissioner and is now the director general of the government's foreign investment attraction arm, InvestHK, said that a series of recent visa policy changes by Beijing would result in far more visitors to Hong Kong Disneyland than originally anticipated.
 Seeking to lift Hong Kong's economy in hopes that would help blunt demands for democracy here, Beijing has moved in stages over the last 16 months to allow many more residents of neighboring Guangdong Province and many of China's big cities to start coming here. They may now come on individual visas instead of joining tightly controlled tour groups. The number of tour groups has increased as well. Mainland visitors now mob tourist attractions and shopping malls here.
 Mr. Iger said that Disney already employed 1,000 people in Hong Kong, and would employ 5,000 by the time the park opens. Many park employees will speak both Cantonese, the language of southeastern China, including Hong Kong, and Mandarin, the mainland's main language and the language of school instruction. 
 An unemployment rate of 6.9 percent helped prompt 5,000 people here to apply recently for 500 jobs as ''cultural representatives'' who will go to Walt Disney World in Florida next January and stay there for training until next summer. They will then return here to train other workers for the opening of the park.
 While Mr. Iger said that the park would open in roughly a year, Disney officials have been careful to say that opening day could come in either late 2005 or early 2006.
 Hong Kong Disneyland is being built on Lantau Island, part of Hong Kong territory, and faces the famous skyline of Hong Kong Island six miles away. Ms. Wong said that market research had shown that visitors would want to take a lot of photos, and that the layout was designed to accommodate this.
 Yet dense smog now regularly blots out the view, a result of the rapid, largely unregulated industrialization in Guangdong Province in the five years since the project was approved, as well as the expanded use of coal this year by Hong Kong power stations. The best time for seeing one island from another comes during the steamy summer months, when frequent tropical downpours wash the grime from the air.
 Another big question here is how the opening of Hong Kong Disneyland will affect the city's nonprofit theme park, Ocean Park, which relies heavily on mainland tourists.
 Situated on a promontory of Hong Kong Island with superb views of outlying islands, beaches and passing container ships, Ocean Park has dolphin shows, two large aquarium complexes, robotic dinosaurs and two pandas. It also has attractions that rival those at the best American amusement parks.
 An Ocean Park spokeswoman said that the park would emphasize its role as a marine park and could co-exist with Hong Kong Disneyland. By the end of the year the park's board will draft a plan for any improvements that may be needed, she added. ''We do not think we are in direct competition,'' she insisted.


CORRECTION-DATE: October 19, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article in World Business on Wednesday about efforts by the Walt Disney Company to address local cultural sensitivities as it opened a theme park in Hong Kong referred incompletely to one organization that surveyed anti-American attitudes in Asia. It was Gallup International, an association of 60 research companies based in Europe -- not the Gallup Organization, the research and polling firm in Princeton, N.J.; the two companies are not affiliated.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Walt Disney Company is working on making its park in Hong Kong, expected to open in late 2005, more attuned to the local culture. (Photo by Disney via Business Wire)(pg. W1)
 Robert A. Iger, president of Disney, outlined plans for the park yesterday in Hong Kong. (Photo by Dennis Owen/Bloomberg News)(pg. W7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); CITIZENSHIP (64%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (64%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (62%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%) Amusement and Theme Parks; English Language; Chinese Language; Culture; Food

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (98%); WALT DISNEY PARKS & RESORTS (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Disneyland (Hong Kong); Disney, Walt, Co

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (98%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (98%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (98%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (98%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (92%)

PERSON: ROBERT A IGER (90%) Robert A Iger; Keith Bradsher

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) EAST CHINA (79%) HONG KONG (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (93%); ASIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%) Hong Kong

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2004



316 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: Duelfer to France: J'accuse!

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE. 
E-mail: safire@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Powerful officials and their profiteering friends in France had a reason to try to stop the U.S. from overthrowing Saddam Hussein: they were pocketing billions in payoffs through a United Nations oil-for-food front. 
 That's the import of the Duelfer report. This nonpartisan investigation team found not only documents ''giving economic favors to key French diplomats or individuals that have access to key French leaders,'' but also got Saddam's mouthpiece, Tariq Aziz, to sing about their purpose: ''According to Aziz, both parties understood that resale of the oil was to be reciprocated through efforts to lift U.N. sanctions, or through opposition to American initiatives within the Security Council.''
 Charles Duelfer's group put on the public record the name of Charles Pasqua, France's former interior minister and now a senator. Pasqua denied all to the BBC and fingered ex-associates: ''Maybe other former ministers are involved.'' 
 The former French ambassador to the U.N., Jean-Bernard Merimee, is listed as receiving vouchers for 11 million barrels of oil from Saddam, the proceeds from which would beat a diplomat's pay. Another of President Jacques Chirac's friends receiving Saddam's U.N. largesse is Patrick Maugein, ''whom the Iraqis considered a conduit to Chirac,'' according to the report.
 Maugein, 58, whose association with Chirac has occasionally been chronicled by the French journalist Karl Laske, is chairman of Soco, an oil company active in Vietnam. He's down for 13 million barrels. French oil companies Total and Socap got about 200 million barrels.
 A name that keeps coming up in my poking around is Marc Rich, the American billionaire who was for many years a fugitive, until blessed with one of Bill Clinton's midnight pardons. Rich's company Trafigura, spun off from the Swiss-based Glencore, and its possible dealings with outfits like Jean-Paul Cayre's Ibex have excited the interest of many of the sleuths I've spoken to.
 France's diplomats here are apoplectic, calling the unconfirmed Duelfer reports ''unacceptable.'' They note in high dudgeon that U.S. firms involved in the U.N.'s corrupt caper are not named by the U.S. team and deride our excuse about ''privacy laws.'' 
 However, within 24 hours of the damning report's issuance, Judith Miller and her colleagues had the names of the U.S. companies involved -- Chevron, Mobil, Texaco, Bay Oil and one Oscar Wyatt Jr. of Houston, who may have profited by $23 million -- on the front page of The New York Times. (Will our runaway anti-press prosecutor try to clap Judy in jail for protecting her confidential government sources on this one, too?) 
 The Senate's Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations has issued seven subpoenas and a dozen hard-to-ignore chairman's letters from Senator Norm Coleman to companies in the U.S., as well as to multinationals doing business here. I hear the committee has met no legal resistance so far. Ben Pollner, head of Taurus Oil, active in Iraq all through the oil-for-food fiasco, stiffed Manhattan D.A. Robert Morgenthau's men. (Pollner tells me his dealings were legal, but he clammed up to investigators because he remembers Martha Stewart.)
 What also miffs the French is that Russian officials and oligarchs were able to rip off even more than France's predators. Vladimir Zhirinovsky made out like a bandit when his party had some power; so did ''the office of the Russian president'' and the Peace and Unity Party, both headed by the unmentionable Putin.
 As the hares zoom by, Paul Volcker, the U.N. investigative tortoise, tells his people to forget the French and Russians and to concentrate on Kofi Annan's right-hand man, Benon Sevan, and Kofi Annan's son's relationship with Cotecna, the U.N.'s see-no-evil ''monitor.'' The White House is wringing its hands because it needs the U.N.'s blessing on the Iraqi election, and John Kerry must be praying not to be asked about this in tonight's debate.
 If I were a French reporter and wanted to lose my job at Chirac's Le Figaro in a hurry, I would drop in at 24 Boulevard Princess Charlotte in Monaco and ask if Patrick Maugein, Rui de Souza or Mario Contini has dropped by to see if Toro Energy and the African Middle East Petroleum company are still there. If that's a blind alley, try the casino. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); BRIBERY (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); JOURNALISM (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (71%); ETHICS (69%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Bribery ; Ethics; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

COMPANY: GLENCORE INTERNATIONAL AG (64%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%) United Nations

TICKER: GLEN (LSE) (64%); 0805 (HKSE) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523130 COMMODITY CONTRACTS DEALING (64%); NAICS423510 METAL SERVICE CENTERS & OTHER METAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (64%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (93%); BILL CLINTON (79%); JACQUES CHIRAC (78%) William Safire; Charles Duelfer; Saddam (Pres) Hussein

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (93%); VIET NAM (79%) Iraq; France; Iraq; France

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2004



317 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 13, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1297 words

HEADLINE: Bush Health Savings Accounts Slow to Gain Acceptance

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM

 BODY:
President Bush has made health savings accounts one of his central campaign remedies for the nation's health care problems, but so far employers and workers have been slow to accept the accounts as an alternative to conventional health insurance. 
 People around the nation are now taking part in the annual enrollment season for health care plans, but only a tiny fraction of employers are offering the new plans. The plans let workers create tax-free savings accounts to use for medical costs, combined with lower-cost, high-deductible insurance to cover major medical care. Most employees who already have health benefits said in an insurance industry survey that they would be reluctant to switch even if they were offered one of the new plans.
 The UnitedHealth Group, for example, the nation's largest health insurer, representing employers who cover more than 18 million workers, expects only about 150,000 of those employees to choose health savings accounts for 2005. Aetna, the second-largest underwriter of employer health care plans, says that only 38 of the hundreds of employers it covers are offering the savings plans for 2005. 
 The plans, which were inserted without full House or Senate debate into last fall's 700-page Medicare legislation, are meant to provide basic, high-deductible insurance while letting people accumulate money tax-free to be spent on medical services or saved to pay for future health care needs. 
 President Bush, who is expected to discuss the plans again tonight in the domestic policy debate with Senator John Kerry, extolled them in last Friday's debate. ''You own your own account,'' he said. ''You can save tax-free.''
 But nonpartisan health policy experts say the plans are apparently too new and untested to appeal to many employers and may simply not be financially feasible for middle-income families. 
 ''It's hard to imagine that a guy who makes $50,000 a year is going to have $2,000 for him and his family to stick in this plan,'' said Ira S. Loss, a health policy expert with Washington Analysis, a business consulting firm.
 Insurance brokers say the accounts appeal primarily to lawyers, doctors and partners in small businesses who may welcome tax-free savings accounts for themselves. Many small businesses may like the plans as a way to reduce their own outlays for employee health insurance. Some employers are offsetting their lower insurance premiums by contributing some money into workers' savings plans. 
 But a drawback for employers, experts say, is that workers can take their accounts with them when they change jobs -- undermining the employee loyalty and retention companies seek to cultivate by providing health coverage in the first place. 
 Among individuals, the accounts may be unattractive to hard-pressed lower-income workers and families with a chronic illness to manage.
 ''People with chronic conditions will not be able to save anything,'' said Anne K. Gauthier, vice president of Academy Health, a nonprofit research organization that held a conference last fall on consumer-driven health care. 
 In a recent survey of 500 registered voters with insurance conducted for America's Health Insurance Plans, a trade group in Washington, 62 percent of those surveyed said they would not be likely to exchange their current coverage for a health savings account.
 As for employers, a survey recently conducted jointly by the Kaiser Family Foundation and the Health Research and Educational Trust, 6 percent of all companies said they were very likely to offer some type of high-deductible plan linked to a savings account in the next two years, while 21 percent said they were ''somewhat likely'' to do so. Big employers, with 5,000 or more workers, were more likely to offer the option: 22 percent said very likely and 28 percent somewhat likely.
 The Bush administration recently announced that it was adding health savings account plans to the health insurance options available to federal employees. 
 But industry consultants said that most employers were mainly biding their time, waiting for the new health plans to establish a track record. Consultants note that consumer-managed health accounts that are similar in some ways to the new saving plans, and have been available for several years, have not attracted many subscribers. 
 Such plans now cover fewer than 1.5 million people, according to industry estimates, of a total of 160 million active workers and their families who have health insurance; 45 million Americans are uninsured.
 But unlike those earlier consumer-directed plans, which are called medical savings accounts or health reimbursement arrangements and which are controlled by employers, the new health savings accounts would belong to the account holders to spend at their discretion and to take along if they changed jobs. 
 And unlike the earlier plans, the new savings plans would enable a healthy person with low medical expenses to build a nest egg for health and, after age 65, for any purpose. Banks and investment funds are arranging to manage the accounts for insurance companies. UnitedHealth recently started its own bank to manage health savings accounts, including debit cards that can be used to pay for medical services.
 Senator Kerry has not indicated his position on health savings plans. But he said in the debate last Friday that he would lower insurance premiums for everybody by creating a federal fund to pay for the high costs of catastrophic cases.
 The health savings accounts are meant to help reduce wasteful spending by involving consumers more directly in weighing the costs of alternative types of care. 
 Spending out-of-pocket money, for example, they may select cheaper drugs and take a more active role in deciding what tests and treatments they need. The higher deductibles -- families may be responsible for up to $5,000 of costs before insurance kicks in -- translate to lower monthly premiums, a saving that some, but far from all, employers say they would share with their workers. 
 Although the largest companies typically offer high-deductible plans as one of several health plan alternatives, employees at smaller firms may not feel they can afford the cost of offering a range of choices. 
 The president of AZ Container Freight Station, a port warehouse in Newark, recently switched all 25 employees -- including himself -- to a health savings account plan.
 With AZ's old H.M.O. plan, the premiums this year were going to rise by $1,100 a family, said AZ's president, Richard Lombardi. He said the new plans, with a $5,000 deductible for a family, saved the company more than 20 percent.
 He is using part of the savings to contribute $25 each week, or $1,300, into employees' accounts. Employees must contribute $75 weekly, the same amount as their share of the former H.M.O. premium.
 For the insured person, ''in the worst case scenario, you get nothing'' after paying medical bills, said Mr. Lombardi, who is 49 years old. In the best case, he said, the full amount of each account rolls over each year. 
 ''I'm on the healthy side,'' Mr. Lombardi said. ''For me it was a very good deal.''
 Tom Beauregard, a health policy analyst at the benefits consulting firm Hewitt Associates, said that studies showed that the savings plans attract healthier enrollees, leaving behind sicker people in the old plans. To average out the risks, he said, an employer might ask people who move to health savings plans to pay an additional premium. 
 Uwe E. Reinhardt, a Princeton University economist and health policy expert, said the new plans were ''a bum deal'' for people with chronic illnesses. But ''for chronically healthy people,'' he said, ''it's another 401(k) savings account, and Wall Street is licking its chops at the prospect of managing the money.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Daniel Schmidt, the chief executive of a small Minnesota business, Mercury Office Supply, is enthusiastic about health savings accounts. (Photo by Janet Hostetter for The New York Times)(pg. C15)Chart: ''A Cool Reception''According to a 2004 survey of 1,925 companies, employers are not very likely to offer workers a high-deductible health insurance plan with a savings account option in the next two years.EMPLOYERS, BY SIZE OF WORK FORCE: 5,000 or moreVERY LIKELY: 22%SOMEWHAT LIKELY: 28%EMPLOYERS, BY SIZE OF WORK FORCE: 1,000 to 4,999VERY LIKELY: 11SOMEWHAT LIKELY: 25EMPLOYERS, BY SIZE OF WORK FORCE: 200 to 999VERY LIKELY: 7SOMEWHAT LIKELY: 28EMPLOYERS, BY SIZE OF WORK FORCE: All employersVERY LIKELY: 6SOMEWHAT LIKELY: 21EMPLOYERS, BY SIZE OF WORK FORCE: 3 to 199VERY LIKELY: 6SOMEWHAT LIKELY: 20(Source by Kaiser Family Foundation and Health Research and Educational Trust) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (93%); HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); FAMILY (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (73%); CHRONIC DISEASES (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); MEDICARE (72%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (72%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (63%) Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Law and Legislation; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004; Medicine and Health; Debating

COMPANY: UNITEDHEALTH GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Unitedhealth Group; Aetna Inc

TICKER: UNH (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (58%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN KERRY (79%) George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Milt Freudenheim

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2004



318 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 531 words

HEADLINE: Nordic Countries Come Out Near the Top in Two Business Surveys

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 13 

 BODY:
Forget the stereotypes about Nordic socialism and how its high taxes and expensive public health care systems are destroying private enterprise.
 In two reports, the Nordic countries bested some of the world's hottest economies. The countries dominate the top ranks of a list of most competitive economies in the world, and a new report of the best places to do business. 
 In the annual global competitiveness rankings of the World Economic Forum, released on Wednesday, Finland was the world's most competitive economy, and Sweden, Denmark, Norway and Iceland were 3rd, 5th, 6th and 10th, respectively.
 In the ''Doing Business'' report, released by the World Bank, Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden were ranked near the top as well. The United States was ranked N0.2 on both lists.
 So why don't people automatically mention Denmark and Finland when conversations turn to development success stories or good financial bets?
 ''It's that old myth that social protection requires more business regulations and hurts business,'' said Caralee McLeish, an author of the World Bank survey. ''In fact, we found that social protection is good for business, it takes the burden off of businesses for health care costs and ensures a well-trained and educated work force.''
 The World Economic Forum came up with the same answer, though it was couched in lingo.
 ''The Nordic countries are characterized by excellent macroeconomic management over all -- they are all running budget surpluses -- they have extremely low levels of corruption, with their firms operating in a legal environment in which there is widespread respect for contracts and the rule of law, and their private sectors are on the forefront of technological innovation,'' said Augusto Lopez-Claros, director of the global competitiveness program at the World Economic Forum.
 Strong, honest and transparent public institutions with most workers protected by labor unions are the cliches about Nordic countries. But one of the essentials to their business successes is their supposed Achilles' heel, taxes.
 Simeon D. Djankov, one of the authors of the World Bank study, said the governments' philosophies were to let businesses alone, taxing them at some of the lowest levels in the world so they can be competitive and efficient. The governments then put high taxes on personal incomes to pay for social services that underwrite their labor forces.
 ''You have to look behind the numbers,'' Mr. Djankov said. ''Ignore the Nordic reputation for tax burdens and you'll see they have established a system that does not distort production, that gives people an incentive to invest in businesses and in stocks because the corporate taxes are so low.''
 Asian countries rounded out the ranks of success stories in the competitive rankings. Taiwan, Singapore and Japan were in the top 10, a particular jump for Japan, which ranked 21st three years ago. China dropped to 46 from 44 on the list.
 The Asian countries at the top of the list share some of the same attributes as the Nordic countries. They place few obstacles for business enterprises and offer strong protection of property rights. They also place a high premium on education. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RANKINGS (90%); LABOR FORCE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); CORPORATE TAX (78%); BUDGETS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); TRENDS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); WRITERS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (65%); CORRUPTION (64%) Economic Conditions and Trends; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (84%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) World Economic Forum; International Bank for Reconstruction and Development

PERSON: Elizabeth Becker

GEOGRAPHIC: FINLAND (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORWAY (93%); SWEDEN (93%); DENMARK (92%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (90%); JAPAN (79%); TAIWAN (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); ICELAND (79%); ASIA (79%) Finland; Sweden; Denmark; Norway; Iceland; Finland

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2004



319 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: COMMODITIES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 327 words

HEADLINE: Copper Prices Plunge on Fears Chinese Demand May Falter

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The price of copper in New York plunged the most in 14 years yesterday, part of a global decline in base metals, on concern that a slowing economy in China would erode the demand that led to a 15-year high in prices last week. 
 Copper use in China, the world's biggest buyer, fell 21 percent in July from a year earlier, leading a worldwide decline of 3.3 percent, the International Copper Study Group, which is based in Lisbon, said yesterday. Nickel prices in London dropped the most in 16 years, and aluminum, zinc, lead and tin tumbled. 
 ''At some point, and who knows when, there's going to be a hiccup in China, and the huge consumption everybody's expecting for the next six months or a year is not going to be so huge,'' said Ron Fisher, a basic-materials analyst in New York at Stein Roe Investment Counsel, which sold its copper holdings in March. ''The China factor is very big in the metals.'' 
 Copper futures for December delivery fell 16 cents, or 11 percent, to $1.288 a pound on the Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, the biggest drop since April 1990. Prices have still gained 45 percent in the last year. A futures contract is an agreement to buy or sell a commodity at a specific price and date. 
 The price decline accelerated as the December contract fell below 25-day and 30-day moving averages. As of Oct. 5, hedge funds and other large speculators had bought 28,247 more copper futures than they had sold, the most since Feb. 17, a report on Friday by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission said. 
 ''Much of the move has been prompted by fund liquidation,'' said John Kemp, an economist at Sempra Metals in London. 
 Copper for delivery in three months declined $334, or 11 percent, to $2,760 a metric ton ($1.25 a pound) on the London Metal Exchange, the world's largest metals market. Nickel plunged 17 percent, aluminum dropped 6.1 percent, lead fell 5.3 percent, tin retreated 6.3 percent and zinc tumbled 7 percent. 


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks copper prices (near-month contract), since May 2003. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COPPER MARKETS (92%); FUTURES (91%); COPPER INDUSTRY (91%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); METALS MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); BASE METALS MARKETS (90%); TIN MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); NICKEL MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (88%); LEAD (78%); TRENDS (78%); ALUMINUM MARKETS (78%); ZINC MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); LIQUIDATIONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (67%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (67%); HEDGE FUNDS (64%) Copper, Brass and Bronze; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); International Trade and World Market; Futures and Options Trading; Sales; Economic Conditions and Trends; Copper, Brass and Bronze

COMPANY: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (53%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL COPPER STUDY GROUP (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (87%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%) China

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2004



320 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 251 words

HEADLINE: McDonald's Sees Strong Profit

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
McDonald's said yesterday in a preliminary report that its third-quarter earnings per share rose more than expected. It cited strong sales in the United States and a lower tax rate. 
 The company, based in Oak Brook, Ill., said preliminary earnings were 61 cents a share. Analysts on average had forecast 49 cents. Tax benefits from an international transaction and other special items added 7 cents a share to earnings in the quarter, McDonald's said. 
 Sales at its restaurants open at least 13 months rose 7.3 percent in September and 5.8 percent for the quarter. September sales were also better than expected. 
 The company will release its full financial results next Tuesday. 
 Analysts were positive. Lawrence Miller of Prudential had been expecting an overall rise in same-store sales of 6.2 percent; Jeffrey Omohundro of Wachovia Securities had forecast an increase of 5.7 percent. 
 ''We attribute the strength to improved products, effective marketing and business momentum,'' Mark Kalinowski, a Smith Barney analyst, said in a research note. He recommends purchase of the stock.
 McDonald's recently started selling an all-white-meat chicken strip, adding to popular products like meal-size salads. 
 Same-restaurant sales in Europe were down 0.6 percent in September and up 0.3 percent in the quarter, hurt by economic weakness in several countries, especially Germany, the company said. 
 In trading yesterday, shares of McDonald's rose $1.31, or 4.8 percent, to $28.86, on the New York Stock Exchange.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); RESTAURANTS (75%); PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS (67%) 

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (91%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Mcdonald's Corp

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (91%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (66%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2004



321 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 453 words

PERSON: Lynn Manulis

HEADLINE: Lynn Manulis, 85, Retailer of Haute Couture

BYLINE: By MARGALIT FOX

 BODY:
Lynn Manulis, a retailer of luxury fashion who dressed a generation of the world's most socially prominent women in classic style while attiring their daughters in the work of bold young designers whose reputations she helped make, died on Sunday in Lantana, Fla. 
 She was 85. A resident of Lantana, she had lived in Palm Beach for many years. Ms. Manulis died after having been ill with lung cancer, her daughter, Nancy Glick, said. 
 Until her retirement last year, Ms. Manulis was president and chief executive of Martha Inc., the chain of boutiques founded by her mother, Martha Phillips. The flagship store, Martha, was on Park Avenue near 58th Street in Manhattan; there were also stores in Trump Tower and in Palm Beach and Bal Harbour, Fla.
 Ms. Manulis (MAN-you-liss), whom almost everyone called Miss Lynn, and her mother, known as Miss Martha, were for decades ''the doyennes of haute couture in America,'' The New York Times wrote in 1992. Mrs. Phillips died in 1996 at 98.
 While her mother dressed a constellation of boldface names in evening gowns by Halston, Geoffrey Beene, Pauline Trigere and Oscar de la Renta, Ms. Manulis sought to attract younger clients. In 1989, she opened a shop, Martha International, where she showcased the work of emerging talents like Zang Toi, Charlotte Neuville, Gemma Kahng and Christian Francis Roth.
 Among the garments there, The Times reported, were ''a strapless cotton dress with an appliqued shark curving around the body, a sequined race driver's jacket studded with sports-car emblems'' and ''an orange blanket coat dripping giant fringes.''
 Lynn Phillips was born on Dec. 28, 1918, in Brooklyn. She studied acting with Stella Adler, and in 1942 appeared in the play ''Angel Street.'' In 1944, she married Robert Burnstine; the couple were divorced in 1954.
 After her divorce, Ms. Manulis joined her mother's business; she married Fred Manulis, a physician, in 1960. Dr. Manulis died in 1989. She is survived by two children from her first marriage, her daughter, of Washington, and a son, Andrew Burnstine, of Plantation, Fla.
 Martha Inc. thrived in the 1980's, with sales of more than $40 million in 1987, The Times reported. But the stock market crash of 1987 and the recession that followed put an end to the demand for the kind of goods that made the names of Ms. Manulis and her mother. The company filed for bankruptcy in 1992, closing its five stores. 
 ''I was selling original couture dresses -- $20,000, $30,000 -- and nobody asked me the price,'' Ms. Manulis recalled in 1996. ''In the blink of an eye everyone pulled back.'' 
 In 1995, mother and daughter opened Martha Phillips, which sold less-expensive clothing, in Palm Beach. That store closed last year.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Lynn Manulis, left, and her mother, Martha Phillips, in 1983. (Photo by Fred Conrad/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); RETAILERS (91%); LUXURY GOODS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); HAUTE COUTURE (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); MARRIAGE (67%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (64%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (60%); LUNG CANCER (56%); CANCER (56%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (50%) Deaths (Obituaries); Biographical Information

OSCAR DE LA RENTA (58%) Margalit Fox

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Fashion Design

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2004



322 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1467 words

HEADLINE: Finding a Mother Lode in Mongolia

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: OYU TOLGOI, Mongolia 

 BODY:
In the table-flat vastness of the Gobi Desert, the Canadian-owned mining camp looks unimpressive: a gray gravel landing strip, two clusters of traditional ger shelters and a few warehouses, their zinc roofs glittering to the rare airplane passing through an otherwise empty sky.
 Only a dusty spider web of roads linking 11 drilling rigs hints at the riches below: about $60 billion worth of copper and gold, one of the five largest copper deposits known in the world.
 People of the Bronze Age once smelted metal from an outcropping that Ghenghis Khan's horsemen later called Turquoise Hill, where surface rocks were shot through with bluish copper traces. Now, after centuries of slumber, this mineral province only 50 miles north of China, is to burst into life again, driven by an industrializing China that is scouring the globe for minerals.
 For almost three years, Robert M. Friedland, the Canadian-American chairman of Ivanhoe Mines, has flown around the world in his private jet, promoting Turquoise Hill, his company's premier property, and drawing interest from a series of blue-chip mining companies from Australia, Canada and the United States. 
 In July, a letter of intent to explore a production joint venture finally came. The sender was the Jiangxi Copper Company of China. While Japanese and South Korean companies are also negotiating participation, China is knocking on Mongolia's door for what is to be a $2 billion development. That price is double the $1 billion gross national product of Mongolia. ''Jiangxi is the largest copper company in China, and they are having trouble getting sufficient concentrate to feed their smelters,'' Mr. Friedland said on a recent visit to Ulan Bator, Mongolia's capital 350 miles north of here. ''They will soon be producing 500,000 metric tons of copper per year, but their mines only produce 200,000 metric tons, so they will have a shortfall of 300,000 tons a year.''
 This looming shortfall prompted China to build a highway and a power line to the border of Mongolia, a nation of only 2.7 million people inhabiting an area the size of Western Europe. Aware of a coal deposit 90 miles northwest of here, China also is studying laying a rail line across this corner of the Gobi, a bone-dry, windswept landscape brought to life for American movie viewers in the recent documentary ''The Story of the Weeping Camel.'' Far from China's polluted cities, the coal could be burned in power plants in Mongolia and the electricity sent to China. 
 Mongolians, while wary of too much Chinese investment, widely predict that Oyu Tolgoi, where production is tentatively scheduled to start in mid-2007, will transform their economy. Nambaryn Enkhbayar, the former prime minister who is now speaker of the Hural, or national legislature, said in an interview: ''According to preliminary estimates, it will double or triple the G.D.P. of our country. It will create quite a few jobs. It will attract quite a lot of foreign investment.''
 Here in Hanbogd County, where there are 5 camels and 10 cashmere goats for each of the 2,400 human inhabitants, Buyantogtokh Delgerjav, the governor, said in an interview: ''Before we had unemployed people. Now they all have jobs. Their living standard is better than mine. I am the governor, and they are making more money than I am.''
 For China, large mineral imports will be needed to meet the country's goal of quadrupling its $1 trillion gross domestic product between 2000 and 2020, according to a study published last year by the mineral research unit of the China Geological Science Academy.
 Until recently, Chinese companies were satisfied with long-term contracts to buy staples like iron, coal, copper and gold. Now, in a movement reminiscent of a drive by Japan in the 1970's, Chinese companies are seeking ownership stakes in the producers.
 In the last year, Chinese companies have roamed the globe, cutting deals to refine alumina in Brazil, Texas and Vietnam, and to mine iron in Australia, nickel in Papua New Guinea and copper in Chile and Pakistan. [On Sept. 22, a Chinese consortium led by the China Minmetals Corporation announced it was in talks to pay $4.7 billion for Noranda, the world's third-largest zinc producer and ninth-largest copper producer.]
 About 300 miles northeast of here, at Tumurtiin-Ovoo, China Nonferrous Metal Mining and Construction plans to start mining zinc next summer, with a goal of exporting 70,000 tons of zinc concentrate a year to Chinese smelters.
 ''Once Oyu Tolgoi mine enters production, its products will probably go to China,'' Wong Fu Kang, charge d'affaires at the Chinese Embassy in Ulan Bator said of the copper project here. ''It is only 100 kilometers from the Chinese border.''
 Chinese mineral demand has drawn to Mongolia 19 foreign mining companies with capital from 22 countries. This landlocked nation is now one of the world's hottest spots for mining exploration, according to the Mineral Resource Authority of Mongolia, a state agency. By the end of this year, about 40 percent of Mongolia's explorable area is to be under license, up from 22 percent last year.
 Over the last year, AngloGold Ashanti, one of the world's largest gold miners, opened an office in Ulan Bator, purchased 840,000 acres of exploration rights in Mongolia and started drilling for gold. The Cameco Corporation, the world's largest uranium miner, forecasts that it will produce 210,000 ounces of gold this year from the Boroo Mine, which opened last December. 
 D. Jargalsikhan, the authority's chairman who attended the Colorado School of Mines, said in an interview in his office in the capital: ''Every day I meet a new Chinese company. They need almost everything: copper, iron, zinc.''
 Last year, China, the world's largest copper importer, increased its imports of copper and copper products by 26 percent, to $7.2 billion. Chinese minerals experts forecast that over the next 15 years, China's copper consumption will double, hitting about six million tons in 2019. [Copper prices closed down 16 cents, to $1.288 a pound on Wednesday; still, that is up from about 90 cents a year ago, as world copper stockpiles have dwindled.]
 The Erdenet Mining Corporation, Mongolia's largest company, plans to increase copper output by 2006 by almost 50 percent. This year, Erdene Gold Inc. of Canada and Companhia Vale do Rio Doce of Brazil, the world's largest iron ore producer, also started drilling in Mongolia for copper and gold.
 With copper prices near 10-year peaks, Mr. Friedland is winding down an exploration project where nearly 1,000 bore holes were drilled by a fleet of rigs that once numbered 22. Turquoise Hill holds 44.9 billion pounds of copper and 21.8 million ounces of gold, according to calculations by AMEC E&C Services, a Canadian subsidiary of a consulting engineering company based in Britain. 
 In the interview, Mr. Friedland estimated that a decade from now, when an open pit and an underground mine are to be working at full capacity here, Turquoise Hill would produce 1.7 billion pounds of copper a year.
 In the initial excitement of the discoveries here, Ivanhoe's stock quintupled in the second half of 2003. Since then, without a mining blue chip to take over the project, share prices have receded to about $5.52, about half the peak of last year.
 With his private jet, rapid-fire speech and Power Point presentations at mining conferences from here to Toronto, Mr. Friedland is often categorized as a mining explorer and promoter, rather than a metals producer. Ivanhoe owns exploration licenses for 42,857 square miles across Mongolia, an area almost as large as Pennsylvania. But over the last year, Mr. Friedland has taken steps to follow through on his vow to turn Turquoise Hill into a working mine, while retaining majority control.
 Last November, he appointed John Macken as Ivanhoe's president. A 19-year veteran of Freeport McMoRan Copper and Gold, Mr. Macken worked for 13 years at the company's Grasberg complex in Indonesia, the world's largest copper and gold mine. While there, he oversaw a $1 billion mining expansion that almost doubled production to 230,000 tons of ore a day, about double the forecast 2011 production at Oyu Tolgoi.
 ''Look at the quality of people they are putting in these projects,'' said Bob Barrows, operations vice president at Wagner Asia Equipment , Mongolia's Caterpillar distributor. Talking in Ulan Bator, he added: ''They are the hard drivers, the people who made other properties successful.''
 One hard driver who is taking it easy is Garamjav Dondog, the geologist who made the initial discovery here in 1997. Now retired, he recently chatted with visitors to the mining camp here. This veteran of 30 years tramping the Gobi said, with a twinkle in his eye, ''There is more out there to be discovered.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Paul Chare, director of Ivanhoe Mines, left, and Garamjav Dondog, a geologist, talk in Oyu Tolgoi, Mongolia.
 Tapping gold and copper deposits thought to be worth $60 billion. (Photographs by Jae Hyun Seok for The New York Times)Map of Mongolia highlights Oyu Tolgoi: Production is scheduled to begin in Oyu Tolgoi in mid-2007. (pg. W7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINES & MINING (90%); COPPER INDUSTRY (90%); COPPER MINING (90%); COAL MINING (89%); INTERVIEWS (73%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (72%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (71%); COAL INDUSTRY (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (66%); JOINT VENTURES (66%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (65%); POWER PLANTS (61%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (60%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%) Copper, Brass and Bronze; Production; Mines and Mining; Gold; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: JIANGXI COPPER CO LTD (91%); TURQUOISE HILL RESOURCES LTD (57%)

TICKER: 0358 (HKSE) (91%); TRQ (TSX) (57%); TRQ (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (91%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (91%); NAICS331410 NONFERROUS METAL (EXCEPT ALUMINUM) SMELTING & REFINING (91%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (57%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (57%)

PERSON: James Brooke

GEOGRAPHIC: GOBI DESERT (94%); CENTRAL CHINA (90%); JIANGXI, CHINA (72%) MONGOLIA (99%); CHINA (97%); CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (75%) Mongolia; Oyu Tolgoi (Mongolia); Gobi Desert (Mongolia); China

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2004



323 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: NATO Vows to Speed Sending 300 Troops to Train Iraqi Forces

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

DATELINE: POIANA BRASOV, Romania, Oct. 13 

 BODY:
NATO defense ministers pledged Wednesday to speed the deployment of 300 trainers to Iraq by the end of the year, a program intended to field more Iraqi security forces who can help safeguard the elections in January. 
 A senior NATO official said the first wave of trainers, from countries like the United States, Britain, Denmark and Norway, could begin arriving at a new training academy southeast of Baghdad in late November. But other officials warned of delays in persuading NATO members to volunteer troops for the mission. 
 ''Speed is of the essence here,'' Jaap de Hoop Scheffer, the NATO secretary general, said at a news conference in this small resort town in the Carpathian Mountains where the 26 alliance ministers are meeting. ''It's what the Iraqis want.'' 
 Over all, about 3,000 NATO troops, including logistics, security, and command personnel, could be sent to support the training mission. Some nations, including France, Belgium and Germany, initially raised objections to NATO training Iraqis in Iraq, citing security concerns and a suspicion that the training could grow into a combat operation. 
 But those qualms have largely been addressed, NATO officials said. About 40 NATO trainers are in Baghdad, working mainly with senior Iraqi generals to establish national command structures. The United States has been focusing on training Iraqi combat forces, and British trainers have taken a leading role in training Iraqi National Guard soldiers. 
 As a result, the NATO role will be mainly to train senior noncommissioned officers and senior officers in command-and-control procedures. ''Our niche will be leadership training,'' a NATO diplomat said. All training of Iraqi security forces will fall under Lt. Gen. David H. Petraeus of the Army. 
 Nicholas Burns, the American ambassador to NATO, told reporters traveling with Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld that alliance trainers would be on the ground this year. ''As soon as those trainers are available, and we've identified them from the allied countries,'' he said, ''they will go in.'' 
 NATO members also discussed helping the interim Iraqi government equip its new army and security forces, a problem that has plagued the Iraqi forces' ability to conduct missions. In advance of the meeting on Tuesday, Mr. Rumsfeld issued a plea to other countries for help. ''We need more equipment; we need it from NATO nations; we need it from non-NATO nations,'' he said. 
 At Wednesday's meeting, described as a discussion session rather than a decision-making forum, Mr. de Hoop Scheffer announced that military planners would begin drafting options for integrating the United States-led operation and NATO security mission in Afghanistan. 
 The options, which will probably include keeping combat and security missions separate but under one unified commander, will be presented to NATO ministers at their meeting in Nice, France, in February. 
 Some European officials have expressed suspicion that the integration plan, which the Pentagon supports, could be used as a guise to withdraw some American troops from Afghanistan and shift them to Iraq. American officials have denied such a motivation.
 As part of the allies' overall strategy for Afghanistan, NATO is planning to add two new civil-military teams, called provincial reconstruction teams, in western Afghanistan, bringing the total number of such units that provide security and economic spark in the country to 21.
 Seven of those teams would be run by NATO; the others by individual countries, mostly the United States. Canada and Italy expressed interest at the meeting in providing personnel for the new teams in the west, a senior NATO official said.
 In addition to his NATO meetings on Wednesday, Mr. Rumsfeld met with Defense Minister Sergei B. Ivanov of Russia, whom the secretary considers a close ally in developing counterterrorism strategies. It was the 15th meeting between the two defense chiefs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (92%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ARMIES (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); BUSINESS LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT (78%); MILITARY TRAINING (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (75%); POLITICS (72%); TERRORISM (59%); MOUNTAINS (54%) Elections; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Security and Warning Systems; Politics and Government ; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%) North Atlantic Treaty Organization

PERSON: JAAP DE HOOP SCHEFFER (79%); DAVID PETRAEUS (59%) Eric Schmitt

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (88%) PROVENCE-ALPES-COTE D'AZUR, FRANCE (70%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); NORWAY (92%); DENMARK (92%); FRANCE (92%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (91%); EUROPE (79%); UKRAINE (79%); GERMANY (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); ROMANIA (79%); BELGIUM (74%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2004



324 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 4; Sports Desk; BASEBALL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 463 words

HEADLINE: Olerud Leaves Unemployment And Does Nice Work for Yanks

BYLINE: By DAVE ANDERSON

 BODY:
For more than two weeks, John Olerud was a man without a major league team. Designated for assignment by the Seattle Mariners on July 15, he was given his unconditional release on July 27. Then he sat at home in Medina, Wash., waiting for the phone to ring. 
 And it did.
 ''Four teams were interested,'' he said last night after his two-run homer was the difference in the Yankees' 3-1 victory over the Red Sox, ''but New York was definitely the best fit for me.''
 And now Olerud, the 36-year-old first baseman signed on Aug. 3 when Jason Giambi was on the disabled list, has turned out to be the best fit for the Yankees. After last night's home victory, the Yankees hold a 2-0 lead over the Red Sox in the American League Championship Series, which resumes tomorrow night at Fenway Park.
 ''When Jason went down, and we were looking around to get some help for Tony Clark,'' Manager Joe Torre said, referring to the first baseman who had replaced Giambi earlier in the season, ''there were a couple of guys out there at the time, Fred McGriff and Olerud.
 ''I think the feeling in the organization was that Olerud had been more of a regular player at the time, and we decided to pursue that. I talked to John and just the way he is: what you see is what you get. He was very calculated as to: 'What's my role? What do you want me to do?'''
 ''And short of making any promises,'' Torre added, ''I told him that he would get every opportunity to be an everyday player and maybe sit occasionally, and that's what we've done. John Olerud is quality. He had played here for the Mets. There were a lot of things that made him a good get.''
 Torre also knew that Olerud had won an batting title with the Toronto Blue Jays. He had been released by the Mariners, but he still had one of the sweetest swings in baseball. And last night that swing connected for a decisive home run off Pedro Martinez.
 ''I had two strikes on me,'' Olerud said, ''and against Pedro, that's a bad position to be in because he can do so many different things to get you out. I'm trying to protect the plate and just get the bat on the ball. I got a fastball up and in, and I just did a good job of getting to it.''
 After batting only .245 with 5 homers and 22 runs batted in over 78 games with the Mariners, Olerud hit .280 with 4 homers and 26 R.B.I. in 49 games for the Yankees. He also provided a much smoother glove.
 With the Blue Jays, the Mariners and the Mets, Olerud played in 55 postseason games, including 34 league championship series games in which he batted .290 with 5 homers and 21 R.B.I. He was asked if last night's home run had been the biggest.
 ''I would say it ranks right up there,'' he said in his matter-of-fact manner. ''It's definitely the freshest in my mind.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); ATHLETES (90%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); TOURNAMENTS (73%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (73%) Baseball; Playoff Games

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (93%); BOSTON RED SOX (91%); SEATTLE MARINERS (84%) New York Yankees; Boston Red Sox

PERSON: Dave Anderson; John Olerud

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%); BOSTON, MA, USA (57%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (52%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (57%); ONTARIO, CANADA (52%) UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (52%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2004



325 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; A Hard-to-Swallow Lesson on Pensions; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2192 words

HEADLINE: Halliburton Uses Loophole to Reduce Payouts at an Upstate New York Unit

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

DATELINE: OLEAN, N.Y. 

 BODY:
Hundreds of people here in western New York, all closing in on retirement, have learned a bitter lesson about pensions and the law that guarantees them. 
 Two years ago, their employer, the oil services giant Halliburton, unexpectedly started urging them to take their pensions early, warning that they would otherwise lose their right to take their benefits in a single check. The workers signed up to receive their money right away, but the money was much less than they had earlier been told they had coming. Confused and angry, some have sought to win back the remainder of their pensions, or at least to get an explanation of how Halliburton could legally reduce their benefits. 
 Today, what the workers find most distressing is that a law that is supposed to protect pensions has failed them. 
 ''On a professional basis, I became quite depressed about this whole thing,'' said Gene Moore, the former general counsel of the Halliburton unit that was affected, a joint venture known as Dresser-Rand. Mr. Moore, 56, resigned shortly before the pension controversy and was therefore not part of the group that lost benefits involuntarily. But he was concerned enough to spend months seeking possible legal remedies. Ultimately, he decided he was wasting his time. 
 ''Built into the statutes now are clearly wrongs for which there is no punishment,'' said Mr. Moore, who now practices law in Houston.
 In an e-mail response to questions, Halliburton said, ''Halliburton has honored its commitment to Dresser-Rand employees under the pension plan, followed the letter and spirit of the laws applicable to the plans, and made no profit related to the plan.'' 
 The company further stated that if any company had let the workers down, it was its former partner in the joint venture, Ingersoll-Rand. An Ingersoll-Rand spokesman, however, disputed that assertion.
 The case of the Olean workers is an illustration of a gaping hole in the nation's safety net. Tens of thousands of Americans are discovering, as they approach retirement, that money they were promised is not forthcoming. Some of the most prominent cases involve companies, like airlines, that are in severe financial distress and cannot keep their pension funds going. But others involve profitable companies, like Halliburton, that reduce anticipated benefits by tens of thousands of dollars even though their pension funds are healthy -- and even though a 1974 federal law says pensions are guaranteed.
 The law's protection, however, does not address a major feature of traditional pensions, the type known as defined-benefit pensions. Such pension plans allow workers to build up the biggest part of their benefit, by far, late in their careers. The rules require companies to pay into their pension plans years in advance on the assumption that older workers will stay and earn the big promised rewards. But if something then keeps workers from earning that part of their benefit, there will be extra money in the pension fund -- a windfall, if a company can recover it, said Jeremy Gold, a New York-based independent consulting actuary. 
 ''This is a national problem,'' he said of the hidden risk such plans can pose to employees.
 The type of benefit that the Olean workers lost is known as an early retirement subsidy. It gives employees the right to retire early with the same, or nearly the same, benefit as if they had worked straight through to age 65. Many companies have put such provisions into their pension plans as a way of easing workers out the door before they pass their prime. 
 As workers reach early retirement age, the subsidy becomes very valuable, accounting for as much as 60 percent of their total pension benefit. To keep companies from denying workers their benefits at this point, Congress amended the pension law in 1984, making it illegal to amend a plan to revoke early retirement subsidies when employees are close to claiming them. 
 But some companies have found a loophole in the law during mergers and spinoffs, pension advocates say.
 ''The company cannot amend a plan to eliminate an early retirement subsidy,'' said Karen Ferguson, director of the Pension Rights Center, a consumer group in Washington. But if the company sells a division, then an employee of that division is no longer protected when he or she reaches early retirement. The company has, in effect, ''amended the work force,'' she said. ''This is a glaring loophole in the law, and it is truly undercutting the retirement security of hundreds of thousands of people across the country.'' 
 Norman Stein, a law professor at the University of Alabama who specializes in pension issues, said ''hundreds and hundreds of companies'' have taken advantage of divestitures to end their obligation to pay early retirement subsidies.
 Halliburton said that the company that bought its stake in the Olean division, Ingersoll-Rand, should have established a new pension plan to provide similar benefits for the affected workers. 
 ''Because the Dresser-Rand employees were no longer employees of Halliburton, it would have been unheard-of for Halliburton to recognize service for the Dresser-Rand employees after the sale was completed,'' a spokeswoman said.
 But the records for the Olean workers' pension fund, which have only recently become available, tell a different story. Far from being unheard of, Halliburton itself sent $55 million from the same pension fund to create a new pension plan for a second group of workers whose unit was shed in 2001.
 Halliburton said that the two divestitures were different types of transactions and that conditions of the 2001 sale gave it far greater flexibility to negotiate terms. When Halliburton sold its stake in Dresser-Rand, a spokeswoman said, it was bound by a joint venture agreement that precluded any discussion of what to do about the pensions. 
 An Ingersoll-Rand spokesman, Paul Dickert, argued that Halliburton was the one that was responsible for the pensions. ''They didn't disappear when Halliburton sold its interest to us,'' he said. ''We think it's pretty clear.''
 Halliburton acquired the Olean division when it acquired Dresser Industries in 1998 -- a deal that Vice President Dick Cheney, then Halliburton's chief executive, called a ''win-win'' transaction. Halliburton eventually merged the Dresser pension fund into one of its own, much smaller pension funds.
 On Feb. 28, 2000, Halliburton sold its stake in the Olean unit. For pension purposes, it deemed the workers to have ''terminated employment,'' it told them in form letters. It did not say so in these letters, but by treating them as if they had resigned, it stopped their vesting service in the pension plan. That meant that unless they had already turned 55 by March 1, 2000, they would be denied their early retirement benefit. The workers say none of this was explained to them at the time. A May 2000 memo shows the employees were told only that they would ''remain active participants'' in the plan, and would not be eligible to take out their money until they retired or terminated employment.
 In August of that year, Mr. Cheney left Halliburton to join the Republican ticket. In 2001, the Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act was signed into law, including an obscure provision allowing an employer to consider workers legally severed from service if it sold the division where they worked. In July 2001, David J. Lesar, the new chief executive, executed an amendment to the pension plan, deleting four words: ''or any successor thereof'' from more than 150 pages. Until the deletion, the document barred workers from cashing out of the pension fund until they stopped working for their division, or any successor thereof.
 This amendment was not disclosed to the work force at the time. It had the effect of allowing Halliburton to start urging workers to take their money and leave the pension fund. 
 The law became effective the last day of 2001. Halliburton began sending out form letters to the workers in 2002, telling them that ''an important change was made to the plan, effective Jan. 1, 2002.'' In fact, Mr. Lesar had made the amendment effective as of May 1, 2001, but in any case, the letters said the workers would be able to take distributions from the pension fund, even though they were still employed. 
 The same notice also confirmed that their pension plan had been ''merged into the Halliburton retirement plan,'' but stated reassuringly that ''this merger of plans did not change your pension benefits.''
 But when the workers called Halliburton to enroll for their payouts in the summer of 2002, hundreds of them were told that the benefits available in their names were significantly less than what they expected. Many of them can produce benefits statements from previous years, when Dresser Industries still ran their pension fund, showing they were due much larger amounts. They were also indignant to learn that they were being treated as if they had resigned. Most of them were sitting at the same desks, performing the same tasks, as they had before Halliburton bought and sold their company. 
 Bill Chamberlin, a head draftsman at the division in Olean, said he was previously told he would receive about $60,000 but was offered just $28,000 by Halliburton.
 Mr. Chamberlin, now 51, said that Halliburton also told him he could get an unreduced pension if he worked until age 65 -- a Hobson's choice because by then, the value of his early retirement subsidy would be zero. And he would have to take his benefits as an annuity rather than a single check.
 Mr. Chamberlin would have none of it. ''If I stayed in there till I was 65, what would keep them from stealing more of it?'' he asked. He took the money. 
 Mr. Chamberlin and others expressed particular anger that when Mr. Cheney departed from Halliburton in 2000, he was too young to qualify for retirement benefits, but was granted a package worth millions of dollars anyway, through a special vote of the board.
 Kathie Driscoll, a clerical worker, was 54 when she got her letter, urging her to take a benefit that was less than half what Dresser had earlier promised. She did, and a year later, she was laid off -- just as she reached the age when she could have taken her early retirement subsidy, had it still been available. At about the same time, her mother suffered an incapacitating stroke. Ms. Driscoll lives with her mother and provides full-time care. 
 ''As long as I can stay at home with her, I'm living within my means,'' said Ms. Driscoll, who is running their household on her mother's Social Security benefits.
 The people here in Olean are, for the most part, engineers and support staff who design and manufacture large compressors for the oil and chemical industry. They are not pension lawyers, and when they first started getting letters urging them to take their money out of the pension fund, they had no idea what was going on. Pension language is often opaque, and these notices were no exception. They invited people to call the Halliburton Benefits Center to request their pensions, but warned that whether they called or not, they would soon receive the paperwork to sign up for their money. Once they received the forms, the letters said, they had 90 days to sign up, or else lose forever their right to receive their money in a single check.
 ''The way it was worded was like a scare tactic,'' said Paula Vance, 52, who received three letters, each saying her pension was a different amount.
 Diana Weimer, 59, a cost-estimating clerk, said she never signed up at all, but her check arrived anyway. ''I refused it,'' she said. ''I sent it back. They told me I had to take it.'' So when the check arrived the second time, she put it into an individual retirement account. A year later, she too was laid off. 
 A few people who had retired earlier received letters saying that their pension payments had been too big and demanding they send thousands of dollars back to Halliburton. 
 The workers got in touch with their Congressional representative, Amo Houghton, a Republican. His office arranged for them to pose questions about their case to the Internal Revenue Service, and to submit the facts of their case to a Labor Department official. The I.R.S. provided answers that only compounded their confusion, and suggested that they might also try the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, the third federal agency with authority for enforcing certain parts of the pension law. 
 The pension agency seemed unpromising because it handles failed pension funds and Halliburton's fund had a surplus. At the Labor Department, the workers found an official who promised to review the employees' complaints and bring the matter to some sort of resolution. She warned them that it might take her a while. 
 Ann L. Combs, assistant secretary of labor, said the department was ''continuing to review the situation.'' 
 Kathy Joy-Kirkendall, an engineer in Olean who designs heavy equipment for the oil and chemical industry, said: ''I never heard another word. It's been two years.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Kathy Joy-Kirkendall, an engineer in Olean, N.Y., studies documents related to the pension plan at the former Halliburton unit where she has worked for 27 years. (Photo by Daniel Cappellazzo for The New York Times)Chart: ''So Much for Early Retirement''Many companies subsidize early retirement as part of their pension plans. But some companies have avoided paying these benefits by selling divisions, and treating the workers in those divisions as if they had resigned.Hypothetical example: How a subsidy increases pension paymentsAn employee is hired at 35 for $25,000 a year. The employee makes $50,000 by age 50 and $100,000 by 65. The pension is based on 1.5 percent of the final pay for each year of service, or $45,000 a year. With the early retirement subsidy, the employee could retire at 55 and get a lump sum of $185,512, instead of $103,862 without the subsidy.Real example: How one employee was denied his subsidyAn employee of Dresser Industries received information from the company in 1995 stating that he could expect to receive more than $77,000 if he retired at 55. Dresser was bought by Halliburton in 1998 and sold in 2000, although Halliburton kept the pension plan. The employee turned 55 in 2001. The next year, Halliburton told him that he could receive about $49,000, but only if he took it right away.(Sources by Jeremy Gold Pensions
 Dresser Industries and Halliburton documents)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (88%); DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); LAWYERS (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); OLDER WORKERS (73%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (73%); JOINT VENTURES (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (65%) Labor; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Law and Legislation

COMPANY: HALLIBURTON CO (93%)

ORGANIZATION: Dresser-Rand Co; Halliburton Co; Ingersoll-Rand Co; Dresser-Rand Co

TICKER: HAL (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (93%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (93%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (93%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (93%)

PERSON: Mary Williams Walsh

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2004



326 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk; ROOM TO IMPROVE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1282 words

HEADLINE: In a World of Choices, Cruising for Quality

BYLINE: By MARCO PASANELLA

 BODY:
WE are a nation of high and low shoppers. The Pradaphile is also the Target bargain-hunter. We want our dream or we want a cheap alternative. But in the search for value, what about the Great American Middle Ground -- the middle of the market, long neglected? The challenge for today's renovators, as they walk the miles of aisles in big box stores, is uncovering the secrets of the vast in-between. 
 The top-of-the-line item may offer instant gratification; at the low end lies the satisfaction of the great deal. I maintain that the middle of the market is the homeland of value and not the backwater of compromise. But now that Home Depot has arrived in Manhattan, with 20,000 products stacked on its shelves, the middle has never seemed wider or more bewildering. 
 I went shopping over the last weeks for an item that homeowners typically view as a high or low proposition: bathroom sink faucet sets. I examined a range of traditionally styled chrome models. At the high end was one made by the venerable English firm Barber Wilsons ($1,130), whose faucets are used in Buckingham Palace. At the lower end was a set made by Price Pfister ($235), available at big box stores. For my money, the winner was a set by the Chicago Faucet Company, at $528. (According to plumbing lore, Frank Sinatra carried a Chicago Faucet set on tour and had it installed in every hotel room.) 
 Here is what I learned: Weight is the quickest gauge of value. ''If you want to know what is good, pick it up,'' said John Christou, an owner of George Taylor Specialties, one of New York's best regarded plumbing suppliers. At four pounds, the Barber Wilsons is chunky. Of course, its weight is not apparent once it is installed, but the consequences of that extra heft are significant. The Barber Wilsons' sturdy nickel-size throat allows a generous water supply. By contrast, the lightweight Price Pfister has a mere pinhole to protect its plastic innards from cracking under pressure. As a result water gushes from one and trickles from the other, though both use the same pipes and have similar-size spouts. The lift test is particularly critical in big box stores where the shelves can be stocked with lower-quality versions of well-known brands. The Speakman showerhead, a sturdy American brand, which George Taylor sells for $125, is $29 at home-improvement chains. If you pick them up, the difference is clear: the expensive version is chrome-plated brass, while its economy double is chrome-plated plastic. 
 These bargain fixtures drive plumbers crazy because the parts fit together poorly, and they tend to break during installation. ''I tell my customers that I'll give you the money you save if you don't make me put in this junk,'' said Michael Esposito, a plumber based in Brooklyn. 
 With its surfeit of chunky metal, the Barwil begs to be touched. Compared with the articulated balls that cap the ends of the English taps, the Price Pfisters handles look like blobs.
 Of course, to make the alluring shapes requires fine casting, laborious hand polishing and a fat price tag. 
 Barwil may be the real English thing. But I wonder: Is it a pose to make the same product virtually the same way for 100 years, in defiance of technological advances? Is Barber Wilsons more nostalgic than authentic, like those British carmakers who stuck to their notoriously unreliable 6-volt batteries long after better versions came along? 
 ''One of the markers of true authenticity,'' said Dave Glassman, director of marketing for Restoration Hardware, ''is a sense of timelessness.'' 
 Turns out that the middleman was the real heavyweight. At 9.3 pounds, Chicago's solid brass castings outweigh Barber Wilsons'. The muscular spouts and bases are single-forged pieces rather than the junky amalgams of washers and tubes that characterize the cheaper stuff. 
 Chicago does not offer polished nickel, the fashionable finish for the design set over the last couple of years. Nor does it make matte nickel, which some homeowners have turned to because of nickel's tendency to tarnish. What Chicago does sell is that overlooked standby: chrome. With good chrome plating, you do not have to worry about tarnish, and you can easily match products from one brand to another. 
 I feel like a Honda salesman for bringing this up, but reliability is an important component of value. Barwils break infrequently, but when they do, you have to wait three weeks for a potentially costly part. By contrast, Chicago supplies inexpensive replacement pieces in a matter of days, and new parts will work on a 60-year-old model. Chalk up another one for the man in the middle. 
 The result is a product with the sturdiness and solidity of a great American design. Costs are minimized by keeping to simple interchangeable shapes, which are authentically all-American rather than dumbed-down versions of English ones. 
 ''They don't have silly plastic trims and doodads that will make you want to rip them out when you get sick of them,'' said Randy Polumbo, a contractor whose clients include Santiago Calatrava, the architect and engineer. 
 To go for the middle is not to be indiscriminate. Despite their uniform quality, not every Chicago design is a winner. Dig past those models reminiscent of elementary-school bathrooms to discover the real gems. When mining value from the overlooked, it pays to have a little patience.
 Value does not require blind lust for luxury or bargain fever. The faucet that will make you happiest is the one that does not leak. 
 The same applies to architectural hardware. At first glance, the French Bull's-Eye ($70) by Nanz Custom Hardware, the Barwil of cabinet pulls, bears more than a passing resemblance to Restoration Hardware's Gilmore pull ($5.95). Both are relatively flat on top with lines on the sides. But up close you can see that the Nanz version, modeled after turn-of-the-century drum-shape knobs, is an astounding combination of ogees, steps, astragals and coves compared with the Gilmore's simpler profile. 
 Carl Sorenson, an owner of Nanz Custom Hardware, estimates that more than 50 percent of the manufacturing cost is in the handiwork required in the final finishing to get into all those crevices. More straightforward shapes can be finished by tossing them in a tumbler overnight. 
 Is it worth the extra $64 a knob? Side by side, there is no denying that the Nanz looks almost jewel-like while the Restoration Hardware model looks, well, like a cabinet pull. Do you need it? Nope. Then again, I do not need an old Ferrari, either. 
 Neither pull is historically correct. On the other hand, both work in traditional and modern rooms. 
 Where Nanz hardware is about refinement, Urban Archaeology aims for ''big, boastful and made to last,'' said Gil Shapiro, its founder. And you can see it in products like the 13 1/2-inch diameter Berkeley Semi-Dome light made from a huge casting with dramatic venting to handle the heat from two 100-watt bulbs. 
 At $2,040, it is definitely out of my price range for a light meant for a bathroom. In my own home, I opted for a $17.50 Sea-Dog Line light designed for use on boats. Granted, it is only five inches wide, stamped out of stainless steel and uses a low-voltage bulb. Designed for marine use, it feels more authentic than the overbuilt version. The saving allowed me to line a hallway with them and still have $1,970 leftover to spend (perhaps for a boat). 
 The point is, sometimes good is good enough. Do you really need the top-of-the-line Viking range blistering your walls with its 35,000 B.T.U.'s? Or is a less expensive G.E. Profile adequate for roasting a duck? As with blood pressure and Oreo cookies, the sweet spot often lies in the middle.


GRAPHIC: Photos: WALLETWISE -- Shoppers tend to gravitate to the extremes, like the lightweight Price Pfister faucet, left, and the palace-worthy Barber Wilsons set, right. The challenge is to uncover values between high and low.
FRATERNAL TWINS -- Solid brass pulls by Restoration Hardware ($5.95), left, and by Nanz Custom Hardware ($70). (Photographs by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)(pg. F1)
VARIATIONS ON A THEME -- A dome light by Sea-Dog Line, left, is just 5 inches across
right, a similar fixture, 13.5 inches across, from Urban Archaeology.
 COMFORT ZONE -- Chrome-plated taps by the Chicago Faucet Company, above left, are made with substantial solid brass. Hidden inside an inexpensive Price Pfister faucet, top, are plastic parts, which allow only a modest water flow. Center, a luxury brass faucet by the English manufacturer Barber Wilsons has sturdier workings, and so does the chrome faucet by Chicago, above. (Photographs by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)(pg. F8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (89%); HOME CENTERS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); BRAND EQUITY (77%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (76%); ARCHAEOLOGY (59%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CHICAGO FAUCET CO (83%); PRICE PFISTER INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS332913 PLUMBING FIXTURE FITTING & TRIM MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS332912 FLUID POWER VALVE & HOSE FITTING MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3432 PLUMBING FIXTURE FITTINGS & TRIM (83%); SIC3088 PLASTICS PLUMBING FIXTURES (83%); SIC1711 PLUMBING, HEATING, & AIR-CONDITIONING (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2004



327 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1302 words

HEADLINE: Saudis Blame U.S. and Its Role in Iraq for Rise of Terror

BYLINE: By JOEL BRINKLEY

DATELINE: RIYADH, Saudi Arabia, Oct. 13 

 BODY:
Seventeen months into a shadowy terror campaign that has killed more than 100 people, numerous Saudis express less anger at the insurgents than at the United States for its invasion of Iraq, the signal event that they say touched off the attacks inside the kingdom.
 In interviews over the last week, the Saudis condemned the terror attacks, aimed primarily at foreigners, but called them a small inconvenience that has not forced them to make significant changes in their daily lives. By contrast, they expressed unremitting disdain for the United States. 
 Many Saudis appear to have reached a form of intellectual accommodation with those carrying out the violence. When asked about the attackers' goals, they assigned varied motives but often one that is consistent with their personal, social or political concerns. 
 The interviews were with nearly two dozen Saudis, from a bejeweled prince of the royal court, sipping coffee at a cafe, to a truck driver wearing a frayed caftan, clutching a bag of onions at a local supermarket.
 ''The attackers want the government to give more money to the people,'' said the truck driver, Jaber al-Malky, 24. But Prince Mubarak al-Shafi said, ''This certain sect of people is unhappy about alien ideas, particularly about the democracy that the United States wants from nations all over the world, especially Saudi Arabia.''
 Behind all this lies an ever more complex Saudi-American relationship. Its foundation, of course, is the shared need to buy and sell oil. But the fact that 15 of the 19 Sept. 11 hijackers were Saudi has become an issue in the presidential campaign, as has the accusation that the Bushes are too close to the royal family. 
 No one here seems to care about any of that. Instead Saudis unceasingly complain about American support for Israel and the war in Iraq, which they call unjustified, though Saudi Arabia allowed American troops to operate here during the war. Government officials also say they deplore the Bush administration's call for more democracy here. ''It's none of their business,'' one of them said with scorn. 
 Saudi Arabia's leaders offer conflicting opinions on the local terrorists' motives. Within hours of each other on Sunday, the Saudi interior minister and a half brother of King Fahd offered polar analyses.
 ''Unemployment creates one of the cornerstones of terrorism, and the poor who cannot get food on their table resort to other means,'' the king's half brother, Prince Talal bin Abdul Aziz, said at a conference in Amman, Jordan. In Kuwait, Prince Nayef bin Abdel Aziz, the interior minister, told reporters he doubted that unemployment was the reason for the attacks here, according to an account in the Arab News daily. The prince, Arab News added, noted that many arrested suspects were well-paid employees. 
 Saudi Arabia has a long history with terrorism, beginning when Islamic militants seized the Grand Mosque in Mecca in 1979. After that, the attacks came years apart and never became a consistent part of the fabric of life here, until May 13, 2003, when 25 people died in three coordinated suicide attacks on residential compounds here. That started a terror campaign that continues. That first attack and many that followed were attributed to Al Qaeda. 
 Gen. Mansour al-Turki, the Interior Ministry spokesman, said the Iraq war had spawned the attacks and added that most Saudis held that view.
 Many of the attackers came back to Saudi Arabia after fighting with the Taliban in Afghanistan, he said, drawing on interviews with arrested terrorists. ''They were angry that their dream,'' a fundamentalist Islamic state, ''had been killed by America,'' General al-Turki said. ''They wanted to spread their war against the United States and found that doing this was easier in their own country. But it wasn't until the invasion of Iraq that they could convince others in the country to share their goals. For that reason, the invasion was very important to them.''
 Now, the general added, ''I think we are a step ahead of them.''
 Saker M. al-Mokayyad, a director at the Naif Arab University for Security Services, said, ''The situation is stable now.'' But the attacks continue, at least on a smaller scale. On Sept. 26, a French engineer, Laurent Barbot, was shot dead on the street in Jidda. Ten days earlier a British resident, Edward Muirhead-Smith, was fatally shot in Riyadh. A Saudi wing of Al Qaeda claimed responsibility.
 Even with the continuing casualties, representatives of American communities say they have adjusted to the new reality of living here. Foreign complexes now lie behind heavy barricades, and residents try to avoid walking in public places. Most foreign workers have sent their families back home. Foreigners warily do their shopping and errands early in the day ''because mornings are safer,'' said Gene W. Heck, head of the American Businessmen's Group in Riyadh.
 Meanwhile, ''business is going on anyway,'' said David Cantrell, an American business leader in Dhahran. 
 Saudis say that they do not like the continuing violence, but that it has changed their lives very little.
 ''The situation is not normal, but nothing is different now for me,'' said Ayman al-Ghamdi, 27, the manager of a marble business. Capt. Awab al-Hamiai of the National Guard said simply: ''Our lives have not changed at all.''
 The Saudis interviewed were in complete agreement in their views of the United States and the role the Iraq war played in spawning the insurgency.
 The first attacks in May 2003 came just as the major combat was ending in Iraq, ''and that is when it really hit home here, with all the images of collateral damage,'' said Khaled al-Maeena, editor in chief of Arab News. ''How could America be so oblivious to our feelings?''
 Saudis certainly had no love for Saddam Hussein, but ''why couldn't they topple Saddam and install a new government without destroying the country?'' Prince Mubarak asked.
 The Saudis said they see the attacks here as revenge against foreigners and against the Saudi government for failing to stop the Iraq war. 
 ''The war in Iraq was absolutely not justified,'' said Saad al-Qahtni, 34, a businessman.
 That led to attacks here because the Saudi government ''did not prevent America from invading Iraq without justification,'' said Fareed Saad al-Asmari, a banker. 
 Those were common refrains. The attackers have seldom explained themselves. But when insurgents beheaded an American engineer, Paul M. Johnson Jr., in June, they said it was in revenge for ''what thousands of Muslims taste every day because of the fire from the American Apache'' helicopter.
 Saudis have long held animosity toward the United States for its support of Israel. That and the invasion of Iraq ''makes most people here hate the United States,'' said Captain al-Hamiai. 
 And at the same time, for decades it has been a rite of passage for wealthy Saudis to send their children to the United States for college. 
 ''We are grateful to the United States; most of us were educated there,'' said Prince al-Shafi. He and others said Saudis are picking other countries for their children now because of their anger, and because of the immigration obstacles they believe they and other Arabs face traveling to the United States since 9/11. 
 As a result, foreigners living here say they the country is turning ever more inward.
 ''This was always an introspective society, but now I think it is turning xenophobic,'' said Mr. Heck, who has lived here for 34 years. ''And I think the government likes that.''
 Still, despite the new attitudes, strong Western influences remain ingrained. 
 Mr. Qahtni, the businessman, railed about ''the alien influences'' that he said he believed were damaging Saudi society. He was seated at a Starbucks, sipping a tall cappuccino.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A suicide bomb in May 2003 in Riyadh killed 25, the start of far more aggressive terrorism in Saudi Arabia. (Photo by Reuters)
The interior minister, Prince Nayef, above, doubts that poverty in the kingdom is a prime cause of violence, a view put forth by the king's half brother, Prince Talal. (Photo by Bilal Qabalan/Agence France-Presse--Getty Images)
 (Photo by Hussein Malla/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); HIJACKING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (67%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%) Terrorism; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Life Styles

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (50%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (50%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (50%)

PERSON: Joel Brinkley

GEOGRAPHIC: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (90%); AMMAN, JORDAN (79%) SAUDI ARABIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); JORDAN (79%); ISRAEL (79%); KUWAIT (79%) Saudi Arabia; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2004



328 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; SMALL BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1339 words

HEADLINE: A Growing After-50 Trend: Becoming a Franchisee

BYLINE: By EVE TAHMINCIOGLU

 BODY:
Sally Haulman of Yardley, Pa., spent 40 years in corporate America, most recently in software sales at I.B.M. But when she was laid off in January 2003 at age 61, she decided it was time to become her own boss. The question was, Boss of what?
 Starting a business from the ground up was not an option, given Ms. Haulman's limited funds and the time it would take to build a profitable venture. The way she saw it, she had only two choices: going into real estate or buying a franchise.
 Ms. Haulman chose the latter course and today she owns two women's fitness franchises in Pennsylvania for Slim and Tone, offering 30-minute workouts, which have gained popularity in recent years. 
 ''I fell in love with the idea of owning my own business and the whole franchise model seemed right for me,'' she said. ''It's defined, as opposed to having to dream up a brand new business and having to write everything from scratch.''
 Ms. Haulman is part of a trend that has come upon the franchising world with surprising swiftness: a flood of restless middle-aged and even elderly people. Today, about 8 percent of franchisees or prospective franchisees are 55 years or older, compared with almost zero just five years ago, estimated Satish Mehta, president of Franchise Info Mall Inc. in Torrance, Calif. His firm does periodic surveys of people who visit his online franchise directory, franchiseinfomall.com. 
 Steve Hockett, president of FranChoice Inc., a national franchise referral network based in Eden Prairie, Minn., said about 15 percent of the people he now places with franchise companies, roughly 80 to 100 individuals over the last year, are 55 and older, compared with just a handful two years ago.
 Their motives for giving franchising a whirl range from economic necessity to boredom with retirement, experts say. What unites them is the desire to have an organization that does most of the planning for them.
 ''It does give an investor who has a reasonable amount of capital to put to work the opportunity to invest in a business but not be required to be the master of that business and know every aspect of it because of the support and training provided by the franchise system,'' said Matthew Shay, executive vice president and chief operating officer at the International Franchise Association, an industry trade group in Washington. ''It's a lower barrier of entry.''
 The franchising industry, which once was less than enthusiastic about signing up members of the graying generation, has come to discover their virtues. ''They have energy and business knowledge,'' Mr. Hockett said. ''They lived within rules and systems.''
 The PostNet International Franchise Corporation, a shipping and print franchise in Henderson, Nev., that caters to small businesses, began actively recruiting prospects 55 and older two years ago with an Internet advertising campaign, according to Steve Greenbaum, chief executive and founder. Today, 30 percent to 35 percent of PostNet's 935 locations are run by couples or individuals well into their 50's, he said, compared with 20 percent in 2002.
 ''You're dealing with an individual at a different level of maturity,'' Mr. Greenbaum said. ''They've experienced a lot in terms of how to grow a business.''
 Increasingly, they want to pursue fulfilling activities, says Marc Freedman, author of ''Prime Time: How Baby Boomers Will Revolutionize Retirement and Transform America,'' and travel, golf and baby-sitting for the grandchildren no longer fill the bill. ''The refrain I hear now is, How can I play golf for 30 years?'' Mr. Freedman said.
 After years of working for someone else, many older people and baby boomers are looking for independence. An AARP study published in March found 16 percent of workers 50 years or older, or 5.6 million people, were self-employed as of 2002, compared with 10 percent for the entire work force. The study revealed that the level of self-employment increased with age, peaking at 24 percent of working women age 66, and 38 percent for men at age 65.
 Of course, while many Americans go into franchising for the fun and challenge of running a business, others take the plunge out of economic necessity. ''Self-employment can hold many rewards for those who are pulled to it,'' said John Rother, AARP's director of policy and strategy. ''It can provide a valuable sense of fulfillment as well as grow the economy. But being pushed into self-employment isn't good.''
 To buy a franchise, say for $50,000 to $100,000, older franchisees typically dip into their savings, take out loans, tap into the equity in their homes or withdraw from retirement funds like I.R.A. and 401(k) plans.
 ''Retirees thinking about heading down this road should make sure they have both the financial resources, and the time horizon, to ride out the inevitable ups and downs of a start-up,'' said Mr. Freedman, the author. ''There may well be initial bumps -- and they won't want to be betting the farm on immediate payback.'' 
 Ms. Haulman, who owns the Slim and Tone franchises, took out a home equity loan and used savings to buy her first location, an existing club in Holland, Pa., for a bit less than $50,000 in August 2003. Her second club, in Yardley, Pa., which she built from scratch and opened in January, cost her about $75,000. 
 ''I was nervous, of course,'' she said. ''It's the biggest risk I've taken in my life.'' But she said the newer unit was already profitable and she is optimistic that the Holland location is not far behind.
 While she said her main motivation for finding a business was financial, ''I don't think not doing anything would have been good for me; I have enough energy to move a mountain.''
 By contrast, if King Brookins, 74, had his choice he would be ''hanging out and taking it easy.'' A former deputy court bailiff, federal police officer and boxer, Mr. Brookins has owned a Coverall Cleaning Concepts franchise in Columbus, Ohio, for two years. But with his medical expenses mounting, he says, he needs to keep working to make ends meet.
 Mr. Brookins first tried to start a commercial cleaning business but found it to be too expensive. But Coverall Cleaning Concepts required an initial investment of just $1,500, he says, and today, he earns $12,000 to $15,000 annually. (Franchisees must also pay a royalty to the franchiser, typically 4 percent to 6 percent of revenue.)
 ''I've worked hard all my life,'' he said. ''A lot of people look at me and say how do you do it. I do it.''
 Of course, some franchisees do not have to do it; they just want to. When Roger Perreault sold his insurance agency at the age of 58, after running it for 27 years, he was soon itching to get back into the thick of things. ''I would get up in the morning and think to myself, 'everyone else is going to work,''' he said. ''I had this sinking feeling that this was not for me.'' Now he runs a Metal Supermarket in Waterbury, Conn., using his savings for the initial $300,000 to start the business, which sells small quantities of metals.
 Before signing on the dotted line, older franchisees should pay close attention to a few legal issues that may not seem as significant to 30-somethings, says James Ullman, a lawyer with Greenberg Traurig in Phoenix. They should make sure that the franchise is easily transferable if they decide to sell it, he says. (Franchisers often withhold their approval of a buyer who is not a close relative, for example, and franchisees should be aware of any such potential restrictions.) Also, Mr. Ullman says, prospective franchisees should review the death and disability provisions in a contract.
 Franchising is not for the faint of heart or body. Ms. Haulman often puts in 10-hour days plus weekends at her Slim and Tone business, though she finds comfort in the expectation that when revenues grow to a certain level she will be able to hire a manager. ''It's a way to stay active,'' she said. ''I still can get in a golf game now and then. I feel like I have a balanced life.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Sally Haulman, 62, who was laid off after working for corporate employers for 40 years, borrowed against her home to buy the first of two Slim and Tone workout franchises she owns in Pennsylvania. (Photo by William Thomas Cain for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRANCHISING (92%); FRANCHISEES (91%); TRENDS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (71%); AGING (66%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (66%) Small Business; Aged; Small Business

ORGANIZATION: Franchise Info Mall Inc; FranChoice Inc

PERSON: Steve Hockett; Eve Tahmincioglu

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%); NEVADA, USA (78%); MINNESOTA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2004



329 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 102 words

HEADLINE: Our Schools: Is the Sky Falling?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Another serious educational problem is poor training in mathematics and science education. 
 The quantitative science skills of American students are very poor compared with students from Asia and Europe. If Asian and European students take their Ph.D.'s back to their home countries, our economy and our science will rapidly take a back seat. 
 This is a true crisis that needs some of the financing and government attention currently being spent on misguided foreign adventures.

William A. Cramer
West Lafayette, Ind., Oct. 10, 2004

The writer is a professor of biological sciences at Purdue University.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Susan Synarski)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MATHEMATICS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); WRITERS (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: PURDUE UNIVERSITY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (79%) EUROPE (92%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2004



330 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET PLACE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: Ahold Reaches A Settlement With the S.E.C.

BYLINE: By GREGORY CROUCH

DATELINE: NIJMEGEN, the Netherlands, Oct. 13 

 BODY:
Royal Ahold and its two former top executives, once considered a Dutch dream team capable of turning groceries into gold, reached a settlement on Wednesday with the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with a multibillion-dollar accounting scandal.
 Just weeks after it agreed to pay $9.9 million to avoid criminal prosecution in the Netherlands, Ahold, which owns several supermarket chains in the United States, including Stop & Shop, sidestepped a fine by the S.E.C. because of what the agency called extensive cooperation. The company did agree not to violate United States securities laws in the future.
 Ahold, which is still the subject of a Justice Department investigation and an investor class-action lawsuit in the United States, neither admitted nor denied the S.E.C. allegations, which accused it of using fraudulent documents to pump up its sales and profit figures. 
 The S.E.C. contended that Ahold overstated its sales by $30 billion over three years. Earnings at its U.S. Foodservice subsidiary, a focal point of the suspected fraud, were inflated by more than $800 million.
 ''We are trying to get away from hyperbole when we describe frauds, but this was massive,'' said Thomas C. Newkirk, an associate director at the S.E.C. 
 Four former Ahold officials were named in the S.E.C. complaint, and the agency reached settlements with three of them. The S.E.C. said Wednesday that it had agreed not to pursue penalties against the three in deference to Dutch prosecutors, who have filed criminal fraud charges against all four men. The S.E.C. is still pursuing a case against the fourth man.
 ''We are deferring to the Dutch criminal authorities to obtain appropriate sanctions,'' said James Coffman, an assistant director at the S.E.C.
 Two of the men, the former chief executive, Cees van der Hoeven, and the former chief financial officer, Michiel Meurs, face criminal charges in the Netherlands that they falsified documents, misled investors and defrauded auditors. Both have denied the accusations.
 The S.E.C.'s settlements with Mr. van der Hoeven and Mr. Meurs bar them from ever serving again as an officer or board member of a publicly traded company in the United States. Neither man admitted or denied the allegations against them in the S.E.C. complaint.
 ''It's a classic cease and desist,'' said Thomas Fitzpatrick, a lawyer for Mr. Meurs. ''There is no admission of wrongdoing. There was no penalty of any sort.''
 Just hours before the S.E.C. announcement, Mr. van der Hoeven attended a hearing in Amsterdam related to the criminal case against him and his associates that is expected to go to trial next year.
 Once called King Cees by the financial press, Mr. van der Hoeven made his way past some of the same journalists who had chronicled the $19 billion worth of mergers and acquisitions that made Ahold both a global food giant and a synonym for scandal.
 If convicted of the charges against him, Mr. van der Hoeven could be sent to prison, a prospect one television reporter asked him to comment on.
 ''I don't expect that to happen,'' he said.
 The S.E.C. investigation and Dutch criminal case both focused on the way Ahold consolidated in its financial statements the sales and earnings of several joint ventures that it reportedly did not control, including ICA, a Scandinavian food retailer. 
 At issue are documents -- including so-called side letters -- that appear contradictory. Ahold, for instance, provided auditors with a letter saying it had the right to consolidate the sales and earnings of ICA. But in a separate side letter, which Ahold's auditors say they never saw, some Ahold officials said the company did not, in fact, have the control that would allow for such a consolidation.
 Besides Mr. van der Hoeven and Mr. Meurs, both the other men named in the S.E.C. complaint and the Dutch criminal case have ties to ICA.
 Jan Andreae, a former Ahold executive vice president and board member, was in charge of the company's European operations. Roland Fahlin, a former Ahold nonexecutive board member, had earlier worked for ICA.
 Mr. Fahlin, without admitting any wrongdoing, reached a settlement with the S.E.C. His lawyer in the United States did not return a call seeking comment.
 The S.E.C. said it would pursue its case against Mr. Andreae, who told reporters in Amsterdam that he was innocent of any wrongdoing.
 The S.E.C. complaint against the company itself also focused on the inflation of earnings at its U.S. Foodservice unit. U.S. Foodservice was accused of overstating its earnings in at least fiscal 2001 and 2002 by more than $800 million by booking revenue from promotional rebates from suppliers that had never been earned.
 To pay down debt acquired in its merger and acquisition phase, Royal Ahold, under new management, is now busy selling off assets around the world, including the supermarket chains Bruno's and Bi-Lo in the United States. And it is trying to resolve a series of legal challenges stemming from the scandal. The S.E.C. settlement is a step in the right direction, company insiders said Wednesday, but Ahold still has a way to go before it can put its checkered past behind it.
 ''Of course we wish it never happened,'' Peter Wakkie, an Ahold board member, said in an interview. ''It's been a lot of blood, sweat and tears.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); LITIGATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (79%); CLASS ACTIONS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (75%); LAWYERS (74%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); SCANDALS (72%) Suits and Litigation; Law and Legislation; Securities and Commodities Violations; Frauds and Swindling; Accounting and Accountants

COMPANY: KONINKLIJKE AHOLD NV (ROYAL AHOLD) (98%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (95%) Royal Ahold Nv; Securities and Exchange Commission; Royal Ahold Nv; Justice Department

TICKER: AHOE (FRA) (98%); AH (BIT) (98%); AH (AMS) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (98%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (98%)

PERSON: Cees Van Der Hoeven; Michiel Meurs; Gregory Crouch

GEOGRAPHIC: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); NETHERLANDS (91%) United States

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2004



331 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; COMPANY NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 86 words

HEADLINE: DEERE PLANS TO BUILD A SECOND FACTORY IN BRAZIL

BYLINE: AP

 BODY:
Deere & Company said yesterday that it would build a new factory in Brazil, a move intended to increase the company's business in a growing South American farm equipment market. The new plant is expected to be completed in 2006 and will manufacture farm tractors. Deere's existing factory in Brazil will manufacture combines and planting equipment. The two plants will enhance Deere's position in a growing Brazilian agricultural economy, Deere's chief executive, Robert W. Lane, said. Deere is based in Moline, Ill.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (93%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (91%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (90%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); AGRICULTURE (82%); EXECUTIVES (51%) Agriculture; Machinery and Equipment; Factories and Industrial Plants

COMPANY: DEERE & CO (95%)

ORGANIZATION: Deere & Co

TICKER: DE (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333112 LAWN & GARDEN TRACTOR & HOME LAWN & GARDEN EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3524 LAWN & GARDEN TRACTORS & HOME LAWN & GARDEN EQUIPMENT (95%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (95%)

PERSON: ROBERT W LANE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) BRAZIL (97%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (77%) Brazil; Latin America

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2004



332 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: At the marketers' meeting: politics; jabs at Howard Stern; grabbing for fake dollars; free beach towels.

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
HERE is a look back at some of the highlights, lowlights and sidelights of the 94th annual meeting of the Association of National Advertisers, which more than 700 people attended last Thursday through Sunday in Naples, Fla.

CASH AND CARRY -- It is not every day you find James R. Stengel, the global marketing officer of Procter & Gamble, behaving as if he were a contestant on one of those TV game shows his company sponsors. But that is what Mr. Stengel did on Saturday, as he sought to make a point about advertising spending.
 To illustrate how difficult it is for advertisers to determine effectively their return on investment for the dollars spent to woo consumers, Ted Woehrle, the new Procter vice president for North American marketing, suggested that Mr. Stengel try his luck inside a ''R.O.I. Money Machine.'' It was actually a booth like the ones used on game shows and at carnivals, where contestants grab at cash that flies around when a fan is turned on.
 Mr. Woehrle guessed that Mr. Stengel would be able to accumulate $5 worth of bills, while Mr. Stengel was more confident, guessing $20. Mr. Stengel then gamely entered the booth, which had the words ''Step Up 4 Cash'' emblazoned on the side.
 After Mr. Woehrle closed the door, Mr. Stengel reached for bills for 10 seconds to 15 seconds, then emerged with two fistfuls of money, declaring, ''I got my R.O.I.'' 
 Mr. Stengel said later that he had grabbed more than $20, but a look inside the machine proved disillusioning. The bills were actually play money.

BROUGHT TO YOU BY -- Each year, the association, representing the country's largest marketers, seeks sponsors to defray the costs of the conference.
 This time, a record may have been set as 34 sponsors -- mostly media companies eager to gain access to potential customers -- paid for events, receptions and meals, and gave away merchandise like cellphones, cookies and the coveted Lance Armstrong ''Live Strong'' yellow bracelets.
 Among the more ambitious efforts, World Wrestling Entertainment and the Channel One division of Primedia took over, for the duration of the meeting, two channels on the closed-circuit television network at the conference hotel, the Ritz-Carlton, and ran promotional messages. The registration area was sponsored by The Economist newsmagazine, owned by Pearson, which also supplied attendees with big, fluffy beach towels. 
 The Meredith Corporation distributed tote bags filled with its magazines, including Ladies' Home Journal, and sponsored a dinner Saturday featuring the singer Heather Headley; guests found copies of her compact disc, ''This Is Who I Am,'' in their rooms after dinner.

NEXT, THE SKADDEN ALPS? -- Speaking of sponsors, the law firm of Reed Smith Hall Dickler sponsored the welcoming reception as the meeting began Thursday night, which confused some attendees. The reception was held on a patio outside the hotel, but the puzzled attendees were looking for some place called Reed Smith Hall.

JARGON WATCH -- Each year, the conference gives students of language a look at the buzzwords and phrases that are in vogue among marketers. Among those heard during speeches this time: ''marketing dashboard,'' ''360-degree touchpoints,'' ''b.u.'' (for business unit), ''provocateurship,'' ''glocalization,'' ''C.K.M.'' (for customer knowledge management), ''screenery'' and ''agree the contract.''

THE SELLING OF THE PRESIDENT -- The presidential election, although not formally on the agenda, was a hot topic during the meeting.
 For instance, when attendees learned that a ''Monte Carlo Night'' had been scheduled for the after-dinner period Friday, during the second Bush-Kerry debate, the sponsor, the International Channel Networks division of Comcast, agreed to divide the gambling room in two and provide a projection TV set tuned to the debate coverage on MSNBC.
 More people played blackjack, craps, poker and roulette than watched the TV sets, but the debate drew more than 100, some of them standing when all the chairs were taken.
 On Friday morning, before the debate, attendees were invited to vote, using Meridia audience-response meters, on which candidate they favored. President Bush received 49 percent to Senator John Kerry's 46 percent.
 The closeness of the results startled many attendees because the members of the association have long been known as more likely to be Republicans than Democrats.
 Then, during the general session Saturday morning, after the debate, another vote was held. This time, President Bush and Senator Kerry tied, at 46 percent apiece.
 After the second vote, Tom Joyner, the radio host, spoke to the audience, then drew a business card from a silver bowl to give away a prize, courtesy of the Radio Advertising Bureau. ''Watch me closely,'' Mr. Joyner said slyly. ''I'm in Florida.''

STERN WARNING? -- Mr. Joyner's remarks, when not about the election, were mostly centered on the lucrative contract signed by Howard Stern to leave the Infinity Broadcasting division of Viacom for Sirius Satellite Radio in 2006.
 Mr. Joyner asked: ''Who'd have thought you'd get a half a billion dollars on the radio for saying'' He added a certain scatological word. ''Am I doing something wrong?''
 ''I hate what he does,'' Mr. Joyner said of Mr. Stern, because ''he has no purpose.'' Mr. Joyner seemed to feel better after his Stern words, telling the audience, ''That's been bothering me all week.''

UNINTENDED CONSEQUENCES -- One of the best-received speakers at the conference was Larry Light, the executive vice president and global chief marketing officer of McDonald's, who addressed the many operational problems the company has been confronting.
 In the question period after his speech on Friday, Mr. Light was asked about the effects of ''Supersize Me,'' the documentary so brutally critical of McDonald's, and the company's decision to eliminate super-size portions from its menu.
 ''There was no effect on sales, which was a surprise,'' Mr. Light said, adding with a smile: ''Those who want super-size are now buying two. This was not our plan.''

TAKING STOCK -- Someone else who said that he admired McDonald's was Jim Cramer, the financial journalist, who spoke after Mr. Light and executives from Home Depot and Yahoo.
 ''I'd buy every single one of those stocks,'' Mr. Cramer said in his characteristic rushed staccato delivery, adding that he also liked shares in Kellogg, Kimberly-Clark and Toyota Motor.
 The Kellogg recommendation irked the speaker after Mr. Cramer, Kevin Roberts, the worldwide chief executive of Saatchi & Saatchi, part of the Publicis Groupe, which creates campaigns for Kellogg's main rival, General Mills.
 ''On behalf of my friends at General Mills, that guy hasn't a clue,'' Mr. Roberts said of Mr. Cramer, ''and you should buy their stock.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: James R. Stengel, the global marketing officer of Procter & Gamble, tries to grab fake cash during a conference for advertisers in Naples, Fla. (Photo by Doug Goodman) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); SUBSCRIPTION TELEVISION (62%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (61%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (61%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (55%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) Advertising and Marketing; Conventions and Conferences

COMPANY: REED SMITH LLP (80%); MEREDITH CORP (61%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (57%); LADIES' HOME JOURNAL (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION OF NATIONAL ADVERTISERS (91%) Assn of National Advertisers

TICKER: MDP (NYSE) (61%); PGP (PAR) (57%); PG (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (80%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (80%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (61%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (61%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (61%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (61%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (61%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (61%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (57%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (57%)

PERSON: LANCE ARMSTRONG (50%) Stuart Elliott

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPLES, FL, USA (91%) FLORIDA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2004



333 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: A Crucial Test, But Not Final

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM

 BODY:
George W. Bush and John Kerry ended the last of their three debates as they began them, with starkly defined differences in substance, semantics and style on almost every major question facing the American public, and they head into the campaign's homestretch amid every indication that their debates mattered -- perhaps more than any such encounters in a quarter century.
 They were a rough passage for Mr. Bush, who saw his September lead over Mr. Kerry slip away as the Democratic nominee established himself as a plausible presidential alternative. In a crucible where voters measure the self-confidence, authority and steadiness of the candidates, Mr. Kerry delivered a consistent set of assertive, collected performances. Mr. Bush appeared in three guises: impatient, even rattled at times during the first debate, angry and aggressive in the second, sunny and optimistic last night. 
 In just 13 days the debates have upended the horse race and brought Mr. Kerry back to dead-even in the polls. 
 But this is not 1980, when Ronald Reagan's strong performance in his sole debate against Jimmy Carter just a week before Election Day helped him gain support at an average rate of 1.2 percentage points a day, and left President Carter no time to recover. 
 Now, there are almost three weeks of a final free-for-all, one likely to be dominated not by set-piece face-offs or scripted conventions that the candidates themselves can control, but by forces and factors comparatively beyond the power of either. The main thing each man can control is his own message: Mr. Bush seems sure to keep accusing Mr. Kerry of a career of weak decisions on national security and tax-and-spend liberalism at home, while Mr. Kerry is all but certain to keep hammering Mr. Bush's handling of the war in Iraq and the American economy.
 From the candidates' first meeting in Coral Gables, Fla., to their finale in Tempe, Ariz., last night, the debates have been the public's clearest window into just what different people Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry are -- and just what different presidents they would be. The tightly structured format minimized Mr. Kerry's penchant for prolixity and magnified Mr. Bush's instinctual impatience. Mr. Bush's certainties clashed with Mr. Kerry's subtleties, and the president's optimism was challenged by Mr. Kerry's skepticism.
 As a rule, Mr. Bush summoned sweeping, time-tested labels, as he did last night, to paint Mr. Kerry as sitting ''on the far left bank'' of the American mainstream in an effort to appeal to core Republican supporters, while Mr. Kerry invoked the language that Bill Clinton used so successfully with swing voters, pledging to support ''people working hard, playing by the rules, trying to take care of their kids.''
 But if both men often played to type, there were times when they played against their common caricatures last night. Mr. Kerry will never be warm and fuzzy, but television is a medium that loves a cool persona and he spoke calmly while Mr. Bush occasionally seemed agitated, as he has, to one degree or another in each debate. 
 Mr. Kerry has a confessed fondness for nuance, but he gave clear and direct answers last night on topics that Mr. Bush dodged, declaring his belief that people are born gay and that he would not appoint judges who would overturn Roe v. Wade. On the question of homosexuality, Mr. Bush told the moderator, ''You know, Bob, I don't know,'' and on abortion, he twice avoided a direct answer, saying only that he would not have a ''litmus test'' for judges.
 At one point, Mr. Bush, who prides himself on his plain-spokenness, lapsed into Washingtonese, citing the ''Lewin Report,'' a private consultant's analysis of Mr. Kerry's health care proposal, a reference that surely mystified most viewers.
 In many ways, last night's encounter was the most subdued of the three, and it will almost surely be the least watched, competing as it did against not one but two baseball playoff games. 
 Neither candidate made anything that would count as a major gaffe, and neither seemed to score a knockout punch. But Mr. Kerry repeatedly chastised Mr. Bush for lost jobs, the growing gulf between rich and poor, inequitable pay for women and lack of health insurance. Mr. Bush ignored the specifics of many of Mr. Kerry's complaints, instead frequently citing his efforts to improve American educational standards. 
 ''This is one of those classic years where the debates actually did change the direction of the race,'' said Alan Schroeder, an associate professor at Northeastern University and author of ''Presidential Debates: 40 Years of High-Risk TV.'' ''It doesn't always happen that way. It doesn't even often happen that way. But clearly something in that first debate caused voters to take a second look at John Kerry, and take another look at George Bush.''
 He added, ''The question is, are the debates conclusive, or are they just one more chapter in an ongoing saga that has another plot twist or two yet to come.''
 There is every reason to think the latter is true.
 The latest polls show the race in a virtual deadlock. Both men are now fully as much at the mercy of events as they are of each other. Almost any variable -- violence in Iraq or a possible terrorist attack at home, the vagaries of turnout or the verdict of the small but significant slice of voters who have yet to make up their minds -- might make a difference. Each candidate has reason for hope, and ample evidence for doubt.
 By many empirical measures, the race has been Mr. Kerry's to lose all year.
 For months, Mr. Bush has struggled to raise his job approval ratings above 50 percent, polls have shown a clear majority of the public thinks the country is on the wrong track and events on the ground in Iraq and official inquiries in Washington have combined to raise widespread questions about the administration's rationale for war there, and widespread doubts about its conduct. All that is bad news for any incumbent, especially one who owed his ultimate victory to a single vote on the Supreme Court.
 But since Sept. 11, 2001, Mr. Bush has remained buoyed by his consistently strong ratings on handling terrorism, and Mr. Kerry has never managed to open a clear, sustained lead in the horse race -- even when polls showed viewers believed by lopsided margins that he had outperformed Mr. Bush in the first debate. That is bad news for any challenger, especially one in such an otherwise favorable environment. 
 Geoffrey Garin, a veteran Democratic pollster, said the debates were ''incredibly important events'' for Mr. Kerry. ''I think while the debates exacerbated some of the questions people had about Bush, they were an opportunity for Kerry to address a lot of the doubts and questions people had about him,'' he said. ''In that respect, the real general election began for him with the first debate.''
 Mr. Garin added, ''The biggest challenge for Kerry is how voters ultimately work through their comfort level with making a change in leadership during the war on terror.''
 The race may yet break open either way. History suggests that incumbent presidents do not win or lose in squeakers, but decisively, as Mr. Bush's father did 12 years ago.
 This President Bush's advisers make it clear that they are leaving nothing to chance. Four years ago, Mr. Bush's chief strategist expressed regret that he had given Mr. Bush a Sunday off from campaigning 10 days before an election in which he lost the popular vote. Yesterday, the White House communications director, Dan Bartlett, said that the president would campaign ''just about'' every day from now till Nov. 2, and added, ''It'll feel like it, if it's not.'' 


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); IRAQ WAR (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (68%); BUDGETS (68%); TALKS & MEETINGS (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); TERRORISM (59%); LIBERALISM (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Debating; Public Opinion; Terrorism; Security and Warning Systems; Taxation; Finances; Presidential Election of 2004; Budgets and Budgeting; United States Economy; United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN KERRY (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); BILL CLINTON (78%); JIMMY CARTER (73%) Todd S Purdum; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (92%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2004



334 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE OVERVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1778 words

HEADLINE: IN FINAL DEBATE, CLASHES ON TAXES AND HEALTH CARE

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY and ROBIN TONER

 BODY:
In a fiercely competitive conclusion to the presidential debates, President Bush and Senator John Kerry battled last night over the state of American health care, the strength of the economy and whether they would appoint Supreme Court justices who would uphold the right to abortion.
 For 90 minutes in Tempe, Ariz., the two candidates displayed a stark contrast in their views of virtually every major domestic issue -- and particularly Mr. Bush's economic stewardship -- as they offered a blizzard of figures and statistics to try to make their cases. 
 Mr. Kerry, a Democrat from Massachusetts, repeatedly portrayed himself as a fiscally responsible leader running against a spendthrift president who had cut taxes for the wealthy while tolerating a profound decline for the American middle class. 
 ''This is the first president in 72 years to preside over an economy in America that has lost jobs -- 1.6 million jobs,'' Mr. Kerry said. ''Eleven other presidents, six Democrats and five Republicans, had wars, had recessions, had great difficulties. None of them lost jobs the way this president has.'' [Transcript, Page A22.]
 ''This president has taken a $5.6 trillion surplus and turned it into deficits as far as the eye can see,'' Mr. Kerry said, adding, ''The American middle-class isn't making it right now.'' 
 Mr. Bush, staring stonily at Mr. Kerry, repeatedly sought to portray his opponent as a liberal out of the political mainstream, twice comparing him to his fellow Democrat from Massachusetts, Senator Edward M. Kennedy. In particular, he warned that Mr. Kerry's health care plan was an ''empty promise'' that would cost $5 trillion over 10 years -- nearly eight times the estimate Mr. Kerry offered for his own plan.
 ''My opponent talks about fiscal sanity,'' Mr. Bush said. ''His record in the United States Senate does not match his rhetoric. He voted to increase taxes 98 times and to bust the budget 277 times.''
 Mr. Bush, faced with the challenge of a debate that was supposed to be focused entirely on domestic issues -- after building his re-election campaign on national security -- cited a litany of events beyond his control as he sought to rebut the battery of economic statistics Mr. Kerry used against him.
 ''People need to remember, six months prior to my arrival the stock market started to go down, and it was one of the largest declines in our history,'' he said. ''And then we had a recession, and we got attacked, which cost us one million jobs. But we acted. I led the Congress. We passed tax relief. And now this economy's growing.''
 This third and final debate, at Arizona State University, did not appear to have any dramatic moments that would sharply shift the dynamic of a race that most polls show has become dead even after Mr. Kerry's strong performances in their first two encounters. The two men were sharp and aggressive from the very first question, but both appeared more subdued than in their first two encounters; Mr. Kerry, though, seemed in command as he talked evenly into the cameras on subjects that his aides have long viewed as his strong suits.
 In one of the more striking moments of the evening, Mr. Kerry pledged that he would not appoint anyone to the Supreme Court who would overturn the right to abortion. Mr. Bush, who is a strong opponent of abortion, and whose election strategy this year has emphasized turning out his conservative base, declined to answer a similar question from the moderator, Bob Schieffer of CBS News. Instead, he reverted to what he said when he first ran for president in 2000, by declaring he would not impose a ''litmus test'' on any judicial nomination.
 ''What he's asking me is, will I have a litmus test for my judges?'' he said. ''And the answer is no, I will not have a litmus test. I will pick judges who will interpret the Constitution, but I'll have no litmus tests.''
 Mr. Kerry, who has been repeatedly taunted by Mr. Bush for waffling on key questions, cracked a smile.
 ''Well, again, the president didn't answer the question,'' he said. ''I'll answer it straight to America. I'm not going to appoint a judge to the court who's going to undo a constitutional right whether it's the First Amendment or the Fifth Amendment or some other right that's given under our courts today under the Constitution.''
 There were two major domestic issues -- the environment and energy -- that did not come up.
 In addition, the two men did not discuss Mr. Kerry's criticism of Mr. Bush's initiative to limit research using embryonic stem cells. Mr. Kerry made no mention of Christopher Reeve, the actor who died over the weekend and whose paralysis Mr. Kerry had cited in arguing for an expansion of those kind of stem cells. The only time the issue came up was when Mr. Kerry was asked about Catholic archbishops telling church members it would be a sin to vote for a candidate who supported abortion rights and unlimited stem-cell research. Mr. Kerry used the question to address a subject he has tended to avoid in the campaign: his faith.
 ''I am a Catholic and I grew up learning how to respect those views, but I disagree with them, as do many,'' Mr. Kerry said. ''I believe that I can't legislate or transfer to another American citizen my article of faith. What is an article of faith for me is not something that I can legislate on somebody who doesn't share that article of faith.''
 Later, Mr. Bush, answering a question about religion in his own life, said: ''Prayer and religion sustain me. I receive calmness in the storms of the presidency. I love the fact that people pray for me and my family all around the country. Somebody asked me one time, 'Well, how do you know?' I said, 'I just feel it.'''
 Repeatedly, the two men returned to the issue of health care, which ranks near the top of voters' concerns. Mr. Kerry said Mr. Bush let the American health care system deteriorate on his watch, with the cost of coverage soaring and the number of uninsured climbing to 45 million. He promoted his plan as a realistic effort to build on the existing system, and dismissed the idea advanced by the Republicans that it was an attempt at a government takeover.
 ''It's not a government plan,'' Mr. Kerry said. ''The government doesn't require you to do anything.'' In fact, Mr. Kerry's plan would try to expand coverage and hold down costs through an array of subsidies and tax credits for employers and workers. He would also expand public programs -- Medicaid and the State Childrens Health Insurance Program -- to cover more low-income children and adults.
 But Mr. Bush persisted in his accusation that the Kerry plan would lead, inexorably, to government-run health care, a point disputed by health care experts. ''We have a fundamental difference of opinion,'' the president said. ''I think government-run health will lead to poor quality health, will lead to rationing, will lead to less choice.''
 Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry also fought over the Medicare law that Mr. Bush pushed through Congress last year, which aimed to provide prescription drug benefits to the elderly and get more private health plans involved in the government health insurance program for retirees. Mr. Kerry asserted that the legislation provided a ''$139 billion windfall profit to the drug companies, coming out of your pockets,'' because it barred the Medicare program from directly negotiating drug prices with the industry.
 Mr. Bush countered that he had exercised leadership and got a law passed when others had failed. ''I was deeply concerned about seniors having to choose between prescription drugs and food,'' Mr. Bush said. ''And so I led, and in 2006 our seniors will get a prescription drug coverage in Medicare.''
 In one particularly subdued exchange, Mr. Bush told Mr. Schieffer, in response to a question, that he did not know whether homosexuality was a matter of choice. 
 ''I just don't know,'' he said. ''I do know what we have -- we have a choice to make in America, and that is to treat people with tolerance and respect and dignity,'' he said, adding: ''I also know in a free society people -- consenting adults -- can live the way they want to live, and that's to be honored.''
 But Mr. Bush strongly reiterated his support for a constitutional amendment barring same-sex marriage. And he noted that Mr. Kerry had, in the Senate, voted against the Defense of Marriage Act, which reaffirmed the right of states not to recognize same-sex marriages licensed in other states.
 Mr. Kerry responded by referring to Mary Cheney, the daughter of Vice President Dick Cheney.
 ''We're all God's children, Bob,'' he said. ''And I think if you were to talk to Dick Cheney's daughter, who is a lesbian, she would tell you that she's being who she was, she's being who she was born as. I think if you talk to anybody, it's not a choice.''
 Both men came armed with what appeared to be well-practiced lines as they sought to deliver the kind of memorable remark -- like Ronald Reagan's ''there you go again'' -- that would assure them prominent spots in news accounts of the debate.
 ''You know, there's a mainstream in American politics and you sit right on the far left bank,'' Mr. Bush said. ''As a matter of fact, your record is such that Ted Kennedy, your colleague, is the conservative senator from Massachusetts.'' 
 Mr. Kerry said: ''Being lectured by the president on fiscal responsibility is a little bit like Tony Soprano talking to me about law and order in this country.''
 This final debate had its odd, if slightly humorous, moments as well. At one point, Mr. Kerry invoked the reports of two networks that he said had described Mr. Bush's characterization of Mr. Kerry's health care plan as false.
 ''In all due respect, I'm not so sure it's credible to quote leading news organizations about -- oh, never mind,'' Mr. Bush said, his voice trailing off in a nervous laugh.
 ''Let me quote the Lewin report,'' he said, and proceeded to do just that, as he referred to one analysis that put the cost of Mr. Kerry's health care plan at $1.2 trillion. 
 In one of the softer moments of the evening, Mr. Schieffer noted that all three of the men on stage were married to strong women. He then asked the candidates what they had learned from their spouses. Mr. Bush prompted laughter when he responded: ''To listen to them. To stand up straight and not scowl.''
 Mr. Kerry responded with a reference to his wealthy wife, Teresa. 
 ''Well, I guess the president and you and I are three examples of lucky people who married up,'' Mr. Kerry said.
 ''And some would say maybe me more so than others -- but I can take it,'' Mr. Kerry said, also drawing laughs.


GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush and Senator John Kerry debated in Tempe, Ariz., last night for the third and last time in the 2004 presidential campaign. (Photographs by Doug Mills/The New York Times [faces] and Jim Wilson/The New York Times [handshake])(pg. A1)
Senator John Kerry and President Bush at their debate last night at Arizona State University in Tempe. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)
President Bush
 Senator John Kerry (pg. A19)Chart: ''Notable Exchanges''The candidate who spoke first is shown in gray.On revising Social SecurityPresident Bush (Candidate spoke first)''First, let me make sure that every senior listening today understands that when we're talking about reforming Social Security that theyll still get their checks. . . . I believe that younger workers ought to be allowed to take some of their own money and put it into a personal savings account because I understand that they need to get better rates of return than the rates of return being given in the current Social Security Trust.''Senator John Kerry''You just heard the president say that young people ought to be able to take money out of Social Security and put it in their own accounts. Now, my fellow Americans, that's an invitation to disaster. The C.B.O. said very clearly that if you were to adopt the president's plan, there will be a $2 trillion hole in Social Security because today's workers pay into the system for todays retirees.''On whether Mr. Bush would like to overturn Roe v. WadePresident Bush (Candidate spoke first)''What he's asking me is, Will I have a litmus test for my judges? And the answer is, No, I will not have a litmus test. I will pick judges who will interpret the Constitution, but I'll have no litmus test.''Senator John Kerry''Well, again, the president didn't answer the question. I'll answer it straight to America. I'm not going to appoint a judge to the court who's going to undo a constitutional right, whether it's the First Amendment or the Fifth Amendment or some other right that's given under our courts today or under the Constitution.''On the role that religion plays in policy decisionsPresident Bush (Candidate spoke first)''Religion is an important part. I never want to impose my religion on anybody else. But when I make decisions, I stand on principle, and the principles are derived from who I am. I believe we ought to love our neighbor like we love ourself. That's manifested in public policy through the faith-based initiative, where we've unleased the armies of compassion to help heal people who hurt.''Senator John Kerry''I was taught -- I went to a church school and I was taught that the two greatest commandments are love the Lord your God with all your mind, your body and your soul, and love your neighbor as yourself. And, frankly, I think we have a lot more loving of our neighbor to do in this country and on this planet.''On what they have learned from the women in their livesPresident Bush (Candidate spoke first)''To listen to them. To stand up straight and not scowl. . . . I tell the people on the campaign trail, when I asked Laura to marry me she said, 'Fine, just so long as I never have to give a speech.' I said, 'O.K., you got a deal.' Fortunately, she didn't hold me to that deal, and she's out campaigning, along with our girls. And she speaks English a lot better than I do.''Senator John Kerry''Well, I guess the president and you and I are three examples of lucky people who married up. And some would say maybe me more so than others. But I can take it. . . . And my daughters and my wife are people who just are filled with that sense of what's right, what's wrong. They also kick me around.''On Mr. Kerry's votes on tax cutsPresident Bush''Senator, no one is playing with your votes. You voted to increase taxes 98 times. When they voted to -- when they proposed reducing taxes, you voted against it 126 times. He voted to violate the budget caps 277 times. . . . As a matter of fact, your record is such that Ted Kennedy, your colleague, is the conservative senator from Massachusetts.''Senator John Kerry (Candidate spoke first)''Anybody can play with these votes. Everybody knows that. I have supported or voted for tax cuts over 600 times. I broke with my party in order to balance the budget, and Ronald Reagan signed into law the tax cut that we voted for. I voted for I.R.A. tax cuts. I voted for smallbusiness tax cuts.''(pg. A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); TAX LAW (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); BUDGETS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (88%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); TAX RELIEF (74%); STATISTICS (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); TAX INCREASES (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (60%) Presidential Election of 2004; Debating; Election Issues; United States Economy; Taxation; Medicine and Health; Presidential Election of 2004; Abortion; Appointments and Executive Changes; Judges; Public Opinion; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY (84%) Arizona State University; Supreme Court (US)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (94%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); TED KENNEDY (58%) Adam Nagourney; Robin Toner; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2004



335 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE POLICY; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1454 words

HEADLINE: Under Pressure, Mischaracterizations and Misstatements

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM; Edmund L. Andrews, Michael Janofsky and Edmund L. Andrews contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
As they traded charges and countercharges on the economy, health care and other domestic issues, President Bush mischaracterized who received the tax cuts that have been the centerpiece of his legislative record, and Senator John Kerry exaggerated when he said he was proposing clear ways to raise revenue to pay for his spending proposals. 
 Mr. Kerry was also wrong in saying the president's refusal to allow the government to negotiate drug prices had contributed to the increase in Medicare premiums next year.

Taxes
 Mr. Bush said most of the tax reduction in his presidency had gone ''to low- and middle-income Americans.'' In fact, Internal Revenue Service figures compiled by the Tax Policy Center of the Brookings Institution and the Urban Institute show that half of all the tax cuts in effect this year go to the wealthiest 10 percent of taxpayers, those with incomes above about $70,000. One-quarter of the cuts go to the richest 1 percent, those with incomes above about $290,000.
 Mr. Bush also said the cuts were needed ''to get us out of the recession.'' But he proposed the cuts in his last presidential campaign, in 2000, before anyone knew that a recession was at hand, and he justified them by saying the surplus should be returned to the taxpayers.
 The president said, as he often has elsewhere, that Mr. Kerry had voted for tax increases 98 times. That is probably true. But many, if not most, of those were multiple votes on the same bills or on nonbinding resolutions and motions.
 Mr. Kerry has voted for two large tax increases -- the 1990 budget law backed by the president's father that put the country on the road to a balanced budget and President Bill Clinton's 1993 bill, which imposed most of the increases on upper-income taxpayers.

Budget
 Mr. Kerry said Mr. Bush had proposed $3 trillion in new spending, and Mr. Bush said Mr. Kerry had proposed $2 trillion. Neither claim can be proved, because the details of their proposals are so vague. 
 Mr. Kerry was correct when he said the budget picture had declined from a projected $5.6trillion surplus over 10 years when Mr. Bush took office to large deficits for the foreseeable future.
 But Mr. Kerry was not accurate when he said he had shown ''exactly how'' he intended to pay for all his spending proposals. In fact, he lists as revenue raisers vague promises like closing corporate loopholes and making the government more efficient.
 Mr. Kerry was right that Mr. Bush had opposed pay-as-you-go rules that required tax cuts and spending increases to be offset by other tax increases or spending cuts. Those rules were put in effect in the administration of Mr. Bush's father and remained throughout the Clinton years. With Mr. Bush's encouragement, they were allowed to expire. Had they been in effect, his tax cuts could not have been enacted.

Border Security
 Mr. Kerry said 95 percent of the cargo containers entering American ports were not inspected. Mr. Bush said, ''We're doing everything we can to protect our borders and ports.''
 According to the Congressional Research Service, seven million cargo containers a year enter American ports. The fear is that a nuclear explosive that would be hard to smuggle through Customs could be hidden on a ship and detonated in a port. The 5 percent inspection rate is correct, according to Congressional testimony. It takes five agents three hours to inspect a typical containership for contraband when it arrives.
 Since 2002, under new Container Security Initiative, American and foreign customs officials have started to inspect some suspicious cargoes at overseas ports, based on screening criteria that focus on certain ports, shipping companies and the like. Some ports are equipped with radiation detectors. 
 Legislation has been introduced in Congress to require inspection overseas of all cargoes bound for the United States. The Associated Press said a report to be released today would show that the inspector general of the Homeland Security Department acknowledges that some progress has been made but says better detection equipment and searches continue to be needed.

Social Security
 Both candidates hedged on Social Security. 
 Mr. Bush never answered how he would pay the cost, estimated at more than $1 trillion, of going from an entirely federal retirement system to one in which workers could put part of their Social Security taxes into private retirement accounts.
 Mr. Kerry never answered what he would do to make sure that the Social Security system would have the resources to pay benefits to all the retirees in the baby boom generation.

Jobs
 Mr. Bush has been, as Mr. Kerry said, the first president since Herbert Hoover to have the number of jobs in the country decline in his term. As of the end of last month, there were at least 585,000 fewer jobs than existed when Mr. Bush took office. But jobs are much more a function of the business cycle than they are of government policies, and Mr. Kerry has not offered a surefire way to guarantee employment growth.

Pell Grants
 In a sense, both candidates told pieces of the truth about Pell Grants, which are essentially college scholarships for low-income students. 
 It is true, as Mr. Kerry implied, that the average size of Pell Grants has decreased, shrinking slightly, to $2,399 in 2005 from $2,457 in 2003, with few students receiving the maximum $4,050. 
 Mr. Bush's assertion, ''We've increased Pell Grants by one million students,'' says little about administration policy, leadership or budgeting, because students obtain grants based on eligibility and tuition costs. It is true, however, that the government has in the last two years increased spending on Pell Grants, to $12.8 billion from $11.3 billion in 2003.
 As more middle- and low-income students qualify for aid, and with tuition vastly outpacing inflation, the shortfall between financial aid and the cost of tuition has widened.

Race Relations
 Mr. Kerry criticized Mr. Bush for poor relations with ''the civil rights leadership,'' saying he was ''the first president ever, I think, not to meet with the N.A.A.C.P.'' and had never met the Congressional Black Caucus. Mr. Bush is the first president since Hoover to have never spoken at the annual N.A.A.C.P. meeting, but he has met members of the caucus at least twice and has also appeared before the Urban League.

Osama bin Laden
 Mr. Bush incorrectly denied saying last year that he was no longer concerned about finding Osama bin Laden.
 Mr. Kerry, criticizing the president as shifting his attention from that search to the Iraq war, said: ''Six months after he said Osama bin Laden must be caught dead or alive, this president was asked, 'Where's Osama bin Laden?' He said: 'I don't know. I don't really think about him very much. I'm not that concerned.''' 
 Mr. Bush denied making the remark. ''Gosh, I don't think I ever said I'm not worried about Osama bin Laden,'' he said in the debate. ''That's kind of one of those exaggerations.''
 But at a news conference on March 13, 2003, Mr. Bush said just that when asked why he rarely mentioned Mr. bin Laden any more. ''I don't know where he is,'' Mr. Bush replied. ''I just don't spend that much time on him really, to be honest with you.'' 
 He added at the time: ''I'll repeat what I said. I truly am not that concerned about him.''

Veterans
 Mr. Kerry said that the administration ''hasn't fully funded'' the Veterans Affairs Department and that ''veterans are complaining.'' Mr. Bush said financing for the department had increased $22 billion since he became president. ''We're meeting our obligation to our veterans,'' he said, ''and the veterans know that.''
 Budget authority for the department increased, from $47.4 billion in the 2001 fiscal year, which began the month before the last election, to $60.3 billion in the 2004 fiscal year, which ended two weeks ago. The administration's budget request for this year is $65.2 billion.
 In dollar terms, that increase is a bit less than Mr. Bush said. The increase in Mr. Bush's first three years was 27 percent; in Mr. Clinton's eight years, it increased 31 percent.
 One reason is that middle-income veterans have increasingly turned to veterans' benefits, which have a generous prescription drug feature, according to FactCheck.org. In January 2003, the administration said that despite the budget increases it would have to turn away many middle-income applicants. It proposed, and Congress rejected, making the drug benefit slightly less generous.
 Veterans' groups have sought more money, and Secretary of Veterans' Affairs Anthony J. Principi told a Congressional committee this year that he had requested $1.2 million more in the 2005 budget than the White House had approved.


CORRECTION-DATE: October 16, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article in some copies yesterday that examined statements by President Bush and Senator John Kerry in their debate on Wednesday misstated Mr. Kerry's vote on a 1990 budget law that raised taxes, a measure cited by Mr. Bush as one of many in which Kerry voted for increases. Mr. Kerry voted against it. 
 The article also misstated the annual income figures that place taxpayers in the categories of wealthiest 10 percent and wealthiest 1 percent, as calculated by the Tax Policy Center of the Brookings Institution and the Urban Institute. The wealthiest 10 percent earn more than $112,000 (not $70,000), and the wealthiest 1 percent earn more than $357,000 (not $290,000). 
An article on Thursday examining statements made by the presidential candidates during their Wednesday debate misstated the date of a news conference in which President Bush said he was ''not that concerned'' about Osama bin Laden. (In the debate, Mr. Kerry criticized him for having made that comment six months after declaring that Mr. bin Laden must be ''caught dead or alive,'' and Mr. Bush denied having made it.) He spoke in March 2002 -- not 2003.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Karen Hughes, a senior adviser to President Bush, fielding questions from reporters about his performance last night.
 The Rev. Jesse Jackson presenting the case for Senator John Kerry as the winner of last night's debate. (Photographs by Jim Wilson/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (91%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MEDICARE (76%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (75%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (74%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (72%) Presidential Election of 2004; Debating

ORGANIZATION: URBAN INSTITUTE (56%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (56%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (93%); BILL CLINTON (73%); JESSE JACKSON (50%) George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; David E Rosenbaum

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2004



336 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-14

Pentagon Opens Review Of Formerly Dismissed Case
The Pentagon is reviewing whether to reopen an inquiry into the case of four Iraqis who said they were abused in January at an American base in Iraq. A Defense Department spokesman said the decision was not influenced by the recent release of two reports on detainee abuse. A10

Prime Minister Ayad Allawi warned insurgents in Falluja that they must hand over foreign militants or face a military operation. His ultimatum came as a group posted an additional video showing two men being beheaded, and six American soldiers were reported killed in insurgent attacks. A10

NATO defense ministers pledged to speed the deployment of 300 trainers to Iraq by the end of the year, a program intended to field more Iraqi security forces who can help safeguard the elections in January. Some officials warned of delays in persuading NATO members to volunteer troops for the mission. A8

German officials reaffirmed their policy of not contributing troops to the American-led force in Iraq and rejected speculation that the policy might change in the foreseeable future. Germany has embarked on a program to train Iraqi police recruits outside of Iraq, but it has refused to send troops of its own. A11

Four Militants Killed in Gaza
The Israeli military killed four Palestinian militants as troops pushed into another town in the northern Gaza Strip, extending a two-week-old operation aimed at silencing Palestinian rocket fire. A5

Taiwan's Secret Nuclear Tests
Taiwan may have carried out plutonium separation experiments in the mid-1980's, taking its nuclear program a step further than previously disclosed. That program has since been abandoned, but the disclosure comes at a time when several countries have been scrutinized for undisclosed nuclear activity. A6

NATIONAL A16-26

Talk of Domestic Policy Dominates Final Debate
President Bush and Senator John Kerry battled over the state of health care, the fairness of Mr. Bush's tax cuts and whether they would appoint justices who would uphold the right to abortion. The candidates offered a stark contrast in their views of virtually every major domestic issue, particularly Mr. Bush's stewardship of the economy. A1

Lawsuits Plague Florida Voting
Florida is teeming with lawsuits charging the state and its county elections supervisors with voter disenfranchisement. A20

Nader Removed From Ballot
A Pennsylvania court struck Ralph Nader's name from the state's ballot, declaring that nearly two-thirds of the signatures on his nominating petitions were invalid or forged. A25

Reporter Held in Contempt
A federal district judge held a Time magazine White House correspondent in contempt of court, threatening him with up to 18 months in jail if he refused to testify before a grand jury investigating the disclosure of an intelligence officer's identity. A16

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Fight for Flu Vaccine Heats Up
Clinics offering the flu vaccine are being mobbed by desperate vaccine seekers. A1

The Securities and Exchange Commission has begun an informal investigation into disclosure practices at the Chiron Corporation, the maker of flu vaccine whose British manufacturing plant was shut down. C12

4 Die of Rare Brain Disease
New York State health officials are investigating an unusual cluster of deaths upstate. All four have been caused by Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease, a brain disease that afflicts one in a million people a year. B5

NEW YORK/REGION B1-10

Republicans' Convention Was Most Expensive Ever
The Republican National Convention cost more than $154 million to stage, making the convention and the two years of planning that preceded it by far the most expensive such event in the nation's history. B1

New Benefit for Gay Couples
Alan G. Hevesi, the New York State comptroller, has ruled that the state's pension system will treat gay couples with Canadian wedding licenses the same way it treats other married couples, a step that charts new territory on the issue. B1

Effort to Close Smelly Plant
The city is moving to close a smoked turkey factory that a Bronx neighborhood has complained about for two years. B3

HOUSE & HOME F1-12

SPORTSTHURSDAY D1-7

Yankees and Cardinals Win
The Yankees beat the Boston Red Sox, 3-1, to take a 2-0 lead in the American League Championship Series. St. Louis beat the Houston Astros, 10-7, in Game 1 of the National League Championship Series. D1

CIRCUITS G1-10

OBITUARIES A27

ARTS E1-12

9/11 Report Is Award Finalist
The final report of the 9/11 Commission, the government account of the events surrounding the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, was selected as a finalist for the National Book Award. E1

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Accounting Change Delayed
The Financial Accounting Standards Board granted American companies a six-month reprieve on a deadline to start deducting the value of stock options granted to executives and other employees from their profits. C1

Apple's Profits Double
Apple Computer said its fourth-quarter profit more than doubled because of continued strong sales of its iPod music players. It beat Wall Street estimates by a wide margin despite a shortage of the semiconductors that are used in some of its computers. C1

Royal Ahold Settlement
Royal Ahold and its two former top executives reached a settlement with the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with a multibillion-dollar accounting scandal. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A28-29

Editorials: The final debate; DNA evidence of bipartisanship; that cloud over the United Nations.

Column: Thomas L. Friedman.

Bridge E5
TV Listings E11
Crossword E8
Weather D8
Public Lives B4

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (85%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); PETITIONS (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); COUNTIES (68%); JUDGES (68%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (68%); GRAND JURY (64%); TESTIMONY (62%); TAX LAW (61%); JAIL SENTENCING (60%); POLICE FORCES (55%); VACCINES (50%); INFLUENZA (50%); ANTIVIRALS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (83%)

PERSON: RALPH NADER (79%); JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) IRAQ (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (92%); TAIWAN (92%); GERMANY (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2004



337 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1405 words

HEADLINE: An Unmoveable Feast of Hemingway History Struggles to Survive

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO DE PAULA, Cuba 

 BODY:
Ernest Hemingway's work made him a citizen of the world. But he made this tiny community of artisans on the outskirts of Havana his only real home. Now caretakers are fighting to keep his country villa, set high on a hill looking out to the sea, just the way he left it four decades ago. 
 It is, as expected, a decidedly masculine place, cluttered with books about war and hunting -- the library contains about 9,000 volumes -- and decorated with African animal trophies and bullfight posters. The bar is stocked with rum and Cinzano bottles. There's a Glenn Miller album on the record player. The table is set for guests. 
 But in what architects describe as a preservation emergency, the house, known as Finca Vigia or Lookout Farm, is tumbling down. An effort to save the finca, an American cultural treasure and an important Cuban tourist attraction, seems threatened by a storm of politics. 
 Nature has been hostile to the house over the years, experts say, with rain and creeping vegetation penetrating the walls and the foundation. The roof leaks, the walls are turning green with mold, the floors are buckling and termites are devouring the wooden frame. The bedroom where Hemingway wrote some of his greatest works, including ''The Old Man and the Sea,'' is so close to collapsing that its furniture has been moved into storage.
 ''We have cared for this house with great affection for many years, because we Cubans consider Hemingway one of ours,'' said Gladys Rodriguez, president of the Hemingway International Institute of Journalism in Havana and one of the principal caretakers of the author's legacy in Cuba.
 ''We will keep doing all that we can,'' she said. ''But we cannot deny that we need help. This museum legally belongs to Cuba, but morally it pertains to the United States.'' 
 A group of American preservationists, architects and Hemingway biographers offered to come to the rescue earlier this year. The Hemingway Preservation Foundation applied for a license that would exempt it from the United States' 40-year-old economic embargo against Cuba and allow it to provide money and expertise to help restore the finca. The foundation, led by Frank and Jenny Phillips, estimates that the project would cost $2 million to $3 million. 
 The Bush administration denied the foundation's request in June, saying its project would support tourism and thus help the economy of the hemisphere's last Communist outpost. The request came at a time of increasing tension between the two countries. In March 2003 the Bush administration announced new restrictions on travel and cash transfers to Cuba, saying that the measures were aimed at weakening Fidel Castro's 45-year grip on the island and at opening the way for democracy.
 Molly Millerwise, a spokeswoman for the Office of Foreign Assets Control at the Treasury Department, which administers the embargo against Cuba, said, ''We do not want to facilitate something that puts dollars into Castro's hands.'' 
 Ms. Millerwise said she could not discuss the details of individual licensing decisions. But broadly, she said, Assets Control has licensed numerous projects that provide humanitarian assistance, including food and medicine, and that support religious outreach, and academic and cultural exchanges.
 In fact, two years ago, it approved a license request by the Hemingway Preservation Foundation to save a trove of papers and photographs stored in Hemingway's basement at the finca. Hemingway biographers say the papers -- including early drafts of major works, a copy of the screenplay for ''The Old Man and the Sea'' with notes scribbled in the margins, letters from people including Ingrid Bergman and the editor Maxwell Perkins, and recipes -- promise to shed light on a part of the author's life that Cuba has kept locked away like a state secret.
 Under the agreement between the United States and Cuba, the documents are being repaired and preserved, and copies will be sent to the Hemingway collection in the John F. Kennedy Library in Boston. But sending American money to help save Hemingway's house, Ms. Millerwise said, is a different matter. She said the embargo expressly prohibits the United States from supporting ''travel-related or tourism-related projects that generate money for the Cuban economy.'' Saving precious documents is legal, she says. Saving a tourist attraction is not. 
 Thomas D. Herman, a specialist in international law who represents the Hemingway Preservation Foundation, said the government's denial reflects a ''narrow interpretation of the law.'' The finca is much more than a tourist attraction, he said. It is an invaluable part of America's heritage. The foundation plans to appeal the Treasury Department's decision later this month, though it may not receive a ruling before next month's presidential elections, Mr. Herman said. But the finca cannot wait. ''The next hurricane could do irreparable damage,'' he said. ''Time is of the essence to save Finca Vigia.''
 Leland D. Cott, the chief architect on the project, agreed. ''I am not going to make any judgments about whether Castro is good or bad,'' said Mr. Cott, of Bruner-Cott & Associates in Boston. ''My concern is that there is an important artifact rotting in the jungle, and it needs to be saved.''
 ''The Cuban government is not going to last forever, and we need to look at the long-term,'' he added. ''We could look back on this 20 years from now and realize we lost a important part of our heritage because of some political fight.'' 
 Finca Vigia, a breezy country house set on 15 sloping acres of mango, avocado and ceiba trees, is widely considered the place where Hemingway put down the deepest roots. The biographer A.E. Hotchner said Hemingway had no spiritual connection to the house in Ketchum, Idaho, where he spent the last two years of his life struggling against depression. And the house where he lived in Key West, Fla., contains only a few of his belongings and little of his history.
 Cubans have kept Hemingway's memory alive. Four decades after he left Cuba, there are still people who can remember him sitting in their kitchens for coffee, dancing at their weddings. They have made small shrines of his favorite room at the Ambos Mundos Hotel, his favorite bar stool at La Floridita and his favorite table at La Terraza. And the Cuban government gave Hemingway's first mate, Gregorio Fuentes, a free meal at La Terraza every day until he died in 2002, at 104. 
 Hemingway bought Finca Vigia, built by a Spanish architect in the late 1800's, in 1939 for about $18,500. In the cool early mornings, writing while standing in his leather moccasins, he produced ''For Whom the Bell Tolls'' and manuscripts that would be published posthumously, including ''A Moveable Feast'' and ''Islands in the Stream.'' 
 Keepsakes scattered through the big, airy rooms tell stories that seem larger than life. The war correspondent uniforms in the closet recall Hemingway's coverage of World War II. There's a sculpture by Picasso and an engraved bowl from President Franklin D. Roosevelt. There are copies of photographs of triumphant deep-sea fishing expeditions and of drunken pool parties with Ava Gardner and Errol Flynn. There is a photograph from the day he won the Nobel Prize. 
 There are also rare glimpses of the private obsessions of a literary celebrity. Hemingway's bathroom seems like some jungle laboratory, with a jar of lion lard for soothing sunburned skin next to a lizard that he preserved in a jar of formaldehyde because of its brave, although suicidal, fight against one of the author's more than 50 cats. And on the walls, there are his daily notes recording his weight and blood pressure. The last scribble, Ms. Rodriguez says, is from March 6, 1960. Hemingway left Cuba around then, and after stops in New York and Madrid, he bought the house in Ketchum. Relatives have said he was shattered by the American-backed invasion at the Bay of Pigs in 1961, because it meant that he could not go back to the home he loved. He committed suicide almost three months later. 
 His Cuban house stands as a kind of undisturbed tomb. Most visitors are allowed only to peek through the doors and windows. Ms. Rodriguez allowed a rare walk inside. ''We want visitors to feel like the owner of the house could walk in at any moment and offer them a drink,'' she said. ''It is not only his writing that makes Hemingway immortal. So does this house.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Hemingway's Cuban house is having a ''preservation emergency.'' (Photo by Carlos Villalon for The New York Times)(pg. E1)
Finca Vigia sits on 15 wooded acres overlooking the sea. Built in the late 1800's, the house has a leaky roof, molding walls and buckling floors. (Photo by Carlos Villalon for The New York Times)
 Ernest Hemingway bought his Cuban home in 1939. His biographers consider it the place where he put down the deepest roots. (Photo by John F. Kennedy Library)(pg. E4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITERATURE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WRITERS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (86%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (84%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (74%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (71%); ISLANDS & REEFS (69%); TOURISM (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (63%) Books and Literature; Historic Buildings and Sites; Restoration and Rehabilitation; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; United States International Relations; Finca Vigia (Hemingway Villa) (Cuba); Books and Literature

ORGANIZATION: Hemingway International Institute of Journalism ; Hemingway Preservation Foundation

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); FIDEL CASTRO (57%) Ernest (1899-1961) Hemingway; Ginger Thompson

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) CUBA (97%); UNITED STATES (96%) Cuba; San Francisco De Paula (Cuba)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2004



338 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Economic Scene; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1114 words

HEADLINE: What's the most cost-effective way to encourage people to turn out to vote? 

BYLINE: By Alan B. Krueger. 
Alan B. Krueger is the Bendheim professor of economics and public affairs at Princeton University. E-mail: akrueger@princeton.edu.

 BODY:
THE filmmaker Michael Moore is stirring controversy by offering ''slackers'' a three-pack of Fruit of the Loom underwear if they promise to vote. Beyond its comical value, Mr. Moore's campaign raises a serious question for candidates in both parties: What is the best way to increase voter turnout?
 Two Yale political scientists, Donald P. Green and Alan S. Gerber, have studied turnout for years. Their findings, based on dozens of controlled experiments done as part of actual campaigns, are summarized in a slim and readable new book called ''Get Out the Vote!'' (Brookings Institution Press), which is bound to become a bible for politicians and activists of all stripes. The bottom line is that getting out the vote is difficult and costly; only money spent wisely has a noticeable effect. 
 Though their studies focus mostly on state and local elections -- and the authors take care not to extrapolate beyond the limits of their data -- the research by Professors Green and Gerber probably holds insights for this presidential election as well. 
 Getting out the vote is big business. Campaigns must decide how much of their limited resources to spend on commercials, leaflets, mass mailings, phone calls, e-mail, door-to-door canvassing and other voter mobilization strategies.
 To evaluate the efficacy of these methods, Professors Green and Gerber conducted a remarkable series of experiments in which potential targets of voter mobilization drives were randomly assigned to one of two groups: a treatment group that received a mailing, say, and a control group that did not. The researchers then examined actual voting records to see if turnout increased for the treatment group relative to the control group. The experiments were conducted in conjunction with both partisan campaigns and nonpartisan get-out-the-vote drives. 
 Which method yields the highest payoff in additional votes per dollar spent? Here are some of their main conclusions: 
 Door-to-door canvassing, though expensive, yields the most votes. As a rule of thumb, one additional vote is cast from each 14 people contacted. That works out to somewhere between $7 and $19 a vote, depending on the pay of canvassers -- not much different from the cost of that three-pack of underwear. Canvassers who matched the ethnic profile of their assigned neighborhoods were more successful. 
 The effect of leaflets on turnout has not been evaluated as thoroughly as canvassing, but results from two partisan campaigns indicate that one vote was generated for every 66 leaflets hung on doors. In another experiment, just one vote was added for every 200 nonpartisan leaflets. Over all, leafletting costs $14 to $42 a vote. (A salutary aspect of the book is that one, two or three stars are placed next to the central findings to signify the degree of confidence the authors have in the results. This is only a one-star result.) 
 Direct mail is less cost-effective than leaflets. Mailing costs totaled around $60 for each additional vote cast. Telephone calling is also not highly effective, with the cost per vote ranging from $200 for heavily scripted calls to $45 for more personalized calls. Even worse, recorded messages and e-mail had no detectable impact on turnout. 
 Some candidates mail negative messages to their opponent's supporters to discourage voting. Mailing a negative message depresses votes, but at a very low rate. The cost per vote diminished was about $300. (This is another one-star finding.)
 In just-completed research, Professor Green and Lynn Vavreck of the University of California, Los Angeles, placed 5,500 get-out-the-vote commercials on cable networks across randomly selected geographic areas in four states shortly before the general elections of 2003. The ads hardly affected turnout, although the estimated impact necessarily entails much statistical uncertainty. A similar conclusion was drawn from a study of ads in the 2000 presidential election. Thus, commercials may persuade viewers to support a candidate, but they do not appear to affect whether they vote. 
 ''The defining feature of this presidential election,'' Professor Green said, ''is the focus on voter mobilization.'' 
 Many Republican advisers suspect that Al Gore won the popular vote in 2000, despite polls showing a lead for George W. Bush just before the election, because the Democrats did a better job mobilizing voters. According to news reports, Republican strategists learned from carrying out their own experiments in 2001 that door-to-door canvassing has a high payoff, and used the technique to great advantage in the three days before the 2002 midterm elections. 
 Major efforts are being mounted to mobilize voters this year. Labor unions, America Coming Together and other groups are working independently of the Kerry campaign to turn out the vote.
 The Bush campaign, by contrast, has amassed an enormous war chest to orchestrate its own mobilization effort. 
 What are the likely implications for turnout on Nov. 2? The following back-of-the-envelope calculation gives an idea. Although the precise figure is not known, it is possible that as much as $200 million more will be spent on voter mobilization by all parties in 2004 than in 2000. Mr. Green says a reasonable assumption is that one additional vote will be generated from every $50 spent on the mobilization methods that will be used. 
 These assumptions imply that the tremendous mobilization efforts under way will increase turnout by about four million people, or 2 percent of eligible voters. Although unseasonable weather or other unforeseen events could throw this forecast off -- and the expected close contest should arouse heightened participation -- this year's turnout is likely to fall between 2000's rate of 54 percent of eligible voters and 1992's rate of 61 percent. This moderate forecast stands in contrast to the image of unprecedented voting implied by reports of record numbers of people registering in many states. 
 A great deal of knowledge about turnout strategies has been gleaned from experiments in election campaigns, but many gaps remain. Professors Green and Gerber conclude their book in a novel way, by giving office seekers a step-by-step guide on how to conduct scientific experiments on their own. This is not just fanciful thinking: two campaigns have already taken the bait and conducted randomized experiments. The 2004 election promises to be the first to exploit scientific research on voter turnout on a national scale. 
 Perhaps we are witnessing the rise of what can be called Fisherian Democracy, after the statistician R.A. Fisher, who invented the experimental method. 


GRAPHIC: Photo: Linda Bailey, left, registered to vote last month in Toledo, Ohio, with the help of Deborah Corey and Sanjay Pinto of America Coming Together. (Photo by David Greedy/Getty Images)Graph: ''Behind the Ballots''The percentage of voters showing up at the polls has remained below the peak of 63.8 percent, in 1960, when John F. Kennedy narrowly beat Richard M. Nixon.Graph tracks the turnout rate among eligible voters since 1948.Numbers include eligible voters living overseas but do not include felons or those who are not citizens.(Source by Michael P. McDonald and Samuel Popkin. 2001. The Myth of the Vanishing Voter. American Political Science Review) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (91%); POLITICS (90%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); WRITERS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); BOOK REVIEWS (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (76%); LITERATURE (75%) Books and Literature

COMPANY: FRUIT OF THE LOOM OPERATING LTD (58%); FRUIT OF THE LOOM INC (58%); FRUIT OF THE LOOM INTERNATIONAL LTD (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (58%); NAICS315190 OTHER APPAREL KNITTING MILLS (58%); SIC2254 KNIT UNDERWEAR & NIGHTWEAR MILLS (58%); SIC2321 MEN'S & BOYS' SHIRTS, EXCEPT WORK SHIRTS (58%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); RICHARD NIXON (56%) Donald P (Prof) Green; Alan S (Prof) Gerber; Alan B Krueger

GEOGRAPHIC: TOLEDO, OH, USA (59%) OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2004



339 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: ON TELEVISION; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: Bush Smiles, But Laughter Falls Short

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
The president took all the criticism to heart.
 He smiled brightly when he spoke and refrained from raising his voice. When he watched Senator John Kerry speak, George Bush was careful to keep his neck extended, chin up, and his frame still. He did not frown or smirk. 
 But at times, the strain of correcting the angry, defensive impression of the first two debates wore through. On a question about health care costs, he stopped midway through an antimedia joke -- ''In all due respect, I'm not so sure it's credible to quote leading news organizations about'' -- with the words, ''oh, never mind.'' And then he laughed, a ''heh heh heh'' that was not echoed in the room.
 That laugh, repeated several times through the debate, was a kind of Rorschach test for viewers: either the nervous cackle of a student not fully prepared, or the confident skepticism of an ordinary guy wary of artifice and verbal flourish.
 Mr. Bush seemed more relaxed and eager to appeal to women when he spoke humbly and tenderly of his faith and his love for his daughters and the wife he described self-mockingly as smarter and more articulate. But Mr. Kerry trumped the president on the personal side when he made fun of himself for being married to a much wealthier woman. He then turned back to his mother's deathbed, unwilling to cede even maudlin sentiment to the more emotive Mr. Bush.
 Even the truly apolitical may have wanted to tune in and see how Mr. Bush fared in his final challenge after two underwhelming performances. And only the truly partisan could suppress a prickle of interest in the melodrama of a comeback.
 The debates have proved a television hit; the first, historically the most watched, drew nearly 63 million viewers. The numbers dropped by about 17 million for the second in St. Louis on Friday, but that was still more than watched the first debate between Mr. Bush and Al Gore, the highest-rated debate in 2000. (The baseball playoffs last night may have drawn away some viewers, but interest remained strong.)
 The growth of the audience, like the rise in voter registration, suggest that Americans think more is at stake in this election, be it the war in Iraq or the economy. But it could also reflect viewers' heightened interest in watching real people square off on television. The 90-minute debates are in effect episodes in a reality show where the competitors cannot help but reveal the personality beneath their patter, and where after much jostling, anger and the occasional sting of embarrassment, a survivor is eventually chosen.
 The two men were dressed almost identically in charcoal grey suits and red dotted ties. Side by side, they looked like an advertisement for laundry detergent: Mr. Kerry's deep burgundy necktie served as the before, and Mr. Bush's brighter red serving as the after. 
 Perhaps to rectify the way the equal-size podiums had underscored the difference in height in their earlier debates, the split screens were shot so as to make both men appear to be the same size.
 Mr. Kerry missed some rhetorical opportunities, but he spoke directly into the camera lens, taking his case directly to the voters. Mr. Bush mostly addressed himself to the moderator, Bob Schieffer of CBS News. When Mr. Schieffer asked what he would say to an American who had lost his job to an overseas worker, Mr. Bush replied, ''I'd say, Bob, I've got policies to continue to grow our economy and create the jobs of the 21st century. And here's some help for you to go get an education.''
 Mr. Kerry's sonorous pronouncements seemed aimed at projecting calm and reason. His hand motions were fluid, contrasting with Mr. Bush's more jerky style and the varying rhythms of his speech.
 But at times, Mr. Kerry looked a little like a flight attendant demonstrating how emergency exits and oxygen masks work: when addressing a broader security issue, Mr. Kerry referenced identity-verification technology, pointing to his eyes when he said ''iris'' scans, and gesturing broadly with his thumbs when mentioning ''thumbprint analysis.''
 On Fox News, Fred Barnes, the executive editor of The Weekly Standard, said Mr. Bush was animated and strong right from the first question. But a CNN survey said that Mr. Kerry won with viewers 52 percent to 39 percent, comparable to instant polls from the first debate. And on ''Larry King Live,'' Bill Schneider of CNN said, ''Kerry has turned out to be the clear winner.''
 An instant poll by ABC News showed only a one-point margin for Mr. Kerry, but Peter Jennings, the anchor, noted the survey had reached more Republicans than Democrats.
 Mr. Bush made a comeback, but he may not have traveled far enough. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); REALITY TELEVISION (68%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (67%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (65%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (64%); IRAQ WAR (60%); BASEBALL (50%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Debating; Television; Election Issues; Ratings and Rating Systems

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN KERRY (92%); AL GORE (58%) Alessandra Stanley; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2004



340 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: The Final Debate

 BODY:
The mission of last night's presidential debate was to engage George Bush and John Kerry in a discussion of ''domestic issues'' -- a grab bag of topics that included both questions of money, like taxes and trade, and matters of morals, like abortion and gay marriage. Mr. Bush, however, tends to regard even policy choices as matters of faith. The numbers on his Social Security plan may never add up; last night, when asked about the $2 trillion hole in the proposal, he simply ignored the question. But to the president, all of his initiatives are success stories, and the devil take the details.
 Mr. Bush took every possible opportunity to note that Mr. Kerry was once rated by a magazine as the most liberal senator and is from Massachusetts. Mr. Kerry, for his part, seemed to be vying to see how many times he could mention that Mr. Bush was the first president in 72 years to preside over an economy that has lost jobs. In a way, those efforts summarized the entire evening. Listeners certainly came away knowing that Mr. Kerry was a liberal senator and that under Mr. Bush, working people have fared poorly. The election may depend on which they decide is worse. 
 Mr. Kerry, who has been trying for the entire campaign to get people to pay attention to his health care plan, got the chance to talk about it last night, and he did a good, succinct job of explaining his idea. (The Kerry campaign may want to consider carrying that two-minute light everywhere.) Mr. Bush described the plan, which centers on making it easier for businesses to provide insurance for their employees, as a government hydra that would usurp people's right to pick their own doctors.
 For the most part, both men seemed blessedly reasonable when talking about trade issues. Mr. Bush was passionate in his discussions about his No Child Left Behind program -- so much so that, as Mr. Kerry pointed out, the president tended to talk about that even when the question was about the economy, illegal immigration, unemployment or affirmative action. 
 For Mr. Kerry, one of the best pieces of news was his strong performance on social issues. When the argument turns to abortion, the president's avowal that he ''supports life'' has generally sounded clear and sincere, while Mr. Kerry has sometimes sounded like a man who is trying desperately to obscure positions he believes are unpopular. But last night Mr. Kerry sometimes came close to eloquence when talking about homosexuality, and about his own determination to separate his Catholic faith from his responsibilities as a policy maker.
 The president refused to accept any responsibility for the lapse of the ban on assault weapons and completely dodged the question of whether he wanted to see the Supreme Court reverse Roe v. Wade, while Mr. Kerry gave strong responses to both questions. ''I believe that the right of choice is a constitutional right,'' he said. ''So I don't intend to see it undone.'' 
 The campaign's debate season began with wide doubt about the usefulness of encounters that were so completely scripted by lawyers and handlers that it seemed unlikely the public could learn anything. But the result has been much better than expected.
 True, both men tried to score cheap shots, and they hewed to their talking points even when their answers didn't quite fit the topic. (When the question concerned the shortage of flu shots, Mr. Bush talked about the evils of trial lawyers, and Mr. Kerry talked about the lack of health insurance.) But it's hard to believe that anyone who watched with attention didn't come away with a good handle on who John Kerry and George Bush are, what they believe, and how they would approach running the country. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); ABORTION (77%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (60%); MARRIAGE (57%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (50%); IMMIGRATION (50%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%); GUN CONTROL (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Editorials; Debating; Election Issues

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%) George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2004



341 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Arts, Briefly; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 470 words

BYLINE: Compiled by Lawrence Van Gelder

 BODY:

Oprah and Tom, at Peace
 Oprah Winfrey, right, and Tom Cruise will serve as hosts of the Nobel Peace Prize Concert in Oslo on Dec. 11, when the 2004 laureate, the Kenyan environmentalist Wangari Maathai, will be honored, The Associated Press reported. The entertainers on the program will include the teenage British soul singer Joss Stone, the opera luminary Andrea Bocelli, the jazz singer Diana Krall, the pop singer Cyndi Lauper and the rhythm and blues and disco singer Patti Labelle. The concert will be seen live in more than 100 countries. Last year the hosts were the husband-and-wife team Michael Douglas and Catherine Zeta-Jones.

Lincoln Center: Economic Creativity
 What does Lincoln Center mean to the economies of New York City, the metropolitan area and the state? According to the findings of a new study released today, the center, home to a dozen of the world's foremost arts organizations, generated $1.52 billion in economic activity in 2003, which included supporting 15,200 workers with benefits and wages. The center attracts some 4.7 million visitors annually, including 3 million ticket buyers and hundreds of thousands of individuals and families who attend free performances, special events and civic celebrations. The study, prepared by two economic development consulting firms, Economic Development Research Group in association with Mount Auburn Associates, said direct spending on local restaurants and lodgings, along with retail and other activities by out-of-towners, pumped roughly $258 million into the New York City economy. The study also estimated that from 1998 to 2008, construction associated with Jazz at Lincoln Center's Frederick P. Rose Hall at the Time Warner Center would generate $1.1 billion in economic activity, including 8,500 construction-related jobs. The report added that since the early 1960's, when Lincoln Center opened, taxable property values for the area had increased by 2,608 percent, compared with 447 percent for the rest of Manhattan. The area was defined as ranging from 58th Street to 72nd Street and from Central Park to the Hudson River. 

Country Numbers
 George Strait's ''50 Number Ones,'' by George Strait, below, racked up another one yesterday, on the Billboard 200 chart, with 343,000 copies sold. Usher's repackaged ''Confessions'' -- featuring a bonus DVD and new tracks -- finished second, with 336,000 copies moved, according to Nielsen Soundscan. Good Charlotte's ''Chronicles of Life and Death,'' with 198,500 copies sold, took third place this week on the top 200 chart, followed by Korn's ''Greatest Hits Vol. 1'' (130,000) and Nelly's ''Suit'' (122,000). 

Footnotes
 The trumpet virtuoso, composer, conductor and educator Jon Faddis, right, who led the Carnegie Hall Jazz Band, has been named the artistic director of the Chicago Jazz Ensemble.


GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AWARDS & PRIZES (91%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); POP & ROCK (78%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); REAL ESTATE (75%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); CITIES (69%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); RESTAURANTS (65%) Nobel Prizes

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: TOM CRUISE (90%); OPRAH WINFREY (90%) Oprah Winfrey; Tom Cruise; Wangari Maathai; Lawrence Van Gelder

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2004



342 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 528 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

F.D.A. Clears Chip Implant For Medical Identification
Federal regulators have cleared the way for a Florida company to market implantable chips that would provide easy access to individual medical records. Applied Digital Solutions, based in Delray Beach, Fla., said that its devices could save lives and limit injuries from errors in medical treatment.
 The approval is expected to expand a debate over a technology that has alarmed privacy advocates and fueled fears about tracking of people using such tags. [Page A1.]

O'Reilly and Producer Trade Suits
A producer for the Fox News Channel filed a lawsuit against Bill O'Reilly, its biggest star, accusing him of sexual harassment. Hours earlier, Mr. O'Reilly had filed a suit against the producer claiming that she and her lawyer had tried to extort money from him. On his talk show last night, Mr. O'Reilly said, ''There comes a time when enough is enough.'' [C10.]

Oil and Gas Prices Continue Climb
Crude oil for November delivery rose $1.13, to $53.64 a barrel, equaling the record closing price reached Monday. Gasoline futures surged, while heating oil futures rose 3.1 percent to a record. [C13.]

Stocks Drop on Energy Concerns
A climb in oil prices trumped positive earnings news, sending stocks lower. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 74.85 points, to 10,002.33. The S.&P. 500-stock index declined 8.19 points, to 1,113.65, while the Nasdaq composite dropped 4.64 points, to 1,920.53. [C13.]

Merck Says New Drug Is Safe
Merck, which recalled its painkiller Vioxx because of a link to heart disease, said short-term studies had shown its planned successor pill, Arcoxia, to be safer. [C4.]

New Contract for Screenwriters
The union for Hollywood screenwriters struck a deal for a three-year agreement with studios and producers. It provides no increase in an important area for the guild, residual payments for DVD's. [C8.]

When Advertisers Get Together
The presidential race and Howard Stern were among the topics at the Association of National Advertisers. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [C8.]

S.E.C. Is Investigating Chiron
The Securities and Exchange Commission has started an informal investigation of disclosure practices at Chiron, whose British plant producing flu vaccine was shut down last week. The shutdown cut the winter's supply of flu vaccine for Americans nearly in half. Congress is also looking into what the Food and Drug Administration knew about problems at the Chiron plant. [C12.]

McDonald's Says Profit Rose
In a preliminary report, McDonald's said its third-quarter earnings rose more than expected, citing strong sales and lower taxes. [C13.]

Don't Underestimate Nordic States
The Nordic countries dominate the top ranks of a list of the most competitive economies in the world, and a new listing of the best places to do business. [C3.]

A Gray Wave in Franchising
The franchising world is attracting a flood of middle-aged and elderly people who are looking to start a business but are reluctant to do a lot of planning. Small Business. [C6.]

The Science of Voter Turnout
Getting out the vote is an expensive job. A new book looks at which methods are most effective. Economic Scene: Alan B. Krueger. [C2.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,002.33 down 74.85Nasdaq composite -- 1,920.53 down 4.6410-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.06% down 0.04The euro -- $1.2338 up 0.0033The dollar -- 109.69 yen down 0.10Graph: ''TODAY'' shows Balance of Trade since February.August figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: -$51.4 billionGraph tracks Chiron's share price for last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MEDICAL RECORDS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); FUTURES (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); ANTIVIRALS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (87%); INVESTIGATIONS (84%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); APPROVALS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); HEATING OIL (75%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (75%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); LITIGATION (75%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (73%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (72%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); HEATING OIL PRICES (72%); VACCINES (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (69%); LAWYERS (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%); WRITERS (62%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (62%); INFLUENZA (60%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: DIGITAL ANGEL CORP (91%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (91%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%)

PERSON: BILL O'REILLY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2004



343 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 14372 words

HEADLINE: Transcript of Debate Between Bush and Kerry, With Domestic Policy the Topic

 BODY:
Following is a transcript of the presidential debate last night in Tempe, Ariz., between President Bush and Senator John Kerry, as recorded by The New York Times. The moderator was Bob Schieffer of CBS News.

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Good evening from Arizona State University in Tempe, Ariz. I'm Bob Schieffer of CBS News. I want to welcome you to the third and last of the 2004 debates between President George Bush and Senator John Kerry. As Jim Lehrer told you before the first one, these debates are sponsored by the Commission on Presidential Debates.
 Tonight the topic will be domestic affairs. But the format will be the same as that first debate. I'll moderate our discussion under detailed rules agreed to by the candidates. But the questions and the areas to be covered were chosen by me. I have not told the candidates or anyone else what they are.
 To refresh your memory on the rules, I will ask a question, the candidate is allowed two minutes to answer, his opponent then has a minute and a half to offer a rebuttal. At my discretion I can extend the discussion by offering each candidate an additional 30 seconds. A green light will come on to signal the candidate has 30 seconds left, a yellow light signals 15 seconds left, a red light means 5 seconds left. There is also a buzzer if it is needed.
 The candidates may not question each other directly. There are no opening statements but there will be two-minutes closing statements. There is an audience here tonight but they have agreed to remain silent except for right now when they join me in welcoming President George Bush and Senator John Kerry.
 Gentlemen, welcome to you both. By coin toss the first question goes to Senator Kerry. Senator, I want to set the stage for this discussion by asking the question that I think hangs over all of our politics today and is probably on the minds of many people watching this debate tonight. And that is will our children and grandchildren ever live in a world as safe and secure as the world in which we grew up?

MR. KERRY -- Well, first of all, Bob, thank you for moderating tonight. Thank you, Arizona State, for welcoming us. And thank you to the Presidential Commission for undertaking this enormous task. We're proud to be here. Mr. President, I'm glad to be here with you again to share similarities and differences with the American people.
 Will we ever be safe and secure again? Yes, we absolutely must be. That's the goal. Now how do we achieve it is the most critical component of it. I believe that this president, regrettably, rushed us into a war, made decisions about foreign policy, pushed alliances away and, as a result, America is now bearing this extraordinary burden where we are not as safe as we ought to be.
 The measurement is not are we safer, the measurement is are we as safe as we ought to be. And there are a host of options that this president had available to him like making sure that at all our ports in America containers are inspected -- only 95 percent of them -- 95 percent come in today uninspected. That's not good enough. People who fly on airplanes today, the cargo hold is not X-rayed, but the baggage is. That's not good enough. 
 Firehouses don't have enough firefighters in them. Police officers are being cut from the streets of America because the president decided to cut the cops program. 
 So we can do a better job of homeland security. I can do a better job of waging a smarter, more effective war on terror and guarantee that we go after the terrorists. I will hunt them down and will kill them, will capture them, will do whatever's necessary to be safe. But I pledge this to you, America: I will do it in the way that Franklin Roosevelt and Ronald Reagan and John Kennedy and others did, where we build the strongest alliances, where the world joins together, where we have the best intelligence and where we are able, ultimately, to be more safe and secure.

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Mr. President you have 90 seconds.

MR. BUSH -- Bob, thank you very much. I want to thank Arizona State as well. Yes, we can be safe and secure if we stay on the offense against the terrorists. And if we spread freedom and liberty around the world. I have got a comprehensive strategy to not only chase down Al Qaeda wherever it exists -- and we're making progress, three-quarters of Al Qaeda leaders have been brought to justice -- but to make sure that countries who harbor terrorists are held to account.
 As a result of securing ourselves and ridding the Taliban out of Afghanistan, the Afghan people had elections this weekend. And the first voter was a 19-year-old woman. Think about that. Freedom is on the march. 
 We held to account a terrorist regime and Saddam Hussein. In other words, in order to make sure we're secure there must be a comprehensive plan. My opponent just this weekend talked about how terrorism can be reduced to a nuisance, comparing it to prostitution, illegal gambling. I think that attitude and that point of view is dangerous. I don't think you can secure America for the long run if you don't have a comprehensive view as to how to defeat these people. 
 At home we'll do everything we can to protect the homeland. I signed the Homeland Security Bill to better align our assets and resources. My opponent voted against it. We're doing everything we can to protect our borders and ports. But absolutely we can be secure in the long run. It just takes good strong leadership. 

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Anything to add, Senator Kerry?

MR. KERRY -- Yes. When the president had an opportunity to capture or kill Osama bin Laden, he took his focus off of him, outsourced the job to Afghan warlords and Osama bin Laden escaped. Six months after he said Osama bin Laden must be caught dead or alive this president was asked, where's Osama bin Laden? And he said, ''I don't know. I don't really think him about very much. I'm not that concerned.'' We need a president who stays deadly focused on the real war on terror.

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Mr. President.

MR. BUSH -- Gosh, I don't think I ever said I'm not worried about Osama bin Laden. That's kind of one of those exaggerations. Of course we're worried about Osama bin Laden. We're on the hunt after Osama bin Laden. We're using every asset at our disposal to get Osama bin Laden.
 My opponent said this war is a matter of intelligence and law enforcement. No, this is a war as a matter of using every asset at our disposal to keep the American people protected.

MR. SCHIEFFER -- New question, Mr. President, to you. We're talking about protecting ourselves from the unexpected, but the flu season is suddenly upon us, flu kills thousands of people every year, suddenly we find ourselves with a severe shortage of flu vaccine. How did that happen?

MR. BUSH -- Bob, we relied upon a company out of England to provide about half of the flu vaccines for the United States citizens and it turned out that the vaccine they were producing was contaminated. And so we took the right action and didn't allow contaminated medicine into our country.
 We're working with Canada to -- hopefully they'll produce a -- help us realize the vaccine necessary to make sure our citizens have got flu vaccinations during this upcoming season.
 My call to our fellow Americans is if you're healthy, if you're younger, don't get a flu shot this year. Help us prioritize those who need to get the flu shot, the elderly and the young. 
 The C.D.C., responsible for health in the United States, is setting those priorities and is allocating the flu vaccine accordingly. I haven't gotten a flu shot and I don't intend to because I want to make sure that those who are most vulnerable get treated.
 We have a problem with litigation in the United States of America. Vaccine manufacturers are worried about getting sued and so therefore they have backed off from providing this kind of vaccine. One of the reasons I'm such a strong believer in legal reform is so that people aren't afraid of producing a product that is necessary for the health of our citizens and then end up getting sued in a court of law.
 But the best thing we can do now, Bob, given the circumstances with the company in England is for those of us who are younger and healthy, don't get a flu shot.

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Senator Kerry?

MR. KERRY -- This really underscores the problem with the American health care system. It's not working for the American family. And it's gotten worse under President Bush over the course of the last years. Five million Americans have lost their health insurance in this country. You've got about a million right here in Arizona, just shy, 950,000 who have no health insurance at all. Eighty-two thousand Arizonans lost their health insurance under President Bush's watch. Two hundred and twenty-three thousand kids in Arizona have no health insurance at all. All across our country, go to Ohio, 1.4 million Ohioans have no health insurance. One hundred and fourteen thousand of them lost it under President Bush. Wisconsin, 82,000 Wisconsinites lost it under President Bush.
 This president has turned his back on the wellness of America. And there is no system. In fact, it's starting to fall apart not because of lawsuits, though they are a problem and John Edwards and I are committed to fixing them, but because of the larger issue that we don't cover Americans. Children across our country don't have health care. We're the richest country on the face of the planet, the only industrialized nation in the world not to do it. I have a plan to cover all Americans. We're going to make it affordable and accessible. We're going to let everybody buy into the same health care plan senators and congressmen give themselves. 

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Mr. President, would you like to add something?

MR. BUSH -- I would, thank you. I want to remind people listening tonight that a plan is not a litany of complaints. And a plan is not to lay out programs that you can't pay for. He just said he wants everybody to be able to buy into the same plan that senators and congressmen get. That costs the government $7,700 per family. If every family in America signed up like the senator suggested it would cost us $5 trillion over 10 years. It's an empty promise. It's called bait and switch.

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Time's up.

MR. BUSH -- Thank you.

MR. KERRY -- Actually, it's not an empty promise. It's really interesting because the president used that very plan as a reason for seniors to accept his prescription drug plan. He said, if it's good enough for their congressmen and senators to have choice, seniors ought to have choice. What we do is we have choice. I choose Blue Cross/Blue Shield; other senators, other congressman choose other programs. But the fact is we're going to help Americans be able to buy into it. Those that can afford it are going to buy in themselves. We're not giving this away for nothing.

MR. SCHIEFFER -- All right. Senator Kerry, a new question. Let's talk about economic security. You pledged during the last debate that you would not raise taxes on those making less than $200,000 a year. But the price of everything is going up and we all know it. Health care costs, as you all are talking about, is skyrocketing, the cost of the war. My question is how can you or any president, whoever is elected next time, keep that pledge without running this country deeper into debt and passing on more of the bills that we're running up to our children?

MR. KERRY -- I'll tell you exactly how I can do it, by reinstating what President Bush took away, which is called pay as you go. During the 1990's, we had pay-as-you-go rules. If you were going to pass something in the Congress, you had to show where you were going to pay for it and how. President Bush has taken -- he's the only president in history to do this. He's also the only president since -- in 72 years to lose jobs: 1.6 million jobs lost. He's the only president to have incomes of families go down for the last three years. The only president to see exports go down. The only president to see the lowest level of business investment in our country as it is today.
 Now I'm going to reverse that. I'm going to change that. We're going to restore the fiscal discipline we had in the 1990's. Every plan that I have laid out -- my health care plan, my plan for education, my plan for kids to be able to get better college loans -- I've shown exactly how I'm going to pay for those. And we start -- we don't do it exclusively, but we start -- by rolling back George Bush's unaffordable tax cut for the wealthiest people, people earning more than $200,000 a year, and we pass, hopefully, the McCain-Kerry Commission, which identified some $60 billion that we can get. 
 We shut the loophole, which has American workers actually subsidizing the loss of their own job. They just passed an expansion of that loophole in the last few days, $43 billion of giveaways including favors to the oil and gas industry and to people importing ceiling fans from China. I'm going to stand up and fight for the American workers and I'm going to do it in a way that's fiscally sound. I show how I pay for the health care, how we pay for education. I have a manufacturing jobs credit, we pay for it by shutting that loophole overseas. We raise the student loans. I pay for it by changing the relationship with the banks.
 This president has never once vetoed one bill. First president in 100 years not to do that.

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Mr. President?

MR. BUSH -- Well his rhetoric doesn't match his record. He's been a senator for 20 years, he voted to increase taxes 98 times. When they'd try to reduce taxes he voted against that 127 times. He talks about being a fiscal conservative or fiscally sound but he voted 277 times to waive the budget caps, which would have cost the taxpayers $4.2 trillion.
 He talks about pay-go. I'll tell you what pay-go means: when you're a senator from Massachusetts, when you're a colleague of Ted Kennedy, pay-go means you pay and he goes ahead and spends. 
 He's proposed $2.2 trillion of new spending and yet the so-called tax on the rich, which is also a tax on many small business owners in America, raises $600 million by our account -- billion, $800 billion by his account. There is a tax gap. And guess who usually ends up filling the tax gap? The middle class.
 I proposed a detailed budget, Bob. I send up my budget man to the Congress and he says here's how we're going to reduce the deficit in half by five years, it requires pro-growth policies that grow our economy and fiscal sanity in the halls of Congress.

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Let's go to a new question, Mr. President. Two minutes. And let's continue on jobs. You know there are all kind of statistics out there, but I want to bring it down to an individual. Mr. President, what do you say to someone in this country who has lost his job to someone overseas who's being paid a fraction of what that job paid here in the United States?

MR. BUSH -- I'd say, Bob, I've got policies to continue to grow our economy and create the jobs of the 21st century. And here's some help for you to go get an education. Here's some help for you to go to a community college. We've expanded trade adjustment assistance. We want to help pay for you to gain the skills necessary to fill the jobs of the 21st century. You know there's a lot of talk about how to keep the economy growing and we talk about fiscal matters. But perhaps the best way to keep jobs here in America and to keep this economy growing is to make sure our education system works.
 I went to Washington to solve problems and I saw a problem in the public education system in America. They were just shuffling too many kids through the system year after year, grade after grade without learning the basics. And so we said let's raise the standards. We're spending more money but let's raise the standards and measure early and solve problems now before it's too late. Education is how to help the person who's lost a job. Education is how to make sure this -- we've got a work force that's productive and competitive. Got four more years, I've got more to do to continue to raise standards, to continue to reward teachers in school districts that are working, to emphasize math and science in the classrooms, to continue to expand Pell Grants, to make sure that people have an opportunity to start their career with a college diploma. And so to the person you talked to I say here's some help. Here's some trade adjustment assistance money for you to go to a community college in your neighborhood, a community college which is providing the skills necessary to fill the jobs of the 21st century. And that's what we'd say to that person. 

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Senator Kerry?

MR. KERRY -- I want you to notice how the president switched away from jobs and started talking about education principally. Let me come back in one moment to that. But I want to speak for a second if I can to what the president said about fiscal responsibility. Being lectured by the president on fiscal responsibility is a little bit like Tony Soprano talking to me about law and order in this country. This president has take a $5.6 trillion surplus and turned it into deficits as far as the eye can see. Health care costs for the average American have gone up 64 percent. Tuitions have gone up 35 percent. Gasoline prices up 30 percent. Medicare premiums went up 17 percent a few days ago. Prescription drugs are up 12 percent a year. But guess what, America? The wages of Americans have gone down. The jobs that are being created in Arizona right now are paying about $13,700 less than the jobs that we're losing. And the president just walks on by this problem. The fact is that he's cut job training money -- $1 billion was cut, they only added a little bit back this year because it's an election year.
 They've cut the Pell Grants and the Perkins Loans to help kids be able to go to college. They've cut the training money. 
 They've wound up not even extending unemployment benefits and not even extending health care to those people who are unemployed.
 I'm going to do those things because that's what's right in America -- help workers to transition in every respect.

MR. SCHIEFFER -- New question to you, Senator Kerry, two minutes, and it's still on jobs. You know, many experts say that a president really doesn't have much control over jobs. For example, if someone invents a machine that does the work of five people, that's progress. That's not the president's fault. So I ask you is it fair to blame the administration entirely for this loss of jobs?

MR. KERRY -- I don't blame them entirely for it. I blame the president for the things the president could do that has an impact on it. Outsourcing is going to happen. I've acknowledged that in union halls across the country. I've had shop stewards stand up and say, will you promise me you're going to stop all this outsourcing? And I've looked them in the eye and I've said, no, I can't do that. What I can promise you is that I will make the playing field as fair as possible, that I will, for instance, make certain that, with respect to the tax system, that you as a worker in America are not subsidizing the loss of your job. Today, if you're an American business, you actually get a benefit for going overseas. You get to defer your taxes. So if you're looking at a competitive world, you say to yourself, hey, I do better overseas than I do here in America. That's not smart. I don't want American workers subsidizing the loss of their job, and when I'm president, we're going to shut that loophole in a nanosecond and we're going to use that money to lower corporate tax rates in America for all corporations, 5 percent, and we're going to have a manufacturing jobs credit and a job hiring credit so we actually help people be able here.
 The second thing that we can do is provide a fair trade playing field. This president didn't stand up for Boeing when Airbus was violating international rules with subsidies. He discovered Boeing during the course of this campaign after I've been talking about it for months. The fact is that the president had an opportunity to stand up and take on China for currency manipulation. There are companies that wanted to petition the administration -- they were told, don't even bother. We're not going to listen to it. The fact is that there have been markets shut to us that we haven't stood up and fought for.
 I'm going to fight for a fair trade playing field for the American worker. And I will fight for the American worker just as hard as I fight for my own job. That's what the American worker wants. And if we do that, we can have an impact.
 Plus, we need fiscal discipline. Restore fiscal discipline, we'll do a lot better.

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Mr. President?

MR. BUSH -- Whew! Let me start with the Pell grants. In his last litany of misstatements he said we cut Pell grants. We've increased Pell grants by a million students. That's a fact.
 You know, he talks to the workers. Let me talk to the workers. You got more money in your pocket as a result of the tax relief we passed and he opposed. If you have a child you got a $1,000 child credit. That's money in your pocket. If you're married, we reduced the marriage penalty. The code ought to encourage marriage, not discourage marriage. We created a 10 percent bracket to help lower-income Americans. A family of four making $40,000 received about $1,700 in tax relief. It's your money.
 The way my opponent talks, he said we're going to spend the government's money. No, we're spending your money. And when you have more money in your pocket you're able to better afford things you want. I believe the role of government is to stand side by side with our citizens to help them realize their dreams, not tell citizens how to live their lives.
 My opponent talks about fiscal sanity, his record in the United States Senate does not match his rhetoric. He voted to increase taxes 98 times and to bust the budget 277 times.

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Senator Kerry?

MR. KERRY -- Bob, anybody can play with these votes. Everybody knows that. I have supported or voted for tax cuts over 600 times. I broke with my party in order to balance the budget, and Ronald Reagan signed into law the tax cut that we voted for. I voted for I.R.A. tax cuts. I voted for small business tax cuts. But you know why the Pell grants have gone up in their numbers? Because more people qualify for them because they don't have money. But they're not getting the $5,100 the president promised them. They're getting less money. There are more people who qualify. That's not what we want.

MR. BUSH -- Senator, no one's playing with your votes. You voted to increase taxes 98 times. When they proposed reducing taxes you voted against it 126 times. You voted against 126 times. You voted to violate the budget caps 277 times. You know there's a mainstream in American politics and you sit right on the far left bank. As a matter of fact, your record is such that Ted Kennedy, your colleague, is the conservative senator from Massachusetts.

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Mr. President, let's get back to economic issues but let's shift to some other questions here. Both of you are opposed to gay marriage. But to understand how you have come to that conclusion I want to ask you a more basic question. Do you believe homosexuality is a choice?

MR. BUSH -- You know, Bob, I don't know. I just don't know.
 I do know that we have a choice to make in America and that is to treat people with tolerance and respect and dignity. It's important that we do that. I also know in a free society people, consenting adults can live the way they want to live. And that's to be honored. But as we respect someone's rights and as we profess tolerance, we shouldn't change or have to change our basic views on the sanctity of marriage. 
 I believe in the sanctity of marriage. I think it's very important that we protect marriage as an institution between a man and a woman. I proposed a constitutional amendment. The reason I did so was because I was worried that activist judges are actually defining the definition of marriage. And the surest way to protect marriage between a man and woman is to amend the Constitution. It has also the benefit of allowing citizens to participate in the process. After all, when you amend the Constitution state legislatures must participate in the ratification of the Constitution. 
 I'm deeply concerned that judges are making those decisions and not the citizenry of the United States. You know, Congress passed a law called DOMA, the Defense of Marriage Act. My opponent was against it. It basically protected states from the action of one state to another. It also defined marriage as between a man and a woman. But I'm concerned that that will get overturned. And if it gets overturned then we'll end up with marriage being defined by courts. And I don't think that's in our nation's interest. 

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Senator Kerry?

MR. KERRY -- We're all God's children, Bob, and I think if you were to talk to Dick Cheney's daughter, who is a lesbian, she would tell you that she's being who she was. She's being who she was born as. I think if you talk to anybody, it's not a choice. I've met people who struggled with this for years, people who were in a marriage, because they were living a sort of convention, and they struggled with it. And I've met wives who are supportive of their husbands or vice versa when they finally sort of broke out and allowed themselves to live who they were, who they felt God had made them. I think we have to respect that.
 The president and I share the belief that marriage is between a man and a woman. I believe that, I believe marriage is between a man and a woman. But I also believe that because we are the United States of America, we're a country with a great, unbelievable Constitution, with rights that we afford people, that you can't discriminate in the workplace, you can't discriminate in the rights that you afford people. You can't disallow someone the right to visit their partner in a hospital. You have to allow people to transfer property, which is why I'm for partnership rights and so forth.
 Now, with respect to DOMA and the marriage laws, the states have always been able to manage those laws, and their proving today -- every state -- that they can manage them adequately.

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Senator Kerry a new question for you. The New York Times reports that some Catholic archbishops are telling their church members that it would be a sin to vote for a candidate like you because you support a woman's right to choose an abortion and unlimited stem call research. What is your reaction to that?

MR. KERRY -- I respect their views. I completely respect their views. I am a Catholic. And I grew up learning how to respect those views, but I disagree with them, as do many. I believe that I can't legislate or transfer to another American citizen my article of faith. What is an article of faith for me is not something that I can legislate on somebody who doesn't share that article of faith. I believe that choice, a woman's choice is between a woman, God and her doctor. And that's why I support that. Now I will not allow somebody to come in and change Roe v. Wade. The president has never said whether or not he would do that. But we know from the people he's tried to appoint to the court he wants to. I will not. I will defend the right of Roe v. Wade.
 Now with respect to religion, you know, as I said I grew up a Catholic. I was an altar boy. I know that throughout my life this has made a difference to me. And as President Kennedy said when he ran for president, he said, I'm not running to be a Catholic president. I'm running to be a president who happens to be Catholic. Now my faith affects everything that I do and choose. There's a great passage of the Bible that says What does it mean my brother to say you have faith if there are no deeds? Faith without works is dead. And I think that everything you do in public life has to be guided by your faith, affected by your faith, but without transferring it in any official way to other people. That's why I fight against poverty. That's why I fight to clean up the environment and protect this earth. That's why I fight for equality and justice. All of those things come out of that fundamental teaching and belief of faith. But I know this: that President Kennedy in his inaugural address told of us that here on earth God's work must truly be our own. And that's what we have to -- I think that's the test of public service. 

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Mr. President?

MR. BUSH -- I think it's important to promote a culture of life. I think a hospitable society is a society where every being counts and every person matters. I believe the ideal world is one in which every child is protected in law and welcomed to life.
 I understand there's great differences on this issue of abortion. But I believe reasonable people can come together and put good law in place that will help reduce the number of abortions.
 Take, for example, the ban on partial-birth abortion. It's a brutal practice. People from both political parties came together in the halls on Congress and voted overwhelmingly to ban that practice. Made a lot of sense. My opponent out -- in that he's out of the mainstream, voted against that law.
 What I'm saying is that as we promote life and promote a culture of life, surely there are ways we can work together to reduce the number of abortions. Continue to promote adoption laws -- that's a great alternative to abortion. Continue to fund and promote maternity group homes. I will continue to promote abstinence programs. 
 The last debate my opponent said his wife was involved with those programs. That's great. I appreciate that very much. All of us ought to be -- involved with programs that provide a viable alternative to abortion.

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Mr. President, let's have a new question. It goes to you and let's get back to economic issues. Health insurance costs have risen over 36 percent over the last four years, according to The Washington Post. We're paying more, we're getting less. I would like to ask you who bears responsibility for this? Is it the government, is it the insurance companies, is it the lawyers, is it the doctors, is it the administration?

MR. BUSH -- Gosh, I sure hope it's not the administration. No, there is a -- look, here -- there's a systemic problem. Health care costs are on the rise because the consumers are not involved in the decision-making process. Most health costs are covered by third parties. And therefore, the actual user of health care is not the purchaser of health care. And there's no market forces involved with health care.
 It's one of the reasons I'm a strong believer in what they call health savings accounts. These are accounts that allow somebody to buy a low-premium, high-deductible catastrophic plan and couple it with tax-free savings. Businesses can contribute, employees can contribute on a contractual basis. But this is the way to make sure people are actually involved with the decision-making process on health care.
 Secondly, I do believe the lawsuits -- I don't believe, I know that the lawsuits are causing health care costs to rise in America. That's why I'm such a strong believer in medical liability reform. At the last debate, my opponent said, well, they only -- these lawsuits only cause costs to go up by 1 percent. Well, he didn't include the defensive practice of medicine that costs the federal government some $28 billion a year and costs our society between $60 and $100 billion a year.
 Thirdly, one of the reasons why there's still high costs in medicine is because this is they don't use any information technology. It's like if you looked at the -- it's the equivalent of the buggy and horse days compared to other industries here in America. And so we've got to introduce high technology into health care. We're beginning to do it, we're changing the language. We want there to be electronic medical records to cut down on error as well as to reduce costs. People tell me that when the health care field is fully integrated with information technology, it'll wring some 20 percent of the costs out of the system.
 And finally, moving generic drugs to the market quicker. 
 So those are four ways to help control the costs in health care.

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Senator Kerry?

MR. KERRY -- The reason health care costs are getting higher, one of the principal reasons is that this administration has stood in the way of common-sense efforts that would have reduced the costs. Let me give you a prime example. In the Senate we passed the right of Americans to import drugs from Canada. But the president and his friends took it out in the House, and now you don't have that right. The president blocked you from the right to have less expensive drugs from Canada.
 We also wanted Medicare to be able to negotiate bulk purchasing. The V.A. does that. The V.A. provides lower cost drugs to our veterans. We could have done that in Medicare. Medicare is paid for by the American taxpayer. Medicare belongs to you. Medicare is for seniors who are many of them on fixed income to lift them out of poverty. But rather than help you, the taxpayer, have lower costs, rather than help seniors have less expensive drugs, the president made it illegal, illegal for Medicare to actually go out and bargain for lower prices. Result, $139 billion windfall profit to the drug companies coming out of your pockets. That's a large part of your 17 percent increase in Medicare premiums. When I'm president, I'm sending that back to Congress. And we're going to get a real prescription drug benefit.
 Now we also have people sicker because they don't have health insurance. So whether it's diabetes or cancer they come to the hospitals later. And it costs America more. We've got to have health care for all Americans. 

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Go ahead, Mr. President.

MR. BUSH -- I think it's important since he talked about the Medicare plan I passed. He's been in the United States for 20 years, he has no record on reforming of health care, no record at all. He introduced some 300 bills, and he's passed five. No record of leadership. I came to Washington to solve problems. I was deeply concerned about seniors having to choose between prescription drugs and food. And so I led. And in 2006 our seniors will get a prescription drug coverage in Medicare.

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Senator Kerry 30 seconds.

MR. KERRY -- Once again, the president is misleading America. I've actually passed 56 individual bills that I've personally written. And in addition to that, they're not always under my name, there is amendments on certain bills. But more importantly, with respect to the question of no record I help write, I did write, I was one of the original authors of the early childhood health care and the expansion of health care that we did in the middle of the 1990's. And I'm very proud of that. So the president's wrong.

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Let me direct the next question to you, Senator Kerry. And again let's stay on health care. You have, as you have proposed and as the president has commented on tonight, proposed a massive plan to extend health care coverage to children. You're also talking about the government picking up a big part of the catastrophic bills that people get at the hospital. And you have said that you can pay for this by rolling back the president's tax cut on the upper 2 percent.

MR. KERRY -- That's correct.

MR. SCHIEFFER -- You heard the president say earlier tonight that it's going to cost a whole lot more money than that. I'd just ask you where are you going to get the money?

MR. KERRY -- Well two leading national news networks have both said the president's characterization of my health care plan is incorrect. One called it fiction, the other called it untrue.
 The fact is that my health care plan, America, is very simple. It gives you the choice. I don't force you to do anything. It's not a government plan. The government doesn't require you to do anything. You choose your doctor. You choose your plan. If you don't want to take the offer of the plan that I want to put forward you don't have to. You can keep what you have today -- keep a high deductible, keep high premiums, keep a high co-pay, keep low benefits. 
 But I've got a better plan. And I don't think a lot of people are going to want to keep what they have today. Here's what I do. We take over Medicaid children from the states so that every child in America is covered. And in exchange, if the states want to -- they're not forced to, they can choose to -- they cover individuals up to 300 percent of poverty. It's their choice. I think they'll choose it because it's a net plus of $5 billion to them.
 We allow you if you choose to, you don't have to, but we give you broader competition to allow you to buy in to the same health care plan that senators and congressmen give themselves. If it's good enough for us, it's good enough for every American. I believe that your health care is just as important as any politician in Washington, D.C. If you want to buy in to it, you can. We give you broader competition, that helps lower prices.
 In addition to that we're going to allow people 55 to 64 to buy in to Medicare early. And most importantly we give small business a 50 percent tax credit so that after we lower the cost of health care they also get, whether they're self-employed or a small business, a lower cost to be able to cover their employees.
 Now what happens is when you begin to get people covered like that -- for instance in diabetes, if you diagnose diabetes early you could save $50 billion in the health care system of America by avoiding surgery and dialysis. It works. And I'm going to offer it to America.

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Mr. President.

MR. BUSH -- In all due respect, I'm not so sure it -- it's credible to quote leading news organizations about -- oh, never mind. Anyway, let me quote the Lewin Report. The Lewin Report is a group of folks who are not politically affiliated. They analyzed the senator's plan. It cost $1.2 trillion. The Lewin Report accurately noted that there are going to be 20 million people -- over 20 million people added to government-controlled health care. Be the largest increase in government health care ever.
 If you raise the Medicaid to 300 percent, it provides an incentive for small businesses not to provide private insurance to their employees. Why should they insure somebody when the government's going to insure it for them? It's estimated that eight million people will go from private insurance to government insurance. 
 We have a fundamental difference of opinion. I think government-run health will lead to poor-quality health, will lead to rationing, will lead to less choice. Once a health care program ends up in a line item in the federal government budget, it leads to more controls. And just look at other countries that have tried to have federally-controlled health care. They have poor quality health care. Our health care system is the envy of the world because we believe in making sure that the decisions are made by doctors and patients, not by officials in the nation's capital.

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Senator.

MR. KERRY -- The president just said that government-run health care results in poor quality. Now maybe that explains why he hasn't fully funded the V.A., and the V.A. hospital is having trouble and veterans are complaining. Maybe that explains why Medicare patients are complaining about being pushed off of Medicare, he doesn't adequately fund it.
 But let me just say to America: I am not proposing a government-run program. That's not what I have. I have Blue Cross/Blue Shield. Senators and congressmen have a wide choice; Americans ought to have it, too.

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Mr. President.

MR. BUSH -- We talk about the V.A. We've increased V.A. funding by $22 billion in the four years since I've been president. That's twice the amount that my predecessor increased V.A. funding. Of course we're meeting our obligations to our veterans. And the veterans know that. We're expanding veterans' health care throughout the country, we're aligning facilities where the veterans live now. Veterans are getting very good health care under my administration, and they will continue to do so during the next four years.

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Mr. President, the next question is to you. We all know that Social Security's running out of money and it has to be fixed. You have proposed to fix it by letting people put some of the money collected to pay benefits into private savings accounts. But the critics are saying that's going to mean finding a trillion dollars over the next 10 years to continue paying benefits as those accounts are being set up. So where do you get the money? Are you going to have to increase the deficit by that much over 10 years?

MR. BUSH -- Bob, first let me make sure that every senior listening today understands that when we're talking about reforming Social Security that they'll still get their checks. I remember the 2000 campaign people said if George W. gets elected, your check will be taken away. Well, people got their checks. And they'll continue to get their checks.
 There is a problem for our youngsters, a real problem. And if we don't act today the problem will be valued in the trillions. And so I think we need to think differently. We'll honor our commitment to our seniors. But for our children or grandchildren we need to have a different strategy. And recognizing that I called together a group of our fellow citizens to study the issue. It was a committee chaired by the late Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York, a Democrat. And they came up with a variety of ideas for people to look at. 
 I believe that younger workers ought to be allowed to take some of their own money and put it in a personal savings account. Because I understand that they need to get better rates of return than the rates of return being given in the current Social Security trust. And the compounding rate of interest effect will make it more likely that the Social Security system is solvent for our children and our grandchildren. I will work with Republicans and Democrats. Will be a vital issue in my second term. It is an issue that I'm willing to take on. And so I bring Republicans and Democrats together. And we're of course going to have to consider the costs. But I want to warn my fellow citizens the cost of doing nothing, the cost of saying the current system is O.K. far exceeds the cost of trying to make sure we save the system for our children.

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Senator Kerry?

MR. KERRY -- You just heard the president say that young people ought to be able to take money out of Social Security and put it in their own accounts. Now, my fellow Americans, that's an invitation to disaster. The C.B.O. said very clearly that if you were to adopt the president's plan, there'll be a $2 trillion hole in Social Security because today's workers pay in to the system for today's retirees. And the C.B.O. said -- that's the Congressional Budget Office, it's bipartisan -- they said that there would have to be a cut in benefits of 25 to 40 percent.
 Now, the president has never explained to America, ever -- hasn't done it tonight -- where does the transitional money, that $2 trillion, come from? He's already got $3 trillion, according to The Washington Post, of expenses that he's put on the line from his convention and the promises of this campaign, none of which are paid for, not one of them are paid for.
 The fact is that the president is driving the largest deficits in American history, he's broken the pay-as-you-go rules. I have a record of fighting for fiscal responsibility. In 1985, I was one of the first Democrats, broke with my party, we balanced the budget in the 90's, we paid down the debt for two years.
 And that's what we're going to do. We're going to protect Social Security. I will not privatize it. I will not cut the benefits. And we're going to be fiscally responsible and we will take care of Social Security.

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Let me just stay on Social Security with a new question for Senator Kerry because, Senator Kerry, you have just said you will not cut benefits. Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, says there's no way that Social Security can pay retirees what we have promised them unless we recalibrate. What he's suggesting: We're going to have to cut benefits or we're going to have to raise retirement age. We may have to take some other reform. But if you've just said you've promised no changes, does that mean you're just going leave this as a problem, another problem for our children to resolve?

MR. KERRY -- Not at all. Absolutely not, Bob. This is the same thing we heard, I remember I appeared on ''Meet the Press'' with Tim Russert in 1990-something, we heard the same thing. And we fixed it. In fact we put together a $5.6 trillion surplus in the 90's that was for the purpose of saving Social Security.
 If you take the tax cut that the president of the United States has given, President Bush gave to Americans in the top 1 percent of America, just that tax cut that went to the top 1 percent of America, would have saved Social Security until the year 2075. The president decided to give it to the wealthiest Americans in a tax cut.
 Now Alan Greenspan, who I think has done a terrific job in monetary policy, supports the president's tax cut. I don't. I support it for the middle class, not that part of it that goes to people earning more than $200,000 a year. And when I roll it back and we invest in the things that I've talked about to move our economy, we're going to grow sufficiently that we begin to cut the deficit in half and we get back to where we were at the end of the 1990's when we balanced the budget and paid down the debt of this country.
 Now we can do that. Now if, later on after a period of time, we find that Social Security is in trouble, we'll pull together the top experts of the country, we'll do exactly what we did in the 1990's, and we'll make whatever adjustment is necessary. 
 But the first and most important thing is to start creating jobs in America. The jobs the president creating pay $9,000 less than the jobs that we're losing. And this is the first president in 72 years to preside over an economy in America that has lost jobs -- 1.6 million jobs. Eleven other presidents -- six Democrats and five Republicans -- had wars, had recessions, had great difficulties. None of them lost jobs the way this president has.
 I have a plan to put America back to work. And if we're fiscally responsible and put America back to work we're going to fix Social Security.

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Mr. President?

MR. BUSH -- He forgot to tell you he voted to tax Social Security benefits more than one time. I didn't hear any plan to fix Social Security. I heard more of the same. He talks about middle-class tax cuts. That's exactly where the tax cuts went. Most of the tax cuts went to low- and middle-income Americans. And now the tax code is more fair. Twenty percent of the upper income people pay about 80 percent of the taxes in America today because of how we structured the tax cuts. People listening out there know the benefits of the tax cuts we passed. If you have a child you got tax relief. If you're married you got tax relief. If you pay any tax at all you got tax relief. All of which was opposed by opponent. And the tax relief was important to spur consumption and investment to get us out of the recession.
 People need to remember six months prior to my arrival the stock market started to go down. And it was one of the largest declines in our history. And then we had a recession. And we got attacked, which cost us one million jobs. But we acted. I led the Congress. We passed tax relief. And now this economy's growing. We had 1.9 million new jobs over the last 13 months. Sure there's more work to do. But the way to make sure our economy grows is not to raise taxes on small business owners. It's not to increase the scope of the federal government. It's to make sure we have fiscal sanity and keep taxes low. 

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Let's go to a new question. Mr. President, I got more e-mail this week on this question than any other question, and it is about immigration. I'm told that at least 8,000 people cross our borders illegally every day. Some people believe this is a security issue, as you know; some believe it's an economic issue; some see it as a human rights issue. How do you see it, and what do we need to do about it?

MR. BUSH -- I see it as a serious problem. I see it as a security issue. I see it as an economic issue, and I see it as a human rights issue.
 We're increasing the border security of the United States. We've got 1,000 more Border Patrol agents on the Southern border. We're using new equipment, we're using unmanned vehicles to spot people coming across. And we'll continue to do so over the next four years. It's a subject I'm very familiar with. After all, I was a border governor for a while.
 Many people are coming to this country for economic reasons. They're coming here to work. If you can make 50 cents in the heart of Mexico, for example, or make $5 here in America, $5.15, you're going to come here if you're worth your salt, if you want to put food on the table for your families. And that's what's happening. 
 And so in order to take pressure off the border, in order to make the borders more secure, I believe there ought to be a temporary worker card that allows a willing worker and a willing employer to mate up, so long as there's not an American willing to do the job, to join up in order to be able to fulfill the employer's needs. 
 That has the benefit of making sure our employers aren't breaking the law as they try to fill their workforce needs. It makes sure that the people coming across the border are humanely treated, that they're not kept in the shadows of our society, that they're able to go back and forth to see their families. See, the card will have a period of time attached to it.
 It also means it takes pressure off the border. If somebody is coming here to work with a card, it means they're not going to have to sneak across the border. It means our Border Patrol will be more likely to be able to focus on doing their job.
 Now, it's very important for our citizens to also know that I don't believe we ought to have amnesty. I don't think we ought to reward illegal behavior. There are plenty of people standing in line to become a citizen, and we ought not to crowd these people ahead of them in line. If they want to become a citizen, they can stand in line, too. And here's where my opponent and I differ. In September 2003, he supported amnesty for illegal aliens.

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Time's up. Senator?

MR. KERRY -- Let me just answer one part of the last question quickly and then I'll come to immigration. The American middle class isn't making it right now, Bob. And what the president said about the tax cuts has been wiped out by the increase in health care, the increase in gasoline, the increase in tuitions, the increase in prescription drugs. The fact is the take home pay of a typical American family as a share of national income is lower than it's been since 1929. And the take home pay of the richest .1 percent of Americans is the highest it's been since 1928. Under President Bush the middle class has seen their tax burden go up and the wealthiest tax burden has gone down. Now that's wrong.
 Now with respect to immigration reform, the president broke his promise on immigration reform. He said he would reform it. Four years later he's now promising you another plan. Here's what I'll do. Number one, the borders are more leaking today than they were before 9/11. The fact is we haven't done what we need to do to toughen up our borders. And I will. Secondly, we need a guest-worker program. But if it's all we have it's not going to solve the problem. The second thing we need is to crack down on illegal hiring. It's against the law in the United States to hire people illegally. And we ought to be enforcing that law properly. And thirdly, we need an earned legalization program for people who've been here for a long time, stayed out of trouble, got a job, paid their taxes and their kids are American. We've got to start moving them towards full citizenship out of the shadows. 

MR. SCHIEFFER -- You want to respond, Mr. President?

MR. BUSH -- Well, to say that the borders are not as protected as they were prior to Sept. 11 shows he doesn't know the borders. They're much better protected today than they were when I was the governor of Texas. We've got much more manpower and much more equipment there. It's just he just doesn't understand how the borders work evidently to say that. That is an outrageous claim. And we'll continue to protect our borders. We'll continue to increase manpower and equipment.

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Senator?

MR. KERRY -- Four-thousand people a day coming across the border. The fact is that we now have people from the Middle East allegedly coming across the border. And we're not doing what we ought to do in terms of the technology. We have iris identification technology. We have thumbprint, fingerprint technology today. We can know who the people are, that they're really the people they say they are when they cross the border. We can speed it up. There are huge delays. The fact is our borders are not as secure as they ought to be. And I'll make them secure.

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Next question to you, Senator Kerry. The gap between rich and poor is growing wider. More people are dropping into poverty. Yet the minimum wage has been stuck at, what, $5.15 an hour now for about seven years. Is it time to raise it?

MR. KERRY -- Well, I'm glad you raised that question. It's long overdue time to raise the minimum wage.
 And America, this is one of those issues that separates the president and myself. We have fought to try to raise the minimum wage in the last years, but the Republican leadership of the House and Senate won't even let us have a vote on it. We're not allowed to vote on it. They don't want to raise the minimum wage. 
 The minimum wage is the lowest minimum wage value it has been in our nation in 50 years. If we raise the minimum wage, which I will do over several years, to $7 an hour, 9.2 million women who are trying to raise their families would earn another $3,800 a year. The president has denied 9.2 million women $3,800 a year. But he doesn't hesitate to fight for $136,000 to a millionaire. One percent of America got $89 billion last year in a tax cut. But people working hard, playing by the rules, trying to take care of their kids, family values that we're supposed to value so much in America -- I'm tired of politicians who talk about family values and don't value families. What we need to do is raise the minimum wage.
 We also need to hold on to equal pay. Women work for 76 cents on the dollar for the same work that men do. That's not right in America. And we had an initiative that we were working on to raise women's pay. They've cut it off. They've stopped it. They don't enforce these kinds of things.
 Now I think that it is a matter of fundamental right that if we raise the minimum wage 15 million Americans would be positively affected. We'd put money into the hands of people who work hard, who obey the rules, who play for the American dream. And if we did that we'd have more consumption ability in America, which is what we need right now in order to kick our economy into gear. I will fight tooth and nail to pass the minimum wage. 

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Mr. President.

MR. BUSH -- Actually, Mitch McConnell had a minimum wage plan that I supported that would have increased the minimum wage.
 But let me talk about what's really important for the worker you're referring to, and that's to make sure the education system works, it's to make sure we raise standards. Listen, the No Child Left Behind Act is really a jobs act, when you think about it. The No Child Left Behind Act says we'll raise standards, we'll increase federal spending. But in return for extra spending, we now want people to measure, states and local jurisdictions to measure, to show us whether or not a child can read or write or add and subtract. 
 You cannot solve a problem unless you diagnose the problem, and we weren't diagnosing problems and therefore just kids were being shuffled through the school. And guess who would get shuffled through? Children whose parents wouldn't speak English as a first language just moved through. Many inner-city kids just moved through. We've stopped that practice now by measuring early, and when we find a problem, we spend extra money to correct it.
 I remember a lady in Houston, Tex., telling me reading is the new civil right. And she's right. In order to make sure people have jobs for the 21st century, we've got to get it right in the education system. And we're beginning to close a minority achievement gap now. 
 You see, we'll never be able to compete in the 21st century unless we have an education system that doesn't quit on children, an education system that raises standards, an education that makes sure there's excellence in every classroom.

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Mr. President, I want to go back to something Senator Kerry said earlier tonight and ask a follow-up of my own. He said, and this will be a new question to you, he said that you had never said whether you would like to overturn Roe v. Wade. So I'd ask you directly would you like to?

MR. BUSH -- What he's asking me is will I have a litmus test for my judges. And the answer is no, I will not have a litmus test. I will pick judges who will interpret the Constitution. But I'll have no litmus tests.

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Senator Kerry, would you like to respond?

MR. KERRY -- Is that a new question?

MR. SCHIEFFER -- That's a new question for the president.

MR. KERRY -- Which time limit are we in?

MR. SCHIEFFER -- You have 90 seconds.

MR. KERRY -- Thank you very much. Well again, the president didn't answer the question. I'll answer it straight to America. I'm not going to appoint a judge to the court who's going to undo a constitutional right, whether it's the First Amendment or the Fifth Amendment or some other right that's given under our courts today under the Constitution. And I believe that the right of choice is a constitutional right. So I don't intend to see it undone. Clearly the president wants to leave an ambivalence or intends to undo it.
 Let me go a step further. We have a long distance yet to travel in terms of fairness of America. I don't know how you can govern in this country when you look at New York City and you see that 50 percent of the black males there are unemployed. When you see 40 percent of Hispanic children or black children in some cities dropping out of high school. And yet the president who talks about No Child Left Behind refused to fully fund by $28 billion that particular program so you can make a difference in the lives of those young people. Now right here in Arizona that difference would have been $131 million to the state of Arizona to help its kids be able to have better education and to lift the property tax burden from its citizens. The president reneged on his promise to fund No Child Left Behind. He'll tell you he's raised the money and he has. But he didn't put in what he promised. And that makes a difference in the lives of our children. 

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Yes, sir.

MR. BUSH -- Two things. One, he clearly has a litmus test for his judges, which I disagree with. And secondly, only a liberal senator from Massachusetts would say that a 49 percent increase in funding for education was not enough. We've increased funds. But more importantly, we've reformed the system to make sure that we solve problems early before they're too late. He talked about the unemployed. Absolutely, we've got to make sure they get educated. He talked about children whose parents don't speak English as a first language. Absolutely, we've got to make sure they get educated. And that's what the No Child Left Behind Act does.

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Senator.

MR. KERRY -- You don't measure it by a percentage increase. Mr. President, you measure it by whether you're getting the job done. Five hundred thousand kids lost after-school programs because of your budget. Now that's not in my gut. That's not my value system. And certainly not so that the wealthiest people in America can walk away with another tax cut -- $89 billion last year to the top 1 percent of Americans, but kids lost their after-school programs. You be the judge.

MR. SCHIEFFER -- All right, let's go to another question, and it is to Senator Kerry. You have two minutes, sir. Senator, the last debate President Bush said he did not favor a draft. You agreed with him. But our National Guard and Reserve forces are being severely strained because many of them are being held beyond their enlistments. Some of them say that it's a back-door draft. Is there any relief that could be offered to these brave Americans and their families? If you became president, Senator Kerry, what would you do about this situation, holding National Guard and Reservists for these extended periods of time and these repeated call-ups that they're now facing?

MR. KERRY -- Well, I think that the fact that they're facing these repeated call-ups, some of them two and three deployments, and there's a stop-loss policy that prevents people from being able to get out when their time was up is a reflection of the bad judgment this president exercised in how he has engaged in the world and deployed our forces.
 Our military is overextended. Nine out of 10 active-duty Army divisions are either in Iraq, going to Iraq or have come back from Iraq. One way or the other, they're wrapped up in it.
 Now, I've proposed adding two active-duty divisions to the Armed Forces of the United States -- one combat, one support. 
 In addition, I'm going to double the number of special forces so that we can fight a more effective war on terror with less pressure on the National Guard and Reserve.
 And what I would like to do is see the National Guard and Reserve be deployed differently here in our own country. There's much we can do with them with respect to homeland security. We ought to be doing that. And that would relieve an enormous amount of pressure.
 But the most important thing to relieve the pressure on all of our armed forces is, frankly, to run a foreign policy that recognizes that America is strongest when we are working with real alliances, when we are sharing the burdens of the world by working through our statesmanship at the highest levels and our diplomacy to bring other nations to our side. 
 I've said it before, I say it again: I believe the president broke faith with the American people in the way that he took this nation to war. He said he would work through the -- a real alliance. He said in Cincinnati we would plan carefully, we would take every precaution. Well, we didn't. And the result is our forces today are overextended. The fact is that he did not choose to go to war as a last resort, and America now is paying already $120 billion, up to $200 billion before we're finished and much more probably, and that is the result of this president taking his eye off of Osama bin Laden.

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Mr. President.

MR. BUSH -- The best way to take the pressure off our troops is to succeed in Iraq, is to train Iraqis so they can do the hard work of democracy, is to give them a chance to defend their country -- precisely what we're doing. We'll have 125,000 troops trained by the end of this year.
 I remember going on an airplane in Bangor, Me., to say thanks to the Reservists and Guard that were headed overseas from Tennessee and North Carolina and Georgia. Some of them been there before. People I talked to, the spirits were high. They didn't view this, their service as a back-door draft. They viewed their service as an opportunity to serve their country.
 My opponent, the senator, talks about foreign policy. In our first debate he proposed America pass a global test. In order to defend ourselves we have to get international approval. That's one of the major differences we have about defending our country. 
 I work with allies. I work with friends. We'll continue to build strong coalitions. But I will never turn over our national security decisions to leaders of other countries. We'll be resolute, we'll be strong and we'll wage a comprehensive war against the terrorists.

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Senator.

MR. KERRY -- I have never suggested a test where we turn over our security to any nation. In fact I've said the opposite, I will never turn the security of the United States over to any nation. No nation will ever have a veto over us.
 But I think it makes sense, I think most Americans in their guts know, that we ought to pass a sort of truth standard. That's how you gain legitimacy with your own countrypeople and that's how you gain legitimacy in the world. But I'll never fail to protect the United States of America.

MR. BUSH -- In 1990 there was a vast coalition put together to run Saddam Hussein out of Kuwait. The international community, the international world said this is the right thing to do. But when it came time to authorize the use of force on the Senate floor, my opponent voted against the use of force. Apparently, you can't pass any test under his vision of the world.

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Mr. President, new question, two minutes. You said that if Congress would vote to extend the ban on assault weapons that you'd sign the legislation. But you did nothing to encourage the Congress to extend it. Why not?

MR. BUSH -- Actually, I made my intentions, my views clear. I did think we ought to extend the assault-weapons ban and was told the fact that the bill wasn't ever going to move. Because the Republicans and Democrats were against the assault-weapon ban, people of both parties. I believe law-abiding citizens ought to be able to own a gun. I believe in background checks at gun shows or anywhere to make sure that guns don't get in the hands of people that shouldn't have them.
 But the best way to protect our citizens from guns is to prosecute those who commit crimes with guns. And that's why early in my administration I called the attorney general and the U.S. attorneys and said put together task force all around the country to prosecute those who commit crimes with guns. And the prosecutions are up by about 68 percent I believe is the number. Neighborhoods are safer when we crack down on people who commit crimes with guns. To me that's the best way to secure America. 

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Senator.

MR. KERRY -- I believe it was a failure of presidential leadership not to reauthorize the assault-weapons ban. I am a hunter. I'm a gun owner. I've been a hunter since I was a kid -- 12, 13 years old. And I respect the Second Amendment, and I will not tamper with the Second Amendment. But I'll tell you this: I'm also a former law enforcement officer. I ran one of the largest district attorney offices in America, one of the 10 largest. I've put people behind bars for the rest of their life. I've broken up organized crime. I know something about prosecuting. And most of the law enforcement agencies in America wanted that assault weapons ban. They don't want to go into a drug bust and be facing an AK-47. I was hunting in Iowa last year with the sheriff of one of the counties there, and he pointed to a house in back of us and said, ''See that house over there? We just did a drug bust a week earlier and the guy we arrested had an AK-47 lying on the bed right beside him.'' Because of the president's decision, today law enforcement officers will walk into a place that'll be more dangerous. Terrorists can now come into America and go to a gun show and without even a background check buy an assault weapon today. And that's what Osama bin Laden's handbook said, because we captured it in Afghanistan and it encouraged them to do it. So I believe America's less safe. If Tom DeLay or someone in the House said to me, 'Sorry, we don't have the votes,' I'd have said, 'Then we're going to have a fight.' And I'd have taken it out to the country and I'd have had every law enforcement officer in the country visit those congressmen. We'd have won what Bill Clinton won.

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Let's go to a new question for you, Senator Kerry, two minutes. Affirmative action: Do you see a need for affirmative action programs or have we moved far enough along that we no longer need to use race and gender as a factor in school admissions and federal and state contracts and so on?

MR. KERRY -- No, Bob, regrettably, we have not moved far enough along. And I regret to say that this administration has even blocked steps that could help us move further along. I'll give you an example. I'm the -- I've served on the Small Business Committee for a long time, I was chairman of it once, now I'm the senior Democrat on it. We used to, you know, we have a goal there for minority set-aside programs to try to encourage ownership in the country. They don't reach those goals. They don't even fight to reach those goals. They've tried to undo them.
 The fact is that in too many parts of our country we still have discrimination. And affirmative action is not just something that applies to people to color. Some people have a mistaken view of it in America. It also is with respect to women, it's with respect to other efforts to try to reach out and be inclusive in our country.
 I think that we have a long way to go, regrettably. If you look at what's happened -- we've made progress. I want to say that at the same time. During the Clinton years, as you may recall, there was a fight over affirmative action. And there were many people, like myself, who opposed quotas, who felt there were places were it was overreaching. So we had a policy called mend it, don't end it. We fixed it. And we fixed it for a reason: because there are too many people still in this country who feel the stark resistance of racism. And so we have a distance to travel. As president, I will make sure we travel it.
 Now, let me just share something. This president is the first president ever, I think, not to meet with the N.A.A.C.P. This is a president who hasn't met with the Black Congressional Caucus. This is a president who has not met with the civil rights leadership of our country. 
 If a president doesn't reach out and bring people in and be inclusive, then how are we going to get over those barriers? I see that as part of my job as president and I'll make my best effort to do it.

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Mr. President.

MR. BUSH -- Well first of all it's -- it is just not true that I haven't met with the Black Congressional Caucus. I've met with the Black Congressional Caucus at the White House.
 And secondly, like my opponent, I don't agree we ought to have quotas. I agree. We shouldn't have quotas. But we ought to have an aggressive effort to make sure people are educated, to make sure when they get out of high school there's Pell Grants available for them, which is what we've done, we've expanded Pell Grants by a million students.
 Do you realize today in America we spend $73 billion to help 10 million low- and middle-income families better afford college? That's the access I believe is necessary, is to make sure every child learns to read, write, add and subtract early, to be able to build on that education by going to college so they can start their careers with a college diploma. 
 I believe the best way to help our small businesses is not only through small business loans, which we have increased since I've been the president of the United States, but to unbundle government contracts so people have a chance to be able to bid and receive a contract to help get their business going. 
 Minority ownership of businesses are up because we created an environment for the entrepreneurial spirit to be strong. I think -- I believe part of a hopeful society is one in which somebody owns something. Today in America more minorities own a home than ever before. And that's hopeful. And that's positive.

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Mr. President, let's go to a new question. You were asked before the invasion or after the invasion of Iraq if you had checked with your dad. And I believe, I don't remember the quote exactly, but I believe you said you had checked with a higher authority. I would like to ask you what part does your faith play on your policy decisions?

MR. BUSH -- First, my faith plays a big part in my life. And when I was answering that question what I was really saying to the person was that I pray a lot. And I do. And my faith is a very, it's very personal. I pray for strength. I pray for wisdom. I pray for our troops in harm's way. I pray for my family. I pray for my little girls.
 But I'm mindful in a free society that people can worship if they want to or not. You're equally an American if you choose to worship an Almighty and if you choose not to. If you're a Christian, Jew or Muslim, you're equally an American. That's the great thing about America is the right to worship the way you see fit. Prayer and religion sustain me. I receive calmness in the storms of the presidency. I love the fact that people pray for me and my family all around the country. Somebody asked me one time, how do you know? I said I just feel it.
 Religion is an important part. I never want to impose my religion on anybody else. But when I make decisions I stand on principle. And the principles are derived from who I am. I believe we ought to love our neighbor like we love ourself. That's manifested in public policy through the faith-based initiative where we've unleashed the armies of compassion to help heal people who hurt. I believe that God wants everybody to be free. That's what I believe. And that's one part of my foreign policy. In Afghanistan, I believe that the freedom there is a gift from the Almighty. And I can't tell you how encouraged how I am to see freedom on the march. And so my principles that I make decisions on are a part of me. And religion is a part of me. 

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Senator Kerry?

MR. KERRY -- Well, I respect everything that the president has said and certainly respect his faith. I think it's important and I share it. I think that he just said that freedom is a gift from the Almighty. Everything is a gift from the Almighty. And as I measure the words of the Bible, and we all do, different people measure different things: the Koran, the Torah or, you know, Native Americans who gave me a blessing the other day had their own special sense of connectedness to a higher being. And people all find their ways to express it. I was taught -- I went to a church school, and I was taught that the two greatest commandments are love the Lord your God with all your mind, your body and your soul and love your neighbor as yourself. And frankly, I think we have a lot more loving of our neighbor to do in this country and on this planet. We have a separate and unequal school system in the United States of America. There's one for the people who have and there's one for the people who don't have. And we're struggling with that today. The president and I have a difference of opinion about how we live out our sense of our faith. I talked about it earlier when I talked about the works and faith without works being dead. I think we've got a lot more work to do. And as president I will always respect everybody's right to practice religion as they choose or not to practice, because that's part of America.

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Senator Kerry, after 9/11 -- and this is a new question for you -- it seemed to me that the country came together as I've never seen it come together since World War II. But some of that seems to have melted away. I think it's fair to say we've become pretty polarized, perhaps because of the political season. But if you were elected president -- or whoever is elected president -- will you set a priority in trying to bring the nation back together or what would be your attitude on that?

MR. KERRY -- Oh, very much so. Let me pay a compliment to the president, if I may. I think in those days after 9/11, I thought the president did a terrific job. And I really was moved, as well as impressed, by the speech that he gave to the Congress. And I think the hug Tom Daschle gave him at that moment was about as genuine a sense of there being no Democrats, no Republicans. We were all just Americans. That's where we were.
 That's not where we are today. I regret to say that the president who called himself a uniter, not a divider, is now presiding over the most divided America in the recent memory of our country. I've never seen such ideological squabbles in the Congress of the United States. I've never seen members of a party locked out of meetings the way they're locked out today. 
 We have to change that. And as president, I am committed to changing that. You know, I don't care if the idea comes from the other side or this side. I think we have to come together and work to change it. And I've done that. Over 20 years in the United States Senate, I've worked with John McCain, who's sitting here. I've worked with other colleagues. I've reached across the aisle. I've tried to find the common ground because that's what makes us strong as Americans.
 And if Americans trust me with the presidency, I can pledge to you: We will have the most significant effort -- openly, not secret meetings in the White House with special interests, not ideologically driven efforts to push people aside, but a genuine effort to try to restore America's hope and possibilities by bringing people together. 
 And one of the ways we're going to do it is I'm going to work with my friend John McCain to further campaign finance reform so we get these incredible amounts of money out of the system and open it up to average people so America is really represented by the people who make up America.

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Mr. President?

MR. BUSH -- Well my biggest disappointment in Washington is how partisan the town is. I had a record of working with Republicans and Democrats as the governor of Texas. And I was hopeful to be able to do the same thing. And we made good progress early on. The No Child Left Behind Act, incredibly enough, was good work between me and my administration and people like Senator Ted Kennedy.
 And we worked together with Democrats to relieve the tax burden on the middle class and all who pay taxes in order to make sure this economy continues to grow.
 But Washington is a tough town. And the way I view it is there's a lot of entrenched special interests there. People who are, you know, on one side of the issue or another, and they spend enormous sums of money, and they convince different senators to tout their way or different congressmen to talk about their issue. And they dig in.
 I'll continue in the four years to continue to try to work to do -- my opponent said this is a bitterly divided time. Pretty divided in the 2000 election. So in other words it's pretty divided during the 1990's as well. We're just in a period and we've to got work to bring it out. My opponent keeps mentioning John McCain, and I'm glad he did. John McCain is for me for president because he understands I have the right view in winning the war on terror and that my plan will succeed in Iraq, and my opponent has got a plan of retreat and defeat in Iraq.

MR. SCHIEFFER -- We've come gentlemen, to our last question. And it occurred to me as I came to this debate tonight that the three of us share something. All three of us are surrounded by very strong women. We're all married to strong women. Each of us have two daughters that make us very proud. I'd like to ask each of you what is the most important thing you've learned from these strong women?

MR. BUSH -- To listen to them. To stand up straight and not scowl. I love the strong women around me. I can't tell you how much I love my wife and our daughters. I am, you know, it's really interesting, I tell the people on the campaign trail when I asked Laura to marry me she said fine, just so long as I never have to give a speech. I said O.K., you've got a deal. Fortunately, she didn't hold me to that deal. And she's out campaigning along with our girls. And she speaks English a lot better than I do. I think people understand what she's saying. But they see a compassionate, strong, great first lady in Laura Bush. I can't tell you how lucky I am when I met her in the backyard of Joe and Jan O'Neill in Midland, Tex. It was the classic backyard barbecue. O'Neill said come on over, I think you'll find somebody who might interest you. So I said all right, bopped over there. There's only four of us there. And not only did she interest me, I guess you could say it was love at first sight.

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Senator Kerry?

MR. KERRY -- Well, I guess the president and you and I are three examples of lucky people who married up. And some would say maybe me more so than others. But I can take it. Can I say, if I could just say a word about a woman that you didn't ask about, but my mom passed away a couple years ago. And just before I was deciding to run and she was in the hospital and I went in to talk to her and tell her what I was thinking of doing. And she looked at me from her hospital bed and she just looked at me and she said, ''Remember: integrity, integrity, integrity.'' Those are the three words that she left me with. And my daughters and my wife are people who just are filled with that sense of what's right and what's wrong. They also kick me around. They keep me honest. They don't let me get away with anything. I can sometimes take myself too seriously. They surely don't let me do that. And I'm blessed, as I think the president is blessed. As I said last time, I've watched him with the first lady, who I admire a great deal, and his daughters. He's a great father. And I think we're both very lucky.

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Well, gentlemen, that brings us to the closing statements. Senator Kerry, I believe you're first.

MR. KERRY -- My fellow Americans, as you heard from Bob Schieffer a moment ago, America is being tested by division. More than ever we need to be united as a country. And like Franklin Roosevelt, I don't care whether an idea is a Republican idea or a Democrat idea. I just care whether it works for America and whether it's going to make us stronger.
 These are dangerous times. I believe I offer tested, strong leadership that can calm the waters of a troubled world. And I believe that we can, together, do things that are within the grasp of Americans. We can lift our schools up. We can create jobs that pay more than the jobs we're losing overseas. We can have health care for all Americans. We can further the cause of equality in our nation.
 Let me just make it clear: I will never allow any country to have a veto over our security. Just as I fought for our country as a young man, with the same passion, I will fight to defend this nation that I love.
 And with faith in God and with conviction in the mission of America, I believe that we can reach higher. I believe we can do better. I think the greatest possibilities of our country -- our dreams and our hopes -- are out there just waiting for us to grab onto them. 
 And I ask you to embark on that journey with me. I ask you for your trust. I ask you for your help. I ask you to allow me the privilege of leading this great nation of ours, of helping us to be stronger here at home and to be respected again in the world. And most of all, to be safer forever.
 Thank you, good night and God bless the United States of America.

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Mr. President?

MR. BUSH -- In the Oval Office there's a painting by a friend of Laura and mine named, by Tom Lea. It's a West Texas painting, a painting of a mountain scene. And he said this about it. He said, ''Sarah and I live on the east of the mountain. It's the sunrise side not the sunset side. It's the side to see the day that is coming not to see the day that has gone.'' I love the optimism in that painting. Because that's how I feel about America.
 We've been through a lot together during the last three-and-three-quarters years. We've come through a recession, a stock market decline, an attack on our country. And yet because of the hard work of the American people and good policies this economy is growing. Over the next four years we'll make sure the economy continues to grow. We reformed our school system. And now there's an achievement gap in America that's beginning to close. Over the next four years we'll continue to insist on excellence in every classroom in America so that our children have a chance to realize the great promise of America. 
 Over the next four years we'll continue to work to make sure health care is available and affordable. Over the next four years we'll continue to rally the armies of compassion to help heal the hurt that exists in some of our country's neighborhoods. 
 I'm optimistic that we'll win the war on terror. But I understand it requires firm resolve and clear purpose. We must never waver in the face of this enemy, these ideologues of hate. And as we pursue the enemy wherever it exists we'll also spread freedom and liberty. We've got great faith in the ability of liberty to transform societies, to convert a hostile world to a peaceful world. My hope for America is a prosperous America, a hopeful America and a safer world. I want to thank you for listening tonight. I'm asking for your vote. God bless you.

MR. SCHIEFFER -- Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Senator Kerry. Well, that brings these debates to a close. But the campaign goes on. I want to wish both of you the very best of luck between now and election day.
 That's it for us from Arizona State University and Tempe, Ariz. I'm Bob Schieffer of CBS News. Good night, everyone.


CORRECTION-DATE: October 15, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A heading in some copies yesterday with the transcript of the presidential debate misattributed a statement on trade. It was Senator John Kerry, not President Bush, who said, ''I'm going to fight for a fair trade playing field for the American worker.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush reached out to shake the hand of Senator John Kerry, shown in shadow. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. A23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TRANSCRIPTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); FOREIGN POLICY (64%); GRANDCHILDREN (61%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Debating; Election Issues; Abortion; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); JOHN KERRY (94%) George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2004



344 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 14, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: That Cloud Over the United Nations

 BODY:
So much flak has been thrown at United Nations programs to constrain Saddam Hussein's oil revenues and weapons purchases by those charging corruption that the average citizen must be reeling in confusion. The report issued last week by Charles Duelfer, the chief United States weapons inspector, indicates that Iraq generated $11 billion in illicit revenue, imported forbidden military equipment and bribed companies, individuals and government officials around the world to support its efforts to end sanctions. The emerging scandal is already under multiple investigations in this country, in Iraq and at the United Nations. But nothing that has surfaced so far suggests that the sanctions were failing in their main purpose, that the Bush administration's precipitous invasion was necessary or that the United Nations is fatally hobbled by corruption or incompetence.
 The sanctions imposed on Iraq after the first gulf war banned all Iraqi oil exports and prohibited imports of military value, including both conventional arms and ''weapons of mass destruction.'' As the Iraqi population's suffering became apparent, the United States supported a program that allowed Iraq to sell oil. The proceeds went to a special account and were doled out by U.N. officials to buy food, medicine and other civilian items. That now-maligned program not only saved the lives of countless Iraqis, but it also kept the sanctions alive politically for years, right up until the invasion. 
 Now it seems clear that Iraq evaded the sanctions in two important ways. Mr. Hussein managed to sell oil outside the program, mostly by smuggling it to neighboring countries like Jordan, Turkey, Syria and Egypt. He also managed to import some conventional arms and components. None of these imports were related to nuclear, biological or chemical weapons. The sanctions, backed by the presence of weapons inspectors, did their main job.
 Mr. Duelfer has expressed his personal opinion that the sanctions could not have been sustained indefinitely, and many Republicans now use that argument to justify the invasion. But any erosion of support for sanctions occurred before 9/11. Then the sentiment against Iraq hardened, and pricing rules in the oil-for-food program were tightened. Despite President Bush's claim that Mr. Hussein was gaming the program to get rid of sanctions, there was a diminishing likelihood that the sanctions would have been lifted anytime soon.
 The most disturbing news so far points to the possible corruption of U.N. officials. Iraq was allowed to sell its oil under the U.N. program to any buyer it chose. One allegation is that Iraq would set a below-market price on its oil, thus allowing the recipient to resell it at a higher price and pocket the difference. This money may have been intended to encourage recipients -- private individuals, companies and politicians -- to favor ending the sanctions. Among the reported beneficiaries is the U.N. official in charge of running the oil-for-food program. Secretary General Kofi Annan has wisely asked the respected Paul Volcker to head an investigation.
 A more difficult issue is posed by the behavior of U.N. Security Council members. Prominent figures in Russia and France were reportedly made the main beneficiaries of Iraq's largesse, presumably in the hope that they would influence their governments to favor Iraq. But these nations were sympathetic to Iraq from the start. And the accused French and Russians legitimately complain that the Duelfer report listed their names before any guilt had been established, while the names of American companies and individuals who got oil vouchers were kept secret, emerging only in news reports. 
 Security Council members ought to conduct their own investigations -- and cooperate with Mr. Volcker's -- to ascertain whether Iraqi oil money poked holes in the sanctions that all member nations were supposed to uphold. It's important to track down any corruption so future international efforts have the highest level of confidence. At the same time, however, everyone needs to remember that on the most critical count, sanctions worked. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); ARMS TRADE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CORRUPTION (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (89%); BRIBERY (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); SMUGGLING (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); ETHICS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (78%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); DESERT STORM (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); IMPORT CONTROLS (76%); PRODUCT PRICING (70%); POLITICS (70%); TERRORISM (67%); FOOD CHARITIES (66%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Atomic Weapons; Biological and Chemical Warfare; Editorials; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Ethics; Food; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%) United Nations

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%) George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); SYRIA (79%); EGYPT (79%); TURKEY (79%); JORDAN (79%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2004



345 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: G.M., Missing Forecasts, Is Hurt by Loss On U.S. Autos

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT, Oct. 14 

 BODY:
Sapped by everything from surging health care costs to a hemorrhaging European operation, General Motors reported third-quarter earnings on Thursday that were well below Wall Street's expectations, including a loss in its North American automotive business for only the second time in the last decade. 
 The report represented gloomy economic news from one of the nation's largest companies and one with a considerable impact on Midwestern states that will be pivotal in next month's election, like Michigan and Ohio. After the earnings announcement, Standard & Poor's cut G.M.'s debt rating to its lowest investment grade. Fitch reduced G.M.'s debt rating on Wednesday. 
 The company's shares fell $2.46, or 6 percent, to close at $38.84. The stock of its chief American competitor, Ford, dropped 57 cents, or 4.2 percent, to $13.12.
 G.M., the world's largest automaker, also cut its full-year profit forecast to a range of $6 to $6.50 a share from a previous forecast of $7 a share.
 The reduced forecast was largely a result of the company's struggles in Europe. In an attempt to right its operation, G.M. laid out a restructuring plan that included the elimination of 12,000 jobs, or about a fifth of its European work force. The company is also consolidating global product development and engineering operations in an effort to cut costs. 
 G.M. was further hurt in the quarter by a cooling China market as well as weakening domestic demand for the largest sport utility vehicles amid the renewed rise in gasoline prices. 
 The company, whose brands include Chevrolet, Buick and Cadillac, also has yet to prove that it can persuade large numbers of American drivers to buy its products without offering deep discounts. A big incentive push in the third quarter -- including no-interest financing for some six-year loans -- helped clear out a bloated inventory of 2004 models, but eroded profitability.
 Over all, G.M. reported a net profit of $440 million, or 78 cents a share, compared with $425 million, or 79 cents a share, in the period a year earlier, when it had fewer shares outstanding. The results came in well below the 96 cents a share expected by analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call and at the low end of G.M.'s own estimates.
 Analysts also noted that the earnings were increased by $250 million, or 44 cents a share, because G.M. is reducing its product liability reserves based on a review of its methodology, making the operating results appear even weaker. Darren Kimball of Lehman Brothers said in a note to investors that earnings without the decrease in reserves would be only 34 cents a share -- ''a very sizable disappointment.''
 Revenue in the quarter rose to $44.9 billion from $43.5 billion a year earlier. 
 G.M.'s announcement spoke volumes about the impact of the health care system on domestic manufacturers' competitiveness. John M. Devine, the chief financial officer, suggested that the company would increase its health care inflation projection to ''double digits'' annually from the current 8.5 percent, which would most likely reduce its 2005 earnings by hundreds of millions of dollars because of rising costs next year and larger payments to retirees in the future. 
 Mr. Devine also said that G.M. would probably have to pay more than the $5.1 billion estimated this year to cover health costs for workers and retirees. 
 G. Richard Wagoner Jr., the chairman and chief executive, said in a conference call on Thursday: ''The health care cost trends in the U.S. are really out of control. It's a big issue for G.M.; it's a big issue for the U.S. economy as a whole.''
 Increasing health costs put domestic automakers at a considerable disadvantage to competitors in Japan and Germany. G.M. spends about $1,400 for each vehicle produced in the United States on health care, a figure it says is about $1,000 more than Toyota. It provides coverage to 1.1 million Americans, including workers, retirees and families. By contrast, automakers based in Germany and Japan have retirees who live mostly in countries with national health systems. 
 ''This health care situation could get out of control,'' said Stephen Girsky, an analyst at Morgan Stanley. 
 A $130 million loss was reported in worldwide automotive operations, in contrast to a $34 million profit in the quarter a year earlier. The China market, which in recent years has rapidly expanded, is showing signs of cooling off, leading to a drop in overall Asia-Pacific region earnings to $101 million from $162 million in the period last year. 
 North American automotive operations lost $22 million in the quarter, in contrast to a $128 million profit a year earlier. The loss in the company's North American automotive operations was the first since 1995, other than a loss that resulted from a strike in 1998.
 In the United States, sales of big sport utility vehicles, an important source of profit for G.M., are also slowing as high gasoline prices give some customers pause. G.M. executives, however, attribute the phenomenon more to a long-term shift to smaller, lighter sport utility vehicles and crossover vehicles, which combine features of cars and S.U.V.'s. 
 But Standard & Poor's cited petroleum costs among several factors for its debt-rating downgrade. 
 ''Soaring oil prices,'' a statement from S.&P. said, ''heighten the risk that there could be a market shift away from S.U.V.'s and pickups, segments that contribute a highly disproportionate share of GM's automotive profitability.'' 
 In Europe, losses increased to $236 million from $152 million a year earlier. Earnings in Latin America were $27 million, in contrast to a $104 million loss in the quarter a year earlier. 
 Earnings at G.M.'s financing division, the General Motors Acceptance Corporation, which has been the mainstay of company profits, rose to $656 million from $630 million. 
 ''The environment is challenging,'' Mr. Girsky of Morgan Stanley said. Not only is price pressure intensifying in the United States and profitable segments showing signs of weakness, but ''the structural problems in Europe are worse than they are here and China is slowing down.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (77%); ENGINEERING (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (75%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (70%); PRODUCT LIABILITY (64%); GASOLINE MARKETS (64%); PRICE INCREASES (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%) Company Reports ; Automobiles ; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: General Motors Corp; General Motors Corp

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: Danny Hakim

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MIDWEST USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (91%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2004



346 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 59 words

HEADLINE: Weekly Jobless Figure Up

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 14 

 BODY:
The Labor Department reported yesterday that the number of Americans filing initial claims for unemployment benefits increased more than expected in the week ended Saturday. 
 The department said 352,000 people filed initial jobless claims, compared with forecasts of 340,000. The revised tally for the previous week was 337,000. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (92%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%) Labor; Unemployment Insurance

ORGANIZATION: Labor Department (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2004



347 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1516 words

HEADLINE: For Many Airline Pilots, the Thrill Is Gone

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH

 BODY:
Neil Swindells, who flies a United Airlines Airbus 320 out of Chicago, remembers why he chucked his job as a financial analyst to go to flight school nearly 15 years ago. It was not just the prospect of a six-figure salary for flying maybe 80 hours a month, or the lure of being in charge, or the sheer fun of flying. It was, most of all, the glamour, the respect that the pilot's uniform got from passengers and airline management (usually, former pilots themselves) alike.
 When United Airlines hired him nearly 10 years ago, ''I thought I'd won the brass ring,'' Mr. Swindells said. ''It was my ticket to financial independence, to socioeconomic status, to prestige.''
 Today, that ticket feels like a trap. Only the lowest-cost airlines are hiring these days, and they have never paid as much as the mainstream lines like United, a unit of UAL. And a seniority system that bumps pilots down to entry-level jobs when they switch airlines makes it costly to jump ship among the so-called legacy carriers. 
 Of course, the airlines are in a trap, too. United and US Airways are struggling to get out of bankruptcy; Delta Air Lines is poised on the brink of it. Desperate to cut costs, they are turning to the pilots again and again, seeking ever more concessions.
 Not so long ago, even asking for such a vote would have been laughable. In negotiations, the pilots called the shots. When the airlines balked, pilots had many ways to bring them into line. In the summer of 2000 -- when weather and air traffic congestion were already wreaking havoc -- United pilots staged a work-rule slowdown. Numerous flights were delayed; United was forced to apologize to customers; and the pilots won one of their richest contracts ever. 
 But today, while pilots still feel in command in the air, they increasingly are feeling slighted, almost impotent, on the ground. Airlines have extracted huge salary, work-rule and benefits concessions from them. Layers of vice presidencies have been created at many corporate headquarters, so that the chief pilot, the person who oversees all of the fliers, rarely reports directly to the top anymore.
 Pilots are not giving in without a fight. Northwest, for one, is pleading with its pilots for $300 million in concessions. Pilots at US Airways, where salaries have already been cut by an average of $89,000 a year, are refusing to allow a vote on the company's bid for still more cuts. Delta and its pilots have been at odds all year about the airline's bid for $1 billion in cuts, despite repeated threats by Delta to seek Chapter 11 protection.
 Without pilots to lead them, other employee groups generally sit back on similar requests for cuts. But once the airline files for Chapter 11, the sway that pilots have over their fate and those of other workers cedes to a judge's control. And with it, the pilot's dominance is eaten away.
 Gone, too, is much of the glamour, a casualty of the plummeting fares that have made air travel available to the masses. ''People used to wear stockings and heels; we loved welcoming them to the cockpit, and hearing them say, 'Thanks, captain, you did a great job,' when they disembarked,'' said John A. McFadden 3d, who flew for United from 1967 until March of 2000, when he hit the federally mandated retirement age of 60. ''Now you have to ask them to put shoes on, and security issues keep the cockpit door closed.'' 
 All airlines face that, of course, but as a group, United pilots seem particularly galled. United was owned by its employees until its bankruptcy in 2002, so the pilots not only felt on a par with management, in a sense they were management. 
 United and other airlines say that in a world where low-cost carriers are grabbing market share, fuel prices are skyrocketing and passengers are surfing the Internet for the cheapest fares, they have no choice but to cut costs. But pilots say they have already given too much.
 ''The only idea this company has is to take more money from us,'' Mr. Swindells said. ''Well, I don't see the C.E.O. taking a 30 percent pay cut. When they get their house in order, we'll look at further concessions.''
 If Mr. Swindells, even in his defiance, holds out the possibility of further sacrifices, it is probably because he recognizes how dire United's condition remains. It is facing a $1 billion increase in its fuel bill this year, it recently cut back its domestic flights, it is considering yet more layoffs and the termination of its pension plans, and it is facing unremitting competition from low-cost rivals.
 Indeed, not all pilots are as disaffected as Mr. Swindells. ''Yes, pilots have less authority, and service is skeletal, but cost accounting is making that happen throughout corporate America,'' said Mr. McFadden, the retired pilot. 
 His son, John B. McFadden, 37, has been flying for United since 1995, and he, too, seems more saddened than angry. He is the captain of a 737 that flies primarily to the Rockies and Canada, and he is clear-eyed about the mounting drawbacks of his job. 
 When flying took a hit after Sept. 11, he was bumped from captain on a 737 to first officer on a 767 at a ''hefty pay cut'' -- to $120 an hour from $148 an hour. He regained his pilot's status about six months ago, but he still makes less money than before, is away from home for longer stretches, and worries about his eventual retirement pay. 
 United should be able to find ways to cut costs without turning to the employees, he said. ''I still love flying, but I know pilots who think it's gone from a dream job to a daily grind.''
 No wonder. The economy has forced the grounding of many planes and the furloughing of nearly 9,300 pilots, while technology has eliminated some of the entry-level jobs. Pilots used to start out as flight engineers --making sure the instruments are functioning properly -- and worked their way up to co-pilot and finally, captain. Now, computers often do what flight engineers once did, which means that increasingly, there are only two cockpit jobs to fill. 
 And the glamour is tarnished. ''I can still remember, as a kid, flying economy class and seeing a flight attendant roll a cart down the aisle, carving slices from a roast for the passengers,'' the younger Mr. McFadden recalled. ''The service, the uniforms, everything about air travel seemed glamorous.''
 These days, airplanes have become what many pilots disparagingly call ''the Greyhounds of the sky,'' and that has unleashed a vicious cycle: with per-ticket revenue so low, airlines have had to cram in more seats per plane and replace roasts and Champagne with soda and peanuts. And, pilots say, as airports become more congested, more flights are delayed, making passengers cranky. ''Airlines have not escaped the WalMartization of everything in America,'' Mr. Swindells complained. 
 Pilots are still paid relatively well, so often elicit little sympathy from the general public. But Mr. Swindells gets furious when he hears people speak of their supposedly cushy life. Before United declared bankruptcy, Mr. Swindells was making $200 an hour for the 78 hours he spent in the air each month and his annual salary approached $200,000. Today, after more than $1 billion in concessions from the pilots' union, he makes $130 an hour. He gets 10 days off instead of the prior 12, and his pay for waiting in airports or hotels during layovers has also been reduced.
 Indeed, he was speaking by phone with a reporter from O'Hare International Airport during a two-hour break between his landing a flight from Toronto and taking off again for Spokane, Wash. -- two hours for which he says he is not paid. 
 ''If you fly 85 hours a month, you're probably away from home for 320 hours, and you're working 10-hour days for five hours' pay,'' he said. Which means he would have to clock in a lot more time than before to reach the $200,000 mark.
 Mr. Swindells expects that soon after he completes this latest tour, he'll be called in at the last minute to pilot another multiday trip. United, like other airlines, has always had the contractual right to schedule pilots on four hours' notice but, he said, rarely did. Now, after furloughing more than 2,000 pilots as part of a cost-cutting measure, it does. 
 ''I'll come back from five days away and assume I'll be called for another trip,'' he said. ''I won't welcome it. It will help my pay, but I've got a 6-year-old and an 8-year-old, and after five days away, I'm desperate to be home.''
 The airlines, of course, say they need for pilots to be more productive. But Mr. Swindells and others say they are bearing the brunt of management incompetence. 
 ''The bloated structure of United Airlines is the problem, not employee pay,'' he insisted. He points to a recent trip, in which he flew from Chicago to Toronto, Toronto to Chicago, then Chicago to Spokane, then back to Chicago. The trip took five days; one of them, he said, he spent in a hotel in Spokane, doing nothing and being paid only his expenses. 
 ''The airlines say they want us to be more productive,'' he said. ''So why do they keep me sitting in a hotel for an entire day?''


CORRECTION-DATE: October 25, 2004

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Friday about the loss of benefits and prestige for pilots because of the financial problems of the airlines referred incorrectly to the status of John B. McFadden, who works for United. He regained his captain's status about six months ago after serving as a first officer when he switched aircraft. (As a first officer, he was still a pilot.) 

GRAPHIC: Photo: ''I don't see the C.E.O. taking a 30 percent pay cut,'' said Neil Swindells, who flies a United Airlines Airbus 320 out of Chicago. (Photo by Richard Patterson for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (91%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (70%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (61%) Airlines and Airplanes; Pilots; Givebacks (Collective Bargaining); Wages and Salaries; Bankruptcies; Airlines and Airplanes

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (91%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: Northwest Airlines; Delta Air Lines; US Airways

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (92%); LCC (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%)

PERSON: Claudia H Deutsch

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2004



348 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; THEATER REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1307 words

HEADLINE: She's All Smiles (Until She's Not)

BYLINE: By BEN BRANTLEY

 BODY:
The most dangerous smile on Broadway fills the opening minutes of the revival of Craig Lucas's ''Reckless,'' which opened last night at the Biltmore Theater. The smile is worn by Mary-Louise Parker, playing an improbably ecstatic housewife on Christmas Eve, and it's one of those all-embracing, absurdly sincere grins that can wrap an entire theater in a blanket of giddiness.
 ''You'd better watch out,'' says Rachel, Ms. Parker's character, of her Christmas cheer. ''It's catching.'' And yes, it really is, creating a moment of blissed-out communion between a star and her audience. She's happy, we're happy. Why, we may just all float away together. Try not to feel too good, though, if you can help it. Such feelings, as ''Reckless'' makes shatteringly clear, are not meant to last.
 In the course of this animated production from the Manhattan Theater Club, directed with subversive buoyancy by Mark Brokaw, Ms. Parker's smile will waver, tighten and shrink in ways that seem to age her at least a decade. And by the show's end, you may feel as if you've undergone a fast-forwarded program in Prozac withdrawal. 
 Letting the good times fade by artfully staggered degrees is a specialty of both Mr. Lucas and Ms. Parker, who collaborated before to similarly unsettling effect on his ''Prelude to a Kiss,'' seen on Broadway in 1990. Like ''Prelude,'' which took the form of a contemporary fairytale to find the mortal shadow in young love's sunniness, ''Reckless'' milks the tension between a goofy surface intoxication and a core of cold sobriety. A perkily told sad story of a runaway waif-woman in the wide, wild world, ''Reckless'' remains a beguilingly sneaky crash course in the loss of innocence.
 Mr. Lucas, whose works are as thick with whimsy as Pee-wee Herman's playhouse, has never been to everyone's taste. But when he is at his best, and ''Reckless'' definitely qualifies as that, no one can beat him at plying cartoon cuteness to probe the fears that keep grownups awake at night. (Frequent theatergoers of the past decade will be reminded of how much of a prototype ''Reckless'' has turned out to be for a whole school of younger playwrights, like Nicky Silver and, especially, David Lindsay-Abaire.) With its mix of exaggerated, almost vaudevillian comic cadences and poetically patterned images, Mr. Lucas's style is unquestionably best suited to the stage. (Unsatisfactory film versions were made of both ''Prelude'' and ''Reckless,'' which featured Ms. Parker in a supporting role.)
 And ideally, ''Reckless,'' first seen in New York at the Circle Repertory Theater in Greenwich Village, is best experienced in a smaller house. Translating Mr. Lucas's sensibility while avoiding sticky preciousness requires a lightness of touch that big old Broadway usually can't sustain.
 Fortunately, Ms. Parker, who recently won an Emmy for her work in the HBO production of Tony Kushner's ''Angels in America,'' is a natural, full-strength star who is paradoxically adept at making delicacy read large and finding the flow in disjunction. As her character in ''Reckless'' flees across America for reasons more often found in television crime dramas than in madcap comedies, Ms. Parker's high incandescence goes some distance in justifying the presence of this play on Broadway.
 Even more important, her emotional fluidity pulls the audience right along with her in every stuttering step of Rachel's odyssey. This is a big comic performance, but it never feels forced or out of sync with the melancholy at the play's center. And even theatergoers who found her Tony-winning portrayal of a mathematical genius in David Auburn's ''Proof'' too neurotically mannered (for the record, I was not among them) may be converted to Parkerphilia by ''Reckless.''
 The play's plot admittedly seemed fresher 16 years ago than it does today, when hip comedy in film and theater comes in only one color (black) and surrealism is the new naturalism. Enacted against a set by Allen Moyer that brings to mind a picturesque but wobbly toyland, ''Reckless'' is about what happens to Rachel when her lugubrious husband, Tom (Thomas Sadoski), informs her on Christmas Eve that he has sicced a contract killer on her and that she had better leave their cozy suburban home pronto.
 Rachel is thus plunged into a picaresque labyrinth of events that include murder, embezzlement, sessions with an assortment of psychiatrists (all played by the ever-vital Debra Monk) and appearances on both a humiliation-driven quiz show and a Phil Donahue-style talk show. Her companions in mayhem and dwindling hopefulness include a physical therapist named Lloyd (the excellent Michael O'Keefe); his mute girlfriend, Pooty (Rosie Perez); a pony-tailed world charity organization director, Roy (Jeremy Shamos); and a sour bookkeeper, Trish (Olga Merediz), who like everyone else in ''Reckless'' has secrets to burn. ''Do you think we ever really know other people?'' Rachel asks early on. For the play's purposes, it is a rhetorical question.
 None of this would be nearly as involving as it turns out to be if it weren't for Mr. Lucas's expertise in the rhythms of the enduring, self-deluding optimism that is so especially American. Rachel is the ultimate practitioner of such willful innocence, and much of the play's double-edged comedy comes from watching her chirpiness backfire.
 Two quick examples: Rachel meets Pooty, who is in a wheelchair, and says cozily, ''Did you slip on the ice?'' ''She's paraplegic,'' says Lloyd. And when Rachel learns that Trish hates Christmas and jokingly asks if her parents put coal in her stockings, Trish answers, ''My parents were killed when I was 6 years old.''
 Those exchanges embody in miniature the play's overall process of deflation. And it's this carefully rendered sense of life knocking the breath out of you, on levels big and small, that keeps ''Reckless'' from seeming overly dated. Certain satiric elements here may have been surpassed and shrunken by real life in recent years. Certainly, game and talk shows have moved on to much lower circles of hell than those occupied by even the nasty parody versions shown here.
 But there's an eternally relevant sting in Mr. Lucas's portrayal of a world that will indeed confirm your direst fantasies if you stick around long enough. (An appropriately dark footnote: Mr. Lucas's plays since ''Prelude,'' especially the fierce and courageous ''Dying Gaul,'' have become angrier and angrier, and none offer even the slight solace of redemption found in ''Reckless.'') Mr. Brokaw and his skilled ensemble eloquently and consistently evoke the uneasiness beneath the show's blitheness.
 It is Ms. Parker, however, who convincingly turns Rachel's travels into a voyage that all adults eventually make, a journey into the awareness of how truly scary, and ultimately tragic, life is. When you see Ms. Parker at the end of ''Reckless,'' a depleted figure of stoical resignation, you may look back to the beatifically wide-eyed girl of the opening scenes with the startled pang that often comes with memories of youth.

Reckless

By Craig Lucas; directed by Mark Brokaw; original music and sound by David Van Tieghem; sets by Allen Moyer; costumes by Michael Krass; lighting by Christopher Akerlind; production stage manager, James Fitzsimmons; production manager, Ryan McMahon. Presented by Manhattan Theater Club, Lynne Meadow, artistic director; Barry Grove, executive producer; and Second Stage Theater, Carole Rothman, artistic director; Timothy J. McClimon, executive producer. Biltmore Theater, 261 West 47th Street, Manhattan.

WITH: Mary-Louise Parker (Rachel); Olga Merediz (Trish, woman patient); Debra Monk (Doctors One through Six); Michael O'Keefe (Lloyd); Rosie Perez (Pooty, Sue); Thomas Sadoski (Tom, Man in Ski Mask, Tom Junior); and Jeremy Shamos (Roy, Tim Timko, Talk Show Host).


GRAPHIC: Photos: Mary-Louise Parker stars in the revival of Craig Lucas's ''Reckless,'' which opened last night. (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. E1)
 Thomas Sadoski and Mary-Louise Parker star in a revival of ''Reckless.'' (Photo by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. E21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); ANIMATION (72%); CHRISTMAS (72%); DRAMA LITERATURE (72%); WRITERS (62%); THEATER (58%) Theater; Reviews

ORGANIZATION: Manhattan Theater Club

PERSON: Ben Brantley; Craig Lucas; Mark Brokaw; Mary-Louise Parker

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2004



349 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: In City Numbed by Violence, the Death of a Young Boy Stirs Anguish

BYLINE: By CHARLIE LeDUFF

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Oct. 14 

 BODY:
The recent murder of a 14-year-old boy, who begged on his knees before being killed, has shocked the conscience of a city inured to violence on its troubled south side. 
 In response to the killing, the police department has begun an intense investigation, though officials say they have few leads despite an anonymous tip line number printed in local newspapers and broadcast on television and radio stations.
 Most disturbing, investigators say, is the fact that the boy, Byron Lee Jr., a ninth grader at Fremont High School, appeared to be an innocent victim. At 2:10 p.m. last Saturday, he was riding his bicycle through an alleyway near his home in the South Central section of the city when two men in a dark-colored car shot him. 
 As the boy fell to the ground, the two men got out of their car and unloaded their weapons into his face and torso. He was struck 19 times.
 The murder appeared to be gang-related, though the boy had nothing to do with gangs, Detective Rudy Lemos, an investigator assigned to the 77th Street Division of the police department, said. The boy was ''hunted'' and shot down like a deer, Detective Lemos said, by two men from outside the neighborhood. 
 ''The kid wasn't a gangster; the people who did it were,'' he said. ''There is a turf war going on in the neighborhood. Some people decided to do what they call 'work.' Hunt someone down. Just to let their rivals know they are still around.''
 He said: ''It's a subculture that's hard to understand in that it has an evil mindset. This was just a 14-year-old boy.''
 The brutality of the murder has led to more attention than the usual south side shootings receive, and highlights the fact that there are two distinct Los Angeleses existing uneasily side by side.
 There is one to the north of the Santa Monica Freeway, replete with convertible sports cars and homes where old trees grow. Then there is the Los Angeles south of the freeway, the one of chronic unemployment and gangs and houses with bars over the windows.
 The two cities rarely overlap and the police chief, William Bratton, has said publicly that some citizens of the north are oblivious to the murder rate and economic isolation that cripple those in the south.
 Byron's murder is not the only random killing committed by gang members this year in Southern California. In April, a California highway patrolman was shot and killed in Pomona, a city east of Los Angeles, in a drive-by gang initiation rite. In July, an ex-convict who was trying to change his life was gunned down in East Los Angeles while cleaning gang graffiti from a wall. 
 Chief Bratton made a 20 percent drop in murder the centerpiece of his goals for this year, but instead there has been a nearly 2 percent increase. Byron was the 417th murder victim this year. There were 410 in the same period last year.
 Moreover, the number of murders in the 12-square-mile 77th Street Division has shot up precipitously, to 73 from 51 last year, a 43 percent increase. Detective Lemos said that 48 of those homicides were gang-related and that more than 30 gangs operated in the area.
 In the South Bureau, a 58-square-mile area south of the freeway that includes the 77th Division and is home to 640,000 residents, the problem is mammoth. Almost 200 people have been killed and 1,000 shot, much of the violence caused by rival factions of the Bloods and Crips gangs.
 The Bloods represent themselves with red clothing, the Crips wear blue. As a measure of self-preservation, residents of southern Los Angeles wear neither.
 ''Byron was wearing black,'' said his uncle, Dwayne Marshall, 18. ''Is it too much to ask that kids should be able to go out and play?''
 When Chief Bratton accepted his job two years ago, he referred to gang members as ''terrorists,'' and was roundly criticized by church leaders, academics and politicians as uninformed and counterproductive. But in Byron's neighborhood on Thursday, residents said Chief Bratton was nothing if not correct.
 ''When the night comes, I lock myself in the house,'' said Minnie Davis, 80, who lives across the street from the alley where Byron was slain. ''I ask myself, Lord, why? Why are young people fighting each other, killing one another? The police, the mayor. They can't fix it. It's beyond that.''
 Byron will be buried on Saturday at the Inglewood Cemetery.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Byron Lee, a 14-year-old Los Angeles boy, above, was shot to death, apparently by gang members with whom he had no involvement. A memorial stood in front of his home yesterday. (Photo by J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MURDER (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); GANGS (89%); CRIME RATES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); CHILDREN (75%); MOTOR VEHICLES (74%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (73%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (71%); VANDALISM (63%) Murders and Attempted Murders; Children and Youth; Gangs

PERSON: Charlie Leduff; Byron Lee

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Los Angeles (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2004



350 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: Monthly Trade Deficit Rose To Near Record in August

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH BECKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 14 

 BODY:
The United States monthly trade deficit surged to its second-highest level in August, pushed by the rising price of oil and little improvement in American exports, the Commerce Department reported Thursday.
 The difference between the United States' exports of goods and services and its imports jumped to $54 billion, the worst figure since June when the deficit was a record $55 billion.
 The rising cost of crude oil, which was $45 a barrel in August and settled Thursday at $54.76, was cited for much of the rising deficit, along with a one-time $800 million fee to buy royalties and licenses for the Olympic Games in Athens. 
 ''This number was juiced by the higher prices of oil and the very large and very fleeting cost of fees for the Olympics,'' said Robert DiClemente, economist at Citigroup Global Markets. ''From a standpoint of economic activity, this number doesn't change anything.''
 Mr. DiClemente was among the more optimistic analysts.
 Ted Wieseman, an economist at Morgan Stanley, said the trade gap was wider than expected and his company was reducing its growth estimate for the quarter to an annual pace of 4 percent from 4.6 percent.
 ''This does have negative growth implications,'' Mr. Wieseman said.
 The United States lost ground with nearly all its trading partners in August, registering a now routine increase in its deficit with China, which rose to $15.4 billion.
 Better news came from Europe, where the United States narrowed the month's trade deficit with European Union countries to $10 billion from $11.1 billion.
 ''At this rate, we're running an annual trade deficit of over $600 billion,'' said Peter Morici, an economist at the University of Maryland business school, ''and that's a very large number that has to be dealt with at some point.'' 
 The rise in crude oil prices is having a double impact on the American trade situation. It is not only increasing the cost to import petroleum products but is also slowing global growth, thereby reducing demand for American products abroad, several analysts said.
 The trade report came a day after the third presidential debate, when the trade deficit was barely mentioned. The trade figures do underline questions about the strength of the dollar in relation to foreign currencies, especially the Chinese yuan, which has been the subject of searing criticism in Congress and on the campaign trail.
 Democrats seized on the trade report Thursday. Representative Sander M. Levin, Democrat of Michigan and ranking minority member of the House Ways and Means trade subcommittee, said that by failing to force China to raise the value of its currency against the dollar and with it the price of its imports, President Bush was partly responsible for the widening deficit with the Chinese and for the situation of manufacturers that have lost out to competition from Chinese products.
 ''As the trade deficit soars,'' Mr. Levin said, ''alarms are sounding for U.S. workers and businesses.''
 He accused the Bush administration of allowing the playing field in trade to become ''more and more uneven as foreign competitors violate international rules of competition.''
 Americans in particular bought cellphones, television sets and advanced technology products from China, as well as toys and less-expensive consumer goods. When the global quota system for textiles and apparel is abolished in January, the Chinese exports are expected to rise still further. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); ROYALTIES (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); IMPORT PRICES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); OLYMPICS (74%); EUROPEAN UNION (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); POLITICAL PARTIES (63%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (60%); POLITICAL DEBATES (60%) International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) European Union; Commerce Department

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); MS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: SANDER M LEVIN (50%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%) Elizabeth Becker

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (94%); CHINA (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); GREECE (57%) China; Europe

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2004



351 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 63 words

HEADLINE: After the Debates: Bush and Kerry, Side by Side

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Why were there no questions about energy issues in the debate on Wednesday night?
 Dependence on foreign oil is an important national security concern. Fuel prices affect the entire economy; high prices affect low-income citizens disproportionately. 
 Americans deserve to know where the candidates stand on this critical issue.

Jason Warren
New Paltz, N.Y., Oct. 14, 2004


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (86%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2004



352 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: Citigroup Has Record Gain; Bank of America Up 29%

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY L. O'BRIEN

 BODY:
Citigroup, the nation's largest bank, reported a record increase in earnings for the third quarter on Thursday and addressed concerns among investors about a corporate culture that has drawn regulatory scrutiny and a large legal settlement on three continents.
 The bank, buoyed by a robust consumer business that largely overshadowed the weak capital markets that continue to plague Wall Street firms, said its quarterly profit rose 13 percent, to $5.31 billion, or $1.02 a share, from $4.7 billion, or 90 cents a share, in the period a year ago. 
 But the manner in which Citigroup earns its impressive sums has come into question.
 In May, the bank agreed to pay $2.65 billion to settle securities claims in the United States by investors who bought stock and bonds in WorldCom Inc. before it filed for bankruptcy protection two years ago; Citigroup was WorldCom's lead banker. 
 A month later, Citigroup suspended two of its leading investment banking executives in China, citing them for presenting false financial information to Chinese regulators and to the bank itself.
 In August, Britain's leading securities regulator announced that it was investigating the circumstances surrounding a $13.5 billion bond trade that Citigroup executed that month. Citigroup essentially orchestrated a large sale of European government debt and then repurchased that debt shortly afterward at depressed prices.
 The trade demonstrated Citigroup's market muscle, but also angered European traders who criticized it as, at best, an unseemly use of that power. 
 The bank has apologized for the bond trade, and the British investigation is continuing. 
 Last month, regulators in Japan ordered Citigroup to close its private banking operation there, citing securities and lending irregularities at the unit. And the bank still faces uncertainties regarding lawsuits over its involvement in the collapse of Enron.
 Citigroup's chief executive, Charles O. Prince, acknowledged yesterday at the start of a conference call with analysts that the events had damaged the bank's reputation.
 ''When things happen that cause that legacy and history to be tarnished a little bit, it hurts all of us. It hurts me personally,'' he said. ''I just want to make it clear to all of you that for all of us examples like that are simply not acceptable.''
 Mr. Prince noted the ''strong action'' the bank had taken to address its cultural problems and said there was more to come. He declined to elaborate when questioned by an analyst, other than to say he did not expect that Citigroup would be forced to add billions of dollars to its already outsize legal reserves.
 Citigroup said in its earnings release that it added $100 million in the quarter to legal reserves for its European, Middle Eastern and African corporate and investment banking unit. 
 Todd S. Thomson, Citigroup's chief financial officer, declined in an interview to detail the reasons for the $100 million increase in reserves. But he said that there had been no ''reputational fallout'' in terms of the bank's profitability or in its ability to hold leading positions in coveted league tables that rank all banks across financial activities.
 Some analysts said that concerns about earnings problems related to Citigroup's regulatory woes had been overblown, in part because the bank had done a poor job of courting the investment community.
 ''Investors perceive that the company is constantly selling them rather than giving them a clear-eyed picture of things,'' said Richard Bove, a banking analyst with Punk, Ziegel & Company, a research firm in New York. But Mr. Bove noted that the bank's share price, which closed down 41 cents yesterday at $43.70, is a weak reflection of Citigroup's earnings potential.
 ''The company is increasing its profits, increasing its cash flow, and increasing its revenues,'' Mr. Bove said. ''If a company does that it is increasing its economic value.''
 The Bank of America Corporation, the nation's third-largest bank, also reported increased earnings yesterday, largely because of a strong performance from its consumer units. It said profit for the third quarter rose 29 percent, to $3.76 billion, or 91 cents a share, from $2.92 billion, or 96 cents a share, in the period a year ago.
 The bank's earnings per share fell in the quarter because it issued stock to acquire the FleetBoston Financial Corporation for $48 billion in April. Bank of America said third-quarter results for last year did not include the FleetBoston acquisition.
 While the bank has heavily deployed one-time gains and other forms of financial engineering in previous quarters, analysts said that this quarter's numbers showed much clearer core earnings growth.
 ''Our results show we are attracting and deepening customer relationships across the franchise,'' the chief executive, Kenneth D. Lewis, said. ''Commercial is seeing positive growth trends and the consumer business remains our workhorse.''
 On a down day for the market as a whole, Bank of America's shares fell 81 cents, to $44.20, in light trading. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); CORPORATE CULTURE (90%); BONDS (90%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); MERCHANT BANKING (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (72%); LITIGATION (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); PRIVATE BANKING (51%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) Banks and Banking; Records and Achievements; Company Reports

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (56%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Citigroup Inc; Bank of America

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%); VZC (LSE) (56%); VZ (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: KENNETH D LEWIS (50%) Charles O Prince; Kenneth D Lewis; Timothy L O'Brien

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (92%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2004



353 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: G.M., Struggling in Europe, Sets Big Job Cuts

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: RUSSELSHEIM, Germany, Oct. 14 

 BODY:
Europe has been a cold place for American carmakers these last few years. On Thursday, the General Motors Corporation made clear just how cold, announcing it would eliminate up to 12,000 jobs, mostly in Germany, as it tries to breathe life into its business.
 The cuts, which amount to nearly a fifth of its European work force, are intended to save G.M. 500 million euros ($620 million) a year by 2006. The announcement set off a wave of angst in Germany, the home of G.M.'s Opel division. Auto workers are already in tense contract negotiations with Volkswagen. 
 ''We continue to struggle here in Europe,'' said Fritz Henderson, the chairman of G.M. Europe, in a session with a handful of reporters at Opel's headquarters here. Mr. Henderson said G.M. had to cut its labor costs, quickly and substantially, if it wanted to have a viable European business.
 And he refused to rule out further cuts, or even plant closings, as G.M. compares costs at factories in Germany and Sweden with those in Eastern Europe in deciding where to put future car production.
 ''Whether it is sufficient, I'm not going to get into,'' Mr. Henderson said of the cuts, noting it was already a ''pretty heavy day.''
 G.M., which makes Saab and Vauxhall in addition to Opel, reported on Thursday that its European division lost $236 million in Europe in the third quarter. That compares with a loss of $152 million in the period a year earlier. Over the last four years, G.M. has lost $3 billion in Europe.
 The Ford Motor Company, which owns Volvo, Jaguar and Land Rover, lost $1 billion in Europe last year alone.
 Some of these problems reflect a general European slump that has kept people away from dealer showrooms. New-car registrations slipped 0.7 percent in Western Europe in September, compared with those last year.
 But other problems are more deeply felt by the Americans. G.M. and Ford have been threatened as Japanese carmakers have made strong inroads, while European luxury brands like BMW and Mercedes-Benz have used new, smaller cars to chip away at the American makers' middle-market franchise.
 And though Ford and G.M. have a sharper image among Europeans today than they did five years ago, both are still laboring to shake a reputation for humdrum cars, shoddily manufactured.
 ''They didn't have good quality or interesting cars, so they lost out against other brands in Europe,'' said Ferdinand Dudenhoffer, the director of the Center for Automotive Research in Gelsenkirchen. ''So it is very important for them to come up with interesting products for the future.''
 G.M. bears an additional burden because the bulk of its production is in Germany, where labor costs are among the highest in the world. Carl-Peter Forster, the president of G.M. Europe, said if Opel used French workers instead of Germans, and left all other costs the same, it would save 500 million euros to 700 million euros a year ($620 million to $868 million) in wage costs.
 The disparity is even greater between Germany and Poland, where Opel plans to make a compact minivan. 
 Analysts expect many of the job reductions to fall on the mammoth Opel plant here in Russelsheim, a Frankfurt suburb, and one in Bochum, in the Ruhr Valley. The deputy head of the works council for the Bochum plant, Rainer Einenkel, said Opel planned to cut 10,000 jobs in Germany by 2008.
 G.M. said the precise number of reductions would be decided in negotiations with the unions and works councils. The workers threatened a variety of job actions to protest G.M.'s move. 
 Last month, Ford announced that it would shut down a plant in Coventry, England, that produces Jaguars, eliminating 1,150 jobs. It also said it would sell Jaguar's costly Formula One racing program.
 Although G.M.'s cuts may seem radical, analysts and insiders say they are long overdue. The announcement is a tacit admission that its previous cost-cutting program, known as Project Olympia, had failed.
 ''We've known about the overcapacity situation for a long time,'' said one G.M. employee, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. ''It's just a question of not making the tough calls.''
 Mr. Forster, a former BMW executive who ran Opel before his European post, focused on reviving the brand's lackluster image. Among his products is the new Opel Astra, a compact car that received enthusiastic reviews and has given Volkswagen's new Golf a run for its money.
 But Opel has been bedeviled by the weak German economy, which has forced it to offer sales incentives to lure buyers. Mr. Forster insisted Opel would meet its sales goal of more than 200,000 new Astras in 2004, but he conceded it would not generate as much profit as he hoped.
 Much of the talk preceding Thursday's news centered on whether G.M. would close a plant. Mr. Henderson said he was confident it could make its cuts without taking such a politically charged step. 
 But G.M.'s European workers cannot rest easy. Mr. Henderson said plant closings could occur later in the decade, after the company decided where to build new models, based on the competitiveness of the facilities.
 Workers are nervously awaiting a decision early next year by G.M. about where it will produce the next generation of the Opel Vectra and the Saab 9-3, midsize cars that are built on the same platform.
 General Motors could opt to build the Vectra at the Saab plant in Trollhattan, Sweden, rather than in Russelsheim. Equally, it could relocate Saab production from Sweden to the Frankfurt suburbs.
 ''Could you build a Saab outside Sweden?'' Mr. Henderson said. ''The answer, yes. Could you build an Opel in Sweden? The answer, yes.''
 Still, executives at G.M. are aware that these decisions carry weighty political consequences. Mr. Forster said he spoke this morning with Germany's minister for economics and labor, Wolfgang Clement, to inform him of G.M.'s plans. Mr. Forster said the German government pledged to work with the company by helping to retrain workers for new jobs.
 Mr. Clement had been scheduled to meet the French finance minister, Nicolas Sarkozy, on Thursday to smooth out a recent dispute over France's intervention in the market to help French companies.
 But Mr. Clement canceled the session so he could head for Bochum to meet with Opel's worker representatives there.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Workers at the General Motors Opel plant in Bochum, Germany, gathered yesterday to hear about the plans for possibly 12,000 job cuts. (Photo by Volker Hartmann/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. W1)
 Many of the job cuts by General Motors are expected to fall on the Opel plant in Bochum, Germany. Opel has another plant near Frankfurt. (Photo by Michael Sohn/Associated Press)(pg. W7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); PLANT CLOSINGS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); LUXURY GOODS (75%); NEW VEHICLE REGISTRATIONS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (73%); CLOSINGS (67%) Automobiles; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (93%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (91%)

ORGANIZATION: General Motors Corp; Volkswagen Ag

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (93%); F (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%)

PERSON: FREDERICK HENDERSON (79%) Mark Landler

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (91%); EASTERN EUROPE (59%); WESTERN EUROPE (59%) Europe; Germany

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2004



354 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3197 words

HEADLINE: Amtrak Pays Millions for Others' Fatal Errors

BYLINE: By WALT BOGDANICH; Claire Hoffman, Eric Koli and Jenny Nord-berg contributed reporting for this article.

 BODY:
It is no mystery why, one spring day two years ago, an Amtrak passenger train jumped the tracks near Crescent City, Fla., and skidded to a stop on its side, killing 4 people and injuring 142.
 Investigators concluded that the track, owned by the big freight railroad CSX, had not been properly stabilized and that management's oversight of maintenance had been lax. But when millions of dollars in damage claims arose from the crash, it was not CSX, a multibillion-dollar corporation, that paid them. It was Amtrak, the perennial money loser that survives only with regular infusions of cash from American taxpayers.
 Three months later, it happened again. Poor track maintenance by CSX caused an Amtrak train to derail in Maryland, investigators said, injuring nearly 100 people. Again, Amtrak covered claims against CSX. 
 In accident after accident, in derailments and grade-crossing collisions, CSX and other major freight railroads have used Amtrak to shield themselves from tens of millions of dollars in liability, an examination by The New York Times has found.
 For three decades, Amtrak has been paying these liability claims, regardless of fault, as a condition for using the freight lines' tracks. Not only do these payments shift the burden of paying for negligence from profitable corporations to taxpayers, they remove an incentive for railroads to keep their tracks safe.
 There has never been a full accounting of these payments. Even Amtrak officials could not say how much the arrangement, known as indemnification, has cost the railroad, which needed $1.2 billion in government subsidies this year to stay afloat.
 But an analysis by The Times of records obtained through the federal Freedom of Information Act found that Amtrak has paid more than $186 million since 1984 for accidents blamed entirely or mostly on others. In each instance, freight railroads were accused of playing the major or a contributing role in causing those accidents, which killed 53 people and injured nearly 1,300, according to court records, government investigators and lawyers for crash victims.
 Most of those accidents were not covered by Amtrak's insurance, an Amtrak spokesman said. And the $186 million reflects only part of Amtrak's costs stemming from accidents. The figure does not include payments made before 1984, outstanding claims from recent accidents, settlements of less than $100,000, the cost of repairing damaged Amtrak equipment and legal bills for defending the freight railroads in court. 
 These indemnity agreements represent another way in which some of the nation's freight railroads side-step responsibility in accidents. In July, The Times reported that railroads had destroyed, mishandled or simply lost evidence in grade-crossing accidents and had also failed to properly report hundreds of accidents to federal authorities. 
 Freight railroads have long had the political muscle to insist that Amtrak, which is beholden to Congress for its survival, indemnify them for accident claims. In 1997, after a federal judge questioned the legality of granting railroads blanket immunity, Congress rose to the defense of the freight railroads, passing a bill that, among other things, reaffirmed Amtrak's legal right to indemnify the freight lines. 
 Two years later, Amtrak officials said they had no choice but to cover $63.8 million in punitive damages, including interest, after CSX was found to have caused a fatal Amtrak crash in Lugoff, S.C. A judge called CSX's negligence ''borderline criminal.''
 ''It's a bitter pill to swallow,'' said an Amtrak spokesman, Cliff Black. ''It hurts our bottom line. It hurts our treasury.''
 Amtrak says it has received about $8 billion in government support over the last decade, and last year alone paid about $100 million to use their tracks. 
 The freight railroads say indemnification merely protects them from risks they would not face if Congress had not insisted that Amtrak, which owns little track of its own, use their rails. Congress, CSX said in a statement, ''balanced that demand on private property by calling upon passenger railroads to bear the costs of insuring against potential liabilities.''
 The freight lines also pointed out that indemnity agreements are common in the rail industry, since companies sometimes run their trains on another's tracks. And they dismiss the idea that such agreements discourage attention to safety. ''We suffer great economic harm when our freight trains have accidents, and we go to great lengths to prevent accidents of all types,'' said Kathryn Blackwell, a spokeswoman for Union Pacific.
 But those arguments do not sway Angelica Palank, who received the $63.8 million payment after her husband, Paul, a police officer, was among eight people killed in the South Carolina crash in 1991. A faulty CSX track switch caused the accident. 
 Ms. Palank said she gave eight years of her life to legal warfare against CSX. After raising her two children alone, suffering depression and enrolling in law school so she could better understand the case, she believed that justice had finally been done after the judge in her case upheld the jury verdict, calling CSX's carelessness and greed ''the functional equivalent of manslaughter.'' She believed that CSX, chastened, might not misbehave in the future.
 But several weeks ago, a Times reporter told her, for the first time, that the money she received by wire transfer had not come from CSX, but rather from Amtrak.
 First came disbelief, then anger, and finally tears. ''I'm mortified,'' she said. ''Everything I've been living under is a lie. I was feeling on a personal level at least I did my part, and now I find out I didn't.''

Origins of an Obligation
 Amtrak's obligation to pay for the mistakes of others dates back to its first days. Created by Congress in 1970, Amtrak preserved passenger travel by allowing railroads to unload this money-losing service -- which the railroads had been threatening to drop -- onto a semipublic corporation. 
 But Amtrak still had to negotiate the terms for using tracks it did not own. The American Association of Railroads, the freight lines' trade group, made it clear that its members wanted no liability for passenger deaths and injuries even if they caused them. Amtrak, on the other hand, worried that such an agreement might be fiscally unsound and potentially unsafe for passengers, records show. It wanted liability assigned on the basis of fault.
 Neither side appeared willing to budge. Then, just before the matter was to be turned over to arbitration, Amtrak tried negotiating with just one railroad, Burlington Northern, rather than the association, records show. Soon, Amtrak relented and signed an indemnity agreement that became a model for the industry.
 Amtrak backed down, records show, after Burlington Northern argued that its tracks were safe and that disputes over fault might inflate the cost of settling claims. Ultimately, Amtrak agreed to cover accident claims from its own passengers and employees. The freight railroads were responsible for their own employees should they be injured by an Amtrak train. 
 How vigorously Amtrak pressed its case is open to question. Records show that when negotiations began, Burlington Northern was in a position to exert influence over Amtrak's affairs. Not only did its chairman, Louis W. Menk, sit on Amtrak's board, along with two executives from other freight railroads, but Burlington Northern also owned about 3.3 million shares of Amtrak's common stock, which it obtained in exchange for giving Amtrak rail equipment. Other railroads were also given shares. 
 Although the government owned the controlling shares in the corporation, the railroads did initially have a say in picking three of Amtrak's directors, with the government picking most of them. 
 ''Was the fox in the hen house?'' said Thomas M. Downs, who served as Amtrak's chief executive two decades later, from 1993 to December 1997. ''Of course.'' 
 The negotiations over indemnity, Mr. Downs said he believed, were not conducted at arms-length among equals. ''There was barely a railroad to negotiate with on the Amtrak side,'' he said, adding that Amtrak was dependent on the freight railroads to keep its passenger trains on schedule. ''Freight railroads had all the marbles.''
 At the time, Mr. Black said some members of Congress believed that Amtrak would merely be a stepping stone to getting rid of passenger service. ''Many observers thought it would just go away,'' he said.
 But it did not, and indemnity agreements has haunted Amtrak for years, said Mr. Downs, who now runs the Eno Transportation Foundation, which seeks to improve different modes of transportation. ''It was one of the things that always gave me heartburn in my dealings with the freight railroads, because there was no accountability.''

Questions of Costs
 Amtrak's indemnity payments stemmed not just from derailments but also from accidents at grade crossings.
 Such was the case on Sept. 26, 1999, when an Amtrak train came barreling through tiny McLean, Ill. Two high school honor students, Stuart A. Curtis and C. Dannen Latherow, did not realize a train was approaching because an employee for Union Pacific, which owned the tracks, had accidentally disconnected the warning lights and gates, according to an investigation by the National Transportation Safety Board.
 Both boys were killed. Amtrak paid $4 million to their families.
 Amtrak paid considerably more -- $32 million -- after a jury concluded that Union Pacific bore prime responsibility for an August 1997 grade-crossing accident in Missouri. The jury said Amtrak played a minor role in that accident. 
 Local residents had complained about the difficulty in seeing approaching trains, partly because of overgrown vegetation. A state judge concluded that Union Pacific knew or should have known that the crossing was dangerous. In fact, another Amtrak train had killed a motorist there just four months earlier. And Amtrak paid for that accident, too -- $1.7 million.
 Mr. Downs said he had been concerned enough about having to pay for the mistakes of others that he called Union Pacific's chairman, Dick Davidson. As Mr. Downs recalls the conversation, ''He said, 'That's not our job, that's yours. That's the price for carrying passengers on our railroad.'''
 A spokeswoman for Union Pacific said that Mr. Davidson did not recall that conversation, and that it ''would be inaccurate to quote him in this manner.''
 Last year, Amtrak paid the freight lines about $100 million for using their tracks. That figure is so low, according to the Association of American Railroads, that its members should be upset with Amtrak, not the other way around. The association sent The Times a copy of its own study for 2001 that said that the freight railroads actually gave Amtrak about $243 million in indirect subsidies by discounting the cost of using their tracks. 
 But Harvey Levine, a former economist for the railroad association -- who now testifies on behalf of accident victims -- said the association study ignored the fact that Amtrak was already shouldering nearly $1 billion in losses each year, losses that the railroads themselves would have faced had Amtrak not stepped in and assumed the burden of carrying passengers. 
 An Amtrak official said it was ''completely bogus'' for the association to suggest that Amtrak was not paying its fair and agreed-upon share. If the freight railroads could prove Amtrak was underpaying them, the official said, they would make an issue of it. But they have not, he added.
 In fact, the inspector general for Amtrak, Fred E. Weiderhold Jr., said that over the last 10 years he had questioned about $54 million in billings that the freight railroads submitted to Amtrak. Those billings relating to track use were either unjustified or unsupported by records, Mr. Weiderhold said. Amtrak, he added, negotiated settlements with the railroads for about 30 percent to 40 percent of the disputed amount. 
 Most of Amtrak's accidents are not covered by insurance. Since 1995, Amtrak itself has had to pay all claims of up to $10 million for a single accident; before that, its deductible was $25 million for collisions and derailments, an Amtrak spokesman said.
 Told of the size of some of Amtrak's indemnification payments, Frank Clemente, who runs the consumer group Public Citizens Congress Watch, said, ''I think if the public knew this it would be up in arms.''

Questions of Safety
 Government officials in recent years have expressed concern about the safety of America's 200,000 miles of railroad track. Federal statistics show that in 2003 there were slightly more derailments than a decade ago, though train accidents over all have been dropping.
 The effect on Amtrak has been a particular concern. In October 2002, worried about CSX's track-related accidents, particularly those involving passenger trains, an official of the federal Department of Transportation wrote a memorandum urging regulators to form a special task force to monitor CSX's track-safety programs, records show. That memorandum, from the department's inspector general's office, cited repeated attempts by the Federal Railroad Administration, dating back to the mid 1990's, to bring CSX's tracks up to standard.
 In its statement, CSX said it had ''invested more than $5 billion in track, signals, training and inspection programs over the last five years to make a safe railroad even safer.'' At the same time, CSX said that ''it is not only false, it defies logic'' to suggest any relationship between indemnity and CSX's, or the entire industry's, attention to safety. ''The industry has dramatically improved safety since the type of Amtrak agreements you question were put in place in the 1970's,'' the statement said.
 Still, the question of such a relationship was at the center of the most serious challenge to Amtrak's indemnity agreements.
 On Jan. 4, 1987, an Amtrak train crashed into a Conrail train in Chase, Md. Sixteen people were killed and more than 174 were injured. Just before the crash, the Conrail engineer had used marijuana and had intentionally disabled an audible warning device in his cab. The engineer later pleaded guilty to manslaughter and was sent to jail.
 Amtrak argued in federal court that Conrail's wrongdoing was so egregious that any indemnity payments would violate public policy. The judge, Oliver Gasch of Federal District Court in Washington, agreed -- in part. He wrote that Amtrak officials who negotiated the original indemnity agreement ''were deeply concerned about the maintenance of safety'' and did not intend for the agreement to ''deprive the traveling public of its reasonable expectation'' that Conrail would operate safely. To insulate Conrail from punitive damages, he concluded, ''would render meaningless'' the obligation of Conrail to meet safety standards. 
 Even so, Amtrak ended up paying compensatory damages of $9.3 million. 
 Judge Gasch's decision caused considerable unease among the freight railroads, said government officials. Concerned that their liability protection was being chipped away, the freight railroads turned to Congress for help. In 1996 and 1997 alone, records show, the freight railroads spent $35 million lobbying Congress on different issues, including indemnity. And eventually, Congress put its weight behind the indemnity agreements, passing the Amtrak Reform and Accountability Act of 1997.

Biggest Payout Yet
 Two years after enactment of the 1997 law, CSX used the indemnity agreement as a shield against the biggest payout yet -- the $63.8 million in punitive damages, including interest, paid to Mrs. Palank. 
 Arthur J. Franza, the judge in her case, was harshly critical of CSX for eliminating too many maintenance workers. ''Although cost-cutting measures may have saved defendant over $2 billion, society paid the cost with eight human lives,'' Judge Franza said.
 Mrs. Palank said she had pursued the punitive damages with the understanding that CSX, not Amtrak, would pay it. And for years, she said, she believed that CSX indeed had. For good reason, according to one of her lawyers, F. Gregory Barnhart, who said records show that Mrs. Palank's money was sent to her by CSX. 
 Her other lawyer, Christian D. Searcy, said he had even asked Amtrak officials to state in writing whether they had reimbursed CSX. ''They said no letter will be forthcoming,'' Mr. Searcy said.
 Mrs. Palank said the jury was never told that CSX would escape the sting of its verdict. ''It's so secretive, so manipulative,'' she said. ''Someone in the federal government needs to answer for this, because there was no legal justification for them to be paying for somebody else's wrongdoing.''
 Mark Geistfeld, a law professor at New York University, said indemnification, a form of insurance, has its limits. ''Certainly, you cannot get insurance for criminal fines, for example,'' Professor Geistfeld said. ''It's against public policy. No court would enforce it.'' But, whether Amtrak should have paid in this case depends on what kind of behavior you are talking about, he added.
 Mr. Downs, the former Amtrak chief, said that after the railroad's lawyers told him Amtrak could not escape paying the punitive verdict, he called John Snow, then CSX's chief executive, to complain. Mr. Snow, now President Bush's treasury secretary, said in essence that a deal was a deal, Mr. Downs recalls. Mr. Snow declined to discuss the conversation or the case. CSX also declined to comment specifically on Amtrak's payment of punitive damages.
 Amtrak's obligation did not end with the $63.8 million payment to Mrs. Palank, though. It was also responsible for $24 million in compensatory damages to her and other crash victims, for a total of $88 million. For causing the accident, CSX paid the Federal Railroad Administration the maximum fine -- $20,000.
 ''It's very difficult to convince railroads that the carrying of people has a higher standard of operating discipline and safety than, say, coal,'' Mr. Downs said. ''And the reason I think that is, is that they are immune from any cost.''
 At about the same time that the Palank case was working its way through the courts, in fact, CSX was working on a different front to soften its litigation costs. It played a prominent role in a business coalition that helped persuade the Florida Legislature in 1999 to change liability laws in the state, imposing limits on punitive damages, for example.
 ''We, like many other companies across the country, support a civil justice system that is fair and balanced,'' said Adam Hollingsworth, a CSX spokesman. CSX, said Mr. Hollingsworth, who has since left the company, wants to make sure ''that those responsible for injury pay their portion of fault.''

Death on the Tracks
 Articles in this series examine how some of America's freight railroads have tried to sidestep blame in accidents. Previous articles have looked at the railroads' mishandling of evidence and failure to properly report grade-crossing crashes, and at one family's quest to understand the accident that killed their daughter.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Four people were killed in this crash of an Amtrak train two years ago because of defective tracks. (Photo by Doug Engle/The Ocala Star-Banner)(pg. A1)
Two students were killed in McLean, Ill., when a railroad crossing signal failed. Amtrak paid $4 million to the families. (Photo by McClean County Coroner's Office)
Eight people died in this 1991 derailment of an Amtrak train in Lugoff, S.C., including Sgt. Paul Palank, left, whose wife, Angelica, is with their daughter. A judge termed the cause of the crash borderline criminal behavior. (Photo by Tim Dominick/The State)
 (Photo by Barbara P. Fernandez for The New York Times)(pg. A19)Chart: ''Paying for the Mistakes of Others''An analysis by The New York Times of Amtrak records found that the railroad had paid more than $186 million since 1984 for accidents in which freight railroads were accused of playing the major or a contributing role.LOCATION: Kensington, Md., July 29, 2002*AMOUNT PAID BY AMTRAK: $265,000TYPE OF ACCIDENT: DerailmentKILLED / INJURED: 0 / 95LOCATION: Crescent City, Fla., April 18, 2002*AMOUNT PAID BY AMTRAK: $11,966,298TYPE OF ACCIDENT: DerailmentKILLED / INJURED: 4 / 142LOCATION: Nodaway, Iowa, March 17, 2001AMOUNT PAID BY AMTRAK: $2,238,500TYPE OF ACCIDENT: DerailmentKILLED / INJURED: 1 / 77LOCATION: Ellisville, Miss., March 9, 2001AMOUNT PAID BY AMTRAK: $1,000,000TYPE OF ACCIDENT: Grade-crossing accidentKILLED / INJURED: 1 / 0LOCATION: McLean, Ill., Sept. 26, 1999AMOUNT PAID BY AMTRAK: $4,000,000TYPE OF ACCIDENT: Grade-crossing accidentKILLED / INJURED: 2 / 0LOCATION: Arlington, Tex., Dec. 20, 1998AMOUNT PAID BY AMTRAK: $2,148,500TYPE OF ACCIDENT: DerailmentKILLED / INJURED: 0 / 22LOCATION: Garden City, Ga., Oct. 9, 1997AMOUNT PAID BY AMTRAK: $1,260,978TYPE OF ACCIDENT: Grade-crossing accidentKILLED / INJURED: 0 / 12LOCATION: Warrensburg, Mo., Aug. 29, 1997AMOUNT PAID BY AMTRAK: $32,307,670TYPE OF ACCIDENT: Grade-crossing accidentKILLED / INJURED: 0 / 2LOCATION: Warrensburg, Mo., April 22, 1997AMOUNT PAID BY AMTRAK: $1,710,000TYPE OF ACCIDENT: Grade-crossing accidentKILLED / INJURED: 1 / 1LOCATION: Kingman, Ariz., Aug. 9, 1997AMOUNT PAID BY AMTRAK: $4,748,989TYPE OF ACCIDENT: DerailmentKILLED / INJURED: 0 / 183LOCATION: Forrest County, Miss., June 18, 1997AMOUNT PAID BY AMTRAK: $3,600,000TYPE OF ACCIDENT: Grade-crossing accidentKILLED / INJURED: 1 / 1LOCATION: Silver Spring, Md., Feb. 16, 1996AMOUNT PAID BY AMTRAK: $1,680,274TYPE OF ACCIDENT: Collision and derailmentKILLED / INJURED: 11 / 26LOCATION: Power County, Idaho, Feb. 15, 1995AMOUNT PAID BY AMTRAK: $2,193,575TYPE OF ACCIDENT: CollisionKILLED / INJURED: 0 / 2LOCATION: Albuquerque, Nov. 13, 1995AMOUNT PAID BY AMTRAK: $4,120,000TYPE OF ACCIDENT: Grade-crossing accidentKILLED / INJURED: 2 / 0LOCATION: Smithfield, Selma, N.C., May 16, 1994AMOUNT PAID BY AMTRAK: $7,854,073TYPE OF ACCIDENT: Collision and derailmentKILLED / INJURED: 1 / 121LOCATION: Gary, Ind., Dec. 21, 1993AMOUNT PAID BY AMTRAK: $503,000TYPE OF ACCIDENT: Grade-crossing accidentKILLED / INJURED: 1 / 8LOCATION: Durham, N.C., July 30, 1992AMOUNT PAID BY AMTRAK: $4,250,000TYPE OF ACCIDENT: Grade-crossing accidentKILLED / INJURED: 3 / 1LOCATION: Lugoff, S.C., July 31, 1991AMOUNT PAID BY AMTRAK: $88,202,402TYPE OF ACCIDENT: DerailmentKILLED / INJURED: 8 / 77LOCATION: Batavia, Iowa, April 23, 1990AMOUNT PAID BY AMTRAK: $720,000TYPE OF ACCIDENT: DerailmentKILLED / INJURED: 0 / 86LOCATION: Saco, Mont., Aug. 5, 1988AMOUNT PAID BY AMTRAK: $1,077,809TYPE OF ACCIDENT: DerailmentKILLED / INJURED: 0 / 106LOCATION: Russell, Iowa, Oct. 12, 1987AMOUNT PAID BY AMTRAK: $944,000TYPE OF ACCIDENT: Collision and derailmentKILLED / INJURED: 0 / 122LOCATION: Chase, Md., Jan. 4, 1987AMOUNT PAID BY AMTRAK: $9,270,225TYPE OF ACCIDENT: CollisionKILLED / INJURED: 16 / 174LOCATION: Fall River, Wis., Oct. 9, 1986AMOUNT PAID BY AMTRAK: $288,557TYPE OF ACCIDENT: DerailmentKILLED / INJURED: 1 / 30TOTAL AMOUNT PAID: $186,349,850TOTAL KILLED / INJURED: 53 / 1288*Significant claims still outstanding.Claims payments are from 1984 to 2003.Payments under $100,000 were not provided to The Times. Amtrak paid out an additional $53.5 million over the last nine months, but those payments are not included because Amtrak declined to break them down by accident.Totals do not include millions of dollars in property damages and legal fees also paid by Amtrak.(Sources by Amtrak [amounts], National Transportation Safety Board and the Federal Railroad Adminstration [accident description and number of killed, injured])(pg. A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL TRANSPORTATION (92%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (92%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (90%); TRAINS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); RAIL FREIGHT (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); INDEMNITY AGREEMENTS (89%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (89%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (78%); RAILROAD MAINTENANCE (78%); RAIL CROSSINGS (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); NEGLIGENCE (76%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (76%); BUDGETS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); LIABILITY INSURANCE (73%); LAWYERS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); LITIGATION (71%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (70%); LEGISLATION (68%); IMMUNITY (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); JUDGES (66%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (64%) Railroads; Surveys and Series; Suits and Litigation; Accidents and Safety; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Law and Legislation ; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Railroads; Immunity From Prosecution; Insurance; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Railroads; Railroads

COMPANY: CSX CORP (92%); NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (90%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD (59%) Csx Corp; Amtrak (National Railroad Passenger Corp)

TICKER: CSX (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (92%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (92%); NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (92%)

PERSON: Walt Bogdanich; Angelica Palank; Oliver (Judge) Gasch

GEOGRAPHIC: GARY, IN, USA (79%); DURHAM, NC, USA (59%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States; South Carolina; Florida; Maryland; United States

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2004



355 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Inside Art; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 992 words

BYLINE: By Carol Vogel

 BODY:

Wandering Room Finds a Home
 Since she created it in 1990, Rachel Whiteread's ''Ghost,'' a plaster cast of a living room modeled after the one from her childhood home in North London, has been exhibited all over the world, including New York, at the Museum of Modern Art in 1994. Some consider it her greatest work. But for now, ''Ghost'' will stop traveling: it was acquired by the National Gallery of Art in Washington two weeks ago. 
 ''It's a wonderful addition to our contemporary collection,'' said Earl A. Powell III, the museum's director. ''This is our first piece by Rachel Whiteread.'' 
 The sculpture, in which window frames, light sockets, a fireplace and grooves left by doors are etched in plaster, narrowly escaped disaster a few months ago. Days before the fire in May that destroyed millions of dollars' worth of art at the Momart warehouse complex in London's East End, ''Ghost'' had been removed for a showing at the Gagosian Gallery's new space near King's Cross. 
 Mitchell P. Rales, a Washington collector who is on the National Gallery's collectors committee, provided the money for the purchase of ''Ghost,'' which contemporary art experts say is worth around $2 million. 
 On Nov. 5, it is to be installed on the mezzanine landing in the atrium of the East Building. 
 ''Ghost'' is one of about 50 works whose purchase was authorized by the museum's trustees late last month. The National Gallery has also acquired paintings by artists like Chaim Soutine and Caspar David Friedrich and a bronze by the American sculptor Edward Francis McCartan. 
 ''We've been very active, looking for works that will fill gaps,'' Mr. Powell said. ''A lot has to do with what's available.'' 
 The Friedrich, ''Northern Landscape, Spring,'' a scene of two hunters in a bleak landscape with grass peeking through the snow, was purchased from the Manhattan dealers French & Company, who bought it in June at Sotheby's in London for $1.8 million. The National Gallery does not say what it pays for any of the works.
 ''Northern Landscape, Spring,'' had been cataloged as only 19th-century German Romantic school when it was purchased at a provincial German auction for a few thousand dollars. It was later authenticated by Helmut Borsch-Supan, the leading Friedrich scholar. 
 It is the first painting by Friedrich to enter the National Gallery's collection. 

Gift for the Wadsworth
 In the five years since Leo Castelli died, barely a peep has been uttered about what happened to the art owned by his gallery or works that the legendary dealer had collected for himself.
 Until now. The Wadsworth Atheneum in Hartford recently received a gift of 11 post-Minimalist works from Castelli's widow, Barbara Bertozzi Castelli, and his two children, Jean-Christophe Castelli and Nina Castelli Sundell. All are by artists whom Castelli represented: Joseph Kosuth, Robert Morris, Keith Sonnier, and Mike and Doug Starn. 
 ''These works are a wonderful group of three-dimensional pieces that bridge the gap between post-Pop and Conceptual,'' said Willard Holmes, director of the Wadsworth Atheneum. ''We're interested in building a group of works from 1960 through 1980.'' 
 He is also trying to strengthen the museum's holdings in 20th-century art and to have at least part of its collection on view at all times. ''These works tell an interesting story,'' Mr. Holmes said. ''The Wadsworth is an institution that has a collection of collections.'' 
 Mr. Holmes got to know Ms. Castelli during his nine years as deputy director of the Whitney Museum of American Art before becoming the Wadsworth's director last year. 
 Among the rarest in the gift are ''Seeing Reading (to C. and A.A.)'' a 1981 neon language piece by Mr. Kosuth; an untitled felt piece from 1978 by Mr. Morris that is considered one of his seminal Minimalist works; and ''Expanded Sel IV,'' a 1979 early sketch in neon by Mr. Sonnier. All three will be part of the exhibition ''Contemporary Art: Floor to Ceiling, Wall to Wall,'' which opens at the Wadsworth on Oct. 31 and runs through April 24. 

Policing the Past
 The issue of legal claims by past owners has become such a serious concern in the auction business that Christie's has just hired a director for restitution for the company worldwide. It is Monica Dugot, who was most recently deputy director of the New York State Banking Department's Holocaust Claims Processing Office. 
 ''It's such a worldwide, multidepartment issue that it has to be coordinated,'' said Marc Porter, Christie's international managing director. ''The families and heirs are scattered around the world, and we needed someone who could oversee them and who knows the legal issues.'' 

Investment Advisers
 Fernwood Art Investments, an independent firm founded in July to develop ''investment, research, advice and financial products'' for investors in the ''art economy,'' has selected more experts to oversee the business and help it acquire works that would become assets in various art investment funds. 
 Bruce D. Taub, Fernwood's founder, said it had chosen David Nash, a former director of Sotheby's Impressionist and Modern art, who with his wife, Lucy Mitchell-Innes, runs Mitchell-Innes & Nash, a Manhattan gallery; the lawyer Ashton Hawkins, the executive vice president and counsel to the trustees at the Metropolitan Museum of Art and a member of Christie's American advisory board; the economist Robert Gough Jr.; and Pierre Levai, president of Marlborough gallery in New York. Mr. Levai will be a consultant. The others will receive salaries and bonuses dependent on the company's success, Mr. Taub said. 
 The dealers are keeping their gallery affiliations. Asked if they would face conflicts of interest, Mr. Taub replied, ''These dealers should view us as they would any large client.'' 
 Once Fernwood reaches agreements with the financial services companies that will make its funds available to clients, it will start buying art in the spring or fall of 2005.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Rachel Whiteread's ''Ghost,'' a plaster cast of the living room of her childhood, has been acquired by the National Gallery of Art in Washington, where it is to be installed Nov. 5. (Photo by Gagosian Gallery, New York) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); PAINTING (90%); ART DEALERS (89%); SCULPTURE (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (67%); PHILANTHROPY (60%) Art; Philanthropy; Collectors and Collections; Auctions; Appointments and Executive Changes; Biographical Information; Art

COMPANY: GAGOSIAN GALLERY (84%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GALLERY OF ART (91%) National Gallery of Art (Washington, DC); Wadsworth Atheneum (Hartford, Conn); Christie's

INDUSTRY: NAICS453920 ART DEALERS (84%)

PERSON: LARRY GAGOSIAN (71%) Rachel Whiteread; Leo Castelli; Monica Dugot; Carol Vogel

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (59%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2004



356 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: Retirement Sets Off Battle For Buffalo-Area House Seat

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS

DATELINE: BUFFALO, Oct. 14 

 BODY:
It would be hard for anyone watching television in this area for any length of time to avoid seeing at least one campaign advertisement about a Congressional race that has turned out to be one of the most competitive in the Northeast.
 But ever since the incumbent Republican congressman, Jack Quinn, announced this year that he would not seek re-election to a seventh term in the House of Representatives, Democrats have been in a heated battle to take the seat in a district that has a Democratic edge in registration.
 The Democratic candidate is Brian Higgins, a state assemblyman and a former Buffalo city councilman. The Republican candidate is Nancy A. Naples, the Erie County comptroller. The Republicans, who were caught off guard by Mr. Quinn's decision to retire, are fighting to keep the seat, which the Democrats say should easily be within their grasp. 
 Both the National Republican Congressional Committee and its Democratic counterpart have sent campaign workers and poured money into this western New York district, and that money has been used to flood the local airwaves with commercials about the race.
 Ms. Naples has taken great pains to describe her Democratic rival as being committed to increasing taxes. Mr. Higgins depicts Ms. Naples as walking lockstep with President Bush, particularly with regard to economic policies.
 Both depictions have been stressed not only in debates and forums throughout the 27th Congressional District, but, most persistently, in the candidates' television commercials.
 Ms. Naples, 56, a former executive at Merrill Lynch in Manhattan, has tried to tar her opponent by linking him to the gridlock in Albany. She talks often about the need to change the way the Legislature operates. She aims her critiques not so much at the Republican governor or the Republican-controlled State Senate, saying the blame for the state's tax burden, for instance, lies with the Democratic-controlled Assembly and its speaker, Sheldon Silver.
 ''The unfunded mandates imposed on every county in this state by Sheldon Silver and his cohorts are making things nearly impossible for the people of this state,'' Ms. Naples said, in an interview. ''And my opponent has voted 95 percent of the time with Sheldon Silver. The problem is not only Sheldon Silver, it's Brian Higgins, too.''
 Mr. Higgins said that changing the way Albany operates has been one of his priorities, and he cites his decision to back a failed attempt in 2000 by Michael J. Bragman, then the Assembly majority leader, to dethrone the speaker. He also invokes many of the themes used by Senator John Kerry against the Bush administration, saying that Ms. Naples's support of its policies would lead to further erosion of employment opportunities in western New York.
 ''She has said that she supports the Bush economic policies, but they have been a failure, particularly for the people of western New York,'' Mr. Higgins said. ''This is an area made up of blue-collar and white-collar jobs. And under the Bush policies, there are too many people here without health care; there is too little support being given to education.''
 Both candidates are seeking to invoke themes that are viewed as striking a chord in this region, where for a decade jobs have been lost to other parts of the country and now to other nations. The 27th Congressional District includes portions of Erie County and Chautauqua County and extends down to the Pennsylvania border. It includes the urban, working-class enclaves of the north and west sides of Buffalo and the farmlands of western New York. There are about 182,000 registered Democrats in the district, compared with 112,000 registered Republicans. More than 90,000 registered voters are unaffiliated with either party.
 ''This area has been hard hit for some time by the loss of manufacturing jobs,'' said Charles J. Finocchiaro, a political science professor at the State University of New York at Buffalo. ''So for voters the key issue here is economic growth. And both candidates are talking a lot about that. And, the truth is, their views, their priorities, are not very different from the other's.''
 Both talk about the need to draw federal money here for transportation programs and improvements to roads and other public works. 
 The race is considered by officials in both parties to be a tossup. Ms. Naples has raised about $1.2 million, and Mr. Higgins is not far behind, having collected nearly $1 million. In addition, each side is benefiting from lavish spending by both national parties, which seem to be financing at least half of the commercials being broadcast on television. 
 The ads themselves have been among the most contentious issues of the race. Each candidate has complained that information presented in the other's ads includes significant distortions. In one case, three stations stopped running commercials by Mr. Higgins because they claimed that Ms. Naples at one point ''even suggested a $125 million increase in sales and property taxes.'' Ms. Naples complained that she had never supported any such proposal.
 Democratic leaders have asked stations to remove a Naples campaign commercial that states, ''In the State Assembly, Higgins voted for the largest tax increase in New York history, $3.3 billion.'' The Democrats maintain that the assertion is inaccurate because the increase included fees, not just taxes.
 Ms. Naples, who grew up on Buffalo's north side, returned here to join her brother in taking over the management of an insurance company that had been run by their father. In her three races for comptroller, she won overwhelmingly, even though Republicans were outnumbered by Democrats in Erie County. 
 Mr. Higgins, 45, was cited in a local newspaper poll of more than 300 business leaders some years ago as the most effective member of the City Council when he served there. Mr. Higgins, who grew up in the working-class south side of Buffalo, won a four-way primary to run for the Congressional seat. His father worked as a bricklayer and once served on the City Council.
 The fact that the race is in a presidential election year makes it more unpredictable because voter turnout could be heavy. The district voted for Al Gore in 2000, but has also voted for Republicans over the years, including Gov. George E. Pataki.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Congressional candidates in western New York: top, Nancy A. Naples, Erie County comptroller, and Assemblyman Brian Higgins. (Photographs by Daniel Cappellazzo for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); GOVERNORS (72%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (71%); TAX INCREASES (71%); EMPLOYMENT (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%) Finances; Television; Political Advertising

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL REPUBLICAN CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEE (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: BRIAN HIGGINS (90%); JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%) Jonathan P Hicks; Nancy A Naples; Brian (Assemblyman) Higgins

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; New York State; Buffalo (NY); Erie County (NY); Chautauqua (NY)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2004



357 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE CANDIDATES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1128 words

HEADLINE: Bush and Kerry, Feeling Like Winners, Go to Las Vegas

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER and DAVID M. HALBFINGER; Elisabeth Bumiller reported from Central Point, Ore., for this article, and David M. Halbfinger from Las Vegas and Des Moines.

DATELINE: CENTRAL POINT, Ore., Oct. 14 

 BODY:
President Bush and Senator John Kerry stormed back onto the campaign trail on Thursday, with both sides saying the series of presidential debates had left the race a tie, despite the hundreds of millions of dollars spent and nearly a year of campaigning.
 With 19 days left to go, both candidates broke camp from their final debate Wednesday in Tempe, Ariz., and flew to Las Vegas, where they appeared an hour and a half apart to trade attacks and counterattacks in one of the nation's swing states.
 Mr. Bush continued to deride Mr. Kerry as an out-of-touch liberal with a pedestrian record who would hand America's national security decisions over to other nations. ''He can run from his record, but he can't hide,'' Mr. Bush said in what has become the latest mantra of his campaign at a Las Vegas sports arena. 
 Mr. Kerry, sounding confident after a third debate Democrats believe he won handily, scoffed at what he called Mr. Bush's ''excuses'' for economic problems and his ''false attacks'' on his record. With Mr. Bush across town borrowing from the boxer Joe Louis's line about running but not hiding, Mr. Kerry fired back with Muhammad Ali's memorable taunt to George Foreman.
 ''George, is that all you've got?'' Mr. Kerry said. ''And so, I say to you, Mr. President: After four years of lost jobs, after four years of families losing health coverage, after four years of falling incomes, is that all you've got? After four years of rising gas prices, rising health care costs, and squeezed families, is that all you've got? After a campaign filled with excuses to justify your record and a campaign of false attacks on me, is that all you've got?''
 The president held fast to his position that the debates had given voters a distinct choice. ''All three debates clarified the differences in our records, our approaches and our plans for the future,'' Mr. Bush said at the arena, where thousands of screaming supporters treated him like a rock star. ''I'm proud of my record. My opponent seemed to want to avoid talking about his.''
 The president, in a favorite refrain, accused Mr. Kerry of arguing that America should seek approval from other nations through a ''global test'' before acting in its own defense. 
 ''Once again last night, with a straight face, the senator, shall we say, refined his answer on the proposed global test he would administer before acting to defend America,'' Mr. Bush said. ''After trying to say it wasn't really a test at all, last night he once again defended his approach, saying 'I think it makes sense.' The senator now says we have to pass some international-truth standard -- those are his words. The truth is, we should never turn over America's national security decisions to international bodies.''
 Mr. Kerry's actual words in the debate in Tempe were these: ''I have never suggested a test where we turn over our security to any nation. In fact, I've said the opposite. I will never turn the security of the United States over to any nation. No nation will ever have a veto over us. But I think it makes sense, I think most Americans in their guts know that we ought to pass a sort of truth standard. That's how you gain legitimacy with your own countrypeople, and that's how you gain legitimacy in the world.''
 In a sign of how close the race has become, the president made a rare trip to the press cabin of Air Force One early Thursday to offer his own assessment of his debate performance Wednesday night. Mr. Bush played down negative reviews and appeared relieved and ebullient that the debates were all over.
 ''The pundits and the spinners -- they all have their opinions but there's only one opinion that matters and that's the opinion of the American people on Nov. 2,'' Mr. Bush said as his 747 flew from Arizona to Nevada. ''I feel great about where we are.''
 ''My spirits are high,'' Mr. Bush said to reporters as he hung on to the overhead compartment for balance. ''I'm enthusiastic about my chances.''
 In Las Vegas and at later stops in Reno, Nev., and the Jackson County Fairgrounds in Central Point, Ore., Mr. Bush made light of his debate style in his three encounters with Mr. Kerry. ''In the last few years, the American people have gotten to know me,'' the president said in Oregon. ''They know my blunt way of speaking. I get that from my mom. They know I sometimes mangle the English language. I get that from my dad.'' But then, in a dig at Mr. Kerry, Mr. Bush added, ''Americans also know that I tell you exactly what I'm going to do and I keep my word.''
 Mr. Kerry, in a speech in Las Vegas to thousands of members of AARP, the lobby for older Americans, sounded the theme that aides said he would hammer away at in the waning days of the race. ''Do you want four more years of a president who gives more to those who already have the most, and tells the struggling middle class that everything's just fine?'' he asked. ''Or do you want a president who's going to honor middle-class values and fight for middle-class opportunities in America?''
 After Las Vegas, Mr. Kerry flew to Des Moines, where he and his running mate, Senator John Edwards, told a nighttime rally at the State Fairgrounds before more than 15,000 shivering people, many holding brooms and ''3 for 3'' signs attesting to their belief that Mr. Kerry had swept all three of the debates with Mr. Bush. It was the first stop on a drive across the crucial states of Iowa, Wisconsin, Ohio, West Virginia, Florida and Pennsylvania between now and Tuesday. Kerry aides argued that the debates had established that Mr. Kerry was prepared to be commander in chief and that he would be a more effective advocate for middle-class Americans.
 ''John Kerry has in fact appeared more presidential than the president himself,'' said Mike Donilon, a Kerry campaign consultant. He noted that the Bush campaign had largely abandoned its months-old tactic of portraying Mr. Kerry as a ''flip-flopper'' and was now trying to ''attach a liberal label to him.''
 ''These three debates have essentially undone what amounts to $100 million in negative attacks,'' Mr. Donilon said.
 The Bush campaign countered that Mr. Kerry had offered voters nothing but gloom. ''We've had three debates,'' Karen P. Hughes, one of the president's top advisers, said late Wednesday night. ''Clearly President Bush has succeeded at each debate, and tonight I think the American people saw his heart and his optimism.'' She said, ''What we heard from Senator Kerry was an interminable list of complaints.''
 The Bush campaign announced that the president would travel on Monday to New Jersey, where Democrats had counted on a solid lead. In September several polls showed Mr. Bush and Mr. Kerry running neck and neck in the state, but Mr. Kerry has recently edged back ahead.


GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush greeted supporters at a rally yesterday in Las Vegas. The audience included 21 governors who are joining him in campaigning. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times)
 Senator John Kerry yesterday in Las Vegas, after he was introduced by the AARP president, Marie F. Smith. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); SPORTS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (69%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (68%); HEALTH INSURANCE (64%); OIL & GAS PRICES (63%); PRICE INCREASES (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Debating

ORGANIZATION: AARP INC (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); JOHN KERRY (93%); MUHAMMAD ALI (50%) Elisabeth Bumiller; David M Halbfinger; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%) NEVADA, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) Nevada; Las Vegas (Nev)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2004



358 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: As U.S. Debt Ceiling Is Reached, Bush Administration Seeks to Raise It Once Again

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 14 

 BODY:
Less than a day after President Bush implied that Senator John Kerry lacked ''fiscal sanity,'' the Bush administration said on Thursday that the federal government had hit the debt ceiling set by Congress and would have to borrow from the civil service retirement system until after the elections. 
 Federal operations are unlikely to be affected because Congress is certain to raise the debt limit in a lame-duck session in November. Congressional Republicans had wanted to avoid an embarrassing vote to raise the debt ceiling just a few weeks before Election Day.
 Since Mr. Bush took office in January 2001, the federal debt has increased about 40 percent, or $2.1 trillion, to $7.4 trillion. Congress has raised the debt ceiling three times in three years, raising it most recently by $984 billion in May 2003. 
 On Thursday, Treasury Secretary John W. Snow said that the federal government was about to breach the limit again and would be able to keep operating only if it started tapping money intended for the civil service retirement fund, the pension system for federal workers.
 ''Given current projections, it is imperative that the Congress take action to increase the debt limit by mid-November,'' Mr. Snow warned in a statement, declaring that his arsenal of financial tools ''will be exhausted'' at that point.
 The announcement came a few days after Congress adjourned and one day after Mr. Bush battled Mr. Kerry over economic and social policy in their final televised debate.
 In that debate, Mr. Bush accused Mr. Kerry of proposing major new programs without the money to pay for them. ''My opponent talks about fiscal sanity,'' the president said. ''His record in the United States Senate does not match his rhetoric.'' 
 White House officials and Congressional leaders knew for at least two months that federal borrowing would soon exceed the legal limit. Mr. Snow warned on Aug. 2 that the ceiling would soon be reached, asking lawmakers to raise the limit then. 
 Senate Republicans tried to insert an increase in borrowing authority into a military spending bill this summer, but were blocked by Democrats and a handful of Republican lawmakers who sought tougher restrictions on spending increases and tax cuts. As the election season moved into the final phase, Congressional leaders tacitly agreed to address the issue, along with about 10 unfinished spending bills, in a session after the November elections.
 Representative John W. Spratt of South Carolina, the ranking Democrat on the House Budget Committee, said the ballooning federal debt reflected Mr. Bush's failure at fiscal responsibility and stemmed in large measure from his three big tax cuts.
 ''This is the burden Republicans are passing on to the next generation, and they have no plan or prospect for addressing it,'' Mr. Spratt said. 
 Administration officials cast the latest news in the most positive possible light, reporting in a separate announcement that the official federal budget deficit for the 2004 fiscal year was $413 billion. That is lower than the $522 billion shortfall the administration predicted at the start of this year, though still the biggest federal budget deficit on record.
 ''We will continue to see improvement and cut the deficit by more than half in five years,'' Joshua B. Bolten, director of the White House's Office of Management and Budget, said in a statement.
 Outside analysts are skeptical of that goal, in part because administration budget forecasts omit future costs of the war in Iraq. 
 In its most recent projection, the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office estimated that budget deficits would remain at more than $300 billion a year for at least the next five years if Mr. Bush's tax cuts were all extended and even if the costs of the Iraq war ended after next year.
 Mr. Bush has often declared that his tax cuts, which will total $1.9 trillion over 10 years, provided crucial support for the economy as it spun into a recession and was then further weakened by corporate scandals, the Sept. 11 attacks and the cost of fighting wars in Afghanistan and Iraq. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEBT CEILING (95%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); PUBLIC DEBT (91%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (91%); CIVIL SERVICES (91%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); TAX LAW (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%) Finances; National Debt (US); Election Issues; Government Employees; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN KERRY (92%) Edmund L Andrews; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%) United States; United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2004



359 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: MICHIGAN; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1424 words

HEADLINE: College Students Tune In to Debate but Are Left Wanting Clearer Answers

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr.; John Files contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: KALAMAZOO, Mich., Oct. 14 

 BODY:
President Bush scored a direct hit with Chelsea Tirrell, but not with many of the other 15 students who watched Wednesday night's final presidential debate together at Western Michigan University.
 ''I love kids,'' said Ms. Tirrell, 22, a social-work major at Western Michigan, ''and I love the president because he puts value on the lives of kids. I'm very pro-life. I work with disadvantaged kids, some of them products of incestuous rape, and they're good kids. I see no reason they should not be allowed to live.
 ''It comforts me to hear the president say he prays. He has a good moral compass, which is important to the country. Nothing John Kerry says convinces me that he puts any real meaning into his faith.'' 
 Eli N. Savit, 21, a political science major at Kalamazoo College, who spent part of the last academic year studying in Madrid, commented on Mr. Bush's unpopularity in Europe and said he was impressed by Mr. Kerry's insistence that steps must be taken to ''improve our reputation abroad'' through close consultation with allies.
 ''Bush wouldn't let anyone bid on reconstruction who wasn't with us during the war,'' Mr. Savit said. ''That speaks to holding grudges, not to mending fences.''
 Like nearly all of the students, no matter whom they back, Mr. Savit heard more ducking of questions and fuzzing of issues than he wanted from both candidates. On issues like abortion and gay marriage, Mr. Kerry ''seemed to equivocate,'' he said, ''even though I basically agree with him.''
 The students were invited by The New York Times to watch the debate and comment on it afterward. Eight came from the Lee Honors College, an elite unit within Western Michigan, a state university with almost 30,000 students. The other eight came from Kalamazoo, a liberal arts college of 1,300 students that emphasizes study abroad. The two are just a 15-minute walk from each other in this small city in southwestern Michigan, which, like much of the state, has been hit by major job losses.
 Most of the students were from Michigan -- a swing state that leans more toward Mr. Kerry than most in the region -- with a scattering from other Midwestern states and one from Maryland. 
 Jarred Araujo, 18, a freshman education major at Western Michigan, knows the job problem firsthand. His father, he said, lost his job at the Lear Corporation, a big auto-parts maker, when the company sent the work overseas.
 ''He's too old for retraining'' of the type proposed by Mr. Bush during the debate, Mr. Araujo continued. ''He's too young to retire, in his late 40's or early 50's. What's he supposed to do with his life? Neither of the candidates gave any answer.''
 Of all the students, only one, Kimberly A. Yourchock, 20, a senior political science and German major at Kalamazoo who studied in Bonn, declared herself undecided before the debate began. Of the other 15, 10 said they supported Mr. Kerry and 5 said they backed Mr. Bush, but many were less than enthusiastic. 
 After the debate ended, with closing statements that many of the students found persuasive (and, especially in Mr. Bush's case, warm and charming), Ms. Yourchock said she remained firmly on the fence.
 ''There's so much talk, so many statistics, so much skirting of questions, that I find it hard to get a clear picture of what they would do,'' she said. ''I'm not really hearing anything that I can trust.''
 Many of her fellow students agreed with her comment about ducking questions. Mr. Bush slid off questions about jobs and health care, several noted, by immediately changing the subject to education. Mr. Kerry, others commented, had no real answers to questions about border security and offered unrealistic health proposals.
 ''Kerry is too idealistic,'' said Tena Feenstra, 19, a nursing student at Western Michigan. ''No way government can provide health care for everyone.''
 Daniel H. Russell, a senior biology major at Kalamazoo, said he was especially unimpressed by Mr. Kerry on Social Security reform -- ''he offered no real answer at all on that except more of the same,'' he said -- and by Mr. Bush's plan to use private savings accounts to help attack the nation's severe health care problems.
 ''That wouldn't solve anything,'' Mr. Russell said. ''You have all these poor people with no health care -- how are they going to put dollars that they don't have into the president's savings accounts?''
 Mr. Bush's lukewarm attitude to affirmative action was mentioned by three women as a reason to back Mr. Kerry. A Kalamazoo freshman, Amber M. Whittington, 18, was by far the most outspoken.
 ''I don't care for the president one bit,'' Ms. Whittington said. ''He's out of touch with what the average American faces in terms of debt and losing their jobs. There's racism and sexism out there, and too many people are comfortable with that, but he doesn't seem aware of it. Kerry at least admits that there's a problem and attempts to address it.''
 Heather R. Abraham, 21, a senior political science major, also at Kalamazoo, said women as well as members of minorities needed affirmative action to help them move ahead, so she was pleased by Mr. Kerry's mention of equal pay for men and women for equal work. But she was distressed by the short shrift given to environmental questions in the debate. Ms. Abraham said the candidates, not the moderator, defined the issues, bringing along ''memorized numbers and phrases that they swallow from their advisers.''
 Britne Amos, 19, a sophomore psychology major, said she had known little racism while growing up in Oxnard, Calif., more when she moved to Glenwood, Ill., outside Chicago, and a great deal at Western Michigan. Because she is an African-American, she said, ''affirmative action has become more and more important for me, and it has helped me.'' But over all, Ms. Amos said, ''I was disappointed by both candidates'' -- partly because neither talked about mental health care for the poor, a passionate concern of hers -- ''and Kerry did not turn me on much.''
 Like Ms. Whittington, Ms. Amos said she preferred Mr. Bush's stance in opposition to abortion and to same-sex marriage, largely on religious grounds. Her father is a clergyman.
 Ms. Whittington said, ''I guess you can see yourself voting for the lesser of two evils.''
 Joel DeLorge, 26, a junior political science major who belongs to the campus Republican club at Western Michigan, did not think the president conservative enough on abortion, arguing that ''he's pro-life, but he didn't hit it home as he could have,'' especially when asked whether he would like to overturn Roe v. Wade. 
 Still, Mr. DeLorge said he thought Mr. Bush ''came across as more human instead of just another politician'' and had his best performance in this last of the three debates.
 Because the debate focused on domestic policy, no doubt, relatively few of the students discussed foreign affairs in their comments. But Michael H. Schoettle, 20, a sophomore political science major who belongs to Kalamazoo's model United Nations, said he wished the candidates had at least mentioned the strife in Sudan, the AIDS crisis in sub-Saharan Africa and the nuclear threat from Iran and North Korea.
 Seated next to him, Rebecca Y. Bornstein, 19, also a sophomore political science major, praised Mr. Bush for ''protecting our interests in Iraq, consulting with our allies but not waiting too long to act.''
 That did not wash with Talat Mangla, 19, a political science student at Western Michigan who has also studied at the London School of Economics. The daughter of immigrants from Pakistan, she asserted that Mr. Bush had ''rushed into violence'' in Iraq, causing ''the unnecessary deaths of innocent Iraqi children and families.''
 Ms. Mangla added: ''We talk about our own losses, but not about them. The loss of those lives hasn't made me feel a bit safer. I'm going to vote for Kerry, but he needs to stop, change direction, and talk about getting out instead of hunting terrorists.''
 Tristan Brown, 22, a senior at Western Michigan who worked for Al Gore four years ago and works for Mr. Kerry this year, summarized the evening.
 ''The candidates did what they had to do to get 500 extra votes in Florida without losing a single one,'' Mr. Brown said. ''George Bush had to look human, and he did. He always does. John Kerry had to make it a referendum on George Bush. I thought Kerry could have done a lot better, but he hit home on how the president hasn't produced what he promised in 2000, in protecting jobs, in foreign policy, in health care.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Kimberly A. Yourchock found little to trust. Daniel H. Russell was looking for more specific plans.
 Tristan Brown, Britne Amos and Erin Kenzie, left to right, watching the debate from Kalamazoo, Mich. (Photographs by Kenneth Dickerman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (78%); STUDY ABROAD PROGRAMS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); ABORTION (71%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (69%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (68%); DISMISSALS (60%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (50%); MARRIAGE (50%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Debating; Colleges and Universities; Election Issues

COMPANY: LEAR CORP (60%)

ORGANIZATION: WESTERN MICHIGAN UNIVERSITY (91%)

TICKER: LEA (NYSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336370 MOTOR VEHICLE METAL STAMPING (60%); NAICS336360 MOTOR VEHICLE SEATING & INTERIOR TRIM MANUFACTURING (60%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN KERRY (79%) R W Jr Apple; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (95%); MIDWEST USA (78%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); SPAIN (79%) Kalamazoo (Mich)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2004



360 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: FACT CHECK; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: Are Americans Better Off Economically Under Bush? It Depends on How You Look at It

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 14 

 BODY:
Much of the presidential debate on Wednesday night turned on the question of whether Americans had more money in their pockets as a result of President Bush's policies.
 Senator John Kerry offered an array of statistics that in his view showed that people were worse off than they were at the beginning of the Bush presidency.
 Mr. Bush accused his challenger of ''a litany of misstatements'' and held that voters were in better financial shape because of his tax cuts. But, as with the Kerry data, the accuracy of the president's statements is not obvious. 
 The truth seems to be that, on average, Americans may have more money at their disposal. But more people are worse off than are better off. 
 The trick is in the word ''average.'' Average income -- all the income in the country divided by the total number of people -- has gone up because of the large increase in after-tax income enjoyed by the very wealthy.
 But median income -- the point at which half the people have more and half less -- has dropped. 
 ''If rich people get richer, it makes the average go up but not the median,'' said Joel Slemrod, an economist at the University of Michigan. 
 To help make his case, Mr. Kerry returned to points he had made in his stump speeches almost daily for the last month. He said: ''Health care costs for the average American have gone up 64 percent. Tuitions have gone up 35 percent. Gasoline prices up 30 percent. Medicare premiums went up 17 percent a few days ago. Prescription drugs are up 12 percent a year. But guess what, America? The wages of Americans have gone down. The jobs that are being created in Arizona right now are paying about $13,700 less than the jobs that we're losing.''
 A review of easily available data shows that Mr. Kerry's statistics are close to the mark.
 Medical insurance premiums, a good proxy for overall health costs, have risen about 60 percent during the Bush presidency. 
 According to the College Board, the average tuition at four-year public colleges and universities climbed to $10,636 in the 2003-4 school year from $8,841 in 2000-1, an increase of 20.3 percent.
 The Energy Information Agency shows that regular gasoline cost $1.41 a gallon on Jan. 22, 2001. AAA reports that the average price today is $1.98, an increase of 40.4 percent. 
 The 17 percent increase in Medicare premiums for next year was announced last month by the Department of Health and Human Services, and the prescription drug statistic is a calculation by Families USA.
 As for wages going down, the Kerry campaign says the senator was relying on a Census Bureau report showing that the median household income, adjusted for inflation, fell to $43,318 in 2003 from $44,853 in 2000, a drop of $1,535.
 In Arizona, the average wage in ''contracting industries'' was $46,415 last November, compared with $32,937 in ''growing industries,'' according to calculations by the Economic Policy Institute based on data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
 The Bush campaign does not challenge the Kerry data but says there is a better way to show that people are better off. 
 Overall prices, the campaign notes, have gone up only about 7 percent since Mr. Bush took office, an extraordinarily low rate of inflation over more than three and a half years. 
 Daniel Brandt, a policy adviser for the Bush campaign, said Mr. Kerry's calculations of income did not include benefits like employer-paid health insurance, did not take account of the improvement in the economy this year and did not count the additional money in people's pockets because of the Bush tax cuts.
 A better measurement, Mr. Brandt said, is after-tax income. Using data from the Commerce Department's Bureau of Economic Analysis, he calculated that the average per capita after-tax income in the United States rose by $1,746 from December 2000 to August 2004. Mr. Brandt said the bureau did not provide the data needed to determine the median instead of the average.
 In the debate, Mr. Bush kept returning to his argument that ordinary people were better off because of the tax cuts. At one point, he declared: ''You've got more money in your pocket as a result of the tax relief we passed and he opposed. If you have a child, you got a $1,000 child credit. That's money in your pocket. If you're married, we reduced the marriage penalty. The code ought to encourage marriage, not discourage marriage. We created a 10 percent bracket to help lower-income Americans. A family of four making $40,000 received about $1,700 in tax relief.''
 Mr. Bush's data is accurate. A couple with two children would have a tax saving this large. But his tax cuts were sharply skewed toward the wealthiest Americans, contrary to his statement in the debate that ''most of the tax cuts went to low- and middle-income Americans.''
 The wealthiest 10 percent of taxpayers, those with incomes above $112,000, received half of all the tax savings, and their average tax reduction this year because of the laws enacted under Mr. Bush has been about $7,250. 
 Most taxpayers do not fall into the category of a couple with two children. This year, those in the middle 20 percent of all taxpayers ranked by income -- 40 percent have a lower income and 40 percent have a higher income -- are getting an average tax cut of $756. Their incomes range from $25,000 to $43,000. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (86%); OIL & GAS PRICES (86%); TUITION FEES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); FAMILY (77%); INCOME TAX (75%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); PRICE CHANGES (72%); CENSUS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TAX LAW (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (69%); GASOLINE PRICES (69%); MEDICARE (69%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (69%); GASOLINE (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (68%); GASOLINE MARKETS (64%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (63%) United States Economy; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (54%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%) David E Rosenbaum; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2004



361 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 15, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: Insurers Post Steep Losses in Day of Widespread Declines

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Stocks dropped yesterday as oil prices approached $55 a barrel, renewing concern that fuel costs will reduce spending, and insurance companies became a target for Eliot Spitzer, the New York attorney general.
 ''Oil is still on the top of everybody's list,'' said Peter Coolidge, a money manager with the Deltec Asset Management Corporation in New York. ''It adds more uncertainty to the mix.''
 Insurance stocks had their biggest losses in four and a half years after Mr. Spitzer arrested two American International Group employees and sued the Marsh & McLennan Companies for steering clients to certain insurers in return for payments. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average plunged 107.88 points, or 1.1 percent, to 9,894.45, with American International and General Motors contributing the most to the decline. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 10.36 points, or 0.9 percent, to 1,103.29, erasing its gain for the year. The Nasdaq composite index fell 17.51 points, or 0.9 percent, to 1,903.02.
 The November contract for crude oil surged $1.12, or 2.1 percent, to a record $54.76 a barrel in New York after an Energy Department report showed that supplies of distillate fuels, including heating oil and diesel, plunged last week.
 ''The oil price is the critical issue for the market,'' said Timothy M. Ghriskey, who oversees $600 million as chief investment officer of Solaris Asset Management in Bedford Hills, N.Y. ''A high oil price will eventually choke off demand, which will choke off the economy.''
 The S.&P. 500 insurance index fell 6.9 percent, its biggest decline since April 2000. American International dropped $6.99, to $60. Marsh & McLennan plunged $11.28, or 24 percent, to $34.85. 
 Hartford Financial Services slid $3.78, to $58.40. Aon shed $4.48, to $23.18, and Ace lost $3.84, to $36.47.
 General Motors fell $2.46, to $38.84, after it cut its 2004 profit forecast. G.M. said profit excluding one-time items would be no more than $6.50 a share, trailing its midyear forecast of about $7.
 Third-quarter net income at G.M., with three-fourths of it coming from the finance unit, was below analysts' estimates. S.&P. cut the company's debt rating to the lowest investment grade on concern about the profitability of its automotive business.
 A gauge of oil and gas producers in the S.&P. 500 advanced 0.8 percent, leading the benchmark's two dozen groups. It is up 24 percent this year amid a 68 percent surge in oil prices. Exxon Mobil added 23 cents, to $48.71. Valero Energy climbed 95 cents, to $41.26.
 Apple Computer rose $5.23, or 13 percent, to $44.98. Apple, the maker of the iPod digital music player and iMac personal computers, said fiscal first-quarter profit would be as much as 42 cents a share on sales of up to $2.9 billion. Analysts in a Thomson poll expected profit of 28 cents on sales of $2.5 billion.
 The First Health Group advanced $2, to $17.04. The company, which manages health care benefits for employers, agreed to be bought by Coventry Health Care for $1.8 billion in cash and stock. Coventry shares shed $5.76, to $46.29.
 Hewlett-Packard fell 52 cents, to $18.38, after Morgan Stanley cut its rating on the shares to equal-weight from overweight, citing signs the company is losing market share amid increased competition.
 Novellus Systems lost $2.38, to $24.50. Novellus, the maker of semiconductor equipment, said it had a ''significant weakening'' of orders last month. Fourth-quarter sales will drop from the previous period, missing analysts' estimates, the company said.
 SanDisk slumped $7.68, to $20.52. The company, the maker of flash-memory data-storage products, said third-quarter net income was 29 cents a share, missing analysts' estimates of 34 cents.
 The climb in oil prices increased demand for government debt, sending the price of the 10-year Treasury note higher by 10/32, to a price of 10128/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, dipped to 4.01 percent from 4.06 percent on Wednesday.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)Graph: ''Freddie Mac Yields''Graph tracks the average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities, plotted weekly from July - Sept. 2004.30-year: 5.24%15-year: 4.64%(Source by F.H.L.M.C.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); INSURANCE (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); BONDS (90%); INSURANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); DIESEL FUEL PRICES (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (87%); HEATING OIL (79%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); DIESEL FUEL (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (66%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Nasdaq Composite Index; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Finances; Government Bonds; Credit; Interest Rates

COMPANY: MARSH & MCLENNAN COS INC (85%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (71%); HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (55%); VALERO ENERGY CORP (55%)

TICKER: MMC (NYSE) (85%); MHM (LSE) (85%); AIG (NYSE) (71%); 8685 (TSE) (71%); HIG (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (56%); XOM (NYSE) (55%); VLO (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (85%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%); NAICS525190 OTHER INSURANCE FUNDS (58%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (58%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (55%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (55%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (55%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2004



362 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Importing Canadian Drugs Might Not Lower Prices
Many economists and health care experts say that importing drugs from countries like Canada that control their prices would do little to solve the problem of expensive drugs in the United States.
 The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office has said that allowing Canadian drug imports would have a negligible effect on costs. And drug makers say they would simply reduce their shipments to distributors in the countries supplying the drugs. [Page A1.]

No Deal on Russia-China Pipeline
Russia and China failed to seal an agreement on a proposed gas pipeline from eastern Siberia to northern China. President Vladimir V. Putin, left, of Russia visited China this week amid hopes that a deal was near. Instead, the two countries signed a loose agreement that left the door open to future talks. Many said the two countries remain wary neighbors. [C3.]

Layoffs and Write-Down at Sprint
Sprint plans to lay off 700 sales representatives and write down the value of its network to reflect the eroding market for traditional phone services. The company has already eliminated 7,500 positions this year. [C2.]

Delta Expects a Large Loss
Delta Air Lines said that it expected to lose as much as $675 million for the third quarter, renewing speculation that it could seek bankruptcy protection later this month. [C12.]

Greenspan Eases Fears on Oil
Alan Greenspan said higher oil costs had hurt the gross domestic product this year, but he said the long-term outlook for global oil supplies was reassuring. Crude oil prices climbed 17 cents, to $54.93 a barrel. [C4.]

British Bankers Face Extradition
A judge ruled that three British bankers can be extradited to the United States to face charges of wire fraud related to off-balance-sheet dealings with Enron. [C3.]

Retail Sales Surged in September
A large increase in September retail sales and gains in producer prices indicated stronger economic growth. But a surprisingly soft reading on consumer confidence showed that high oil prices were a threat. [C3.]

Economic Reports Lift Stocks
Stocks rebounded as a retail sales report showed that higher oil prices were not keeping consumers from spending. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 4.91 points, to 1,108.20, and the Dow Jones industrial average rose 38.93 points, to 9,933.38. [C4.]

Judge to Decide Fate of Oracle Bid
The two-week trial to decide the fate of Oracle's $7.7 billion hostile tender offer for PeopleSoft moved to the judge, who said the parties had moved closer together. [C2.]

Warning Labels on Antidepressants
The Food and Drug Administration ordered pharmaceutical companies to add strong warnings to antidepressants, saying the drugs can cause suicidal thoughts and actions in children and teenagers. [A9.]

Inquiry on Bonds at Bear Stearns
Bear Stearns said it had received subpoenas from federal investigators looking into its municipal bond business. [C12.]

Bitumen Price-Fixing Charges
The European Commission plans to file charges against several companies for fixing the price of bitumen, an oil-based product used in making houses and road surfaces. [C3.]

Flu Vaccine Not Salvageable
None of the flu vaccine made by Chiron that was quarantined in Britain is safe for Americans to use, federal health officials said. [A14]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 9,933.38 up 38.93Nasdaq composite -- 1,911.50 up 8.4810-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.06% down 0.05The euro -- $1.2480 up 0.0141The dollar -- 109.19 yen down 0.48Graph tracks daily closes of the Standard & Poor's 500 since January 2004.Yesterday: 1,108.20(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXTRADITION (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); RETAIL SALES (88%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (87%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (87%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (87%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); PHARMACEUTICALS TRADE (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); MENTAL ILLNESS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); SUBPOENAS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); BONDS (76%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); SALES FIGURES (72%); SALES & SELLING (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); PRODUCT LABELING (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); LITIGATION (68%); JUDGES (68%); SALES FORCE (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (65%); TENDER OFFERS (61%); SUICIDE (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (55%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (53%); ORACLE CORP (51%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (58%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (55%); ORCL (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (51%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (57%); ALAN GREENSPAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (57%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2004



363 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 568 words

HEADLINE: Retail Sales Up, but Consumer Confidence Softens

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 15 

 BODY:
A large increase in September retail sales and bigger-than-expected gains in underlying producer prices were reported Friday, lifting hopes for stronger growth and making it more likely that interest rates will keep rising.
 But a surprisingly soft reading on consumer confidence from the University of Michigan indicated that high oil prices were still a threat. Uncertainty ahead of the presidential election may also be hurting household sentiment. 
 Sales numbers indicated that the third quarter ended strongly. The Commerce Department reported that retail sales rose 1.5 percent in September, helped by the sharpest jump in auto sales in nearly three years. Wall Street had expected a 0.7 percent gain, after a revised drop of 0.2 percent in August that was initially reported as a 0.3 percent decline.
 ''This makes a December rate hike more likely,'' said Christopher Low, chief economist at FTN Financial.
 The Federal Reserve meets twice more this year, on Nov. 10 and Dec. 14, and markets are betting that it will raise rates again by a quarter of a percentage point, taking short-term interest rates to 2 percent.
 Excluding auto sales, which can swing sharply, retail sales advanced a solid 0.6 percent after growing 0.2 percent in August. Analysts had expected this measure to edge up just 0.3 percent. 
 ''What is the most important is that the ex-auto component is twice what is expected,'' Mr. Low said.
 A report from the Labor Department on Friday said that producer prices edged up just 0.1 percent in September, while the so-called core index, which excludes food and energy, rose 0.3 percent. Wall Street economists had forecast a 0.1 percent rise in the overall and core readings on producer prices.
 The overall producer price figure was held back by a drop in energy prices. While crude oil prices topped $50 a barrel last month, economists said the increase probably came too late to be reflected in the prices of finished goods and could herald a larger gain in prices this month.
 Crude has continued to climb, reaching a fresh record of $55 a barrel on Friday, and analysts said this was probably the reason the University of Michigan's survey of consumer sentiment was so weak.
 The sentiment indicator fell more sharply than expected in early October to a preliminary estimate of 87.5, down from September's final reading of 94.2, according to market sources who saw the subscription-only report. Analysts had forecast a dip to 94.
 ''The price of crude oil has hit record highs, and people see those headlines,'' said Kevin Logan, senior economist at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein. ''Winter's coming and people know what that means for their winter heating bills.'' 
 Some investors worry this heralds a rerun of the second quarter, when surging energy costs delivered a blow to consumer spending. 
 A similar surprise came from the Empire Manufacturing Survey, which dropped to 17.4 in October from 27.3 in September, indicating more muted activity at factories in New York State.
 Signals from the other data releases were also mixed.
 September industrial output edged up a less-than-expected 0.1 percent, suppressed in part by the hurricanes that hit the country last month.
 And business inventories rose 0.7 percent in August, more than forecast. It was hard to tell whether this was due to stockpiling in advance of stronger anticipated demand or because of weaker sales.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Retail Sales''Total retail and food services sales in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted.Sept.: +1.5%Aug.: -0.2July: +1.0Graph tracks retail food sales from April 2003 through September 2004.(Source by Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (92%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (92%); PRODUCER PRICES (91%); SALES FIGURES (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RETAILERS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (75%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (73%); ELECTIONS (71%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (68%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (64%) United States Economy; Retail Stores and Trade; Consumer Confidence (Economic Indicator); Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Producer Price Index; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Sales; Interest Rates; Credit

COMPANY: COMMERZBANK HOLDINGS (UK) LTD (80%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%) University of Michigan

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (80%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (80%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (80%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2004



364 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: 30-Day Card Will Yield Less Saving In Subways

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
''You get more than rides with a 30-day MetroCard,'' the subway advertisements read, promoting what the Metropolitan Transportation Authority presents as the card's convenience and value, in the form of discounts for the regular subway rider.
 But that discount could all but disappear for many New Yorkers if the authority acts on its proposal to raise the price of the monthly card to as much as $84 from $70, the current cost for unlimited rides on city buses and subways, as part of a plan to balance its budget. 
 Dashing one of the core promises of the unlimited-ride pass -- a discount in exchange for a larger upfront payment -- a person using an $84 card solely to commute to and from work on weekdays would actually pay a tiny bit more than the regular $2 per-ride fare over the course of a year, given five holidays. For that hypothetical commuter, who is paying $1.67 a ride now, the increase would in effect raise the fare by 19.7 percent, without officially raising the single-ride fare. 
 ''The very reason for the unlimited card evaporates if it's no better than taking a ride at a time,'' said Gene Russianoff, a staff lawyer for the Straphangers Campaign, a transit advocacy group, adding that the unlimited passes had helped fuel a surge in ridership. ''That has also been good for the economy. All those people traveling to Macy's on their lunch hours. They structured the last fare increase to encourage people to buy the discounted cards, but this would be a dramatic reversal of six, seven, eight years of fare policy.''
 On Thursday, in a public announcement on its Web site noted in published reports yesterday, the transit agency said that it was contemplating raising the cost of the 30-day card to at least $76, and as much as $84. The seven-day unlimited card would increase to $24 from $21, part of a slate of other increases, service cuts and closings of station booths that would allow the authority to pay for improvements and maintenance, officials say.
 For months, transit officials have warned that service cuts and fare increases would be needed to close projected budget shortfalls. 
 In July, the authority's executive director, Katherine N. Lapp, outlined a proposal to raise the monthly MetroCard fee to $76 and the weekly rate to $24 from $21. In the last fare increase, in May 2003, the price of the monthly cards rose the least among the unlimited passes, going up by 11 percent to $70 from $63, while the seven-day pass went up by 35 percent and the one-day by 75 percent. After that, the percentage of riders using the 30-day passes rose.
 Although transit officials say that they are not recommending an increase to $84, they are advocating some increase, in part because of the success of the unlimited pass program. Instead of earning an anticipated average of $1.30 per ride, officials say, the authority has been earning about $1.26.
 Tom Kelly, a spokesman for the authority, said yesterday that $84 was a ''bookkeeping number,'' a high-end figure that would give the board members, who would ultimately approve any increase, room to compensate if public opposition torpedoes some of the recommended service cuts. The authority is to hold five public hearings in November.
 ''We would hope that what the executive director suggests is what they follow,'' he said of the $76 price. But for some subway riders, any increase will be difficult to bear. 
 Febe Leon, who uses a weekly pass to travel between the Bronx and downtown Brooklyn, said that she did not know how she would pay more. Her brother pays each week for her transportation, she said, so she cannot afford the 30-day card. ''I am a student,'' she said, ''and I don't have much money. I am worried for that.''
 And Joyce Hargrove, who uses her monthly pass to commute from Starrett City to her job in Brooklyn, called the proposal ''horrible.''
 ''I just don't understand what they're doing with the money -- they keep putting all these hikes in,'' she said. ''But we have no choice. You have to go to work. It's going to cost more for me to go to work than to maintain my household,'' she added, chuckling. ''I know it sounds like an exaggeration, but it will be true if they keep going this way.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (92%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); BUDGET FORECASTS (70%); WEB SITES (50%) Transit Systems; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Metrocard; Buses; Subways; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

ORGANIZATION: Metropolitan Transportation Authority

PERSON: Diane Cardwell

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2004



365 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Acquiesces in European Plan for Talks With Iran

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 15 

 BODY:
The Bush administration on Friday acquiesced in a plan by three European nations to offer Iran a discussion on political ties and future economic and other benefits in return for an immediate suspension of its nuclear-fuel-enrichment efforts, European and American officials said.
 The officials said an understanding to proceed with the offer to Iran next week had come at an unusual and occasionally frosty meeting of top envoys of eight leading industrial nations and the European Union that had been hastily scheduled to head off growing dissatisfaction among American allies over what they see as the administration's nonconciliatory approach on Iran.
 Administration officials said they were extremely skeptical that another offer to Iran would persuade it to stop its enrichment activities, which are suspected to be a cover for making nuclear weapons. The United States instead favors taking up Iran's program at the United Nations Security Council for possible consideration of sanctions. 
 ''We've been a broken record on this since the beginning of the process,'' said an administration official. ''It's safe to say that American expectations are fairly low, based on Iran's miserable track record, including its almost instantaneous breaking of the last agreement we had with them.''
 The official was referring to Iran's agreement to halt its uranium enrichment program last year, only to change its mind this year, citing what it said was a Western refusal to let it have a peaceful nuclear program.
 The meeting on Friday occurred at the State Department with envoys from Britain, France, Germany, Italy, Russia, Japan, Canada and the European Union. According to officials familiar with the session, a four-page plan for Iran drafted by Britain, France and Germany was circulated and discussed but not formally adopted.
 The plan, various officials said, called for the British, French and Germans to tell Iran next week that if it suspended its uranium enrichment in November, and if this were verified by the International Atomic Energy Agency, a discussion would begin aimed at improving relations over the long term.
 Among the items that the Europeans would be willing to discuss with Iran, the document proposed, are a supply of nuclear fuel for civilian reactors, improved trade and commercial ties, and Iran's possible role in efforts to settle the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The Europeans would also want to discuss human rights in Iran and the problem of terrorism in the region.
 According to people familiar with the session, the main American representative at the talks, John R. Bolton, under secretary of state for arms control and international security, was highly skeptical that any such approach would work or was worth trying. Deputy Secretary of State Richard L. Armitage opened the meeting but left after it began.
 A European envoy said Mr. Bolton had been unable to disguise his apparent disdain for the European proposal and spoke with ''the minimum courtesy imaginable'' in a way that ''bordered on the unacceptable.'' But he said Mr. Bolton nonetheless agreed tacitly to let the Europeans go ahead with their initiative. Mr. Bolton would not comment.
 ''They didn't jump on the train physically,'' a European official said, describing the American attitude. ''But there was nobody who told us, don't go ahead.''
 An administration official, amplifying the American attitude, said: ''They didn't ask for our approval, and we didn't offer it. But everyone came out of the meeting understanding that we're not objecting to it or blocking it either. They said they really wanted to do it. We said, it sounds like you're going to do it anyway, so go ahead.''
 As a result, a meeting is expected as early as next Thursday, perhaps in Vienna, the headquarters of the International Atomic Energy Agency. A spokesman for the Iranian mission at the United Nations in New York, Morteza Ramandi, said a meeting would probably occur next week.
 Officials familiar with the paper discussed on Friday also said it called for a ''two-track approach'' of engagement, coupling rewards with a threat of confrontation if Iran did not go along. The path of confrontation would be pursued by getting the International Atomic Energy Agency's board of governors to refer the matter to the United Nations.
 The international agency has criticized Iran for noncompliance with disclosure demands on its nuclear program but has not labeled its efforts as clearly aimed at producing a bomb. The agency's 35 board members are divided over whether to send the matter to a body that would immediately discuss sanctions.
 Not only are China and Russia opposed to sanctions, but a group of so-called nonaligned countries including Brazil, South Africa and Malaysia also oppose anything that might suggest that countries cannot have peaceful nuclear energy programs. 
 Iran maintains that its enrichment efforts are part of a civilian program permitted by the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, which it signed. The treaty grants access to imported nuclear technology if countries agree to international inspections.
 Iran has two forms of nuclear energy programs. In one program, it is enriching uranium, and the International Atomic Energy Agency recently found that it possessed 37 metric tons of ''yellow cake,'' a uranium substance that can be enriched for reactors or for bombs. Some experts say 37 metric tons is more than enough needed for civilian purposes and raises suspicions that Iran wants the material for arms.
 The second Iranian program is a heavy water reactor dependent on importing fuel from Russia, which has said it would ship the fuel to Iran next year and then re-import it when it is used and becomes available for a nuclear weapon.
 European officials said Friday that as part of the discussions at the State Department, Russia in effect agreed to join with the other nations in urging Iran to suspend its uranium enrichment, and that Russia would not ship any fuel to Iran unless it cooperated. But other experts say Russian attitudes are not exactly clear.
 Any suspension of uranium enrichment by Iran would have to be ''sustained,'' a European official said -- in effect, permanent, although the word ''permanent'' is avoided because a lasting arrangement for Iran to drop its nuclear weapons ambitions needed to be worked out over the long term.
 A long-term agreement would have to be able to verify that Iran had fully abandoned any nuclear weapons program, European officials said, though they acknowledged that verification was technically difficult as long as Iran insists its programs are for civilian purposes.
 In addition, European officials say any solution would have to acknowledge Iran's right to have a civilian nuclear energy program. Iran, they say, will never accept a forced abandonment of what it regards as its rights under international agreements. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (77%); TRENDS (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); POLITICS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); NUCLEAR FUEL MFG (70%); TERRORISM (60%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Atomic Weapons; United States International Relations; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Terrorism; Politics and Government; Economic Conditions and Trends

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%) United Nations

PERSON: Steven R Weisman; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); FRANCE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); GERMANY (90%); JAPAN (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%); CANADA (79%) Iran; Great Britain; France; Germany; Europe; Iran

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2004



366 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1558 words

HEADLINE: Democracy as a Brand: Wooing Hearts, European or Muslim

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

 BODY:
It is a time of war, and an implacable enemy seeks to sully America's image, destroy its way of life and undermine its allies. Sound familiar? But the time in question here is not the present and the enemy is not Al Qaeda. This is the cold war, fought against the Soviet Union and played out against the backdrop of shattered post-war European societies vulnerable to the utopian chimera of Communism.
 In such a critical struggle all means are good. Propaganda is central, victory begins in the mind and the heart is ever vulnerable to seduction. This push to win over European sentiments -- call it public diplomacy if you will -- was the central theme of a series of movies called ''Selling Democracy: Films of the Marshall Plan 1948-53,'' shown this week as part of the New York Film Festival.
 The 25 films were long hidden from Americans because of laws, now changed, that barred the government from using tax dollars to propagandize its citizens. So the movies fill a historical gap. They also appear at a time when the need to devise means to improve America's tarnished international image, particularly in the Islamic world, appears pressing. 
 By turns blunt and beguiling, menacing and mawkish, the films beg an overriding question: Why, with this experience behind it, has the United States failed so conspicuously since Sept. 11 to bolster its image in another region it seeks to transform, the Middle East?
 After all, the expertise is here, on Madison Avenue, in Hollywood, at Foggy Bottom. So is unsurpassed technology. Freedom may be what America is about, but building a global brand is not far behind. These 50-year-old films illustrate that by taking something as potentially stultifying as former Secretary of State George C. Marshall's economic plan for Europe and turning it into the Marshall Plan brand, one with real razzmatazz, capable of washing those invasive Reds out of Europe's fabric. Yet now, attempts to reach out to the world's 1.5 billion Muslims flounder.
 Perhaps one of the films in the festival program, ''Me and Mr. Marshall'' (1949), offers a clue to the reasons for today's public-relations debacle. It was made by the American occupation authority in Berlin, a body known as Omgus. The aim is straightforward: to humanize the economic vision for Europe first set out by Marshall at Harvard on June 5, 1947, in the hope of reinforcing a nascent West German democracy and binding it to America.
 The chosen vehicle is a German miner laboring in the bombed-out Ruhr region, a man who introduces himself as: ''Hans Fischer, age 26. Profession: optimist.'' He has gone to work because he needed a roof over his head, even if it was the 386-foot roof of a mine. But something deeper is at work in Fischer, who has been trying to figure out the reasons for Germany's plight and how the country can escape a destructive spiral.
 Mr. Fischer knows, and scenes of destruction illustrate, that there is a real danger that ''Europe might just go kaput.'' He has also concluded that ''when people get hungry enough or cold enough or hopeless enough, they start to look for the easy answers -- uniforms and slogans and violence and barbed wire.'' Regimented German figures in a menacing landscape reinforce these somber reflections. Not that again, please.
 But, he has decided, there is an alternative: the American aid offered by Marshall -- over $12 billion was disbursed between 1948 and 1951 -- which will allow Germany to acquire machines to turn out goods that the world will buy, put food on tables and place money in citizens' pockets. Simple. Mr. Marshall's words unfurl across the screen: ''It would be neither fitting nor efficacious for this government to undertake to draw up unilaterally a program designed to place Europe on its feet economically. This is the business of Europeans.''
 In other words: We'll give the money, you provide the initiative and over to you, Mr. Fischer. An American spark for a German engine is what is on offer. The young German leaps at the opportunity and concludes: ''Name: Hans Fisher. Profession? Just call me a Marshall Planner.''
 This is scarcely rocket science, but there are elements here that merit reflection. The message is one of empowerment, not American domination or even tutelage. The hero is a citizen of the country that America seeks to influence. The film is made in Berlin; others were made by the Paris-based European Cooperation Administration set up to administer the Marshall Plan. They are the creations of Americans living in the region and immersed in its problems.
 The path to liberal democracy is laid out in terms simple and personal, rather than ringing and abstract: a job, money, security, freedom. The title of another one of the movies, ''It's Up to You,'' made by Omgus in 1948, amounts to a distillation of the American propagandists' theme. 
 Contrast all this with the post-9/11 efforts of the under secretary for public diplomacy and public affairs, a position created at the State Department to promote American values. The main target was now the Islamic world, and the job was initially entrusted to a former advertising executive, Charlotte Beers. But the films made, focusing on Muslims in the United States and their claim to have encountered no prejudice in American society, were widely regarded in Islamic countries as unconvincing, patronizing and ineffective.
 These were videos whose main characters were in America, not the region concerned, and whose main message was the extolling of American values and society. Our system is great, they seemed to say; you Muslims can live like us, too. But surely there is a contemporary Hans Fisher out there -- call him Ali Said -- a young Arab trying to make his way amid the conflicting pressures of Iraq or Saudi Arabia, a hero who could be a far subtler vehicle for America's quest to instill openness and freedom in the Islamic world.
 Of course, the analogies should not be pressed too far. Germany was defeated; in Iraq, conflict rages. The Internet and a plethora of 24-hour television networks, including Al Jazeera, mean that any American public diplomacy now faces much competition. Images of violence -- in Iraq and in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict -- militate against all American efforts to change perceptions: Gaza and Falluja merge in the Arab mind. The post-war State Department was full of Europeanists; this is far from the case with Arabists today. Where the Marshall Plan enjoyed bipartisan domestic support, no plan does today.
 ''Today there is so much noise and so little lucidity,'' said Sandra Schulberg, the co-curator of the film series. ''But what you see in these films is a very concrete, very lucid approach to winning the peace in Europe, treating everything from hard-core economics to elusive concepts like optimism and hope. What they provide, with great specificity, is a guide to the ingredients of civil society.''
 Nowhere was civil society more threatened in the post-war years than in Italy, where the Communists came close to taking power. ''Struggle for Men's Minds,'' made in 1952, traces the struggle to keep Italy in the West. After grim footage of Communist demonstrations, the movie cuts to more hopeful scenes: coal arriving from Pennsylvania, wheat from Illinois, machinery from Detroit. Communism, a narrator suggests, thrives on misery. The American assistance helps break its hold on Italians, who see that democracy ''could actually achieve the good things that Communism could only promise.''
 A strong feel for central values of Italian life -- family, community, church, land and sport -- is evident in the movie. As the specter of Moscow's totalitarianism recedes, peasants laugh, old men play boccie, priests extol the values of freedom and kids gambol in village streets. Italians understand they can ''pursue happiness in peace and freedom.'' Subtle it is not. But the film's American creators have grasped something essential about the society they seek to sway.
 Throughout these movies, a simple message prevails: jobs bring money that opens possibilities enjoyable only in a free world -- and best enjoyed in a uniting Europe. American economic aid is also political persuasion; it is timely because the threat from Moscow is real.
 That threat is felt most vividly in ''Without Fear'' (1951), a riveting Technicolor animation that imbues the Communist peril with all the baleful menace of a monster in a children's story. In a totalitarian society, the narrator notes, ''we could still walk in the sun, but we could not talk in it, because in a police state words are dangerous.''
 Where is the movie that treats the totalitarian jihadists of today, nihilists bent on the destruction of America, with a similar irrefutable directness? Yet Al Qaeda is more an ideology than a cohesive movement, a child of the Internet age bouncing its murderous ideas around the globe. The need for a nimble intellectual response and strong propaganda to counter it is great.
 Ms. Schulberg, whose father, Stuart Schulberg, was responsible for making some of the films, has tentative plans to show them in Los Angeles and Boston next year, and possibly also in a New York commercial theater. ''At this time,'' she said, ''it is critical that they come out of the vaults.'' Not least, it seems, because they would bear wide scrutiny in Washington.


GRAPHIC: Photos: George C. Marshall, center, being honored in London, with Prime Minister Clement Attlee of Britain, left, and Viscount Greenwood in 1947. (Photo by Associated Press)
 (Photo by Museum of German History) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (88%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (88%); FESTIVALS (88%); COLD WAR (78%); AL-QAEDA (77%); TERRORISM (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%) New York Film Festival; Propaganda; Terrorism; United States International Relations; Islam

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (58%); MARSHALL PLAN (56%)

PERSON: Roger Cohen

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (75%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); GERMANY (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) Europe; Middle East

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2004



367 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: Eating Our Way to New Frontiers

BYLINE: By Nina and Tim Zagat and Curt Gathje. 
Nina and Tim Zagat are the publishers and Curt Gathje is the New York City editor of the Zagat Survey guides.

 BODY:
In the 25 years that the Zagat Survey has chronicled New York's dining scene, there's never been a year like this one. 
 It began with the closings of three venerable temples of French haute cuisine -- La Caravelle, La Cote Basque and Lutece -- and another grande dame, Le Cirque, facing an uncertain future. 
 At the same time, a spate of high-profile restaurants with Asian themes arrived -- among them, Masa, Matsuri, Megu and Spice Market -- favored by a younger, more casual crowd of movers and shakers. It's a different world out there, led by confident, educated diners and a new generation of restaurants that have redefined fine dining: nowadays it means stylish yet unadorned food served in simple yet stylish environs, more often than not in an edgy neighborhood. Simply stated, it is the end of an era. 
 When the Zagat Survey began in 1979, French was considered the most sophisticated of cuisines, with Asian food primarily represented by Chinese takeout. This was long before raw food, small plates, Atkins diets, communal tables, smoke-free dining rooms and Restaurant Weeks. Words like arugula, chipotle, and edamame weren't in the foodie's vocabulary -- nor was the word foodie, for that matter. For most New Yorkers, eating raw fish was strictly a fraternity prank. Now sushi restaurants are ubiquitous and raw fish is offered at Masa, the most expensive restaurant in town at $300 a person. 
 How did all this happen? Four key social changes set the revolution in motion. The advent of school lunch programs in the late 1950's trained the baby boomers to buy lunch out in lieu of carrying a lunch box from home, a habit they continued as adults. As women entered the work force in record numbers families began to dine out, most often at informal, inexpensive eateries. 
 Affordable jet travel in the 1970's opened a new world of tastes to middle-class Americans (it also gave chefs access to an extraordinary variety of fresh ingredients). And longstanding immigration quotas based on race and country of origin were lifted in 1965; with the new immigrants came cuisines new to most Americans. Indeed, our first survey indexed 19 cuisines, while this year it's up to 93, and counting.
 Along the way, public perception of the cooking profession changed. In 1979, the city's most famous toque was Andre Soltner, the chef and owner of Lutece (rated the best in town in our first survey). In fact, Mr. Soltner was New York's only well-known chef; in those days, cognoscenti considered it more important to know the name of the maitre d'. In our current celebrity-focused culture numerous chefs have become household names, overseeing empires involving cookbooks, Web sites, television shows and cookware lines. They perform in open kitchens and pirouette about their dining rooms before adoring audiences. No wonder culinary schools are now turning out record numbers of starry-eyed hopefuls. 
 The restaurant itself has been redesigned. Fussy flower arrangements, heavy draperies and tablecloths have been banished, and in their place are coolly understated environments that look like theatrical versions of restaurants. The once-lowly restroom now has waterfalls, one-way mirrors, see-through doors and mod sinks. (At Matsuri, it's anyone's guess which is the sink and which is the urinal). Yet while decor has gotten fancier, the dress code has not. Today it can be best described as informal with behavior to match.
 Where it's hip to dine has similarly changed. While we could find only a handful of outer-borough places to review 25 years ago, this year's guide covers 236.
 And areas of Manhattan that were barely considered neighborhoods a generation ago have become chic: the Lower East Side, the Meatpacking District, SoHo and TriBeCa in Manhattan, Smith Street and Williamsburg in Brooklyn; Arthur and Belmont Avenues in the Bronx. Yet uptown is far from dead -- the Time Warner Center in Columbus Circle is home to some of the best restaurants in town: Asiate, Cafe Gray, Masa and the already impossible-to-get-into Per Se.
 Of course, there have been notable disappearances over the last quarter-century, including fabled spots like the Coach House, Christ Cella, Gage & Tollner, Le Cygne, Luchow's, Maxwell's Plum, Russian Tea Room, and Sign of the Dove. But new classics have risen to take their place: Alain Ducasse, Aureole, Babbo, Balthazar, Blue Ribbon, Bouley, Craft, Daniel, Danube, Gotham Bar and Grill, Gramercy Tavern, Il Mulino, Jean Georges, Le Bernardin, Mesa Grill, Milos, Montrachet, Nobu, Ouest, Picholine and Union Square Cafe. In fact, 9 of the 10 restaurants voted most popular in our 2005 guide being released Monday opened in the last decade.
 Has anything stayed the same since the Survey began? Twenty-six out of the 123 restaurants listed on our very first ballot are still thriving, among them Barbetta, Cafe des Artistes, Chanterelle, Four Seasons, La Grenouille, Oyster Bar, Peter Luger, River Cafe, Shun Lee Palace and '21' Club. Our respondents still consider service the weak link of the dining experience. Italian cooking remains as popular, though today there are far more regional choices than the red sauce and Northern Italian options of 1979 when most New Yorkers thought Emilia-Romagna was a baseball player. Happily, despite some striking exceptions, price increases for an average meal have consistently stayed below the national inflation rate for the last 25 years. 
 One thing that hasn't changed is that New York is still a restaurant town, and New York diners have remained as sharp-tongued as ever. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); THEME RESTAURANTS (78%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (78%); BABY BOOMERS (75%); FAMILY (73%); LABOR FORCE (68%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (64%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (62%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (61%); IMMIGRATION (60%); IMMIGRATION LAW (60%); SCHOOL MEAL PROGRAMS (52%) Restaurants; Ratings and Rating Systems; Guidebooks; Celebrities

ORGANIZATION: Zagat Survey

PERSON: Nina Zagat; Tim Zagat; Curt Gathje

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2004



368 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 262 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Pfizer Cautions Doctors About a Painkiller
Two weeks after Merck withdrew its painkiller Vioxx, Pfizer warned doctors that its painkiller Bextra could increase the risk of heart attack or stroke in patients who have had coronary-artery bypass surgery. PAGE C1

Warnings on Antidepressants
The Food and Drug Administration ordered pharmaceutical companies to add strong warnings to antidepressants, saying the drugs can cause suicidal thoughts and actions in children and teenagers. It was the toughest action that federal drug regulators could take short of banning the medications. PAGE A8

U.S. Acquiesces on Iran Plan
The Bush administration has acquiesced in a plan by Britain, France and Germany to offer Iran a discussion of improved political ties and economic and other benefits in return for an immediate suspension of its nuclear fuel enrichment program. PAGE A7

Israel Begins Gaza Pullout
Israel said it had begun to redeploy troops in Gaza and remove some of them altogether as it scales back its operation in the northern Gaza Strip. More than 100 Palestinians were killed in the latest offensive, which began 17 days ago. PAGE A3

Which One's the Republican?
The beer magnate Pete Coors is running as a Republican for a Senate seat from Colorado. But his Democratic opponent, Ken Salazar, often out-Republicans him. PAGE A10

Zimbabwe Clears Mugabe Foe
Zimbabwe's highest court acquitted the leading opposition politician, Morgan Tsvangirai, below, of treason charges after a yearlong trial. The verdict surprised members of his party, who were jubilant. PAGE A3


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Howard Burditt/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEART DISEASE (90%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); NONSTEROIDAL ANTI-INFLAMMATORY DRUGS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (88%); STROKES (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (78%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (78%); MENTAL ILLNESS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); SUICIDE (72%); VERDICTS (70%); TREASON (65%); SUPREME COURTS (65%); ACQUITTAL (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (58%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (92%); PFEB (BRU) (92%); PFE (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (92%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (92%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (92%)

PERSON: KEN SALAZAR (56%); MORGAN RICHARD TSVANGIRAI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ISRAEL (91%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); ZIMBABWE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (55%); FRANCE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2004



369 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE DEMOCRATIC NOMINEE; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: Kerry Attacks on Economy and a Draft

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER

DATELINE: SHEBOYGAN, Wis., Oct. 15 

 BODY:
Senator John Kerry painted a dire picture of a second Bush term on Friday, telling Wisconsin voters that the middle class ''simply can't afford four more years'' of the president's economic policies and warning of a ''great potential'' for a return of the military draft should the administration continue to ''go it alone'' in Iraq.
 In an interview published Friday in The Des Moines Register, Mr. Kerry declared: ''With George Bush, the plan for Iraq is more of the same and the great potential of the draft. Because if we go it alone, I don't know how you do it with the current overextension'' of the armed forces. 
 When the candidates debated a week ago in St. Louis, Mr. Bush ruled out reinstating the draft. ''We're not going to have a draft, period,'' he said. ''The all-volunteer Army works.'' In his rebuttal then, Mr. Kerry did not question the president's assertion.
 In response to the interview published Friday, a Bush campaign spokesman, Steve Schmidt, accused Mr. Kerry of ''fear-mongering'' and spreading false rumors that show ''he is a candidate willing to do or say anything to score political points.''
 Michael D. McCurry, a senior Kerry adviser, denied that the senator was trying to heighten fears of a draft, though he said it was much on the minds of young people.
 ''We're not alleging that there's a secret plan or anything like that,'' Mr. McCurry said. ''We're just talking about the inevitability of what happens if you pursue the foreign policy choices that we are currently making.''
 Campaigning in Milwaukee and Wisconsin swing districts to the north, meanwhile, Mr. Kerry focused on the economy, delivering what aides are calling his ''closing argument'' in the presidential race. Struggling families are ''ready for a fresh start in America,'' he said.
 ''This president either just doesn't understand what's happened to our economy and to the average family of America, or he understands and he just doesn't care,'' Mr. Kerry told a heavily Democratic crowd at a technical college in Milwaukee.
 From there, the candidate rode by bus here to Sheboygan before continuing on to a rally in Appleton. Both cities are in areas where Mr. Bush defeated Al Gore by 10 percentage points or more in 2000 but where, Kerry campaign aides say, Mr. Gore underperformed compared with Bill Clinton. Job losses during Mr. Bush's term, they say, have given Mr. Kerry a big edge.
 At every stop, Mr. Kerry is offering a stark indictment of Mr. Bush's record. 
 ''Remarkably, the president said he was proud of his record,'' Mr. Kerry declared incredulously. ''Proud of millions of Americans unemployed? Proud of tens of millions of Americans who have no health insurance? Proud of five million Americans losing it while he's been president?''
 Mr. Kerry's campaign schedule is fairly split between events in heavily Democratic cities like Milwaukee, where he vowed on Friday to reduce poverty, and smaller swing districts where he appeals to middle-of-the-road voters by emphasizing his vow to impose fiscal discipline on Washington.
 Heading north from Milwaukee, he stopped in suburban Brown Deer to appeal to ''soccer moms'' about as directly as a candidate can: by kicking a soccer ball around for the cameras with scores of girls and two of his newest endorsers: Julie Foudy and Abby Wambach, members of the women's national soccer team.
 When one of the girl's mothers shouted that she loved him, Mr. Kerry exulted. ''Moms love me!'' he said, with a double pump of a fist.
 Here in Sheboygan, where he attended a ''brat fry,'' Mr. Kerry told thousands -- many of whom had to loudly inform him that ''brats'' rhymes with ''pots'' -- that Mr. Bush had broken promises not to increase the deficit or raid Social Security, and to finance the administration's education overhaul fully.
 ''My friends,'' he said, ''it's time to stop the politics of broken promises. It's time to keep our word to the American people. It's time to deliver.''
 Mr. Kerry is to follow up his daylong bus trip in Wisconsin with another through Ohio on Saturday before flying to Florida on Sunday for two days of campaigning there. He scrapped an overnight stop in West Virginia, however, where Mr. Bush has led in the polls. Mr. McCurry said the campaign had to ''make the best choice we can on where to deploy the candidate and surrogates at this point.''
 Mr. Kerry is pressing his economic attack against Mr. Bush as he tours the industrial Midwest, but Mr. McCurry said the senator would not shrink from hitting the president on Iraq and foreign policy when openings arose.
 ''We're going to see, on each day, what we think is the best way to take this frame -- that we're going to fight for you, the middle class in America; we're going to fight for a new direction in America -- and what's the best way to drive that argument home,'' Mr. McCurry said. 
 At his stop in Milwaukee, Mr. Kerry voiced his newest challenge to the president, borrowing from Muhammad Ali's famous taunt to George Foreman to say, ''Mr. President, is that all you've got?''
 ''Let me tell you what I've got,'' Mr. Kerry added. ''I'm going to raise the minimum wage so millions of Americans don't have to live in poverty. I'm going to bring down health care costs and strengthen the middle class and make health care available and accessible to all Americans. I will make America independent of oil from the Mideast.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: John Kerry stumping in Milwaukee yesterday before heading to Wisconsin swing districts to the north. (Photo by Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ARMIES (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); TERRORISM (74%); POLITICAL DEBATES (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); INDICTMENTS (64%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; United States Armament and Defense; Draft and Recruitment (Military); United States Economy; United States International Relations; Presidential Election of 2004; Terrorism

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); AL GORE (59%) David M Halbfinger; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (91%) WISCONSIN, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%) Wisconsin; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2004



370 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; COMMODITIES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan Not Too Worried By the Rise in Energy Prices

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 15 

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, said Friday that the long-term outlook for global oil supplies is reassuring even though anxiety about dwindling reserves has helped push spot prices to nearly $55 a barrel.
 Mr. Greenspan carefully avoided giving even the slightest hint of how this year's surge in oil prices might affect the Fed's plan to raise interest rates over the next year. But he did acknowledge that higher oil import costs have reduced the country's gross domestic product by about 0.75 percent this year. Crude oil prices crossed the $50-a-barrel threshold in New York this month and climbed 17 cents on Friday, to $54.93 a barrel. 
 More disturbing than the run-up in spot prices, Mr. Greenspan said, has been the sharp rise in the price of long-term futures contracts for oil that would be delivered as late as 2010. Long-term futures prices remained steady at about $20 a barrel from 1990 to 2000, even though spot-market prices fluctuated from $11 to $40 during that period. This time around, long-term prices have climbed to about $35.
 ''Unlike past concerns, the current situation reflects an increasing fear that existing reserves and productive capacity have become subject to potential geopolitical adversity,'' Mr. Greenspan said in a speech here to the National Italian American Foundation, according to a text of his remarks. ''These anxieties patently are not frivolous, given the stark realities evident in many areas of the world.''
 But he went on to argue that higher oil prices would eventually lead to the discovery of new reserves, greater investment in new production and alternative energy sources that would allow supplies to keep up with demand over the long term.
 Though Mr. Greenspan conceded that there have been relatively few new oil fields discovered in recent years, he said the world's net proven reserves have risen by 100 billion barrels over the last decade even though more than 250 billion barrels have been extracted.
 Noting that the Energy Department predicted in the 1970's that oil prices would reach the equivalent of $120 a barrel, Mr. Greenspan said market forces would lead to both increased oil production, greater energy efficiency and faster development of alternative sources of power.
 ''If history is any guide, oil will eventually be overtaken by less-costly alternatives well before conventional oil reserves run out,'' he said.
 Despite that generally sunny prognosis, which is consistent with Mr. Greenspan's deeply held belief that market forces will eventually solve almost any kind of shortage, the Fed chairman suggested that the short-term outlook might well be bumpy. 
 Gasoline prices, which actually declined during the summer because refineries increased their output to take advantage of higher profit margins, are likely to mirror movements in crude oil prices for the rest of the year.
 Mr. Greenspan offered no hint about whether the run-up in oil prices would persuade the Fed to change its current plan to keep raising interest rates gradually over the next year.


GRAPHIC: Graph ''COMMODITIES'' tracks crude oil prices (near-month contract), since May 2003. (Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. The graph also tracks the price of a barrel of oil for the past ten days. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPOT MARKET (92%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); FUTURES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); OIL EXPLORATION (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (77%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (75%); IMPORT PRICES (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); PLANT CAPACITY (70%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (68%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); International Trade and World Market

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (92%) Alan (Chmn) Greenspan; Edmund L Andrews

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2004



371 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: Kerry's Wife Releases Part of Her 2003 Income Tax Return

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON and ERIC LIPTON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 15 

 BODY:
Teresa Heinz Kerry reported income of just over $5 million last year, slightly more than half of it from investments in tax-exempt municipal and state bonds, her 2003 income tax return shows, confirming her status as the wealthiest spouse of any major party nominee in United States history.
 Ms. Heinz Kerry on Friday released a small part of her 2003 income tax return, unlike her husband, Senator John Kerry, and President Bush and his wife, Laura, who have made their full tax returns available for public inspection. The Kerrys file separate tax returns, a common arrangement when one spouse is wealthy. 
 The two-page document, posted at johnkerry.com, showed total income of $5,073,554 last year. Her primary source of income was the tax-exempt bonds, investments that generally produce a lower interest rate, but those in the highest tax brackets can often pocket more cash if they choose municipals.
 Ms. Heinz Kerry paid a federal tax of $628,401, which is 12.3 percent of her total income and 27.4 percent of her adjusted gross income.
 She was a big beneficiary of the reductions in tax rates on dividends and capital gains that have been enacted under President Bush. She collected more than $2.2 million in dividends, all of which qualified for the new 15 percent tax rate, saving her $440,000, compared with the 35 percent rate that previously applied to dividends for those with million dollar-plus incomes.
 Mr. Kerry, during the campaign, has proposed raising income taxes and dividends taxes on Americans who make over $200,000 back to the levels that they were before 2001, changes that would have an effect on his wife.
 Nothing about the trusts that benefit Ms. Heinz Kerry herself and her three sons was disclosed. These trusts, set up after the 1991 death in an airplane crash of her first husband, Senator John Heinz, the heir to the H.J. Heinz Company fortune, are believed to be worth about a billion dollars.
 On the return, which was prepared by a Pittsburgh accounting firm, Ms. Heinz Kerry listed her name as ''Teresa Heinz'' and her occupation as philanthropist. She serves as chief executive officer of the Heinz Family Foundation, which made more than $4.6 million in charitable contributions last year, the Kerry campaign said.
 Ms. Heinz Kerry and her husband own a home in Massachusetts, which Mr. Kerry represents, and she also owns homes in Idaho, Washington and Pennsylvania, where her late husband lived. Her official place of residence was blacked out in federal tax return, but a spokesman for the Kerry campaign said it was in Pennsylvania.
 One line in the Form 1040 that was released indicated she had a job for which $2,230 in taxes were withheld from her paycheck, but gave no details. A spokesman for the Kerry campaign said this income was related to an investment she had with a limited liability corporation, although he would not provide any more information. 
 Tax documents that would indicate if Ms. Heinz Kerry has offshore accounts were withheld, as were the schedules detailing her charitable deductions, interest expenses and the nature of the $14,412 in capital gains she reported. But Paul Bschorr, a lawyer for Ms. Heinz Kerry, said Friday that none of her personal investment accounts or accounts controlled by her family trust are deposited outside the United States, a step some wealthy American use to defer or escape taxes.
 No information was provided about how much income was earned by trusts of which she is the beneficiary. If the trusts are as large as reported -- and the Kerry campaign has not challenged the billion dollar estimate -- then even a modest 5 percent return would have generated $50 million of income, 10 times what was on the two pages released by Ms. Heinz Kerry. A statement released by the Kerry campaign noted that income taxes are paid directly by the Heinz family trust, in addition to taxes that Ms. Heinz Kerry pays.
 Ms. Heinz Kerry released her tax return this week because she had requested an tax-filing extension last spring. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INCOME TAX (93%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CHARITIES (89%); FOUNDATIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); TAX INCREASES (73%); CHARITABLE GIVING (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); PHILANTHROPY (65%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues; Taxation

COMPANY: H J HEINZ CO (85%)

TICKER: HNZ (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (85%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (85%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (85%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (85%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (70%) David Cay Johnston; Eric Lipton; Teresa Heinz Kerry; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2004



372 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: Debate, Declaim, Debacle

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS. 
E-mail: dabrooks@nytimes.com

 BODY:

SCHIEFFER -- And our first question goes to Senator Kerry. Sir, your spending plans will cost over a trillion dollars. Your combined tax plans will cost $500 billion. How are you going to balance the budget?

KERRY -- Bob, I'm glad you asked me that question, but before I dodge it I'd like to thank you for moderating this debate, I'd like to thank Arizona State University for being such wonderful hosts and I'd like to thank Dick Cheney's daughter for being a lesbian -- in case anybody didn't know.
 Bob, as you know, this nation is on the brink of an apocalyptic catastrophe. Civilization as we know it is hanging on by a thread. Our culture has collapsed, our economy is in tatters, the human spirit is extinguished, children never laugh, God is dead, and families like Dick Cheney's are ashamed of their daughters, one of whom is a lesbian. All of this is because of George Bush.
 Did you know that right here in Arizona the average share of the national debt on a per capita basis is rising faster than the inverse of the median lost wages ratio of the typical swing voter in Ohio, Missouri and Florida combined? 
 Bob, when I'm president, we're going to have a president as gloomy as this country should be. But the difference is that I have a plan to balance the budget. In fact I have seven plans. Seven and a half if you count the one I was working on in the limo, not even counting subclauses. When I'm president, our country is going to marry a really rich country, which will pay for everything. Thank you.

SCHIEFFER -- Mr. President?

BUSH -- You need a plan. I know that. I'm president. I wake up every day looking for a plan. In fact, I supported Mitch McConnell's plan. But my opponent voted to raise taxes 1,500 gazillion bazillion times. He even voted for some of my budgets, which have created deficits as far as the eye can see! He's a liberal!
 The first thing we need to do is cut back. I'm not going to have a flu shot this year. I'm not even going to take a Tylenol. I'm going to have a root canal right here on this stage without Novocain. But we also need to declare an international war on deficits.
 I'm excited about 19-year-old girls in Afghanistan who are voting in favor of the line-item veto for the first time ever. I'm excited about the millions of Iraqis who have been liberated from Saddam's Hussein's trial lawyers and their frivolous lawsuits.

SCHIEFFER -- According to the prearranged rules of this debate, each candidate will now have two minutes to spew forth sentimental blather in order to connect with the American people.

KERRY -- Thank you Bob. I'm a Catholic. I was an altar boy. In Nativity plays I was usually cast as one of the posts holding up the manger. I know that a lot of people are tired of politicians who just tell them what they want to hear. America, I want to look you in the eye and pledge I will never pander to you.
 Spirituality is important to me. I've always felt that we humans are insignificant maggots scuttling across the muck of the universe, and that life itself is just a meaningless moment of agony between the suffocating stench of the womb and the foul decay of the grave.

SCHIEFFER -- Thanks for that uplifting message. Mr. President?

BUSH -- America, we've been through a lot together. Imagine how bad things would be if I'd made any mistakes. But we've come through it.
 We haven't enforced the Dred Scott decision. And what about my timber company? Can you believe the networks? Oh, never mind. Do you want some wood? How late does this go, anyway? I'm losing it.

SCHIEFFER -- As I was driving in tonight one thing occurred to me: All three of us are surrounded by strong women. What the hell are we doing up here? Why aren't they running the country?

KERRY -- Bob, it's true that I am married. She's my second wife, to be precise. Can't recall her name at the moment, but she's fully funded. And I've got two beautiful daughters. Heterosexuals, both of them.
 I want to tell you about my family unit and what it means to me. We're in the 79th percentile in most demographic categories. Our compatibility fitness score is within the standard deviation for median households worldwide. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (87%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); VETO (77%); FAMILY (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); LAWYERS (68%); NATIONAL DEBT (66%); LITIGATION (60%); INFLUENZA (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; Debating; Election Issues

ORGANIZATION: ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY (57%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); DICK CHENEY (73%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%) David Brooks; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2004



373 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE PRESIDENT; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: Bush Takes New Course in Kerry Attacks

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER

DATELINE: OSHKOSH, Wis., Oct. 15 

 BODY:
President Bush tailed Senator John Kerry across the Midwest on Friday, painting him as an out-of-touch liberal who wanted to impose a huge government health care program on unwilling Americans and who did not understand the link between education and jobs.
 In a switch from the ''flip-flopper'' attacks that the Bush campaign has used against Mr. Kerry for months, the president stepped up his assaults on his opponent as sitting on what Mr. Bush called ''the far left bank'' of mainstream American politics, a favorite new presidential reprise from their last debate, in Arizona on Wednesday. 
 At the same time, Bush campaign officials said that they would open a new attack on Mr. Kerry on Saturday in Florida, where they would mark the one-year anniversary on Sunday of Mr. Kerry's vote against $87 billion to finance American troops in Iraq and Afghanistan. Nicolle Devenish, the campaign's communications director, promised a ''greatest hits of John Kerry's excuses for voting against our troops on the front lines.''
 Mr. Bush charged Mr. Kerry with what the campaigns call the ''L word'' at stops in Iowa and Wisconsin, where polls show the race effectively tied. Mr. Kerry was in Des Moines at a huge rally at the Iowa State Fairgrounds on Thursday night, and traveled ahead of Mr. Bush to Wisconsin on Friday.
 ''My opponent takes the side of more centralized control and more government,'' Mr. Bush said at a rally in a half-full arena in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, his first stop of Friday. ''There's a word for that attitude -- it's called 'liberalism.' He dismisses that as a label, but he must have seen it differently when he said in a newspaper, 'I am a liberal and proud of it.''' 
 The president was referring to comments Mr. Kerry made in July 1991, when he was quoted in The St. Louis Post-Dispatch as lambasting his fellow Democrats for acting too much like Republicans. The newspaper reported that Mr. Kerry said at a Missouri political dinner that ''I'm a liberal and proud of it'' and that Republicans ''have driven wedges between black and white, rich and poor.''
 Mr. Bush appeared in Cedar Rapids in front of a giant ''Victory in the Heartland'' sign in the U.S. Cellular Center, which had many empty seats, an unusual sight on recent presidential campaign trips. Asked why, Dan Ronayne, a spokesman for the Bush campaign in Iowa, said that ''all available tickets for the event were distributed.'' Mr. Ronayne estimated that 5,000 supporters turned out for Mr. Bush.
 Mr. Bush zeroed in on Mr. Kerry's health care plan, which would expand existing government programs for the poor and increase subsidies for employer-based coverage. 
 ''Once again the other night, with a straight face, the senator said his health care plan was not a government plan,'' Mr. Bush said, in comments he repeated at his second and final stop of the day, in a packed airplane hangar in Oshkosh. ''I could barely contain myself. Twenty-two million new people would enroll in a government program under has plan -- the largest expansion of government health care ever.'' 
 The plan, Mr. Bush said, is an ''overpriced albatross.''
 Mr. Kerry's campaign responded that Mr. Bush was engaged in outright fabrication and that the president's attacks have grown increasingly desperate as the race has tightened. Phil Singer, a Kerry spokesman, said that Mr. Kerry supported the same program, called Schip, that Mr. Bush wanted to expand, and that the senator's plan provided more health care options to small businesses and employees.
 ''George Bush is basically making up what John Kerry's plan does,'' Mr. Singer said. ''If he bothered to read the plan, he would see that John Kerry's proposals expand on current employer-based health care. It is not nationalized health care. And no matter how many times George Bush tries to say it is, the facts remain the same.''
 The two campaigns also battled over Mr. Bush's answer to a question in the Arizona debate about the loss of jobs. Mr. Bush, when asked what he would say to an unemployed worker, responded by ignoring the question about the worker and segueing instead into a plug for his education policies. Mr. Kerry later used the president's response to paint Mr. Bush as out of touch with the plight of ordinary Americans.
 In response to that, Mr. Bush charged on Friday that Mr. Kerry had no idea what he was talking about. ''When I talked about the vital link between education and jobs, the senator didn't seem to get it,'' Mr. Bush said in Cedar Rapids. ''He said I switched away from jobs and started talking about education. No. Good jobs start with good education.''
 Mr. Singer responded that ''John Kerry's fully aware of the link between education and jobs'' and that the president was ''trying to reformulate his answers and it's just not going to work.'' 
 Bush campaign officials said that the president would make a ''significant'' speech on terrorism on Monday in New Jersey and make major remarks on his health care proposals on Thursday.


GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush followed his wife, Laura Bush, onto the stage yesterday at a campaign rally in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. He later went to Wisconsin. (Photo by Doug Mills/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); POLITICS (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); IRAQ WAR (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); TERRORISM (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); ANNIVERSARIES (54%) Presidential Election of 2004; Finances; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Medicine and Health; Health Insurance and Managed Care; Presidential Election of 2004; Election Issues ; Terrorism

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%) Elisabeth Bumiller; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (90%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%) IOWA, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%) Afghanistan; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2004



374 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1393 words

HEADLINE: Importing Less Expensive Drugs Not Seen as Cure for U.S. Woes

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
A customer at the Concourse Drugs pharmacy in the Bronx will pay about $118 for a month's supply of 20-milligram Lipitor. At PharmacyinCanada.com, a Canadian online outlet, the same quantity of the drug, Pfizer's cholesterol-lowering medication, costs $79. 
 The difference has become a tempting political target. Senator John Kerry, the Democratic presidential candidate, has made a campaign pledge to help cut Americans' prescription drug costs by allowing them to import drugs from Canada. President Bush has conceded that the idea is worth a try ''if there's a safe way to do it.'' Bipartisan legislation in Congress would allow the reimportation of prescription drugs from Canada and other industrialized countries.
 It may make political sense to point to Canada as a solution to high prescription drug prices in the United States. But many economists and health care experts say that importing drugs from countries that control their prices would do little to solve the problem of expensive drugs in the United States, where companies are free to set their own prices. Even the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office estimated that allowing Canadian drug imports would have a ''negligible'' impact on drug spending. 
 To begin with, there are not enough Canadians, or drugs in Canada, to make much of a dent in the United States. There are 16 million American patients on Lipitor, for instance -- more than half the entire Canadian population. 
 Drug makers like Pfizer say they would reduce their shipments of drugs to distributors in Canada and other countries that re-export to the United States. ''We are not going to supply drugs to diverters, in Canada or elsewhere,'' said Hank McKinnell, chairman and chief executive of Pfizer.
 And Canadian health officials, fearing shortages and higher prices of their own, would probably clamp down on their own pharmacists and distributors to keep their drugs from leaking into the United States. Canadian patient-advocacy groups have already complained about shortages from the exports to the United States that already occur, even though they violate American law. 
 Even the most vehement advocates of forcing big drug makers to lower prices in this country say that imports are a rather clumsy tool. ''It's a pretty crazy solution to a fairly simple problem,'' said James Love, director of the Consumer Project on Technology, a group advocating a lowering of drug costs. ''Reimportation is not the first thing that would come to my mind.''
 But what comes to mind for people like Mr. Love is a political nonstarter: imposing Canadian-style price controls. No Democrat or Republican will be likely to dare to propose such a thing during an election year, or perhaps anytime soon, having seen the political debacle of the Clinton administration's effort to devise a national health care system -- and knowing that the pharmaceutical industry is one of Washington's most powerful lobbying forces. 
 Price controls ''wouldn't have a ghost of a chance to pass in the Congress,'' said Senator Byron Dorgan, a Democrat from North Dakota who is the sponsor of the main drug reimportation bill in the Senate.
 Because free-market pricing of drugs and other health care still seems to be so politically sacrosanct, the policy proposals tend to tinker around the margins.
 ''Is it sensible for the United States to have price controls?'' asked Jean O. Lanjouw, an economist at the University of California, Berkeley. ''It is a real question. But we don't discuss the real questions.''
 For all the shortcomings, the Kerry campaign argues that drug imports should be given a chance. ''If the impact is so negligible, why are the drug companies fighting it so much?'' said Sarah Bianchi, Senator Kerry's policy director. Even if the overall bulk of imports were not that large, she added, ''they would apply some pressure on the drug industry and make them revisit their pricing policies.''
 And some of the drug companies' defensive tactics could be barred by law. The Senate legislation, for example, would bar pharmaceutical companies from denying supplies to distributors and pharmacies that export to the United States. 
 But the measures proposed so far would do little to change the fundamental economics of the drug industry as it exists today. Prescription drugs cost a lot to invent, but once invented cost little to manufacture. That is why patents are granted to drug companies -- to prevent other companies from copying their inventions long enough for the inventors to set prices sufficiently high to recover their investment and make a profit. But price controls short-circuit this system.
 When Pfizer sells drugs in the United States it sets the price at a level intended to sell the most pills at the highest price the market will bear. In Canada, instead, the provincial and federal governments determine how much the drug maker can charge.
 Take Lipitor, which Pfizer makes at a factory in Ireland for distribution to the United States, Canada and other markets. When Pfizer introduced it in 1997, the company priced it below Merck's Zocor, the leading cholesterol treatment at the time, to get Lipitor onto the approved drug lists of the health maintenance organizations that are among this country's biggest buyers. 
 Now that it is the nation's best-selling drug, the price is 36 percent higher than it was in 1997 -- helping Lipitor achieve nearly $10 billion in sales last year. 
 Currently, Pfizer charges an American wholesaler an average of $2.07 for a 10-milligram pill, and some 15 percent less to an H.M.O. In Canada, by contrast, the health care system run by Ontario's provincial government will reimburse only 1.60 Canadian dollars (about $1.28) -- for the same pill -- the same price as in 1997. 
 ''They hold all the cards,'' a Pfizer Canada spokeswoman, Teresa Firestone, said of the Canadian government. ''Our hands are tied.''
 Such policies have kept Canada's prescription drug prices 30 to 80 percent cheaper than in the United States. 
 Because most other industrial countries maintain some kind of price controls on prescription drugs, the United States has a similar drug price gap with the rest of the world. The Congressional Budget Office estimated that average prices for patented drugs in 25 other top industrialized nations were 35 percent to 55 percent lower than in the United States.
 But the United States market is hard to compare with any other. It represented more than half of the global drug industry's sales of $410 billion last year and was the country in which drug companies make the bulk of their profits. Whatever one thinks of the pricing disparity, efforts to force down American prices to Canadian or European levels could radically change the economics of the pharmaceutical industry -- which effectively depends on United States profits for all of its activities, including a substantial portion of its spending on research and development. 
 American consumers are ''subsidizing everyone's R&D,'' said Mr. Love, the consumer advocate. ''We're paying way more than everyone else. Others should pay more.'' 
 In testimony before Congress last May, John Vernon, an economist at the University of Connecticut, estimated that dropping drug prices in the United States to the levels in the rest of the world would cut drug companies' investment in research and development by 25 to 30 percent. 
 Critics of pharmaceutical companies dispute many of their cost estimates, noting that much research spending is squandered on the development of ''me too'' drugs that are not truly innovative. They argue that drug companies are spending large sums in marketing to convince patients to demand expensive new medications even when older, cheaper drugs have the same effect. 
 That is why the critics say the entire drug industry needs to be shaken up. Maybe the United States should pressure other rich countries to raise the price of their drugs, so they shoulder a higher share of the global research burden. Or maybe, the critics say, the United States needs to join the rest of the world in setting price controls.
 The debate over reimporting drugs from Canada does not address any of those issues. ''Reimportation is a false promise,'' said Mr. McKinnell, Pfizer's chief executive. ''If we want to import price controls, we should have that discussion. Let's have that debate.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Drug Sales''Canada's total drug market is tiny compared to sales in the United States.WORLDWIDE IN 2003U.S.: 51.9%Italy: 4.0%Britain: 4.1%Canada: 2.8%Germany: 7.0%France: 5.8%Japan: 16.6%Others: 7.8%TOTAL ESTIMATED SALES: $409 billion(Source by IMS Health via the Canadian Patented Medicine Prices Review Board)(pg. A1)Chart: ''Spending More''Prescription drugs are costing Americans more each year.Graph tracks the costs of prescription drugs for Americans from 1998 through 2003. (2003 estimated).(Source by Health and Human Services, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services)(pg. C2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (91%); DRUG PRICES (90%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS TRADE (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); HEALTH CARE (88%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (88%); EXPORT PRICES (88%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG POLICY (78%); PHARMACISTS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); BUDGETS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); CHOLESTEROL (72%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%) Medicine and Health; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); International Trade and World Market; Wage and Price Controls; Sales; Medicine and Health

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (92%); PFEB (BRU) (92%); PFE (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (92%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (92%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (92%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%) Eduardo Porter

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (68%) Canada

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2004



375 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-7

American Troops Intensify Campaign in Falluja
American forces stepped up their pressure on Falluja, unleashing an aerial and artillery bombardment of positions believed to be held by guerrillas and encircling the city with hundreds of marines. A1

Members of an Army Reserve platoon are being investigated for reportedly refusing to deliver fuel to a town north of Baghdad. Relatives of the soldiers said they had considered conditions unsafe. A1

Prime Minister Marek Belka of Poland narrowly survived a vote of confidence after telling Parliament he would begin withdrawing troops from Iraq. He stressed the move should not lead to instability. A6

Attempting New Deal With Iran
The Bush administration agreed to let three European countries offer a deal to Iran in which an immediate suspension of its nuclear fuel enrichment efforts would be rewarded by a discussion on future economic and political ties and other benefits. A7

African Political Figure Cleared
Zimbabwe's highest court acquitted the leading political opposition figure, Morgan Tsvangirai, on treason charges after a yearlong trial left the prosecution's case in shambles. A3

Grim U.N. Analysis of Darfur
The United Nations health agency said the death toll in refugee camps in Sudan's Darfur region had reached 70,000, and that people would continue dying at the rate of 10,000 a month unless the international community provided more money. A7

ARTS B7-18

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Flu Vaccine Is Unusable
None of the vaccine quarantined in Britain last week is safe for Americans, United States health officials confirmed, ending hopes that some shots would be salvageable. A14

Health care providers in the New York region turned away thousands of people seeking flu shots. B1

Warnings on Antidepressants
The Food and Drug Administration, heeding an advisory panel, ordered pharmaceutical companies to add strong warnings to antidepressants that say the drugs can cause suicidal thoughts and actions in some children and teenagers. A9

OBITUARIES A15

EDITORIAL A16-17

Editorials: The war on affordable housing; press freedom on the precipice; Eleanor Randolph on freeing the airport baggage trolleys.

Columns: David Brooks, Nicholas D. Kristof.

NATIONAL A9-14,18

Bush: Kerry Too Liberal; Kerry: Bush Goes It Alone
President Bush painted Senator John Kerry as an out-of-touch liberal who wants to shove a huge government health care program down the throats of unwilling Americans. A11

Senator John Kerry warned of a ''great potential'' for a return of the military draft should the Bush administration continue to ''go it alone'' in Iraq and told Wisconsin voters that the middle class ''simply can't afford four more years'' of President Bush's economic policies. A11

Suit Highlights Rape in Prison
Roderick Johnson, a gay man and former inmate of the Allred Unit prison in Texas, said he was bought, sold and treated as sex slave in his time in prison, according to court papers and his own detailed account. A1

Rally Against Gay Marriage
Tens of thousands of conservative Christians gathered on the Mall in Washington for a demonstration against same-sex marriage that doubled as a rally to turn out conservative Christian voters on Nov. 2. A12

Religion Journal A14

NEW YORK/REGION B1-5

Discount Could Disappear On Monthly MetroCard
The unlimited-ride monthly subway pass discount could all but disappear if the M.T.A. raises the price of the card to as much as $84. B1

Officials Say Water Is Safe
State and federal officials tried to reassure the public over lead levels in New York City's drinking water, days after prosecutors said they were investigating skewed data. B2

EDUCATION

Student Can Apply to Ivies
A Brooklyn high school student ranked 11th in her class successfully challenged officials who told her that only the top five students could apply to Ivy League schools. B1

SPORTSSATURDAY D1-8

Knicks to Woo New Jerseyans
The Nets' plan to move from Continental Arena to Brooklyn has prompted the Knicks to start a campaign to attract New Jerseyans to Madison Square Garden. D6

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Pfizer Issues Drug Warning
Pfizer Inc. warned doctors that one of its best-selling painkillers, Bextra, may increase the risk of a heart attack or stroke in heart bypass surgery patients. C1

Incentive Fees May End
Marsh & McLennan, which has come under regulatory fire for taking incentive fees from insurers, said it would halt the practice. C1

Business Digest C1

Bridge B15
TV Listings B18
Crossword B17
Weather A8


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (86%); ARMIES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); HEALTH CARE (74%); LIBERALISM (73%); ACQUITTAL (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (70%); INFLUENZA (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); MENTAL ILLNESS (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); VACCINES (67%); REFUGEES (67%); TREASON (67%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (66%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (66%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (66%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (66%); ANTIVIRALS (64%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (63%); SUICIDE (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); MORGAN RICHARD TSVANGIRAI (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (88%) UNITED STATES (97%); SUDAN (92%); IRAQ (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); POLAND (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2004



376 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 16, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: BATTLEGROUND; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1474 words

HEADLINE: Despite a Razor-Thin Loss in 2000, G.O.P. Again Forecasts a Victory in Wisconsin

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr.

 BODY:
Wisconsin has never been a happy hunting ground for politicians named Bush. But President Bush was back in the state yesterday, as was Senator John Kerry, the two men foraging furiously for a last few additional votes in a state where their contest is agonizingly close.
 In 1988 and 1992, George Bush was outpolled in Wisconsin, first by Michael S. Dukakis and then by Bill Clinton. Four years ago, one of the most popular politicians in the state's history, Tommy G. Thompson, who was governor, confidently predicted that George W. Bush would carry the state. 
 ''I'm not worried,'' Mr. Thompson said. 
 He should have been. Mr. Bush was beaten, as his father had been, losing the state to Al Gore by 5,708 votes, two-tenths of a percentage point.
 This fall, Wisconsin is again playing its well-rehearsed role as a swing state, and the local Republicans are again promising victory. Although Mr. Thompson is now in Washington as secretary of health and human services, and a Democrat, James E. Doyle, occupies the governor's chair, the executive director of the state party, Darrin Schmitz, said the Bush forces were ''highly optimistic about our prospects.''
 Asked why, he stuck close to Washington-drafted talking points.
 ''We're solid Midwesterners here,'' he said. ''And we like straight answers like the ones George Bush has given in the debates, not flip-flop answers like John Kerry's. The president has stayed on message.''
 Mr. Bush has been in Wisconsin often, stopping a week ago in Wausau Wisconsin before visiting Oshkosh yesterday. (Mr. Gore beat Mr. Bush in the Congressional district that includes Wausau by a measly 109 votes in 2000.) 
 His campaign has deluged the state with television commercials, as has Mr. Kerry's. But in fact Mr. Bush's strongest weapon may be the extensive organization the Republicans began assembling a year ago.
 Paid field workers began arriving in January, and all during the spring and summer, volunteers made tens of thousands of phone calls to identify committed and potential Bush voters -- no easy task in a state full of independents and ticket splitters. Campaign officials asserted that 800,000 people had been contacted by mail, by phone or in person, by no fewer than 36,582 volunteers.
 One mystery mentioned by several Republicans is where is Mr. Thompson. He has not campaigned for Mr. Bush in Wisconsin in at least three weeks.
 Mr. Kerry has also built powerful ground forces. Bill Dixon, a lawyer in Madison who ran Gary Hart's national campaign in 1988, rattled off the numbers -- 23 field offices, 150 paid employees, 2,000 ward captains reporting daily -- and said the Democrats had done nothing comparable since Jimmy Carter's campaign in 1976.
 In the last few weeks, two-thirds of the Kerry staff members in Virginia have been redeployed to swing states, many to Wisconsin. Last weekend, 200 Chicago-region Democrats, unneeded in their home state, where Mr. Kerry is well ahead, traveled by school bus to Janesville in south-central Wisconsin, to Milwaukee and to suburban Waukesha County.
 Teresa Vilmain, who masterminded Mr. Gore's victory in the state, returned this month from her job as a national strategist at the Democratic National Committee to advise Mr. Kerry. And the candidate stumped yesterday in Milwaukee, Sheboygan and Appleton.
 Mr. Kerry may have made points with some Wisconsinites by deciding to hole up before the first presidential debate at the House on the Rock resort near Spring Green, not far from Frank Lloyd Wright's home Taliesin. It lies in the Third Congressional District, in the Mississippi Valley, another of the state's closely divided regions. Will voters there decide to cast their votes for him as an honorary Cheesehead? 
 ''That was a smart move on their part,'' Mr. Dixon said. ''People in Wisconsin like people who like Wisconsin.''
 The two most recent polls completed in the state rendered a split decision. Interviewing for both was completed on Oct. 11, after the second presidential debate but before the third, and each had a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three or four percent. A Republican poll gave Mr. Bush the lead by five percentage points, 49 to 44; a nonpartisan survey put Mr. Kerry ahead by four points, 47 to 43.
 Wisconsin, with 10 electoral votes, is probably Mr. Bush's best chance to take a Midwest state that went to Mr. Gore last time -- slightly better than Minnesota, also with 10, and Iowa, with 7. Although Kenosha and Racine, in the southeastern corner, are hurting badly, the statewide employment picture is better than in Michigan and Ohio, which have suffered devastating losses of manufacturing jobs.
 Bush strategists look on these three smaller states, especially Wisconsin, as insurance. A loss in hard-fought Ohio, where Mr. Bush won four years ago, could be at least partly offset, they figure, by victories in one or more of the three.
 So the voters of Wisconsin are being courted as seldom before.
 ''I simply can't believe all of this over 10 electoral votes,'' said Jeff Mayers, editor of WisPolitics.com, one of the country's best state politics Web sites. ''The ads have been pouring in since March, candidates, surrogates, signs. It's so unrelenting that fatigue is starting to set in, and you wonder if people are still paying attention.''
 Mr. Mayers said that like Mr. Gore, Mr. Kerry ''can be inflicted with senatoritis, and he has had trouble connecting with people in a state where pretension does not play well and likability often trumps policy.'' 
 For most of the year, he suggested, Mr. Bush did a lot better than Mr. Kerry on a traditional Wisconsin voting test, ''Which guy would you rather go to a fish fry with?''
 But Mr. Kerry helped himself, the editor said, with the debates.
 The war in Iraq is as controversial in Wisconsin as anywhere else, although people in the state and other mostly rural parts of the Midwest seem to feel less vulnerable than those on the East Coast. Economic issues apart from jobs like the cost of health care, the fate of milk subsidies, the price of gasoline and government support for education are brought up by many prospective voters, reflecting a general uneasiness.
 In addition, roughly half the electorate says the country is on the wrong track, say pollsters, which is usually bad news for a sitting president. Mr. Kerry is still struggling to connect with these anxieties, some Democrats report.
 Less than three weeks from now, if events in Iraq do not drastically alter the picture, the outcome may depend on who goes to the polls. Mr. Dixon and many others think that given the furious campaign activity, including a re-election bid by the popular Senator Russell D. Feingold, turnout may reach 2.6 million, which would set a record. Wisconsin, which usually finishes second, might even eclipse Minnesota for the highest percentage of population voting.
 The Republicans need to rev up their supporters in the western and northern Milwaukee suburbs, places like Whitefish Bay, Wauwatosa and West Allis, where the race driver Richard Petty campaigned last Sunday for Mr. Bush.
 John Edwards, the Democratic vice-presidential nominee, also stopped in West Allis, where he promised at a diner to do more to help working women. His big engagement of the day was at the Greater New Birth Church, a big African-American Baptist congregation on the northwestern side of Milwaukee.
 Once predominantly German and Polish, with two long-serving members of Congress named Henry S. Reuss and Clement J. Zablocki to match, Milwaukee has grown increasingly multiracial. The Fourth Congressional District, which now covers the entire city, is 33 percent black and 11 percent Hispanic. An enthusiastic black turnout is crucial to Democratic hopes there.
 Gwen Moore, an African-American, won the party's nomination there to succeed Representative Gerald D. Kleczka, who is retiring after 20 years. She has campaigned hard for Mr. Kerry, telling audiences, ''My fate would be improved incredibly by having regime change in the White House.''
 But Mr. Kerry has had trouble exciting black voters, leading to fears that many will not vote. In a discussion arranged by The New York Times in Milwaukee after the second debate, black voters expressed dissatisfaction with him, with one saying Mr. Kerry had slighted the black church and another saying she might stay home Election Day. She wished she could vote again for Mr. Clinton, she said.
 So the Democrats, in Wisconsin as elsewhere, are turning to Mr. Edwards, about the closest weapon they have to Mr. Clinton. On Sunday, he told the Baptist congregation, ''The ability to change this country, for us to lift up our children, to improve our schools, to give health care to all and do all the things we believe in, that rests with you. So get yourself to the polls and vote.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Al Gore and Tipper Gore campaigning at a school in Fond du Lac, Wis., in 2000, when George W. Bush lost the state by 5,708 votes. (Photo by Larry Downing/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (79%); GOVERNORS (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (73%); HISTORY (71%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (64%) Presidential Election of 2004; Public Opinion; Presidential Election of 2000; Electoral College; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); JOHN KERRY (92%); AL GORE (90%); BILL CLINTON (73%); TOMMY THOMPSON (59%); JIM DOYLE (59%); JIMMY CARTER (58%) R W Jr Apple; George W (Pres) Bush; Al Gore; John (Sen) Kerry

GEOGRAPHIC: WAUSAU, WI, USA (89%) WISCONSIN, USA (98%); OHIO, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) Wisconsin; Ohio

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2004



377 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 13; Column 1; Television; MOVIES: CRITIC'S CHOICE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 582 words

BYLINE: By Anita Gates

 BODY:
HOLLYWOOD discovered the Mexican-born director Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu four years ago when he did ''Amores Perros,'' a brilliant drama about three lives connected by a car accident. In 21 GRAMS (2003), he uses the same premise, focusing on a woman (Naomi Watts) whose family dies in a car crash, a tentatively sober ex-convict (Benicio Del Toro) involved in the crash, and a dying mathematician (Sean Penn) who receives a heart transplant and is racked with guilt. The nonlinear story structure drives some people crazy, but it doesn't detract from the performances. Ms. Watts was named best actress by the Los Angeles Film Critics Association. Mr. Penn was voted best actor by the National Board of Review -- Saturday at 9 p.m. and Saturday/ Early Sunday at 3:15 a.m. on Starz. 
 It all begins with a billboard on Columbus Circle. In George Cukor's romantic comedy IT SHOULD HAPPEN TO YOU (1954), Gladys Glover (the singular Judy Holliday), an unemployed girdle model, just wants to make a name for herself in New York. So she takes all her savings and rents a billboard just to put her name on it in huge letters. Soon she's famous for being famous (a fairly new concept at the time) and is being pursued by two men. But the dashing adman (Peter Lawford) is just a wolf, and the struggling documentary filmmaker (Jack Lemmon, in his film debut) is worried that fame is corrupting her. ''I haven't changed,'' Gladys assures him. ''I'm the same as I was, only in a different way'' -- Saturday at 6:30 p.m. on TCM. 
 Tom Hanks won his first Oscar for playing Andrew Beckett, a gay lawyer, in Jonathan Demme's wrenching drama PHILADELPHIA (1993), but it's his co-star whose character's journey is the film's message. Joe Miller (Denzel Washington) is the second-rate, ambulance-chasing lawyer who takes on Andy's wrongful-termination case after nine other attorneys have turned it down. Andy has been dismissed by his conservative firm because he has AIDS (they notice a Kaposi's sarcoma lesion on his forehead). Joe is so ignorant (''These people make me sick,'' he says of homosexuals) that after shaking Andy's hand, he rushes to the doctor, afraid he's been infected. But he learns. This was the first mainstream Hollywood movie about AIDS, more than a decade after the onset of the epidemic -- Saturday at 8 p.m. on TNT. 
 A con woman must hate it when she picks up a mark at a bar, drugs his drink so she can rob him, and he goes and dies on her. When this happens to Nikki (Frances O'Connor) in Bill Bennett's KISS OR KILL (1997), there's a further complication. The dead man's briefcase contains a videotape of Zipper Doyle (Barry Langrishe), a star athlete, having sex with a little boy. Soon Nikki and Al (Matt Day), her partner in crime, are being chased through the outback by the police and by Zipper. This is middling Australian film noir, but Ms. O'Connor, best known for demure roles, plays wondrously against type -- Monday at 9:15 p.m. and Tuesday at 6 a.m. on IFC. 
 ''Vampires are different than I thought they'd be,'' says Jonathan Lipnicki as Tony Thompson in Uli Edel's sweet family film THE LITTLE VAMPIRE (2000). Tony, an American whose family has just moved to Scotland, makes a new friend (Rollo Weeks), one of the undead whose dream is to be human. The vampires aren't the villains here; the greasy vampire catcher is. There's a stolen ancient jewel, a nice scene with flying cows and a happy-sad ending about the power of wishes -- Wednesday at 8 p.m. on ABC Family. 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Sean Penn in ''21 Grams'' (2003). (Photo by Focus Features)
 Frances O'Connor and Matt Day in ''Kiss or Kill'' (1997). (Photo by October Films)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); FILM (89%); LAWYERS (89%); AIDS & HIV (86%); CELEBRITIES (79%); MOVIE REVIEWS (75%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); COMEDY FILMS (74%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%); GAYS & LESBIANS (67%); EPIDEMICS (64%); WRONGFUL TERMINATION (60%); CANCER (60%); DISMISSALS (60%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (55%); SKIN CANCER (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: TOM HANKS (59%); DENZEL WASHINGTON (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (57%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (57%); NEW YORK, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2004



378 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; ASSETS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: Helping the Middle Class Buy Homes

BYLINE: By JULIETTE FAIRLEY

 BODY:
JANICE ALLAMBY, a public-school teacher, was renting an apartment in the Bronx when she began shopping for a co-op. She quickly learned that she could not afford the places she was seeing, but she heard about a city-run lottery for middle-class New Yorkers under the New Housing Opportunities Program, known as New-HOP. 
 Ms. Allamby, 39, got lucky. Her name was selected from among 1,232 applicants for 129 units, and she, her husband and their 12-year-old daughter got a two-bedroom, two-bath co-op at East 118 Street and Madison Avenue last June for $162,000. The couple qualified on their combined income of $80,000, and made a 5 percent down payment of the co-op purchase price. The maintenance and monthly mortgage payment totaled $1,750. 
 ''I doubt we would have been able to buy it without the program because it would have cost triple of what we paid for it,'' Ms. Allamby said.
 As housing prices climb, more middle-class New Yorkers need help buying their first home. Although there are grants and matching programs for people living below the poverty level, similar programs for middle-class home buyers are less well known.
 ''It's not just the lower classes that need help these days,'' said Sandi Abadinsky Baer, a spokeswoman for the Enterprise Foundation, a nonprofit organization based in Columbia, Md., that helps local communities build and maintain affordable housing. ''It's teachers, firemen and service workers that are struggling.'' 
 In New York, middle class is defined as a family of four living on a combined annual income of $62,800 to $125,600, according to guidelines set by the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development. Accordingly, the maximum income to qualify for a New-HOP property is $125,600.
 The city can hardly keep up with the demand. Through New-HOP, the New York City Housing Development Corporation provides 1 percent mortgage and construction financing to developers of multifamily buildings who agree to sell or rent units at below-market prices. 
 In 2003, 3,000 potential home buyers submitted applications for 124 new co-op and condo units at 1400 Fifth Avenue, at East 116 Street, where a one-bedroom was selling at $158,000. 
 ''We are doing the best we can to serve the middle-class population,'' said Tracy Paurowski, a spokeswoman for the Housing Development Corporation. ''By the end of 2004, we expect to close in financing provisions for 400 units, including 111 co-op units under construction at East 119 Street.''
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's plan is to build or renovate 65,000 units over five years, said Emily A. Youssouf, president of the Housing Development Corporation. 
 Unlike the city's middle-class housing plan, most national grant, or ''gift,'' programs don't use income as a criterion for financial assistance. 
 ''Recognizing that saving a lump-sum down payment is the biggest challenge, we gift up to 10 percent of the home,'' said Ann Ashburn, chief executive of AmeriDream, a nonprofit housing assistance organization based in Gaithersburg, Md. ''If they can qualify on a loan through the lender and the only problem is the down payment, that's where we can come in.''
 Anyone can apply for AmeriDream's ''downpayment program,'' regardless of income level, to buy homes valued at up to $333,700. 
 In gift programs like AmeriDream and others, including the Nehemiah Program, Housing Action Resource Trust and the Home Buyers Assistance Foundation, the seller of the condo or single-family home pays the gift amount plus a $500 processing fee, which can then be deducted as a charitable contribution. It is up to the buyer to find a seller who will agree to participate in one of these programs. 
 Rather than face that challenge, and all the paperwork that goes along with it, most middle-class home buyers resort to loan options.
 ''When a buyer comes to us, we have a vast product list of mortgage programs,'' said Steven B. Schnall, president of the New York Mortgage Company in Manhattan. ''We can do 100 percent financing without having to deal with a program like this. For those who want to take advantage of available gift programs, we have specialty lenders who are equipped to handle their needs.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Illustration by Doug Ross) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); CITIES (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (76%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (76%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); MORTGAGE LOANS (74%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGES (73%); MATCHING GIFTS (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (51%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Mortgages; Credit; Interest Rates; Renting and Leasing

ORGANIZATION: Housing Development Corp (NYC)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%) juliette fairley

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2004



379 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk; COPING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 788 words

HEADLINE: Fleeing the Killing Fields, but Not Escaping

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS. 
E-mail: amh@nytimes.com

 BODY:
HOW long does a refugee remain a refugee? Perhaps forever. Even after settling in a new land, a refugee may find that being rootless and adrift is not a transient condition but a permanent, sometimes debilitating state of mind. Sarem Teng, a slender, strikingly pretty 45-year-old with an austere black ponytail, often complains of headaches and lethargy that send her to bed, as if the ghosts of her past have descended like a black cloud and taken her prisoner.
 ''Did you coin today?'' Catherine Filloux asked Ms. Teng the other day as she sat opposite her in St. Rita's Center for Immigrant and Refugee Services, in the University Heights section of the Bronx. Ms. Filloux has been visiting the refugees of St. Rita's for 10 years, getting to know the culture of the 2,000 Cambodians who live in this mostly Hispanic neighborhood. Her play, ''Eyes of the Heart,'' about psychosomatic blindness among Cambodian refugee women in California, opened Tuesday at Intar 53, a small theater on West 53rd Street, where it runs through this month. 
 In answer, Ms. Teng pulled back her collar to reveal a half-dozen angry red streaks running diagonally from her collarbone to her left armpit. The streaks are the result of ''coining,'' a traditional remedy in which a coin is rubbed across the skin until it becomes hot and bruised, to drive out sickness.
 Sarem Teng, a farmer's daughter, survived the execution or starvation of more than a million of her people under the Khmer Rouge regime. In 1979, at age 20, she fled Cambodia on the heels of the invasion by Vietnam. After five years in a Thai refugee camp, and a stop in the Philippines, she arrived in the United States in 1985.
 For a while she worked at a cable factory in Lowell, Mass., then fled an abusive husband, leaving two daughters behind, to settle in a tenement across Andrews Avenue from St. Rita's, an organization that had mobilized to help more than 6,000 Cambodian refugees flooding the Bronx in the 1980's.
 Here, she became another statistic. Contrary to the stereotype of Asian immigrants as paragons of academic and economic success, she became one of thousands of Cambodian refugees who have been assimilated into a life of poverty, welfare and isolation.
 This morning at St. Rita's, Ms. Teng, feeling dizzy, bowed goodbye by pressing her hands together as if in prayer, and left the room. She didn't want Ms. Filloux or Davin K. Hun, a French-trained midwife in Cambodia, now a caseworker at St. Rita's, to visit her at home, saying she was ashamed of her apartment.
 A few days later, though, when a visitor knocked on her door, she opened it. Ms. Teng had been sitting at a sewing machine basting neckties. She earns 10 cents per tie, and finishes 12 or 15 dozen every few days. If she is lucky, she can earn $75 or $100 a week. But some weeks, the factory does not send her any work at all, a vexing problem now because her second husband is unemployed.
 There was no obvious place to sit in the living room. ''I have no sofa, very poor,'' Ms. Teng said apologetically, fetching a chair from another room and squatting on the carpet, next to her 12-year-old daughter, Lisa, one of her and her second husband's four children. The only decorations are a small Buddhist altar and two calendars showing tourist scenes from Cambodia.
 Her older daughter, Sarenn, 17, had gone to the library, to study for her high school equivalency exam. Two years ago, Sarenn dropped out of Truman High School and ran away from home. With Ms. Hun's help, Ms. Teng went to court to get her back. Now Sarenn is tired of running. And the mother is so grateful to have her daughter back, she has allowed Sarenn's boyfriend, Kevin, to live with the family. 
 Kevin, Ms. Teng says, is ''Spanish,'' a delivery boy. Cambodian teenagers like Sarenn often join Hispanic street gangs, and hints of cross-cultural pollination are all around, in the faces of children of Hispanic and Cambodian parents, and in customs like drinking ginseng extract for energy.
 Ms. Teng keeps a jar of ginseng pickled in vodka on the living room floor. She sips a thimbleful when she is ill. Her children disapprove of this habit, she says sheepishly.
 Ms. Teng uses coining and ginseng to combat ailments that are just a shadow of the hysterical blindness, caused by watching loved ones killed by the Khmer Rouge, that afflicts the heroine in Ms. Filloux's play. But their origins are similar. ''I don't want to go back,'' Ms. Teng says firmly. ''I want to go visit my mother, that's it. I scared, you know. I scared of war again. I missing my family. But I together with my children.'' Listening to her, you can only wonder where the next generation of refugees will come from, and what their symptoms will be.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Mark Matcho) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFUGEES (92%); IMMIGRATION (89%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (73%); BLINDNESS (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%) Immigration and Refugees; Women; Theater

PERSON: Catherine Filloux; Sarem Teng

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CAMBODIA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%) Cambodia; New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2004



380 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2517 words

HEADLINE: Losing Your Dream Home

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL

 BODY:
MARGARET WRAGG, a retired school aide, found the home of her dreams on Martense Court, a quiet cul-de-sac just a block from a teeming stretch of Flatbush Avenue in Brooklyn. It was a classic brick attached house, two stories tall and 18 feet wide, with a front porch with an iron railing, a backyard and even a few surviving original details, like dark wood, patches of decorative plaster work and stained glass. 
 She bought the house even though she hadn't originally set out to be an owner. She had lived in the same apartment for 25 years on Church Avenue, a few blocks away, and when her landlord told her she would have to move out because he was selling the building, she wanted to rent again. But looking at the classified ads, her eyes drifted to an advertisement offering ''the home of your dreams,'' and she began her journey to home ownership.
 Now, two years later, she says that dream has turned into something else -- endless stress, heartache and sleepless nights -- as she experiences the dark side of the real estate boom in America. 
 Her life savings have been depleted, she now says in a lawsuit, by a house she could never afford, appraised at far more than it was worth, with two mortgages she should never have qualified for, with carrying costs more than double her income. She worries about whether to pay the utility bill or pay for necessities. She has a stack of packing cartons in case she has to move out.
 She blames the mortgage company, the appraiser, the lawyer who represented her, and United Homes L.L.C., of Briarwood, Queens, the company that owned the home, placed the ad, and arranged almost everything about the closing. ''I trusted them, because I had never done this before and I didn't know any better,'' she said bitterly, as she sat in an overstuffed chair in her living room. 
 In a federal lawsuit, Ms. Wragg says she was the victim of fraud and racial discrimination in a classic case of what's known as housing ''flipping.'' Her opponents say that she was treated fairly and is blaming them for her mistakes, including taking a mortgage she could not afford. It is, in short, a case study in what many housing experts say is an increase in complaints of housing fraud, abusive and predatory lending practices, phony appraisals and even outright thefts of deeds, as home prices have soared and interest rates have fallen.
 Although it has not been determined whether there was fraud or other wrongdoing in her case, higher home prices make any house fraud more lucrative, because there is more money involved, and the booming market provides homeowners with more equity that can be stripped away through predatory lending schemes, often in poor and minority neighborhoods where homeowners and first-time purchasers may be too trusting and uninformed.
 Last month, the F.B.I. said that the number of complaints about mortgage fraud it received had more than doubled in the last few years. In the 2001 fiscal year, it received 5,623 complaints, compared with 12,134 in the first nine months of the current fiscal year. 
 In New York, State Attorney General Eliot Spitzer is investigating allegations of abusive practices by appraisers used to justify higher prices, including allegations that a pattern of fraudulent appraisals is driving housing prices higher in some neighborhoods, including Jamaica, Queens, and parts of Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn.
 Real estate professionals who have been accused of unethical or fraudulent practices say that they are being punished for providing services in minority communities where they are expanding housing opportunities.
 ''We live in a funny world when you try to create programs to help poor people to own their own homes, and you get something like this,'' said William J. Unroch, a lawyer defending the Olympia Mortgage Corporation in a pending federal lawsuit charging the company with fraud and discrimination in connection with the sale of a home in Bedford-Stuyvesant. 
 Sometimes, buyers are too naive. In Queens, Divine T. Fayez-Olabi, his wife, Michell, and their six children say they were too trusting and as a result were evicted in the middle of winter from their semiattached white-shingled home on 147th Drive in Rosedale, Queens, just a few blocks from Kennedy International Airport.
 Facing the possibility of foreclosure, they say they signed their house over to an investor, James D. Mayfield, who they say was supposedly going to help them keep their home, by co-signing their mortgage. They are now in court to get their house back, but Gary J. Wachtel, Mr. Mayfield's lawyer, said that it was a completely routine real estate transaction, and that his client was still owed $40,000 by the couple.
 Mr. Fayez-Olabi, a salesman for communication and copier companies, said he had sought help from a mortgage broker to refinance his mortgage when he was out of work after the World Trade Center attack. In a court filing, Mr. Fayez-Olabi said that on the day of the scheduled mortgage closing, he was told there was a problem with his credit, and instead of a simple closing on a refinancing, Mr. Mayfield had agreed to ''hold his mortgage'' for one year.
 He said a lawyer at the closing was introduced to him by the mortgage broker and by Mr. Mayfield as his attorney. The attorney asked him to fill out blank documents because she was in a hurry. ''Just sign the papers and don't worry about anything,'' she told him, according to his statement.
 Later, transfer documents showed that the lawyer, Gail Cromer, was Mr. Mayfield's attorney, and Mr. Fayez-Olabi said he never saw the papers again until he was in court facing imminent eviction.
 Mr. Fayez-Olabi said that at first he found almost no one, including a lawyer he hired early on, to believe his story, which he said required the cooperation of almost everyone in the room that day: the lawyer, the buyer, the mortgage broker and the closing agent, all named in his lawsuit.
 Then he found that Ms. Cromer, the lawyer at the closing, was indicted and accused of being a ringleader of a group of 17 people including lawyers, a broker and a title closer, in a scheme to defraud mortgage banks by holding sham closings. Charges against her are still pending, and she and her lawyer did not return telephone calls for comment.
 Now, as his family lives in a basement of the home of a member of his church, Mr. Fayez-Olabi is pursuing litigation in State Supreme Court in Queens trying to win back his house on the grounds of fraud. 
 He has so far found several mysterious documents in the court papers to support his allegations. He has received nearly identical photocopies of the same sales contract he was supposed to have signed, one provided by Mr. Mayfield, the other by Mr. Mayfield's bank, with different signatures for him and his wife.
 And he has found copies of two bank checks in closing documents provided by the bank, showing payments of $75,000 to him at the closing, which he said he never received. He said that a bank manager at a Fleet Bank, which issued the checks, gave him a printout suggesting that the checks were forgeries, since the same check numbers were used in smaller money orders. A spokesman for Fleet said that the bank was attempting to assess whether the checks were legitimate.
 So far, Mr. Fayez-Olabi said, he has spent $30,000 and owes $50,000 more in legal fees. His lawyer withdrew from the case, and he is searching for a new one. 
 He said that no judge has ever ruled on the merits of his fraud complaints, and that his case was in jeopardy because he failed to respond to court papers which he says were sent to an incorrect address after his eviction. 
 Mr. Wachtel tells another story. He said the papers that Mr. Fayez-Olabi signed allowed the family to lease back their house for one year, with an option to buy it back. They failed to pay the rent and were evicted after the year, he said. He said Mr. Fayez-Olabi acknowledged these facts in a court stipulation negotiated by Mr. Fayez-Olabi's first lawyer. 
 Mr. Fayez-Olabi ''had his day in court and lost,'' Mr. Wachtel said. 
 Sarah Ludwig, founder and executive director of the Neighborhood Economic Development Advocacy Project, who has spent years documenting and mapping cases of housing fraud in the city, said the case of the Fayez-Olabis and others like it ''break the heart.''
 ''They feel horrible about themselves; how could they have been so stupid, they say,'' she said. ''And nobody wants to take these cases because they are so complicated.''
 Sometimes the gap between a buyer's income and the mortgage carrying charges is astonishing. In Brooklyn, Nicola Adonis was able to purchase a newly rebuilt four-story two-family red-brick home on St. Andrews Place for $409,000 two years ago even though she said she provided employment records showing she earned $7,000 the previous year as a employee at a McDonald's restaurant, while her husband, a street peddler, sold hats.
 She said a broker at a company known as American Dream Real Estate of Brooklyn had arranged everything, including a lawyer for her and two mortgages on the house. Now Ms. Adonis has filed for bankruptcy protection to stave off a mortgage foreclosure. She said she received two loans totaling $388,000 from a mortgage bank, Cambridge Home Capital, which, she said, had monthly carrying charges of $3,500, or about half her annual income at the time. She said she never misled anyone about her income. 
 The rent on the upstairs unit was supposed to cover nearly half the carrying charge, but Ms. Adonis said that a leak in a defective roof made the apartment unrentable for many months. 
 Seth Kramer, president of Cambridge Home Capital, in Great Neck, N.Y., said that the mortgage application signed by Ms. Adonis showed an income of about $7,000 a month -- not a year -- or more than $80,000 a year, and that it appeared Ms. Adonis had misled the bank. 
 The bank confirmed that she worked at McDonald's but it never verified her income, Mr. Kramer said, because she obtained a ''non-verification'' mortgage. In exchange for a higher interest rate, the bank does not verify the income. She in turn said she turned over her W-2 earnings statement at a meeting with her broker and the bank representative. 
 In the case of Ms. Wragg, who bought her dream house near Flatbush Avenue, she and her legal services lawyers say that she was ensnared in a scheme of the type that the F.B.I. has described as a common pattern of mortgage fraud -- ''property flipping'' -- in which properties were bought and resold at high prices, supported by excessive appraisals, and often resulting in foreclosure.
 It was only at the closing that Ms. Wragg understood that the carrying costs of her two loans, including a $60,000 second mortgage with a 12.5 percent interest rate, totaled $3,367 a month at a time when, she said, her income, from a small city pension and Social Security, was $830 a month.
 The salesman at United Homes, she said, told her she would be able to rent the separate apartment they had renovated on her second floor for $1,500 a month to a tenant with federal rent subsidies. But even subtracting that from the monthly carrying costs, she would have to pay $1,867 out of her own pocket, or about $2.25 in mortgage payments for every $1 in income each month.
 Then she found that she was unable to collect even the $1,500 in federally subsidized rental income that was forecast. She said United Homes found a tenant to rent it for $1,300, $200 less than predicted. But she said the tenant soon stopped paying rent, when the tenant discovered that United Homes had not obtained a certificate of occupancy to make the second floor apartment legal. United Homes said that it had never claimed that the building was a legal two-family. 
 Finally, she discovered that her house had been sold for $180,000 in August 2002, and then resold to United Homes three weeks later for $230,000. Three months later, after a quick renovation, she purchased it for $399,000. An appraisal commissioned at the time found this value fair, but a second appraisal commissioned later by Ms. Wragg's lawyers found that the value at the time was only $250,000.
 Ms. Wragg's lawyers, Josh Zinner and Brigitte Amiri of the Foreclosure Prevention Project of South Brooklyn Legal Services, say that property flipping cases almost always involve ''one-stop shops'' -- real estate offices that target first-time home buyers and convince them that the offices can do everything, including arranging for financing and lawyers for the buyers. 
 In Ms. Wragg's case, they said, the section of the mortgage application showing income was left blank, since the mortgage bank used a special kind of mortgage known as a ''no document'' loan where home buyers are not required to show their income. 
 The foreclosure project filed two separate lawsuits in Federal District Court in Brooklyn, accusing United Homes, and the others involved in the transactions, of fraud, deceptive practices and racial discrimination for targeting members of minority groups. 
 One suit focuses on Ms. Wragg, while the second involves Sandra C. Barkley, a civil servant, who paid $359,000 for a small two-story house faced with aluminum siding on Hancock Street in Bedford-Stuyvesant, on a block of larger, more stately brownstones.
 ''I kept asking, what was it going to cost?'' she said. ''What was the mortgage going to be? And they said, 'Don't worry, you can afford it.' ''
 But Yaron Hershko, the owner of United Homes, said that the allegations against him were baseless. He said that he has receipts showing he spent more than $100,000 on quality renovations on each house, and had never told Ms. Wragg that her house was a legal two-family house.
 He said that the two suits were the only homeowner lawsuits against his company.
 Rising real estate values have made the homes more valuable today than when they were bought, and Mr. Hershko said he had offered to purchase the houses from the women and reimburse them for their costs.
 ''I offered to buy them back,'' he said, ''but they want more.''
 Mr. Zinner said that in negotiations, he is seeking concessions that would allow both women to keep their first and only homes.

Tips for Preventing Foreclosures
 JOSH ZINNER, the director of the Foreclosure Prevention Project at South Brooklyn Services, said that to avoid being victims of fraud, buyers need to get good information on prices for houses in the neighborhood, get a home inspection and thoroughly understand a house's condition, including the cost of any necessary repairs.
 Homeowners and buyers should never sign anything they don't understand and never sign a blank document. They should have any agreement reviewed by a lawyer skilled in real estate law. 
 Many nonprofit community organizations offer counseling for home buyers and owners. The federal Department Of Housing and Urban Development maintains a list of counseling services on its Web site, www.hud.gov, in a section about home buying. The Foreclosure Prevention Project also maintains a foreclosure hot line at (718) 246-3279. JOSH BARBANEL


GRAPHIC: Photos: IN JEOPARDY -- Margaret Wragg says in a federal lawsuit that she was the victim of mortgage fraud and racial discimination. She fears losing her Brooklyn home. (Photo by Robert Stolarik for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
DISAPPOINTED BUYERS -- Divine T. Fayez-Olabi, with his wife, Michell, and their six children, right, says they were evicted in the middle of winter from this house in Rosedale, Queens. He is now trying to get the home back in a lawsuit on the grounds of fraud. Meanwhile, Sandra C. Barkley, who owns this house in Bedford-Stuyvesant, left, says she cannot afford the two mortgages she took out.
 OVEREXTENDED -- Nicola Adonis says she was able to buy this Brooklyn home even though she said she earned an annual income of $7,000. (Photographs by Robert Stolarik for The New York Times)(pg. 9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); BUSINESS TORTS (87%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (86%); INTEREST RATES (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); FAIR LENDING (86%); RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); LAWYERS (74%); REAL ESTATE FRAUD (71%); DISCRIMINATION (71%); MORTGAGE BANKING (70%); PREDATORY LENDING (70%); UTILITY RATES (69%); CASE STUDIES (64%); PRICE INCREASES (63%); RACE & RACISM (60%); ETHICS (60%) Housing; Mortgages; Frauds and Swindling; Suits and Litigation; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Biographical Information; Interest Rates; Ethics; Housing; Minorities (US) ; Blacks

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (57%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (57%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%)

PERSON: Josh Barbanel; Margaret Wragg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2004



381 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 5; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1572 words

HEADLINE: Hartford's Dream Inches Closer To Reality

BYLINE: By FRED A. BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
THE architect Cesar Pelli has designed the Petronas Towers in Malaysia (for a while the world's tallest building), Canary Wharf in London and Osaka's new contemporary art museum. These days, he is working on a jazz theater in Idaho, a concert hall in Miami, and large developments in Italy and England.
 Despite his international credits, the Argentinian-born Mr. Pelli has for 27 years worked out of a second-floor office in New Haven. So it is fitting that his most visible new commission is in his adopted state. Last month, Cesar Pelli & Associates was chosen to design the Connecticut Center for Science and Exploration, a new museum to be built on Hartford's waterfront. 
 Mr. Pelli, who turned 78 last week, has designed several buildings at Yale, where he was dean of the architecture school from 1977 to 1984. The Mattatuck Museum in Waterbury, and additions to the Greenwich Public Library and the Mystic Aquarium, are also his creations. But the science center, a $150 million project, will be his largest public building in the state. 
 Mr. Pelli was chosen from a field of 43 architects, including Zaha Hadid of London, winner of the prestigious Pritzker Prize; Moshe Safdie of Boston; and the Stuttgart-based Benisch, Benisch and Partners.
 ''We were looking internationally,'' said Ted Sergi, president of the science center and the former state education commissioner. 
 The science museum is part of Adriaen's Landing, a roughly 30-acre urban renewal project overlooking the Connecticut River and Interstate 91 that was authorized by the state legislature in 2000. According to the most recent annual status report for the project, filed with the legislature, the total cost will reach $1 billion, of which the state will pay at least $718 million. What effect the project will have on Hartford, Connecticut's poorest city, is an open question. 
 ''When I heard about it years ago, I had my doubts'' that Adriaen's Landing would be built, said Mr. Pelli, in an interview in his New Haven office. ''Connecticut is a rich state with poor cities. And mayors change so often that it's hard to get things done. But I've got to hand it to Hartford. They're going to pull it off.'' 
 Adriaen's Landing is to include a new convention center and the Hartford Marriott Downtown hotel, which are under construction and scheduled to open next summer.
 But plans for a retail, entertainment and housing complex have been stymied by the departure of the original developer. State officials have expressed disappointment with proposals from other developers.
 The competition for the center's architect, and Mr. Pelli's selection, received considerable media attention. Mr. Sergi said the idea of a science center has long been a dream in Hartford.
 ''There have been discussions of having a statewide science center for about 20 years,'' Mr. Sergi said. ''When Adriaen's Landing began moving forward, people started saying, 'We need an attraction.' A consultant looked at Ferris wheels and skating rinks before deciding that a science center would make the most sense.'' 
 Mr. Pelli does not believe his Connecticut connection gave him a leg up with the selection committee. But the location ''may have made the project more important to us than to the other competitors,'' he said. ''It's 40 miles from our office. Every time we go to Bradley Airport, we drive by the site.''
 That site presented several problems, Mr. Pelli said. It is separated from the river by the interstate, the placement of which, Mr. Pelli said, was a ''serious mistake,'' made by many American cities in the postwar years, because it cuts off the city from the river. Because the land was polluted by decades of industrial use, enclosed spaces cannot be built below the surface. The main pedestrian entrance will be from Columbus Boulevard, 35 feet below most of the site.
 Mr. Pelli, working with his longtime partner, Fred Clarke, and an associate principal of their firm, Mari Masuoka, focused his design on a wide stairway, flanked by escalators, leading from Columbus Boulevard to a long room he calls ''Science Alley.''
 Covered in glass, the alley ''will be in the shape of a standing parallelogram,'' said Mr. Sergi, a former math teacher at St. Paul High School in Bristol. Flanking the alley will be exhibition halls, greenhouses and a theater. Their forms are curved and aerodynamic; Mr. Pelli said he was inspired, in part, by the early 1960's Phoenix Mutual Life Building, a boat-shaped structure near the site.
 During a reconnaissance trip to a science museum in Amsterdam, Ms. Masuoka noted that ''with school groups moving around one giant space, the noise level is impossible.'' So the Pelli team divided the building into sections that will be stacked.
 On top of the stack, the building's roof will project out toward the river ''like a flying carpet,'' Mr. Pelli said. ''People will come just for the views.''
 He added that, in his scheme, many of the building's most dramatic spaces will be available ''before you buy a ticket.''
 Although an exhibition designer has not yet been chosen, Mr. Pelli has lots of ideas about what the building should contain. His renderings of Science Alley include a helicopter, a rocket and a nuclear submarine -- all of which were developed, in part, in Connecticut. ''Connecticut has always been a high-tech state,'' Mr. Pelli said.
 Mr. Sergi said the achievements of Connecticut firms like Carrier, in air conditioning, Otis, in elevators, and Sikorsky, in helicopters, would be recounted in the exhibitions. 
 Plans for the science center had lagged until 2002, Mr. Sergi said, when then-Gov. John G. Rowland assembled a group of business and education leaders to move the project forward. The center's board includes Gov. M. Jodi Rell; Richard Levin, the president of Yale; and the chairmen of General Electric Company, Northeast Utilities, Peoples Bank and Pfizer Inc.
 For the $150 million center, the state has pledged $92 million, Mr. Sergi said, and there is additional public financing from the quasi-public Capital City Economic Development Authority. In addition, he said, ''We've raised 17 to 19 million in private funds. We've got about 25 more to go.''
 Mr. Sergi was hired at the end of 2003. Around that time, the Wadsworth Atheneum Museum of Art, the nation's oldest public art museum, dropped its plans to build an ambitious and futuristic addition. Last month, the museum agreed to lease the former Hartford Times building. By expanding into the Times building, the museum will be linked to Adriaen's Landing.
 ''We hope to work with the Wadsworth Atheneum,'' Mr. Sergi said.
 This spring, Mr. Sergi brought in Robert A.M. Stern, the dean of Yale's architecture school, and himself an architect, best known for shingle-style mansions, to help choose a designer for the science center. Mr. Stern put together a list of 43 firms, which were invited to submit credentials. From those, four finalists were selected. Each was paid $50,000 to create detailed models and drawings.
 On Sept. 20, the finalists presented their schemes at a public forum in Hartford. The presentations were broadcast on public access channels across the state. For days, Mr. Sergi said, ''There were people e-mailing the newspapers, and e-mailing us, and telling us what they thought.''
 Next, each team met with the selection committee in private. The committee focused on practical issues, Mr. Pelli said. ''We spent a lot of time talking about how the windows would be cleaned.''
 Another issue was parking. Mr. Pelli's scheme provides 475 spaces for cars and for the school buses that are expected to bring visitors to the museum.
 Executives at the center are negotiating the terms of Mr. Pelli's contract. Unlike some architecture competitions, which produce extravagant designs that prove too expensive to build, this one was designed to lead directly to a workable scheme.
 Each of the four plans was evaluated by a cost estimator, hired by the center. For that reason, Mr. Pelli is confident his building can be built for $60 million. The rest of the $150 million budget will go to exhibitions and the center's endowment. 
 Despite its dramatic shapes, he explained, the building has no really long spans, meaning it will not require an especially expensive structure. Mr. Pelli also believes the building will be highly energy efficient. After studying architecture first in his native Argentina, and then at the University of Illinois, Mr. Pelli went to work for Eero Saarinen, the architect of the birdlike T.W.A. Terminal at Kennedy International Airport Airport and Black Rock, the CBS headquarters on Sixth Avenue in Manhattan. His own firm, founded in 1977, took off when he was commissioned to enlarge and modernize the Museum of Modern Art. 
 If the museum addition was criticized by some as too corporate, that only helped Mr. Pelli win huge corporate projects like Canary Wharf and the World Financial Center in Manhattan. The projects are known for enormous but inviting public spaces -- including the Winter Garden overlooking the World Trade Center site -- that some critics have called the modern versions of European town squares.
 It is tempting to think that the science center, expected to open in 2007, will be especially close to Mr. Pelli's heart. But, looking around his office, filled with architectural models, he cautioned: ''Buildings are like my children. I work very hard not to have favorites.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: A rendering of Cesar Pelli's design for the new science museum to be built on Hartford's waterfront. Mr. Pelli, who is shown in his New Haven office, said the museum can be built for $60 million. (Photo by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times
rendering from Cesar Pelli & Associates)(pg. 1)
Cesar Pelli, left, with Fred Clarke, middle, and Rafael Pelli, at their New Haven offices. The architects' rendering of the inside of the new science center, right, to be built at the site pictured below. A convention center and the Hartford Marriott Downtown hotel are already under construction there. (Photo by Cesar Pelli & Associates)
 (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)(pg. 4)Map of Hartford highlights Adriaens Landing. (pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (75%); INTERVIEWS (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (67%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%) Science and Technology; Architecture

COMPANY: CESAR PELLI & ASSOCIATES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Pelli, Cesar, and Associates; Connecticut Center for Science and Exploration (Hartford)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (58%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: ZAHA HADID (58%) Cesar Pelli; Fred a Bernstein

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (96%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) CONNECTICUT, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); MALAYSIA (92%); ENGLAND (92%) Hartford (Conn) 

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2004



382 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 52

LENGTH: 7340 words

HEADLINE: How Did Darfur Happen?

BYLINE: By Scott Anderson. 
Scott Anderson has reported for the magazine from Chechnya, Israel and Libya.

 BODY:
He sat warily on the very edge of his chair, his mouth set in a steady, nervous grin. He would not use his real name -- Bashom, he called himself -- out of fear that he would be arrested for crimes he had committed as a janjaweed in his native state of West Darfur. Not that he used the word janjaweed, either. ''Ever since I was a young boy,'' he said, ''I wanted to be a knight. We all did, my friends and I. So when I came of age -- about 14 or 15 -- I became a knight.'' 
 In Bashom's telling, this initially consisted of guarding his tribal village against intruders: thieves, cattle rustlers, the ''knights'' of rival tribes. It was only when he was a bit older that he went out on raids himself. 
 ''We would travel at night on our horses, so as to be outside the villages of our enemies very early in the morning,'' he said. ''Normally, we would spread out along one edge of the village -- because we didn't want a battle; we wanted them to run -- and then our leader would give the signal and we would attack.'' 
 Now 30 and living in semi-hiding in a slum outside Khartoum, the Sudanese capital, Bashom claimed to have parted company with his band of knights several years ago, well before the marauding and massacres that have devastated Darfur and drawn international condemnation. Nonetheless, he was worried his past could come back to haunt him.
 ''Because we did many bad things on these raids, you know?'' he said. ''And if the government is serious now about moving against the knights, well, maybe they will come for me.'' 
 When I asked what these ''bad things'' were, Bashom wouldn't elaborate. Instead, he fixed me with his unsettling grin, and his voice, already a whisper, became even softer: ''Everything you can think of. Maybe some other things too.'' 
 As is often the case with calamities in Africa, that which has befallen Darfur seemed to burst into the global consciousness without warning. Until this spring, probably few Westerners had ever heard of the remote region in western Sudan. Then, virtually overnight, it became a topic of urgent discussion in Congress and the United Nations, a staple of the evening news, even a debating point in the American presidential race. 
 In fact, the alarm had been sounded long before. By the summer of 2003, Darfur refugees slipping across the border into neighboring Chad were telling of a scorched-earth Sudanese Army counterinsurgency campaign. In its hunt for members of a nascent rebel group, the refugees claimed, the army had teamed up with Arab tribesmen, and instead of looking for rebels, these camp followers simply laid waste: shooting down whoever crossed their path, torching homes, looting. In giving these raiders a name, the refugees turned to an old Darfur epithet for bandits -- janjaweed, or ''devils on horseback.'' 
 Despite mounting criticism from abroad, the Sudanese government in Khartoum not only denied any connection with the janjaweed, but continued to suggest there was no crisis at all. As the number of refugees and burned villages soared, Khartoum effectively sealed Darfur off from the outside world. By this spring, vast tracts of the region had been depopulated, the refugee population in Chad had mushroomed to 120,000 and as many as 1,200,000 people were homeless -- or, in the dry parlance of the humanitarian aid community, ''internally displaced'' -- inside Darfur. There, they were subject to continuing attacks by the janjaweed and rapidly running out of food.
 At this 11th hour, the international community finally went into action. Under pressure spearheaded by the United States, the United Nations compelled Sudan to lift many of the strictures placed on foreign relief agencies, leading to a rapid upsurge in supplies and personnel reaching the field. Responding to demands that it protect the refugee camps from further janjaweed attacks, Khartoum shuttled thousands of additional policemen to Darfur and allowed in a handful of African Union observers to monitor the situation. By the closest of margins, wholesale catastrophe appears to have been averted, at least for the time being; while janjaweed attacks persist in some areas, relief agencies are now cautiously optimistic that enough food and medicine are reaching the field to forestall mass starvation or a disease epidemic. 
 But what will happen next? In its need to hold someone responsible both for causing the crisis and for ending it, the outside world has imbued Darfur with a clarity and a coherence that are not at all apparent on the ground. Instead, what emerges is a far more complicated and, ultimately, more disheartening tale: disaster brought about through a blend of incompetence, cynicism and cowardice. At its most grim, it is the story of how a remarkably small group of combatants -- probably just a few thousand soldiers, rebels and so-called janjaweed combined, mostly armed with little more than what might be found in a National Guard armory -- was able to precipitate a tragedy that has pushed more than a million people to the edge of extinction. The paradox is that the very ease with which they were able to do so also means there is no quick or simple solution. 
 When, after a June visit to Darfur, Secretary of State Colin Powell was asked what the Sudanese government could do to solve the janjaweed problem, he rather blithely replied, ''Since they turned it on, they can turn it off.'' 
 If that were ever true, it almost certainly is not now. Rather, with the poison in Darfur allowed to reach full strength, the shattered region has become the latest ward of the international community and will undoubtedly remain so for a long time to come. 
''When the problems with the rebels started in Darfur,'' Gen. Ibrahim Suleiman explained, ''we in the government of Sudan had a number of options. We chose the wrong one. We chose the very worst one.'' 
 If this seems a surprisingly candid assessment for a man who had once been among the most powerful figures in the Sudanese military -- the retired four-star general had served as minister of defense and (twice) as the armed forces' chief of staff -- Suleiman evidently felt he had little left to lose. As governor general of North Darfur, he had played a pivotal role in events leading up to the calamity in the region and had seen his career destroyed by it. 
 ''And it would have been so easy to avoid,'' he said in a sitting room of his Khartoum home. ''None of this had to happen.'' 
 Even by the standards of Sudan -- Africa's largest and ethnically most diverse nation -- Darfur is a place of superlatives. A vast landlocked region in the heart of the Sahel desert, it would appear to be among the most isolated regions on earth. In fact, astride one of Africa's great migration and camel caravan routes, Darfur has always been one of the continent's richest melting pots; along with the Fur, from whom the region gets it name, fully 90 of the tribes and clans of Sudan are represented there, while others have settled from as far away as Africa's Atlantic coast, thousands of miles away. 
 Among the few things that the various antagonists in the Darfur crisis agree on is the conflict's root cause: cataclysmic droughts that have afflicted a vast stretch of northern and eastern Africa since the 1980's. Drought has strained the relationships that existed among the various tribes in the region and, most acutely, the relationships between its farming and nomadic communities. Historically, the nomads, concentrated in the drier northern reaches of Darfur, had brought their animals down into the more temperate southern farmlands during dry season and then migrated back north with the onset of the rains. With water holes and seasonal rivers vanishing in the drought, though, the nomads were forced to venture farther south to find pasturage and to stay far longer. Eventually, conditions grew so dire that many settled into a semi-pastoral existence, establishing permanent villages amid the farming communities from which they would graze their animals in a 40- or 50-mile radius. With everyone in increasing competition for the same shrinking pool of natural resources -- water, grassland, arable soil -- conflicts increased. 
 Initially, the Darfur tribes tried to cope with these tensions as they always had, through intercommunal negotiation. If a nomad's camels trampled a farmer's field or, conversely, some of his herd was stolen, the elders of both tribes would convene and hash out a settlement: typically, a payment of cash or animals to the victim. By the mid-1980's, however, this age-old system was being dismantled by the national government in Khartoum, which sought to exert greater control over Sudan's near-autonomous tribes. Instead of tribal mediation, almost any dispute now meant going before an official and maneuvering through the state bureaucracy. 
 Fair enough, except that the established farmers of Darfur were mainly from African tribes, while the encroaching nomads were primarily Arabs. And given that Arabs were steadily coming to dominate all branches of the Sudanese government, there was little doubt how any Arab-African squabble would ultimately be decided. A result was surely the opposite of what Khartoum intended: the tribes of Darfur, Arab and African alike, increasingly took matters into their own hands, availing themselves of knights like Bashom to defend their own communities and to conduct reprisal raids on their foes. What's more, with civil unrest becoming common across the Sahel, the entire region was now awash in modern weaponry, allowing the knights to trade up from their old bolt-action rifles and spears to Kalashnikovs. The consequences were predictable; in one clash between Arab tribes and the Fur in the late 1980's, at least 3,000 were killed. 
 Not that anyone in Khartoum paid much attention. By then, the Sudanese government had a much bigger problem on its hands. The ''Arabization'' of Sudanese society, together with the imposition of sharia, or Islamic law, had led to an explosive resurgence of a long-simmering civil war being waged in southern Sudan by the Sudan People's Liberation Army (S.P.L.A.), composed primarily of Christian blacks. In combating the S.P.L.A., the Khartoum government had turned for help to Arab tribal militias, and the fighting in the south had quickly taken on the tinge of both jihad and genocide, making Sudan a pariah state in the eyes of the West. 
 That did not improve with the 1989 coup that brought to power the current head of state, Gen. Omar Hassan al-Bashir; instead, it almost seemed Bashir was intent on building his nation's outlaw status. He expanded the use of Arab tribal militias in the south, and the death toll there ultimately exceeded two million. In a vicious game of round robin, Sudan supported a range of guerrilla groups against its neighbors, as those same neighbors supported guerrilla groups or fomented rebellion against Sudan. By the late 1990's, Khartoum had gained such notoriety as a haven for Islamic fundamentalist radicals -- Osama bin Laden was its most famous temporary resident -- that it was slapped with American economic sanctions and then hit with a retaliatory air strike after the bombings of the United States embassies in Kenya and Tanzania. 
 All the while, tensions in western Sudan, in Darfur, continued at a low boil. If the African tribes there were not particularly bothered by the imposition of Islamic law -- unlike the African tribes in the south, those in Darfur were Muslim -- the continuing Arabization policy was causing them to feel ever more marginalized, the Arab tribes ever more powerful. Once again, the tit-for-tat raids in the region escalated toward full-bore intertribal war, with the difference now that the Bashir government had any number of internal and regional enemies that might play the deteriorating situation to their advantage. In April 2001, General Suleiman stepped into this powder keg upon assuming the title of governor general, or wali, of North Darfur State.
 ''I saw that the situation was becoming very grave,'' he recalled. ''The violence was increasing; all the different tribes were gathering up weapons.'' Most ominously, Khartoum's failure to impose order was being interpreted by the African tribes as deliberate, provocative policy. ''They believed the raids against them were being agreed to by the government,'' Suleiman told me. ''Otherwise, why didn't the government stop them?''
 One reason for Khartoum's neglect of the region may have been that in the wake of Sept. 11, the Bashir regime was energetically trying to clean up its international image -- and the sheer amount of cleaning up necessary left little time for new distractions. With an oil industry just getting under way in eastern Sudan, Khartoum was eager to end American economic sanctions, which kept foreign investors away and blocked access to international markets. Having already ended its romance with the most notorious Islamic radicals, Khartoum set about mending relations with many of its neighbors, quietly cutting off its support to a variety of guerrilla and dissident groups throughout the region. Certainly its most significant overture was agreeing to a strong American role in mediating negotiations to end the southern civil war, a move that would have been unthinkable just a short time earlier.
 What with everything else going on, it was pretty much left to Suleiman to keep a lid on the growing tensions in Darfur. To do so, he summoned a steady stream of both African and Arab tribal leaders to his office in El Fasher, the state capital, and urged them to stand down their militias. Of course, this would only happen if everyone stood down simultaneously, and in pursuing this goal Suleiman discovered he had an implacable foe in a charismatic Arab sheik named Musa Hilal. 
 As the leader of the Um Jalloul tribe, the 43-year-old Hilal's reputation for banditry and violence against his rivals was already legend -- in 1997, he had been briefly jailed for reportedly ordering the murder of 17 African tribesmen -- and a disproportionate number of the reports of bloodshed that crossed Suleiman's desk pointed to Hilal's followers as the perpetrators. Since appealing to the sheik's sense of decency seemed a nonstarter -- in Suleiman's estimation, Hilal was a born criminal -- the general opted for the direct, man-to-man approach. 
 ''I told him, 'If I decide to kill you, I will kill you, and nothing will happen to me,''' Suleiman recalled in his Khartoum sitting room. ''And do you know? He just smiled. I think even then Hilal knew he couldn't be touched.'' 
 Since talking wasn't doing the trick, the general took a page out of the old playbook of the British colonialists: in 2002, he arrested the three most troublesome tribal leaders, including Hilal, and sent them and 21 of their lieutenants into internal exile in a prison on the far side of Sudan. 
 ''My idea was to get them out of Darfur, to let things quiet down,'' he said. The former general shrugged with a grin. ''And who knows, maybe getting to know each other in prison, they would sort things out.'' 
 But by early 2003, Suleiman had another headache to deal with: a new guerrilla group calling itself the Sudan Liberation Army (S.L.A.) had popped up in the western reaches of Darfur and had begun carrying out attacks on police outposts. 
 Just who was behind the S.L.A. and what they ultimately wanted were a bit of a mystery -- and, in fact, are only slightly less so today. With its leadership largely composed of members of the African Zaghawa tribe, and reportedly supported by dissident Zaghawa military officers from across the border in Chad, the group presented a hazy list of grievances against Khartoum, most centering on the political and economic neglect of Darfur in general and of the African tribes in particular. Somewhat impertinently, the S.L.A. also demanded to be included in the north-south peace talks being brokered by the Americans and just then reaching fruition. Not surprisingly, given its track record of ignoring Darfur, the Khartoum regime paid these latest malcontents little attention. 
 That all changed early on the morning of April 25, 2003, when the S.L.A. launched a surprise attack on the airport in El Fasher. After shooting up five military airplanes and two helicopter gunships, the rebels soon withdrew. But they had succeeded in killing some 100 soldiers and catapulting their cause into the national consciousness.
 In battle-scarred El Fasher, Suleiman frantically worked the phones to Khartoum. ''I told them, 'Send me two brigades of good soldiers,''' he said. (A brigade has at least 3,000 soldiers.) '''Just two brigades, brought up from the south, and we will end this whole thing.''' In his Khartoum home, the general grew more animated as he recalled the events following the S.L.A. attack. ''I had seen the S.L.A. in El Fasher, so I knew they were nothing; the army, just with their light weapons, and the S.L.A. had run like girls!'' Suleiman slumped back with a disgusted sigh. ''But no.'' 
 Shortly after the attack on El Fasher, Suleiman was dismissed from his post, and Khartoum began lining up the support of Arab tribes in Darfur for the coming offensive against the S.L.A. Among the first leaders approached was Suleiman's old nemesis, Sheik Musa Hilal, recently freed from jail.
In Kas, as in many other towns in Darfur, what passes for the central square is a great stretch of bare ground, perhaps 10 acres in size, with no trees or amenities or, most of the time, people. On some evenings, a portion is cordoned off for soccer games that can draw hundreds of avid male onlookers, but this cluster of activity seems only to underscore the surrounding emptiness. 
 It was not always so. Until last year, Kas was the agricultural hub of this corner of South Darfur State, and on market days -- Mondays and Thursdays -- the square was a cacophonous scene of farmers from the outlying villages selling their produce and animals and buying up manufactured wares for the homeward journey. Now those villages are empty, many burned to the ground by marauding janjaweed, and the survivors -- some 40,000 by best estimate -- live in squalid tent cities within Kas itself. 
 At the south end of the square is one such camp, occupying the site of what was a school. Across its grounds, perhaps 2,000 or 3,000 people are packed into tiny huts made of thatch and bent sticks, the luckier ones with roofs of plastic sheeting to keep out the rain. By communal agreement, the brick shells of the former classrooms are reserved for storage and to house the very sick.
 Among the residents of the camp, Hamid Maraja Hassan is something of an operator. The resourceful 42-year-old former farmer has not only managed to secure plastic sheeting for both huts housing his two wives and seven surviving children; his daily treks in search of work have also yielded enough day jobs -- digging latrine pits, helping out at a metalworking shop -- to supplement the meager food-aid rations. The endless hustling also helps him to avoid the ennui that grips many in the camp and to keep from dwelling on what might come next. 
 ''My wives ask me, 'What is to become of us?''' Hassan said one afternoon as his two infant sons crawled over his lap. ''And I have to tell them, 'I don't know.' It is not in our power to know.'' 
Lending credence to the charges of genocide leveled against the Sudanese government and its janjaweed allies is the systematic pattern the devastation in Darfur has taken. After scorched-earth campaigns in those northern and western areas where the S.L.A. rebels were actually known to be operating, the pogroms gradually extended south and east, finally reaching the Kas area only in January and February of this year. For Hassan in his home village of Torobeda, a Fur farming community of some 400 families about 25 miles west of Kas, the first hint of trouble came when the neighboring village of Shataya was attacked and burned in early February. 
 ''Of course, we had heard about the killing in other parts of Darfur,'' Hassan recounted, ''but there was no trouble in our area -- there had never been any rebels there -- so the attack on Shataya came as a big shock to us.'' 
 Three days later, it was Torobeda's turn; in Hassan's recollection, it began with a cracking sound -- ''like wood being split'' -- coming from the far end of the village. Soon, neighbors were running past his home in the direction of the river and the larger town of Kallek, shouting that the janjaweed had arrived. Sending his wives and eight children down the lane, Hassan stayed behind to round up his herd of goats, which, together with 14 cows in an adjacent field, represented all his wealth in the world. By the time he began his own flight, the attackers were in the middle of Torobeda. 
 ''They were everywhere, janjaweed and police together,'' he said. ''Some were on foot; others were in Land Cruisers; and they were setting fire to the homes, shooting the people as they came out.'' 
 With his goats, Hassan finally caught up to his family on the road to Kallek, only to discover that his eldest son, 23-year-old Ibrahim, was not among them; defying his father's instructions, Ibrahim had turned back to retrieve the family's cattle. 
 ''He was a very good son, you see?'' Hassan said with a tender smile. ''He was concerned for our wealth, of how we would survive without our cows.'' 
 Abandoning his goat herd, Hassan went back to find Ibrahim. He found him lying in a field, still conscious but slipping away from a gunshot wound in his back.
 ''There was no hope, so I stayed there with him while he died,'' Hassan said. ''But I didn't have time to bury him. That is still hard for me to think about, but the janjaweed were coming and I had other children who needed me, so I had to leave him there.'' 
 Rejoining the rest of his family, Hassan led them across the river and into what he imagined was the safety of Kallek. Instead, their problems got a whole lot worse. 
 In one of the more notorious incidents of the entire Darfur conflict, thousands in the Kallek area who were burned out during that second week of February spent the next month trapped in the town by murderous janjaweed and Sudanese security forces. Women and children were herded into cantonments at one end of Kallek, where many of the women were raped. The captors divided the men into groups small enough that they could be tortured or killed at whim. By his own estimate, Hassan saw 15 or 16 men murdered, supposedly for being S.L.A. rebels or sympathizers. 
 The horror endured by Hassan and his family in Kallek finally ended in mid-March 2004, when they managed to flee to Kas. By then, the dead included Hassan's father and brother. 
 ''So this is why I say we will never go back,'' he said. ''How can we? Those of us who were there, who lived, we know that it was the Arabs and the government together who did this. Even if we could go back, what is left there now? Only the Arabs.'' 
''If you ask me, most of our troubles can be blamed on the fact that we're a dry country,'' opined Ahmed Angabo Ahmed, the commissioner for Kas. ''Beer. If at the end of his working day, the Sudanese man could come home and relax, drink a cold beer, I think everyone around here would calm down a lot.''
 It was an unexpected theory for a Sudanese government official to posit -- under Islamic law, alcohol has been banned in the nation for decades -- but Ahmed is unusually cosmopolitan. A former air force brigadier general, he received his flight training in the United States, and his experiences there left a profound impression. 
 ''Williams Air Force Base, Phoenix, Ariz.,'' he explained. ''We'd have classroom instruction in the morning, fly in the afternoon and then we'd hit happy hour. They made me an honorary citizen. America, it's a great country.'' 
 There is a pleasant, languorous feel to the small government compound in Kas. A collection of low brick buildings set beneath enormous shade trees, it is a place where it is very easy to forget you are in the heart of both a humanitarian disaster zone and, to some degree, a war zone; on most of my visits, the half-dozen policemen detailed to guard the compound were relaxed enough to take long naps in the seats of a rusted-out Land Rover sitting up on blocks. 
 If Ahmed felt any greater sense of urgency, he disguised it well. Over tea and cigarettes in the cool shadows of his office, the 55-year-old commissioner steered the conversation toward reminiscences of his old flying days and away from the topic -- the Darfur crisis -- that had brought a steady stream of foreign visitors to his office in recent weeks. Pulling a stack of business cards from the pocket of his white robe, he read off a dizzying list of initials -- W.H.O., W.F.P., I.R.C. -- before boring of the task and setting them aside. ''All of a sudden, Kas is famous,'' he sighed. ''Everyone wants to come to Kas.'' 
 As part of the kinder, gentler face the Sudanese government is now showing to the world, it had recently acknowledged that, yes, indeed, there is a humanitarian crisis in Darfur and that some of the refugees have legitimate fears about returning to their homes -- the government's top priority. Either word of all this hadn't reached Kas yet or Commissioner Ahmed refused to play along. 
 ''There is no fear,'' he said of the refugees. ''It is a plan, my friend. They are following the orders of the S.L.A. The S.L.A. wants to show the bad face of the government, that we cannot maintain these people, that we cannot feed them. The S.L.A. told the poor people here: 'Hey, don't give up. The U.S. and England will come here and occupy this country and they will give you everything and take off the Arabs from Sudan.'''
 As for the true reason for the sudden international attention on Darfur, the commissioner had a ready answer. ''It's American politics. It's election time, and Bush needs something to turn attention away from the mess he's made in Iraq. So he says: 'Look at all these terrible things Sudan is doing in Darfur. We have to stop it.' And then Kerry has to jump in: 'No, it's even worse than that, and Bush isn't doing enough.' And do you know who's behind it all, the ones pulling the strings? The Jews. The Jewish lobby in America and Israel. Whenever you see an Islamic country making progress, they are there to sabotage it.'' 
 With the exception of Ahmed, with his penchant for ad libs, most Sudanese officials follow a script when discussing Darfur, one so honed they tend to recite it in nearly identical form. The only tricky part is that the script is constantly revised as circumstances demand. Thus, after months of effectively denying there was a crisis in Darfur and severely restricting access to the region by relief agencies and the foreign media, the threat of United Nations sanctions led to an abrupt about-face. 
 Before coming to Kas, I joined some 40 other journalists, mostly Sudanese, on a whirlwind, two-day fact-finding mission to all three Darfur state capitals, organized by the Sudanese Ministry of Information. If thin on facts, the junket was at least revealing of what the Sudanese government wished us to see and hear. In El Fasher, the capital of North Darfur, we were shepherded to trucks laden with refugees and their possessions, ostensibly returning to their villages now that security had been restored. At every available opportunity, the trip organizers trotted out some local African chieftain who announced that the problems had never been as bad as reported and, in any event, were now rapidly slipping into memory thanks to the robust efforts of the Sudanese government. The message was clear: Darfur was gradually returning to normal; the rule of law was being re-established. 
 The junket was also an opportunity for the Sudanese government to put the crisis into its ''proper'' context. As officials repeatedly pointed out, it wasn't as if all African tribal groups had been burned out by the janjaweed, or only Africans who had been victimized; in a number of places, Arab villages had suffered retaliatory strikes by African militias or the S.L.A. They also stressed the elasticity of the janjaweed label, an epithet long used in the region to describe any bandit or highwayman regardless of race. But perhaps their most novel argument was to discount a racial component in the conflict altogether, a line I had first heard back in Khartoum while meeting with Gen. Abdel Rahim Mohamed Hussein, the Sudanese minister of the interior with a special portfolio on the Darfur crisis. 
 ''Because of intermarriage over the years,'' Hussein said, ''there is no such thing as a true Arab or African in Sudan anymore.'' In his office, he abruptly pointed to one of his aides, a dark-skinned military officer. ''Look at him. He is an Arab. I am not an Arab. But these men here are all Arabs even though their skin is darker than mine.'' The minister chuckled pleasantly. ''You see? All this talk of race really misses the point.'' 
 Instead, the minister contended, the Darfur conflict must be viewed as a complex regional struggle between different tribes and political constituencies. As for who is truly behind the S.L.A. and its latecomer sister guerrilla group, the Justice and Equality Movement, the Sudanese government points to a broad and eclectic rogues' gallery: dissident Zaghawa officers in the Chadian military; Islamic mujahedeen under the leadership of Hassan al-Turabi, formerly the spiritual mentor to both bin Laden and Bashir, who now sits in a Khartoum prison; John Garang's S.P.L.A. rebels in the south -- even Eritrea, Sudan's neighbor on its far eastern border and the perennial bad boy of the region. 
 While it is not hard to see Khartoum's interest in building this line of defense -- after all, if a racial or ethnic component to the conflict can be discounted, it fairly negates the accusations of genocide -- there are enough grains of truth to almost all the government's defenses to muddy the charges made against it. Certainly, many of the foreign aid workers and journalists pouring into Darfur by midsummer were finding a much different place than they had imagined: less bleak, far more complex. One of the oddest aspects was how happy the refugees seemed. 
 ''They're the happiest I.D.P.'s'' -- internally displaced persons -- ''I've ever seen,'' commented one American relief worker who had arrived recently. ''I've been at this work a long time, and I've never seen anything like it.''
 But what looked like happiness may have been relief. The mere presence of outsiders was seen by the refugees as insurance against further attacks by the janjaweed and, by extension, the Sudanese government. 
 One Unicef worker was also reappraising her preconceptions about Darfur, including the commonly accepted accusation that the Sudanese government had chosen to obstruct the relief effort as a matter of policy. Having experienced for herself the grotesque inefficiency of the Sudanese bureaucracy, the Unicef worker found herself increasingly questioning how deliberate it was. 
 ''How much of this just comes down to incompetence and feeling besieged?'' she asked. ''No government wants to admit that they've lost control of a situation, especially one that feels the outside world is lining up against it. If you look at what's happened here in that light, a lot of what Sudan has done takes on a certain messed-up logic.'' 
 I was reminded of this one morning in Kas, when Commissioner Ahmed drove up in his Land Cruiser to show me the new refugee camp he was trying to establish on the edge of town. While the foremost goal of the Sudanese government has been to repatriate the displaced to their home villages as soon as possible, that initiative has been largely stymied by the contention of both the refugees and the international relief agencies that as long as the janjaweed control the countryside, return is tantamount to a death sentence. As an interim step, Ahmed has been trying to establish a new camp on a broad, flat plain at the edge of Kas, one that would appear to promise much better living conditions than those in the inner-town camps. In making this argument to various delegations of refugees, however, Ahmed had found no takers.
 ''It is a trick of the government,'' Hamid Maraja Hassan, the refugee from Torobeda, had told me, ''because in that place, we will have no protection. The janjaweed can do anything they want to us.'' 
 Whatever temptation I had to ascribe Hassan's comments to undue paranoia was undercut by something Ahmed said once we had reached the proposed campsite. Standing at the edge of the vast plain -- empty except for a single field tent in which a half-dozen policemen sat -- Ahmed began by telling how he had recently cleaned up the crime problem around Kas. 
 ''We had about 120 bandits in the area,'' he said, ''highwaymen, cattle thieves, all kinds of criminals. But what to do with them? And then I
 decided, I'll make them soldiers and policemen! Because as you know from your own experience in America, bandits and police, they're very similar, and if they're good at the one profession, they'll probably be good at the other.'' 
 Ahmed abruptly drew up, as if sensing that he might be veering off message again; in recent months, both refugees and human rights monitors had repeatedly charged that Sudanese authorities were hiding the janjaweed by putting them in police uniforms. 
 As we drove back into town and through yet another refugee camp, the commissioner pointed out a number of tents that appeared to be empty or abandoned. According to him, it was because their owners had returned to their home villages but were also maintaining a ''residence'' in the camp so they could continue to collect food rations from the relief agencies. Rather than being angered, however, he found this thought quite amusing.
 ''Well, they really are scoundrels,'' he chuckled. ''But who can blame them? If we were in their situation, let's hope we would be so clever.'' 
 At the edge of the refugee camp, the Land Cruiser was suddenly engulfed by waving, smiling children. The commissioner rolled down his tinted window to shout a greeting to them and exuberantly waved back. 
With a dainty hand, Sheik Musa Hilal gently tugged on his eyelashes until one came free in his fingers. After closely examining the lash for a moment, he gave it two soft kisses, then cast it free and watched it flutter to the ground. If an odd gesture for most anyone, it had a special creepiness coming from a man who stands charged with genocide. 
 After topping a list of seven supposed janjaweed commanders accused of war crimes that was issued by the State Department in June, Hilal took an unusual tack. Rather than go into hiding, he assumed a very public presence in Khartoum and made himself available to Western journalists, even inviting them along on trips to his tribal homeland in North Darfur. In what must be something of an embarrassment to the Sudanese government, which habitually denies any ties to Hilal, the sheik's trips home usually involved transport aboard Sudanese government aircraft. 
 It would appear the handsome sheik had things pretty well figured out. On the one hand, it seems highly unlikely that the Khartoum government would move against him -- the mere mention of his name sets off paroxysms of nervousness among Sudanese officials -- because he knows too much of what has really happened in Darfur. He obliquely hinted at this during a long evening's discussion at a follower's home in Khartoum.
 ''What I can say about Darfur,'' he said, a sly smile working at the edge of his mouth, ''is that the government came to me and to many of the other sheiks and asked for our help in fighting the S.L.A. Of course, we did so gladly, because we were suffering from these rebels, too. And so we gave them our young men to help in this fight, but what happened after that, if mistakes or crimes took place -- well, that is the government's responsibility, not ours.'' 
 On the other hand, it would appear Hilal doesn't have much to fear from those in the international community who profess to want him arrested; after all, his star billing on the U.S. State Department's war-criminals list in June didn't prevent the State Department from meeting with him in July. 
 To many, that meeting epitomized the strange transformation that has occurred in American policy toward Darfur in recent months. From having led the charge for international involvement in the region and first raising the specter of genocide, the Bush administration has been noticeably reluctant to lend importance to the declaration of genocide unanimously passed by Congress. 
 While conspiracy theories abound over this sudden soft-pedaling, the simplest explanation is that the Bush administration is caught in something of a vise between salvaging the progress it has made with Sudan in recent years -- most notably the north-south peace settlement that American diplomats were instrumental in forging -- and the risk of losing it all by pushing too hard on Darfur. 
 ''It's a pretty tough position to be in,'' one State Department official conceded. ''The Sudanese will bend to a certain point, but beyond that they just won't. The real danger here is that if you go too far, it derails the north-south deal, and you're back to another 22 years of war.'' 
 In a revealing illustration of just how complicated the situation has become, American diplomats now harbor almost as much rancor for the rebels in Darfur as they do for the government in Khartoum. In recent months, the S.L.A. has repeatedly stalled peace talks being brokered by the African Union by setting unrealistic preconditions or quibbling over such details as where the talks should be held; for its part, the Justice and Equality Movement faction had, until recently, boycotted the talks altogether.
 ''The first notion anyone's got to disabuse themselves of,'' the same State Department official said, ''is that there are any good guys in this. There aren't. The S.L.A. started this war, and now they and the Justice and Equality Movement are doing everything possible to keep it going. The S.L.A. has never stood up to the army the way the S.P.L.A. did in the south. Instead, they've been very content to sit back, let the village burnings go on, let the killing go on, because the more international pressure that's brought to bear on Khartoum, the stronger their position grows.'' 
 For its part, the Khartoum government has proved adept at playing one part of the international community off the other. At the same time that they have assumed a conciliatory stance toward the United Nations demands, they have played to their Arab neighbors and more militant domestic constituency by darkly warning of an Anglo-American invasion (something neither the British nor the Americans have ever threatened) and promising ''another Iraq'' should that come to pass. The two-pronged strategy has produced some odd moments; on Aug. 4, even as the Bashir government was professing full cooperation with the United Nations, an estimated 100,000 of its supporters were in the streets of Khartoum denouncing foreign meddling in Sudanese affairs.
 The United Nations secretary general, Kofi Annan, recently established a commission to investigate whether acts of genocide have occurred in Darfur and who might be responsible for them. The commission is headed by an Italian jurist who has done similar work on crimes committed in the former Yugoslavia. The commission presents the possibility, perhaps, of some justice being meted out to those responsible for the Darfur disaster.
 Some in the Bush administration now quietly suggest that all the discussion of whether what is transpiring in Darfur meets the definition of genocide may be an unhelpful diversion. At the same time, accusations of genocide could serve to give Khartoum a perverse rallying cry in other Arab and Muslim nations, and even in Western Europe, places where memory of the hyperbole and erroneous claims that accompanied the U.S. invasion of Iraq are still fresh. And it is not as if a finding of genocide is necessarily going to change anything anyway; when Colin Powell finally uttered the G-word in connection with Darfur in mid-September, it was with the quick assurance that this didn't mean the United States was prepared to take any further action, a statement that managed to enrage Khartoum and the international human rights community simultaneously.
 What a declaration of genocide certainly would not do is to lend greater clarity to what is happening on the ground. If this is a genocide, it doesn't look very much like those we've known before. No public proclamations about ''the enemy within,'' no extermination lists, not even Interhamwe mobs butchering Tutsis in the streets of Rwanda. Instead, it is shadowy, informal; the killing takes place offstage. It is the destruction of a people in a place where it is virtually impossible to distinguish incompetence from conspiracy. Is that by design, the sheer evil genius of it all, or just more evidence of a government's utter haplessness? A genocide may, it seems, occur almost inadvertently.
Toward the end of my time in South Darfur, I spent a day at a camel market in the village of Burogna, some 20 miles west of Kas. I went there because I had been told it was a place where janjaweed frequently congregated, and sure enough, as I approached, I saw a number of gun-toting young men in Ray-Bans and patches of uniforms strolling amid the white-robed Arab camel traders. For the only time in my monthlong stay in Sudan, I felt overt hostility. 
 Sitting with a few tribal elders beneath a tree, they told me how they felt maligned by all the ''lies'' that had been spread about the Arabs of Darfur, how all the world now seemed to be against them. Yes, they conceded, they had sent their young men to join the fight against the rebels when the government asked, but wasn't this what a patriot in any country would do? The only explanation they could find was that the outside world had been duped into believing the lies spread by those who wished to destroy them: the rebels, the southerners, the Americans, probably the Israelis, too. 
 A short distance away, an Islamic preacher was conducting a revival-style meeting, with perhaps 200 men gathered in a circle around him. It was an impassioned sermon that floated between teachings from the Koran and ominous warnings of how the Arabs were a threatened people, of how they all had to prepare for a coming jihad against their enemies. In the Darfur countryside, almost every man carries a sheathed dagger tied to his left arm, and at the sermon's fever pitch, some of those gathered in the circle -- tribal elders in white robes, the young gunmen in their designer sunglasses -- reached for their daggers and lifted them into the air with a cry that seemed equal parts angry and exultant. 
 While leaving the camel market, I was approached by a nervous young man named Yahya Ibrahim, who had sat at the periphery during my talk with the Arab elders. 
 ''Don't believe anything that anyone says to you here,'' he whispered, ''because all these men, they are janjaweed.'' 
 It turned out that Ibrahim was a Fur. By his account, his nearby village had been attacked by the janjaweed last October and most of his family killed, with the survivors now living in refugee camps in Kas; he had been allowed to stay on in Burogna because of various friendships he had among the Arabs. When I asked if he recognized any of his attackers, Ibrahim cast a meaningful gaze over the dour young men in sunglasses now crowding in around us. 
 ''I knew some of them,'' he replied. 
 I asked Ibrahim when he thought the rest of his family and village might be able to return home.
 ''But they can never come back here,'' he said with an incredulous shrug. ''They will all be killed. This is not our land anymore. We can never come back here.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: The remnants of a village near Nyala in South Darfur.
Left: A young victim of the violence, now a refugee in Nyala.
Above: Children studying the Koran at a refugee camp in Zalingei.
A feeding center in South Darfur run by Doctors Without Borders
Above: Women at a refugee camp near Kas.
 Right: An Islamic preacher firing up true believers at a revival-style meeting at Burogna. (Photographs by Paolo Pellegrin/Magnum for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); WAR CRIMES (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); REFUGEES (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); MAMMALS (77%); CIVIL WAR (76%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (76%); ARRESTS (72%); IMMIGRATION (69%); ANIMAL POACHING & TRAFFICKING (69%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (69%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (63%); GENOCIDE (60%) War Crimes, Genocide and Crimes Against Humanity; Immigration and Refugees; Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare 

ORGANIZATION: DOCTORS WITHOUT BORDERS (59%)

PERSON: Scott Anderson

GEOGRAPHIC: KHARTOUM, SUDAN (74%) SUDAN (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (71%) Sudan; Darfur (Sudan); Sudan

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2004



383 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; SUNDAY MONEY: INVESTING; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: Not an Oil Baron? You Can Still Get Oil Royalties

BYLINE: By J. ALEX TARQUINIO

 BODY:
OIL prices have climbed more than 70 percent over the last year, and energy experts say they expect the cost to remain high as long as there is political unrest in oil-rich countries like Iraq, Venezuela, Nigeria and Russia.
 Of course, soaring commodity prices have been a boon for huge energy companies like Exxon Mobil, which closed at $49.02 on Friday, up 30 percent from a year ago. But investors who want to tap into the high price of energy may want to consider an investment that is not as well known: energy royalty trusts.
 ''The wealthy Texas families have owned these for years,'' said George B. Lucas Jr., a principal of Lucas Capital Management of Red Bank, N.J., that specializes in energy investments. ''Much of our investment philosophy is about making up for the fact that none of us inherited oil wells.'' 
 Energy royalty trusts are required by law to pay shareholders most of their income from oil and natural gas as dividends. Though trust share prices have soared in the last two years, trust yields are still high because commodity prices have kept pace. And because the American trusts don't spend money on exploration, they are more or less a pure commodity play.
 Mr. Lucas says the trusts are generally a good alternative to owning bonds, whose prices move in the opposite direction of interest rates. Energy trusts may rise if interest rates shoot up on fears of inflation, he said, because commodities are often viewed as an inflation hedge. 
 But investors shouldn't be entirely dazzled by the trusts' current payouts, he said, adding that it was important to study the depletion rates of their energy reserves. ''If you open a bottle of Coke, you get a big rush of bubbles, and then it runs down,'' Mr. Lucas said. ''Our job is to analyze at what rate each of these trusts is running down.'' 
 The United States energy royalty trusts that trade publicly are much like the family trusts that cut checks for the descendants of oil barons. By law, they must be passively managed to avoid corporate taxes; that means they cannot buy new properties, for example, or hedge future commodity prices. Owning an asset with depleting reserves also has tax advantages.
 In Canada, where energy trusts are more popular, they operate more like traditional, actively managed companies, with executives who can issue new shares, hedge commodity prices and borrow money to buy new oil fields. But once a United States energy trust is set up, no oil or gas fields can be added, and an outside company operates the fields.
 ''To the degree that anybody is running the U.S. trusts, it's a sleepy banker who sends out royalty checks once a month,'' Mr. Lucas said.
 The Canadian trusts are also much larger, both in production and in market capitalization. They produce about 11 percent of the oil and 23 percent of the natural gas in Canada and have a combined market capitalization of 34 billion Canadian dollars, or about $27 billion, said Michelle Dathorne, a Standard & Poor's credit analyst who covers the oil and gas industry from Toronto. But the United States trusts, which tend to focus on natural gas, produce only about 0.5 percent of the gas in the nation and have a combined market cap of less than $5 billion, said Kurt H. Wulff, an independent energy stock analyst who publishes research on his Web site, www.mcdep.com. By comparison, the five largest global oil companies have a combined market cap around $900 billion.
 Investors in either the American or Canadian trusts might get a nasty surprise if commodity prices slid suddenly, some industry experts say. For instance, if natural gas prices fell to $4.50 per million B.T.U.'s from the current $6.70 and stayed there, shares of trusts that primarily receive royalties from natural gas could fall by about one-third, said Ashton Lee, a portfolio manager and energy stock analyst at Lucas Capital Management.
 That is because the cost of production is the same no matter what oil and gas are selling for, so the huge increase in commodity prices has been pure profit for shareholders. But consider the reverse: if oil fell to $32 a barrel from more than $54 -- and it cost a trust $20 a barrel to get it out of the ground -- profits would fall by more than 60 percent.
 ''If you're willing to accept that risk, there's nothing wrong with investing now, because investors are making significant amounts of money now'' from the royalties on energy trusts, Ms. Dathorne said. 
 She said concerns about supply were adding a ''risk premium'' to the price of oil, which she estimated would be about $30 a barrel, based solely on demand. That would still be well above the 10-year average of around $23. Ultimately, she expects prices to fall back to $25 to $30 a barrel.
 But Mr. Wulff said that the market was in a historical period of ''upward adjustment'' in oil and natural gas prices. ''We're running out of clean oil, so we're going to have to produce more dirty oil and spend more money refining it,'' he said. He predicted that in 2010 the price of oil would be at least $60 a barrel -- about $50 in current dollars -- and that natural gas would cost at least $10 per million B.T.U.'s in today's dollars. ''It will be higher relative to the cost of oil,'' he said, ''because gas is cleaner, so it has an increasing environmental premium.''
 SOME of the most popular United States energy trusts are almost exclusively in natural gas. Shares of the Hugoton Royalty Trust and of the San Juan Basin Royalty Trust have both climbed 150 percent over the last two years. Hugoton, which trades at $28.18, yields 8.7 percent and San Juan, which trades at $30.05, yields 9.1 percent. Both trusts distribute royalties from natural gas production; Hugoton's fields are in Kansas, Oklahoma and Wyoming; San Juan Basin's are in New Mexico.
 Mr. Wulff stopped recommending new investments in San Juan Basin on Aug. 2, when shares hit $28.25, or 128 percent of what he says they are worth, based on his estimate of the future value of their reserves. ''I like to recommend shares at 80 percent, but I'll ride them up to 120 percent,'' he said.
 The Canadian Oil Sands Trust, based in Calgary, Alberta, is the only energy royalty trust that he still recommends buying. It closed on Friday at $49.04, well below his $62 estimate of present value. The dividend yield of Canadian Oil Sands, 4 percent, is about half that of other energy royalty trusts. Yet it could have a 15 percent yield if it paid out all of its income, Mr. Wulff said. Instead, the trust is using some income to build a refinery that will turn dirty oil mined from sand into higher-quality crude oil, he said.
 Although there are tax breaks for owning a depleting resource, the filing of taxes for energy royalty trusts can be a nightmare. For one thing, they need to be filed in every state in which the wells are found. And the payouts will be taxed as income, rather than as dividends, because the trust does not pay corporate taxes. A wealthy investor whose taxes are prepared by a professional should hold shares in a taxable account, Mr. Lucas said. But he said that an investor with few shares -- or one who doesn't want the trouble of all the filing -- should hold shares in an individual retirement account. 
 Canadian trusts are subject to a 15 percent tax that is withheld by the broker. Investors in the United States can get a refund of this tax; but again, Mr. Lucas said, smaller investors may not want to deal with the paperwork. The tax will not be deducted if shares are held in an I.R.A. ''You give away some of the tax efficiency, but you also give away the bookkeeping,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Employees of Syncrude Canada, a joint venture, at a plant in Fort McMurray, Alberta. Canadian Oil Sands Trust, an energy royalty trust, is among the venture's owners. (Photo by Syncrude Canada Ltd.)Chart: ''Swimming in Oil''As the price of oil has risen over the last year . . .Graph tracks price of oil (near-month futures contracts) since 2003.. . . the returns of many energy royalty trusts have soared.San Juan Basin Royalty Trust1-YEAR TOTAL RETURN: +76%Canadian Oil Sands Trust*1-YEAR TOTAL RETURN: +74Hugoton Royalty Trust1-YEAR TOTAL RETURN: +57Standard & Poor's 500-stock index1-YEAR TOTAL RETURN: +8*In dollars(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ROYALTIES (92%); OIL & GAS ROYALTIES (91%); MINERAL ROYALTIES (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (79%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (79%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (75%); FAMILY (75%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (73%); PERSONAL TRUSTS (70%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (67%); STOCK OFFERINGS (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Royalties; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (90%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%)

PERSON: George B Jr Lucas; J Alex Tarquinio

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBERTA, CANADA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) CANADA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); NIGERIA (92%); IRAQ (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2004



384 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 3; Book Review Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: Smells Like Civic Spirit

BYLINE: By SARAH VOWELL

 BODY:

OF GRUNGE AND GOVERNMENT
Let's Fix This Broken Democracy!
By Krist Novoselic.
103 pp. RDV Books. Paper, $9.95.
 KRIST NOVOSELIC'S memoir turned civics manual, ''Of Grunge and Government,'' is lucid, unpretentious and, as the architect Louis Sullivan once described the ideal of democracy, ''thrillingly sane.'' Detailing his path from Nirvana bass player to citizen politico, Novoselic offers specific platforms for electoral reform -- instant runoff voting gets a lot of play -- as well as charming anecdotes about rock 'n' roll as a pursuit of happiness. He is a thinker who asks questions about the efficacy of direct recording electronic voting machines, but also ponders such important mysteries as, ''Where would the world be without Black Sabbath?'' 
 Where would the world be without Nirvana? When the band's record ''Nevermind'' was released in 1991, it caused a rupture that was more than simply stylistic, more than just a group with loud guitars and louder drums knocking the whimpering Mariah Carey off the top of the charts (though that was not nothing). It was a moral victory. For the first time a group that grew up on the inherent decency of the punk rock creed -- ''Come as you are'' went one of Nirvana's hits -- ruled the airwaves. That was the beauty, the relief, of Nirvana's success. They made ''Nevermind.'' We the audience made it Billboard's No. 1. Novoselic says, ''It's as if every album sold was a vote for Nirvana.'' And a vote for Nirvana was a vote for sarcastic idealism, for skeptical community, for bitter hope, a mosquito, my libido.
 The inclusive, egalitarian, often feminist nature of punk, especially the Washington State varieties like riot grrl and grunge, was also an economic system. A band is, Novoselic points out, ''a small business.'' Nirvana, though, became big business. And it is Novoselic's singular perspective, since he straddled the homemade, homegrown punk rock community and the high-stakes, high-priced global marketplace, that gives him the sort of evenhanded insights into the balance between labor and capital, between people and property, that call to mind Theodore Roosevelt. Novoselic is critical enough of capitalism gone amok that he participated in the 1999 demonstrations against the World Trade Organization in Seattle, but sufficiently nonviolent and law-abiding that when he saw a fellow protester defacing a hotel with graffiti he was appalled, hollering, ''How would you like it if someone did that to your house?'' 
 Novoselic imagines what would happen ''if all of the positive energy and creativity of the W.T.O. protests were channeled into conventional politics.'' For example, he attends his local Democratic precinct caucus, endorsing its ''respectful, straightforward'' debate. And his old-fashioned suggestions for civic participation come off as curiously innovative. After confessing that he joined the Grange in the rural Washington town where he now lives, he proposes others follow suit, pointing out that the Elks lodge has the space, bar and stage necessary to convene less-than-Elksy get-togethers. He asks, ''How about a poetry slam at the Eagles Hall about media consolidation?'' 
 Novoselic points out that while he would like to amend the elections process, ''I am not advocating we change our system of government.'' His thesis -- that citizens with punk rock hearts can attend the same meetings, lobby the same state legislatures, join the same delegations as their neighbors (and forebears) -- sounds a lot like doing to politics what Nirvana did to the music industry. The band's songs did not destroy commercial radio, and failed to dismantle MTV. Nirvana's songs and videos simply replaced the trivial foolishness that had been corroding the public airwaves. 
 Just as a good song is broadcast using the same transmitter as a bad song, the folding chairs at a caucus meeting (or the Elks lodge) won't notice, much less care, if the people sitting in them are wearing bow ties or faded souvenir T-shirts from the ''Nevermind'' tour.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Christopher Serra)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); POP & ROCK (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (85%); ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTION LAW (76%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (76%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (75%); LITERATURE (73%); ELECTRONIC VOTING MACHINES (71%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (70%); RELIGION (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (62%); SMALL BUSINESS (61%) Books and Literature; Reviews 

PERSON: MARIAH CAREY (51%) Sarah Vowell; Krist Novoselic

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2004



385 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; SundayBusiness; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3612 words

HEADLINE: Terrorbusters Inc.

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE and JOHN MARKOFF

 BODY:
THE high-pitched whine started suddenly during breakfast in the elegant dining room of the Regency Hotel in Manhattan. Richard G. Hudak, a good-natured, talkative executive, ignored it at first, but the sound persisted. Clearly distracted, he broke off the conversation, rose from the table and walked slowly toward the lobby, tracking the source of the noise with the concentration of a hunting dog. No one else seated at the elaborately set tables in the crowded room seemed especially concerned. 
 The whine stopped as abruptly as it began, and when Mr. Hudak returned a minute or two later, he was his relaxed self again. An elevator had malfunctioned, setting off the alarm, he explained. The whine had not signaled a terrorist attack, which is Mr. Hudak's great concern as director of corporate safety and security for the Loews Corporation, the Regency's owner. 
 Before 9/11, retired cops did this sort of work, Mr. Hudak said, disdainfully. He, by contrast, is a specialist, a former F.B.I. agent and a Harvard graduate who is high enough in the Loews hierarchy to compete successfully for corporate funds to protect the company's many properties from terrorism. ''Since 9/11, senior executives listen more closely and I have much more access to them,'' he said. 
 The 3M Corporation brought Mr. Hudak to a reporter's attention. Thanks to him, Loews has become a good customer for a 3M product: a paper-thin, puncture-proof film that is affixed to windows so they won't shatter when a terrorist bomb explodes, sending shards of glass flying into employees and customers. Believing that the Regency, particularly the ground floor, is a potential target, Mr. Hudak had the film installed on the restaurant's huge plate glass windows, at a cost of $8 a square foot. 
 The product's first test at the hotel came not from terrorists, but from a disgruntled employee who smashed a window with a hammer. ''It broke but did not shatter,'' Mr. Hudak said. The shards stayed sandwiched between the two layers of film, as if they were part of a shatterproof auto windshield. ''That demonstrated to management the value of applying window film,'' he said. 
 Four of the 20 hotels in the company's chain now have it. So do the windows of a two-story Bulova watch factory that Loews owns in Woodside, Queens, as well as the glass doors to the Loews executive offices in Manhattan. ''It has become a recommended solution for a lot of situations, including labor unrest,'' Mr. Hudak added. 
 Corporate America is spending heavily for protection. Private-sector outlays for antiterrorism measures and to guard against other forms of violence may now be as much as $40 billion to $50 billion a year, or two or three times higher than the annual rate before 9/11, according to estimates compiled by CQ Homeland Security, a daily Internet newsletter published by Congressional Quarterly. The federal government's contribution has also passed the $40 billion mark, double what it was before 9/11. As the spending soars, domestic security seems poised to become a significant factor in the overall economy, much the way military spending was during the cold war.
 ''THE question is: What is enough security?'' said Gordon Adams, who oversaw national security spending at the Office of Management and Budget in the Clinton administration and now heads a security policy studies program at George Washington University. ''The answer is, no one knows, and fear is a powerful driver here. Since we do not know who means us harm, where they are and how long they are going to continue to mean us harm, where do you stop?''
 Mr. Adams contends that much of the spending on domestic security is justified. Shattered glass is certainly a legitimate concern, he said, ''but I predict that five years from now there will be Congressional hearings about the illegitimate business that is also being done, through the exploitation of fear.'' 
 For now, such second-guessing is not even on the horizon. If anything, Senator John Kerry accuses President Bush of not spending enough on domestic security. ''The measurement is not are we safer, the measurement is are we as safe as we ought to be,'' Mr. Kerry said in the presidential debate on Wednesday night. And his answer was no. 
 The marketplace for domestic security is developing apace. Mr. Hudak and his counterparts at more than 300 big corporations have banded together as members of the International Security Management Association. The group says the risk of terrorist attacks justifies more spending, and it is busy making that case to employers. 
 Consultants are entering the field, too. ''We are telling companies to look at their earnings drivers and protect them from shock,'' said Mark J. Gerencser, a senior vice president at Booz Allen Hamilton, the global consulting firm. 
 And, of course, the sales forces of tens of dozens of companies, offering a huge array of security devices and services, are making their pitches. The products are promoted at domestic security trade conferences that are held almost every week in some American city. 
 The 3M Corporation, for one, has proved adept at stoking demand for its window film, called Scotchshield Ultra Safety and Security Window Film. ''Since 9/11, we have seen a significant increase in the demand for bomb-blast mitigation, mainly for office buildings in the Northeast,'' said Jeffrey F. Bradley, the business manager for the consumer safety department at 3M that makes and markets Scotchshield. 
 The sales pitch developed by Mr. Bradley and his team has plenty of shock value. A reporter visiting the company's lab in St. Paul is given a crowbar and invited to break a pane of glass that is not protected and another that is. The first flies apart; the second does not. 
 Then Mr. Bradley's staff shows a video -- the same one distributed to customers -- of two bomb blasts at a test site. The video makes the point much more vividly. One blast is directed against a window without Scotchshield and the other against one with the product. The unprotected window shatters, sending glass shards flying with the force of bullets; the other shatters but stays in place.
 In each case, the approaching waves from the explosion are seen from inside the soon-to-be destroyed window. In their presentations, 3M sales teams explain that terrorists have been known to set off a small blast first, and then, when office workers rush to the windows to see what is happening, a second, powerful blast is detonated -- like the one depicted on the video -- showering the workers with shards of glass. 
 That is what happened at the American embassy in Nairobi, Kenya, on Aug. 7, 1998, Mr. Bradley said. ''I have seen a number quoted as high as 80 percent of injuries in an explosion coming from shattered glass,'' he said. 
 If protecting one's employees is not adequate incentive to buy such products, there is also the insurance lure. Congress mandated in 2002 that insurance companies offer businesses protection against liability and property loss from terrorism. 
 ''Anything you do to mitigate a terrorist attack on your property has a favorable impact on the premiums,'' said Robert P. Hartwig, chief economist of the Insurance Information Institute. He estimated that premium payments for this coverage now totaled at least $10 billion a year. ''You make the workplace environment safer,'' he said, ''and at the same time you serve your own interest by reducing your insurance cost.'' 
 Government spending on domestic security is also huge, and growing fast. Federal outlays reached $41 billion during the just-ended fiscal year, up from $33 billion in fiscal 2003 and $21 billion in the year that ended days after 9/11, according to the Congressional Budget Office. (Those figures do not include spending by the Department of Homeland Security on activities unrelated to fighting terrorism.) 
 There may be a lot more on the way. If Congress goes along with President Bush's budget proposals, the federal contribution will rise nearly 15 percent, to $47 billion, in the current fiscal year, and that on top of the more than $7 billion that state and local governments have added from their own pockets since 9/11 for more police and fire department protection, Census Bureau data show. 
 ''The need for homeland security, given the terrorist threat, is like a transaction cost,'' said Douglas Holtz-Eakin, the director of the Congressional Budget Office. ''So was the cold war spending. Anytime you have a transaction cost on a large-enough scale, you lower the return on productive investment and reduce to some extent economic performance. So as a nation, we have a clear incentive to keep the homeland security transaction cost as low as possible.'' 
 As the overall cost approaches $100 billion, domestic security is beginning to take on the characteristics of military spending in the early years of the cold war. Just as an open-ended fear of Communism drove that spending surge, the open-ended terrorist threat is driving today's spending on domestic security. 
 The Communist scare came alive as China fell in 1949 and North Korea invaded South Korea the next year. Before long, military spending grew large enough to influence productivity and economic growth, often dragging down both. A dollar invested in a weapons system, many economists argue, does not have the multiplier effect of a dollar invested in automated machinery installed in factories to make trucks and computers, which in turn become tools for additional production.
 Spending on domestic security has the potential to become a similar albatross for the economy, although it has not yet reached the proportions of the cold war era. By 1953, military outlays had risen to 14.2 percent of all economic activity from a post-World War II low of just 3.5 percent in 1948. Following a similar trajectory, but from a much smaller starting point, spending for domestic security has risen from well under half of 1 percent of gross domestic product just before 9/11 to roughly eight-tenths of 1 percent three years later. One percent, or $110 billion a year, is the point at which spending on domestic security would begin to affect the overall economy. And the nation is quickly getting there. 
 MARK ZANDI, chief economist at Economy.com, has developed a computer model of what would happen to the economy if spending on domestic security suddenly and miraculously went to zero next year. The initial impact would be negative. Removing the stimulus of the roughly $50 billion in government spending would shave a third of a percentage point off the annual growth rate of the economy, and the work force would be smaller by 140,000 jobs. But by 2006 or 2007, the economy would be better off, the model indicates.
 ''The redirection of government and business spending on domestic security to other types of investment and hiring generates greater gains in productivity and income growth,'' Mr. Zandi said. He noted that in the wake of the cold war, military spending fell to 3 percent of G.D.P. in the late 1990's from nearly twice that level in the late 1980's. ''There was a tremendous peace dividend that helped to lift the productivity growth rate in the 1990's,'' Mr. Zandi said.
 Bush administration officials point to spin-offs from spending on domestic security that are likely to offset some of the drag. The Internet, after all, started life as a Pentagon-financed research project, connecting military and academic laboratories. To cite another example, two leading high-tech companies, Sun Microsystems and Silicon Graphics, grew out of government funding in the 1980's that aimed to develop highly sophisticated computer workstations for scientists, designers and engineers. 
 Domestic security, however, may be a different animal. In the cold war, there were vast expenditures from public coffers for troops and weaponry to contain Communism and to prepare for an all-out nuclear war against a Soviet enemy. Domestic security is focused on a different mix of products and services, many of them still coming to market. The primary goal is to build global electronic networks that monitor the movements of cargo and people and thwart terrorists or keep them at arm's length. 
 The innovation required by all of this is showing up in Silicon Valley, although sorting out the spending on domestic security and computer security is difficult. ''We are seeing a pretty healthy $12 billion annual market related to cybersecurity infrastructure,'' said Ted Schlein, a partner at Kleiner, Perkins, Caufield & Byers, the venture capital firm. 
 That is different from the situation during the cold war, when the government had a more dominant role. But if the private sector is more visible this time, the subsidies that flow from the government still shape the process, albeit on a much less noticeable scale. As Dr. Penrose Albright, assistant secretary for science and technology in the Department of Homeland Security, put it, ''My job is to steer the existing structure to the needs of homeland security.''
 For example, Northrop Grumman and BAE Systems, two military contractors, are developing a prototype electronic device, a shield of sorts, that can be mounted on commercial airliners to defend them against shoulder-fired missiles. The $100 million in development funds is coming from Washington, but Northrop and BAE are contributing technology of their own, and the airlines would presumably install the devices at their expense, ideally at a cost of less than $1 million a plane, Dr. Albright said. 
 IN a similar vein, the Unisys Corporation, among others, is developing a system for tracking the tens of thousands of steel freight containers that move every day across oceans toward major ports in the United States. Through the use of special sensors and seals, as well as a satellite network, the containers would be tracked along every foot of their journeys. Any attempt to tamper with one -- perhaps to insert a dirty bomb in, say, Sri Lanka or Karachi -- would be detected, in theory. 
 The tracking would give shippers -- Wal-Mart Stores or Sara Lee, for example -- the precise location of their inventories in transit and much more information about the arrival time. Here, then, is a system that the federal government is paying to develop and that Unisys is beginning to market as a commercial service.
 ''We have found that the average C.E.O. does not want to pay for a lot of security,'' Joseph W. McGrath, the president of Unisys, said in an interview. The people tracking these containers, however, are ''supply-chain gurus, and the new tracking ability makes the ships carrying these containers floating warehouses,'' enhancing inventory control. 
 Thus does domestic security give birth to a commercial spin-off. But the marketplace may also require an intermediate step that most corporate executives long opposed but are now beginning to advocate: government regulation. Mr. McGrath, for one, says he favors more regulation. Most executives in the maritime industry do, too, he said, citing a recent survey of shipping executives that showed that 75 percent supported mandatory regulation.
 From the maritime industry's point of view, a regulated security system is likely to speed up the movement of cargo through American ports, freeing ships more quickly for their next journey. Unisys and other companies would be authorized to operate tracking systems that adhere to a government standard. And the Wal-Marts of the world would have to sign up, even if they thought the costs outweighed the benefits. 
 The Department of Homeland Security, responding gingerly to the various sentiments involved, and on behalf of an administration ideologically opposed to regulation, has already issued some new rules. Twenty-four hours before a cargo container bound for the United States is loaded at a foreign port, the shipper must file a manifest electronically. The Customs Service, now an arm of the department, promulgated that requirement. It raises a shipper's costs, swelling national spending on domestic security -- but it does so for everyone, so there is no competitive advantage. 
 ''We have much better data now from these manifests about the content of shipments coming into the country, where the content is coming from and who touched it'' at the port of departure, said Elaine K. Dezenski, director of cargo and trade policy at the Department of Homeland Security.
 THERE is another side to this coin: self-regulation. That is an approach that Alfonso Martinez-Fonts Jr. is pushing as a special assistant at the Department of Homeland Security in charge of reaching out to the private sector.
 When the subject came up during an interview, he referred a reporter to the Self Storage Association as an example of how business, instead of government, can take the initiative in setting standards. The association represents 2,500 companies operating the garagelike storage depositories that are a fixture in so many communities. 
 There are 40,000 storage facilities across the country, with an average of 500 units in each, said Michael T. Scanlon Jr., chief executive of the association. Timothy J. McVeigh stored explosive material in a rented storage unit before blowing up the federal building in Oklahoma City, and after 9/11 the association worried that the federal government would regulate the industry to close it off to terrorists. 
 So what was once mainly a cash rental business is now more elaborate, and more costly for customers. With the blessing of Mr. Martinez-Fonts, the Self Storage Association is asking its members to charge renters $7.50 each to cover the cost of verifying their identities and ascertaining whether they have criminal records. A supercomputer does the verification, based on Social Security numbers, birth dates and other data. 
 Only 25 companies have signed up so far, Mr. Scanlon said. But the start-up date was in early September, and he said that he expects to add 100 companies a month. ''We are the private sector trying to preclude the need for mandatory regulation by putting this 'get to know your customer' system in place before the issue arises,'' Mr. Scanlon said. 
 Elsewhere in corporate America, the payoff is coming faster. The Datacard Group, a privately owned company based in Minneapolis that had $300 million in revenue last year, is selling a mechanism that adds layers of sophistication to corporate ID cards. The company's package, called ID Works, includes a fingerprint reader, an iris scanner and a face recognizer -- the paraphernalia of what domestic security experts classify as biometrics. They check the identity of a person presenting an ID card and verify that his personnel record, stored in a database, is without blemish. 
 ''When a Paris employee of a multinational corporation shows up at the Hong Kong office, how does the Hong Kong office know that that person was not terminated a week ago and flew to Hong Kong to be disruptive?'' said Kevin Gillick, the head of corporate marketing at Datacard. ''In an integrated world, you want to know instantaneously what has changed and what the status of that employee is.''
 Apparently so. Sales revenue for the secure ID component of Datacard's business is growing at a double-digit percentage clip, Mr. Gillick said. 
 In another area, Motorola is a beneficiary of federal funds for radio equipment, mainly systems that allow police officers, firefighters and other emergency workers to talk to one another within a city or across an entire state. That is what police and fire departments failed to do in New York on 9/11. A number of communities are drawing funds from the Department of Homeland Security to avoid a repetition of that problem.
 Motorola got $9 million for its share of installations in Georgia. The states of Alaska and Colorado are customers, too, said Deborah Phillips, a director of strategic marketing at the company. In July, Virginia awarded Motorola a $329 million contract to build a system in that state. Each one of the states ''has done independent assessments of what they need to protect their citizens,'' Ms. Phillips said, adding that Motorola participated in several of those assessments.
 While Motorola prods from the outside, Richard Hudak does so from the inside at Loews, bringing a lifetime of experience to the job. After graduating from Harvard, where he starred in football, he served as a Marine captain in Vietnam, then spent 11 years with the F.B.I. After that, he held various posts as a security consultant or executive, including a stint at the Sheraton Corporation.
 That is where he first deployed window film. He needed a solution to a problem at the Sheraton in Rio de Janeiro: gunshots from a slum a mile away occasionally pierced and shattered hotel room windows. The window film prevented the shattering and stopped the nearly spent bullets, or most of them, from even piercing windows.
 ''It made me focus on window film not just as a defense against bomb blasts but also against burglars who try to smash a street window, grab something and run,'' Mr. Hudak said.
 NOW he is moving on to other forms of protection. He considers concrete barriers inappropriate for the Park Avenue entrance of the Regency Hotel. If a barrier becomes necessary, or if he can get corporate approval for the expense, he will opt for something he considers aesthetically more pleasing: bollards, which are thick metal cylinders that rise hydraulically from tubes inserted in a sidewalk or street.
 ''If I just say to management, 'Put a cement barrier in front of the hotel,' they'll say, 'Think of something else,''' Mr. Hudak said.
 And so he has.


GRAPHIC: Photos: 1949 -- Mao Zedong in the victory parade in Beijing celebrating the establishment of the Communist government in China. (Photo by Camera Press)
1950 -- The U.S.S. Missouri firing its guns in an effort to cut North Korean communications near the beginning of the Korean War. (Photo by National Archives)
Recent concerns over domestic security bring memories of backyard bomb shelters and other symbols of the cold war, which began in the late 1940's. Just as an open-ended fear of Communism drove that spending surge, the open-ended threat of terrorism is driving today's spending. (Photo by Associated Press)
2004 -- A fingerprinting device in use in airports that helps to verify the identity of foreigners traveling to the United States. (Photo by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)
IN THE FUTURE? -- A demonstration last week in London of a three-dimensional facial recognition program. (Photo by Ian Waldie/Getty Images)
A window film from 3M prevents glass from shattering when it is broken. (Photo by 3M)(pg. 8)
 New biometric technology, like that in portable iris scanners, is being used to improve security. (Photo by Ian Waldie/Getty Images)(pg. 12)Drawing (Illustration by The New York Times)(pg. 1)Chart: ''Cold War Fears Generated a Surge in Security Spending . . .''Graph tracks military spending as a percentage of gross domestic product, in fiscal years ended in September, since 1948.. . . That Is Not Unlike Today'sFederal Spending for Domestic SecurityIncludes spending outside the Department of Homeland Security as well as the department itself.In billions'01: $21'02: $33'04: $41'05 based on President Bush's budget proposals.: $47Fiscal years ended in September.(Graph diagram by Karl Russell/The New York Times)(Source by Office of Management and Budget)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (86%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (74%); RESTAURANTS (73%); DOGS (71%); COUNTERTERRORISM (69%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (69%); BOMBINGS (69%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (68%); LOBBYING (58%) Terrorism; Security and Warning Systems; United States Armament and Defense; Hotels and Motels; Corporations; Terrorism

COMPANY: 3M CO (91%); LOEWS CORP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (59%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (55%) Loews Corp; 3m Co

TICKER: MMM (SWX) (91%); MMM (NYSE) (91%); MMM (FRA) (91%); L (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (91%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (91%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (91%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); NAICS334519 OTHER MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (84%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (84%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (84%)

PERSON: Richard G Hudak; Gordon Adams; Louis Uchitelle; John Markoff

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%); BEIJING, CHINA (59%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (65%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2004



386 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; HOME FRONT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Finding Work and the Ability in Disability

BYLINE: By Abby Ellin. 
This column about the local economy appears every other week. E-mail address: homefront@nytimes.com

 BODY:
IF it weren't for his cousin Freddy, Edmund L. Cortez's life might have taken a radically different turn.
 Mr. Cortez, 56, is in his 10th year as chief executive of the National Center for Disability Services in Albertson, N.Y., a 52-year-old organization on Long Island that works with more than 200 businesses, educational institutions, museums and government entities to help people with physical and mental disabilities find work. The organization serves 4,500 adults ages 16 and up -- some of whom are in wheelchairs -- and helps them determine what kind of work they are capable of doing, then trains them. So far, they have placed people at companies like Merrill Lynch, Mutual of America, I.B.M. and Home Depot, where they are everything from accountants to secretaries to sales associates. 
 ''Many people lack basic literacy skills; if that's the case, we teach them basics in terms of reading and mathematics,'' Mr. Cortez said. ''The last thing we want to do is place someone who's not right for the job. We want to make sure the person is very highly qualified and motivated. ''
 Mr. Cortez was born in Brooklyn and spent three years in Puerto Rico. When his family returned to New York, they moved in with relatives, one of whom, Freddy, was retarded. Freddy had been living in Willowbrook Hospital in Staten Island, which was notorious for its awful conditions. 
 ''My aunt and uncle were so horrified that they took him out and kept him at home with no services or help,'' Mr. Cortez recalled. ''He needed constant care and attention, but his parents never forgot Willowbrook and refused to put him in another school. When they died, his sister stepped in and Freddy now lives in a group home in Connecticut. He has a job and takes care of himself. But he was in his late 30's before he got the chance to do that.''
 Another cousin was stricken with polio and had a deformed foot. Still, he was on the high school football team -- a fact not lost on Mr. Cortez, who always watched from the stands. ''I can't play football and both of my feet are fine,'' Mr. Cortez said. ''These two cousins were an inspiration for me.''
 In 1969, Mr. Cortez moved to Baltimore and taught elementary school. But he realized that his heart was in special education and moved back to New York to attend Lexington School for the Deaf in Jackson Heights, Queens. He did research on deaf children from the Hispanic community.
 Mr. Cortez spent five years with the state's Education Department, helping private and public schools throughout the region improve their services to disabled children. He became the assistant commissioner, where he stayed until moving into his current position.
 ''Being in a wheelchair doesn't make a bit of difference when it comes to work,'' he said. ''If the employee shows up on time, if they're hard workers, if they do just as good a job as someone not in a wheelchair, it shouldn't make a bit of difference. People with disabilities should never have to meet a higher standard because they have a disability, and often that's the case.''
 Maureen Brooks is 52 and lives in Nassau County. Seven and a half years ago, Ms. Brooks, who has a nursing background and was also an officer with the New York Police Department, severed her Achilles' tendon and was unable to work. After a year of rehabilitation, she went to the center to find a new job. Despite still having difficulty walking, she spent three months training as a lab technician assistant and now works at OSI Pharmaceuticals in Farmingdale. (Lab technician assistants can earn between $18,000 and $24,000 a year in hourly wages, depending on experience, shift and the company.) 
 ''They were so helpful getting me back into the work force,'' she said. ''As you get older you figure you're set in one type of occupation, and then you find yourself going back and doing things like sending out resumes or interview for jobs. People don't realize that things change, at least you know there are resources out there when you can learn a new skill and hopefully be employed.''
 Mr. Cortez said: ''Often people with disabilities are unaware of the range of resources available to them, and many businesses are not as proactive as they can be or would like to be. We're here to change that.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: JOB PLACER -- Edmund L. Cortez heads the National Center for Disability Services. (Photo by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MENTAL RETARDATION (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); DISABLED PERSONS (89%); DEAFNESS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (76%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (76%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (76%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (71%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (71%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (60%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (60%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (56%) Labor; Mental Retardation; Handicapped; Biographical Information

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CENTER FOR DISABILITY SERVICES (91%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (58%) National Center for Disability Services

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: Abby Ellin; Edmund L Cortez

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); PUERTO RICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2004



387 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 164 words

HEADLINE: Iran Rejects Any Deal to End Uranium Work

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: TEHRAN, Oct. 16 

 BODY:
Iran said Saturday that it would reject any proposal to halt uranium enrichment, a step European Union diplomats are proposing to end a dispute over whether Iran is seeking atomic weapons.
 European Union diplomats have said they are seeking American and Russian support for a deal that would ask Iran to give up uranium enrichment in return for technical and economic assistance. 
 ''Any proposal which deprives Iran of its legitimate right to a fuel cycle is not acceptable,'' Hossein Mousavian, foreign policy chief on Iran's Supreme National Security Council, told state television. He said he was not responding to a specific offer. 
 Uranium enriched to a low level can be used to fuel nuclear power stations like one Iran is building at the southern port of Bushehr. If enriched further, it can be used in nuclear warheads. But Iran denies accusations from Washington that it has military nuclear ambitions. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (88%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (68%); POWER PLANTS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (74%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); IRAN (74%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2004



388 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk; L.I. @ WORK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: Calverton Incubator's Long and Winding Road

BYLINE: By WARREN STRUGATCH

 BODY:
IN May, when James O'Toole, a software entrepreneur, signed an application to lease space in the Stony Brook Calverton Business Incubator, he took a step toward solving his company's relocation problem and in the process helped the Town of Riverhead move closer to a resolution of a problem that had perplexed it for a decade.
 Mr. O'Toole's problem was private and small in scale, but urgent: he needed a new home for his business, Master Computer Systems, because its lease had expired.
 Riverhead's problem was considerably larger: how to fill the void left in 1996 when the Grumman Corporation vacated the 2,900-acre site on Route 25 in Calverton where it tested aircraft for the Navy. Part of the answer turned out to be the business incubator. 
 Mr. O'Toole, an educational consultant, formed Master Computer Systems in 1996 with William F. Hollett, a programmer. The company specializes in creating customized software for use in scoring tests, and initially, the partners ran it part time from their homes in Wading River. As the business grew, in September 1999 they signed a deal to rent 500 square feet in the software incubator at Stony Brook University.
 The decidedly low-key beginnings reflected the company's finances; Mr. O'Toole and Mr. Hollett were operating it with their personal savings. ''We chose not to accept investor money,'' Mr. O'Toole said. ''We didn't want to grow too fast.''
 The university's software incubator -- one of two incubators on campus (the other is the larger Long Island High Technology Incubator) -- offered one obvious appeal: low rent. The company paid $15.50 a square foot, about $1.50 a square foot below market rates.
 Included in the rent were other benefits, among them a conference room it could use, along with the services of a shared receptionist. And, more intangibly, Mr. O'Toole and Mr. Hollett could get some ideas and feedback from their neighbors. They could talk about their entrepreneurial ambitions and the frustrations they faced in running small businesses. 
 Some of the informal conversations produced some useful tips, Mr. O'Toole said. Others, like a talked-about trip to China to build exports, proved to be dead ends.
 Domestic sales proved more realistic, and after the company signed a deal with McGraw-Hill's test development division, business began to grow at 20 percent a year. In 2002, the company signed a new lease, renting at the Stony Brook incubator by the month. 
 But incubators are about start-ups, and earlier this year Stony Brook told Mr. O'Toole that it wanted to open up space for even newer companies. ''They asked us to leave,'' Mr. O'Toole said.
 No hard feelings, though. The incubator's administrator suggested that Master Computer Systems lease space at the center for growing businesses the university was completing at the Grumman site in Calverton. Oddly, the new center is intended not for computer companies but for businesses engaged in aquatic research and other scientific endeavors.
 The one-story, 15,000-square-foot building was designed by Louis Giacalone of Ehasz Giacalone Architects in Farmingdale at a cost of about $3.7 million, according to a university estimate. 
 The software incubator's administrator has agreed to extend Mr. O'Toole's month-to-month rental until the new building opens.
 Although the opening ceremony for it took place Sept. 28, officials are still scurrying to get operating approval from the state attorney general, whose office is completing the title search.
 Marc Violette, a spokesman for the attorney general, said he could not explain the delay. ''We began the search when we heard from the university,'' he said. Such title searches are routine for land transferred to state agencies, Mr. Violette said, and approval could come before the end of the year.
 Monique Gablanz, the executive director of Riverhead's industrial development agency, Stony Brook's partner in the project, said approval could come as early as November.
 The project has a long history of delays and detours. When Grumman closed the compound, and the Navy, which administered the property, foresaw no additional need for it and offered to give the partly wooded site to the Town of Riverhead. 
 What could have become a cash cow for the town became a financial drain and generated a prolonged squabble among officials. Developers proposed turning the site into a cargo airport, a theme park, a golf course and a hotel and conference center, to no avail.
 When university officials suggested the town turn 50 acres on Route 25 over to the state for use as a business incubator, reaction was mixed.
 ''Some felt that the land was too valuable to give away to Stony Brook, especially since they weren't going to produce revenues with it, at least not immediately,'' said Bobby Goodale, a Riverhead hardware distributor and the chairman of a citizens group formed to advise the town about how to use the property.
 Ultimately, the town authorized the deal in 2002. A year before, it had sold nearly 500 acres of the Grumman site to Jan Burman, an East Meadow developer, for $17 million. Mr. Burman is developing the property as an industrial park. 
 Mr. Goodale said he hoped the new Calverton center would generate a number of small but successful companies that would stay on to occupy commercial space on the site and contribute to local tax revenues.
 ''We hope that the companies that come to take advantage of the opportunities at the incubator, such as the low rents, choose to stay on after they've grown,'' he said. ''But someone in the private sector has to first construct those buildings. We hope that will happen.'' 
 The Riverhead project is the sixth publicly run incubator on Long Island. A total of four are operated by the state universities at Stony Brook and Farmingdale, and two more -- one in Bay Shore and the other in Bethpage -- are run by trade associations. There are about 1,000 incubators in the United States, the National Business Incubator Association said. 
 Yacov Shamash, Stony Brook University's vice president for economic development and the dean of its engineering and business programs, said the new Calverton incubator would house as many as a dozen fledgling companies in fields like horticulture, aquaculture, agriculture and environmental technology. The typical tenants are expected to be businesses with a single employee, usually the founder, although they will sometimes hire part-time or seasonal workers.
 Dean Shamash said incubators are ideally positioned near universities or research centers, to take advantage of their technical expertise, scientific equipment and business acumen. The new Calverton incubator will benefit from its university association, he said, and from Brookhaven National Laboratory half a mile away and from Cornell Cooperative Extension in Riverhead.
 But first, the incubator has to open. ''We're ready to become their anchor tenant,'' said Mr. O'Toole of Master Computer Systems. ''We're ready to move when they're ready to sign.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: William F. Hollett, left, and James O'Toole plan to move their software company, Master Computer Systems, to the Stony Brook Calverton Business Incubator, above. Its opening is being delayed while the attorney general's office completes a title search. (Photo by Maxine Hicks for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (92%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (91%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%) Computers and the Internet; Company and Organization Profiles; Computer Software

COMPANY: NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (70%)

ORGANIZATION: Master Computer Systems (Co); State University of New York at Stony Brook

TICKER: NOC (NYSE) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (70%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (70%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (70%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (70%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (70%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (70%)

PERSON: James O'toole; William Hollett; Warren Strugatch

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (74%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2004



389 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2367 words

HEADLINE: Homeless in the Hamptons

BYLINE: By JULIA C. MEAD

DATELINE: EAST HAMPTON 

 BODY:
SAME routine, every morning. He awakes to the sound of the ocean surf, urinates into a plastic bag, then gingerly carries the bag 200 yards to the nearest parking lot, where he deposits it in a trash can. Then he returns to the little depression in the dunes where he sleeps each night and meticulously folds his tent, sleeping bag and clothes into his backpack. Hoisting the pack onto his shoulders, he grips his walking stick and trudges back to the parking lot, where his bicycle is chained to a public phone.
 ''I don't leave anything behind,'' he said emphatically, waving his hand around the dunes. ''I keep it really clean.''
 His name is Dan Rosenblum. He is 35, educated and articulate, and he works. He is also one of scores of people who are homeless on the East End. 
 By their nature, they cannot be counted with any accuracy. The Suffolk County Department of Social Services counted 435 homeless families and 222 homeless singles last month countywide; it was 542 families and 144 singles in September 2003. But those are only the ones who have applied for help and met the official criteria. Similarly, the volunteers at private charities offering food, shelter and a warm winter coat say they only know how many come to them for help. There are untold more, they say, who are too proud or too far gone to accept a handout.
 ''So many of them say, 'This isn't me. I'm not usually like this,''' said Louise Wilkerson, project coordinator for the nonprofit Peconic Housing Initiative, based in Riverhead. Her office is near the soup kitchen at the First Congregational Church, which she visits every day. One recent afternoon, more than 30 people, including young families with babies, were served hunks of bread and plates piled high with pasta.
 Some of the homeless are legal campers at the county campgrounds, moving from one part to another when they reach the seven-night limit. Others sleep on the beach in North Sea. One woman started camping out after her family declined to take in her dog too. An older couple who fell on hard times lives in their battered old Mercedes. A young woman arrived penniless after fleeing an abusive relationship in the Midwest.
 And their ranks seem to be growing. Maryann Tupper, who runs the nondenominational Human Resources of the Hamptons out of Sacred Hearts of Jesus and Mary Church in Southampton, said a new homeless person arrives almost daily.
 ''I try to get them into the system, but many don't want to be on welfare,'' Ms. Tupper said. ''And it's become nearly impossible to find a place to put them.'' Rents have skyrocketed beyond the means of minimum-wage earners and nonprofit charities, she noted.
 Sister Margaret Smyth runs the Roman Catholic diocese's North Fork Spanish Apostolate, with offices in Riverhead and Greenport, and reports seeing more homeless than ever before. ''From what I've observed, the problem is certainly growing out here,'' she said, referring to Greenport. ''I'm seeing more and more new faces, and other towns that have never had a problem before tell me they're seeing it too.''
 Jennifer Truscott, the Peconic Housing Initiative's director, said the arrival of autumn signals the East End's annual deflation in the job market and a corresponding rise in homelessness. ''Once Labor Day hits, it's Tumbleweed Tuesday,'' she said, in an interview in mid-September. ''The other night, the soup kitchen jumped to 200 people.''
 She and others said homelessness on the East End, as elsewhere, is often linked to mental illness and substance abuse. ''It's the chicken and the egg,'' she said. ''Are they homeless because they're ill, or ill because they're homeless? The stress of living on the streets can be overwhelming.''
 Being homeless got so bad for Linda Janssen, 48, and her husband John, 51, that three years ago the couple linked arms and leaned into an oncoming train. Their suicide attempt failed. Mrs. Janssen's left leg was shattered, Mr. Janssen broke every bone in his head and face, and they were still homeless after being released from the hospital. For 45 days, they reported daily to the county and were sent to a temporary shelter, packing up again the next morning to await a new placement.
 ''Things are better now,'' Mrs. Janssen said. ''We're looking for a permanent place to live and the church helps us with food.'' They've stayed in the same welfare motel in Jamesport for a few weeks and are eligible for $900 a month in assistance.
 Dennis Nowak, the spokesman for the Suffolk Department of Social Services, said it has opened 21 new homeless shelters in the past 18 months, virtually eliminating its controversial use of motels as temporary shelters. He also said the number of homeless moved into permanent housing rose 12 percent between the first half of 2003 and the same period this year.
 The bad news is that the number of homeless singles has risen sharply. Two hundred required nightly shelter last month, a two-thirds increase in two years, which Mr. Nowak attributed to hard economic times, rising real estate prices and the increasing number of adult homes forced by financial difficulty to close. In the past 18 months, he said, 13 adult homes in Suffolk either closed or prepared to.
 Bill Jones is head of Southampton Town's human services department. ''We're talking about an absolute critical need for affordable rental housing,'' he said. ''Almost all of those out here who have housing problems are on the brink of becoming homeless because of the high cost.''
 East Hampton and Southampton town officials said they are addressing the need by building units for moderate-income families, those earning in the $40,000 range, not for the poverty-stricken. In recent years, in both towns, residents have raised an outcry against proposals to build housing for the poor in their neighborhoods.
 ''For those in poverty, making $20,000 a year or less, we would look to partner with some other organizations to assist them in ways that may not always be financial,'' said John White, Southampton's housing director. He said the town is studying where the greatest need may be.
 As a parish council member, Sister Margaret helped steer St. Agnes Church in Greenport toward Maureen's Haven, a Peconic Housing Initiative offshoot that buses the homeless to churches around the East End for a hot meal and a warm sleeping bag. This winter, its third, the program will operate six nights a week, November through March. Two South Fork churches, in Hampton Bays and Westhampton Beach, will also participate, as will two in Southold and one each in Mattituck and Cutchogue.
 ''There's an indisputable need,'' said Jay Batterer, the program's volunteer coordinator. ''We had two guests the first night that my church hosted. When it was brutally cold last winter, it went as high as 19.''
 Greenport residents have only recently been forced to accept that the homeless live among them, said the Rev. Thomas P. Murray, the St. Agnes pastor. ''I see them all the time now, walking with all their worldly belongings in a shopping cart, cashing in bottles at the supermarket, and a few have taken up residence at the old train station,'' he said. ''The Gospel compels us to help; to say no would be wrong.''
 If the idea is new in Greenport, it's pre-nascent in East Hampton Town. ''I think the homeless are mainly up west,'' said Deborah Fisher, president of the East Hampton Community Council, which helps residents in crisis pay for home heating fuel, food and medicine.
 The East Hampton town and village police chiefs said they rarely encounter vagrancy. And town officials said the soaring real estate market leaves them struggling to help just those who have been deemed eligible for government assistance.
 ''We don't know of anyone who's been totally homeless all winter,'' said Thomas Ruhle, the housing director. ''We usually only see people who have moments of crisis.'' 
 Edna Steck, the town human resources director, also said she sees few homeless and can't provide housing or funds; she refers them to the county or one of the private groups, such as Catholic Charities, that offer emergency assistance.
 Mr. Rosenblum is not East Hampton's only homeless person, but he may be the only one who makes no effort to hide. Each morning, he decamps in view of dozens of dog-walkers on the beach. After handing him what he said were at least a dozen tickets for camping without a permit, the village police arrested him last June.
 Officers confiscated his tent and sleeping bag as evidence, but he soon had new gear. He also has a cellphone. Saying he was raised in western Suffolk and has a college degree, he claimed to be starting his own computer company.
 He doesn't fault the police for arresting him. ''What I do is against the law,'' he said. He doesn't call himself homeless, however, and declines to discuss the circumstances that led to him live outdoors. Instead, he speaks philosophically about life as ''a continuum'' and says he is simply adapting to his changing fortunes.
 ''I've been out here in the winter too,'' he said, shrugging. ''I don't want to live like this forever, but for now it's what I have to do.''
 Mr. Rosenblum shatters the stereotype of the homeless as alcohol-addled, crack-addicted, filthy or unpredictably violent. Though a bit reserved, he is personable, poised and meticulously tidy.
 ''I don't want dog drool on my tent!'' he cried, visibly shaken when a friendly retriever bounded over the dune to sniff his campsite. He said he placed a driftwood log across the path to his campsite to keep the dune face from eroding.
 Betty Lou Jacobs's long braid is more gray than black and she is stooped beyond her years (a letter from the Internal Revenue Service found at one of her abandoned campsites indicated that she is 52 or 53; she wouldn't confirm her age). She has lived in the woods around Hampton Bays and is a familiar sight walking along the hamlet's streets. ''I've been doing this for years,'' she said one sunny afternoon at the Hampton Bays train station, but when asked how many, she only shrugged.
 Ms. Jacobs said she is a Native American, a Choctaw from Oklahoma. ''I know how to survive out here,'' she said. ''That comes from the history of my people.''
 For a time, she shared an abandoned camper with her boyfriend. ''We had a fight and he threw me out,'' she said. ''I have some blankets, and my cats sleep with me and keep me warm. It won't get really cold for a while yet.'' As a tear rolled down her cheek, she added, ''I don't know where I'm going to stay tonight.'' That night, it rained.
 As her scattered belongings attest, she has lived in a few of the several abandoned campsites around Hampton Bays. One was marked by a large tree branch stuck in the ground and hung with black wigs and a tattered gray pelt, a warning that contrasted with the broken ''Welcome'' sign, bearing the picture of a kitten, propped against a nearby tree.
 A few yards away, amid piles of garbage, bags of rain-sodden clothing, empty liquor bottles, rusting cat food cans and a tub of books, stands a roofless shack made of sheet metal and a car hood. Nearby was a disintegrating Book of Mormon, a tangle of Mardi Gras beads, and an inspirational pamphlet from St. Joseph's Indian School in South Dakota.
 ''The police came one night and kicked me out of my tent,'' Ms. Jacobs said. ''People go through my things, then everything's ruined. But I'll have a new tent by Saturday.'' She declined to say more, observing that publicizing her circumstances was more likely to expose her to ridicule than assistance.
 Matt Worrell, who owns a local beer distributorship, said he used to extend small kindnesses to vagrants, like letting them use his restroom, until the toilet paper went missing and a homeless man tried to pilfer a case of beer.
 One night two or three years ago, Mr. Worrell recalled, he found the road clogged with police cars and an ambulance after an encounter between Betty and another homeless person. ''Alison chased Betty out of the woods with a two-by-four, and Betty got hit by a car,'' he said. 
 It wasn't the first time. The waitresses at the Hampton Bays Diner, who give Ms. Jacobs cat food for her collection of feral felines, said she was hit by a car again last month and more than once has appeared at the diner bleeding and bruised. 
 Hampton Bays, the South Fork's most densely populated hamlet, appears to attract more homeless than any other except Riverhead. Some sleep under the train trestles but most live in the woods, like Ms. Jacobs and the man who erected not only a tent but also a patio awning and clothesline. Sitting on a discarded office chair, with a hairbrush, toothbrush, and toothpaste tube on an overturned bucket next to him, he declined to be interviewed.
 ''The problem of homelessness was unheard of here 10 years ago,'' said Justice Thomas J. DeMayo, Southampton Town's court administrator, who noted a rise in the number of them brought in on mostly minor charges, such as disorderly conduct. ''The big problem for me is what to do with them. They don't have the money for bail and I don't want to send them to jail.'' He said he usually resolved those cases with a conditional discharge, essentially a dismissal, because he sees no other humane alternative.
 Harriet Dense, the community entitlement advocate at Southampton Town's human services department, is the only person in local government on the South Fork who works directly and often with the homeless.
 ''It's a horrible problem, and it's getting worse,'' said Ms. Dense, a retired county caseworker. Hired two years ago for what was then a six-month experiment, she still guides the poor, including the homeless, through the often complex and lengthy process of applying for welfare, Social Security or Medicaid. In the meantime, she directs them to the soup kitchen, Maureen's Haven, and food banks.
 ''A homeless person can get $600 a month in public assistance,'' she said. ''It's not enough to find a place to live out here, but it's food and a leg up.'' 
 Often though, the available options aren't enough to get someone off the streets. ''Some, even when you offer them help, do not want it,'' she said. ''I would love to find out why.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: TENT WITH A VIEW -- The campsite of Dan Rosenblum in the dunes in East Hampton. He packs up every morning and heads down the beach to his bike, top right. Bottom right, a detail from the remains of a campsite for the homeless in Hampton Bays. (Photographs by Gordon M. Grant)(pg. 1)
Skyrocketing rents, mental illness and substance abuse are cited as reasons for homelessness on the East End by those who work with them. Some of the homeless stay at public campgrounds. Others seek hideouts in the woods, like this site in Hampton Bays.
 Linda and John Janssen, a homeless couple, at the soup kitchen in the basement of a church in Riverhead. (Photographs by Gordon M. Grant)(pg. 7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMELESSNESS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); FAMILY (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (77%); CAMPING (76%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (75%); BEACHES (73%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (73%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (72%); CHILDREN (72%); WOMEN (72%); CHARITIES (71%); RELIGION (68%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (68%); MINIMUM WAGE (50%) Homeless Persons

PERSON: Julia C Mead

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH SEA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); MIDWEST USA (51%) UNITED STATES (51%) Hamptons, the (NY); Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2004



390 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: Library Puts a Hold On Anti-Bush Film

BYLINE: By MARCELLE S. FISCHLER

DATELINE: LAWRENCE 

 BODY:
FEATURE films are regularly shown in the community room of the Peninsula Public Library in Lawrence. But when a screening next Sunday of ''Fahrenheit 9/11,'' Michael Moore's provocative film about the Bush administration's actions before and after the Sept. 11 attacks, was announced in the library newsletter, several residents faxed, called and e-mailed the library to complain.
 When Arleen Reo, the library director, informed the library's board about the dissent, the board postponed the screening.
 ''The major objection was, it's right before the election,'' Ms. Reo said. 
 ''Fahrenheit 9/11'' is unabashedly anti-Bush. It examines the administration's ties to the Bin Laden family and casts a critical eye on the war in Iraq. 
 Joseph L. Fuller, the board's president, said the board decided at a meeting on Sept. 23 that it would not be ''appropriate to show that kind of a controversial film without having adequate ability to present a balanced view at the same time.''
 ''We are a public institution and we have to represent all parties or none,'' Mr. Fuller said.
 But the decision to pull the film may have been based on local political considerations. The library, which is in a brick building on Central Avenue, has a single lane driveway to a parking lot with 22 spaces that must serve 13,000 library card holders. The elementary school next door is closed, and the library has requested additional parking space from that property from the Lawrence Union Free School District. 
 ''They need friends,'' said Andrew J. Parise, mayor of Cedarhurst. ''They are looking for expansion, they are looking for extra property, they are looking for improvements, so you need all the help you can get. You want the community behind you.'' 
 Janet Schonbrun, a retired former high school teacher from Cedarhurst who stopped by the library on a recent afternoon, agreed. 
 ''The library is in a difficult position because they are trying to win the support of the community to be able to expand into the neighboring school to enlarge,'' Ms. Schonbrun said. ''They may not want to step on anyone's toes.''
 Joan Lepelstat, the library's assistant director, said, ''There was no political agenda at all.'' She added: ''We made a mistake. It was an oversight. The two issues are totally separate.''
 Ms. Reo said the library would reschedule the film after the election or as soon as another film or a lecturer could be found to ''balance'' the program.
 ''When this was booked, easily six months ago, I think the awareness of the bias of the film was not there, so therefore we did not counter it and we should have,'' Ms. Reo said. 
 She added that the film was scheduled based on publicity the library had received. At the time, showings of ''Fahrenheit 9/11'' were being added at movie theaters. 
 ''We don't prescreen,'' Ms. Reo said. ''It was popular. It was in the movies. We thought the public would be interested. Clearly the timing was wrong.''
 Ms. Lepelstat said the postponement was not censorship because the film is available for circulation. The library has one videotape copy and one DVD of the film in circulation and has ordered an additional DVD. 
 Ms. Lepelstat said the library staff would preview two other films that might balance the program, ''Fahrenhype 911,'' Dick Morris's rebuttal to ''Fahrenheit 9/11,'' and ''Celsius 41.11,'' a documentary that purports to debunk Mr. Moore's film. 
 ''We are looking at options,'' she said. ''Just because something is pro Bush doesn't mean they are quality films.'' 
 Ms. Lepelstat said it was also difficult to find someone to lead a discussion or lecture about the film or media bias. ''The reason it's postponed is that it takes time to plan these things,'' she said.
 Harvey Weisenberg, the state assemblyman from Long Beach, called the library ''neutral ground'' and said it should show the film, but not before the election.
 ''A library is not a place for politics unless there is equal opportunity for whatever is going to be discussed,'' Mr. Weisenberg said. ''The public has the opportunity to choose or not to choose to go and participate. I don't think anybody should limit anything just because it's politically controversial, but it has to be done at an appropriate time.'' 
 This month, the library's schedule includes a lecture and discussion on Monday about the Electoral College, and an Oct. 28 program, ''Political Follies 2004,'' a look at the White House, the economy, Iraq and oil that is billed as ''humorous analysis.''
 Linda Kaufman, a homemaker from Lawrence who was returning library books on a recent afternoon, said the library's decision was inappropriate.
 ''It doesn't say much for freedom of speech,'' Ms. Kaufman said. ''It's passing judgment on someone's political views. It should be open for everyone to judge.''
 But Tara Fried, 17, of Cedarhurst thought the library was right to postpone the film.
 ''It could definitely alter people's views on how they might vote,'' Ms. Fried said. ''A lot of people first think how they want to vote on the debates, on whatever they read, but not on something that Michael Moore made to make the president look bad.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBRARIES (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (89%); LIBRARIANS (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); TERRORISM (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (69%); HIGH SCHOOLS (64%) Motion Pictures; Libraries and Librarians

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (57%) Michael Moore; Marcelle S Fischler

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%) Lawrence (NY)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2004



391 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1790 words

HEADLINE: Bill and God's Excellent Adventure

BYLINE: By JON MEACHAM

 BODY:

MILES GONE BY
A Literary Autobiography.
By William F. Buckley Jr.
Illustrated. 594 pp. Regnery Publishing. $29.95.
 It is a long-ago afternoon in Rhinebeck, N.Y., and Trish Buckley has just won a blue ribbon in the annual Dutchess County Horse Show. In a box next to Trish's parents sits Franklin D. Roosevelt, squire of neighboring Hyde Park and president of the United States. ''Protocol requires the winner to ride around the ring to receive the plaudits of the spectators,'' Trish's brother recalls. ''When she rode by the president's box, F.D.R. applauded lustily, whereupon Trish abruptly turned her pigtailed head to one side.'' Arriving shortly thereafter in the Buckley box, bearing her ribbon and her riding crop, Trish faced her curious -- and somewhat embarrassed -- father. ''Why didn't you nod to the president?'' he asked. The girl's face was ''pained with surprise'' as she replied, ''I thought you didn't like him!''
 Poor Trish. Had the observant brother who remembered this scene -- the showman, sportsman and political soldier William F. Buckley Jr. -- won the ribbon that day, he would have relished paying his respects to Roosevelt. Even at this distance, we can imagine young Buckley riding past the president with great flourish and a jaunty wave. In Bill Buckley's universe, showmen, sportsmen and political soldiers should be known to one another, respected and saluted as fellow voyagers on the seas of the engaged life. Long caricatured as the consummate upper-class conservative -- his ''Masterpiece Theater'' air, his unabashed intellectual self-confidence and his supply of words from the Oxford English Dictionary have made caricature all too easy -- Buckley is a more complicated figure than his prevailing image suggests. 
 Reading ''Miles Gone By,'' his latest collection of autobiographical pieces, a book of charm and grace and wit, one finds it virtually impossible to envision Buckley as his liberal critics have for so long: as a dark Goldwaterite, even a pro-crypto Nazi (Gore Vidal's phrase), who hides his extremism beneath a sophisticated Manhattan veneer. He is a partisan combatant, a key figure in the right wing's journey from the fringes of American politics to the mainstream -- from, roughly, Joe McCarthy's sweaty brow to Ronald Reagan's sunny smile. But agree or disagree with the conservative creed he helped shape and promulgate, Buckley is the happiest of warriors, an exuberant man of the right, a Roman Catholic who has apparently taken the reassurances of Scripture to heart. ''In the world ye shall have tribulation,'' Jesus says in the Gospel of St. John, ''but be of good cheer; I have overcome the world.'' 
 Buckley's world was comfortable from the beginning. His evocations of a childhood spent sailing, swimming and riding are lovely; one can almost hear the din of the 10 Buckley children clamoring on the lawn while their father, a Texan who made money in oil and came east, chooses the evening's red wine from the cellar. Born in 1925, Buckley grew up at Great Elm, a huge house in Sharon, Conn., learned repartee at the family dinner table, was educated privately, went to Yale, served briefly in the Central Intelligence Agency and became one of the most celebrated -- deep breath here -- authors/editors/columnists/pundits/political activists/novelists/Catholic apologists/bons vivants of the American century. His has been a life lived in the spotlight, savoring things that entertained him, fed his ego and tended to his comfort: klieg lights, applauding audiences, Atlantic sails, annual Swiss ski vacations, good wine, a custom-made limousine. He can be an Olympian name-dropper, but if you have to drop names, Ronald Reagan, Henry Kissinger, Clare Boothe Luce, Tom Wolfe, Vladimir Horowitz, David Niven, Murray Kempton, William Shawn and Princess Grace are the ones to drop. He loves his family, his fame and his faith; and he loves stories -- especially those drawn from his own remarkable life. ''Only the man who makes the voyage can speak truly about it,'' he writes in ''Miles Gone By.'' 
 Buckley has spoken volumes about his voyages. An inveterate chronicler of his journeys at sea (including a trip to the bottom of the North Atlantic to see the ruins of the Titanic), he has also charted his soul's journey in ''Nearer, My God: An Autobiography of Faith.'' As a writer of fiction he created Blackford Oakes, the handsome, Yale-educated spy, and has also written novels about, among other things, McCarthyism and Elvis Presley. ''Miles Gone By'' is an elegant book, one of Buckley's best, and the man the reader meets in these pages is the Platonic ideal of a dinner companion, a raconteur whose pomposity is calculated and whose self-deprecation charms. 
 IN the long run, Buckley, who retired this year from National Review, the magazine he founded, after five decades, will be remembered as a man of ideas who took his show on the road and into the arena. In the most elite educated circles after World War II, being a conservative was pretty much out of the question. The right was still reeling from its isolationist stand against F.D.R.'s engagement in the war against totalitarianism and had lost the essential argument over the expanded role of government in American life: the work of the Eisenhower presidency was less about undoing the New Deal and the Fair Deal than it was about managing the growth of the state. Even when conservatives' instincts were right, as they were in the battle against Communism, they seemed (with a good deal of justice) extreme, paranoid, overreaching. 
 Then came Bill Buckley. Witty, deft in argument, willing to assert that the secular left had no monopoly on truth, he helped change the way the country thought of the right, beginning with his first book, ''God and Man at Yale.'' Published in 1951, it is one of those books people talk about but today hardly ever read. Its essential argument was that the loftier realms of higher education were increasingly hostile to religion and to conservative viewpoints. ''I believe that the duel between Christianity and atheism is the most important in the world,'' read a controversial passage in ''God and Man.'' ''I further believe that the struggle between individualism and collectivism is the same struggle reproduced on another level.'' (Interestingly, this precise formulation was not Buckley's but his mentor's, a Yale professor named Willmoore Kendall, who edited the manuscript. In part out of loyalty and in part because he was ''tickled by the audacity of the sally,'' Buckley writes, he never disavowed it.)
 In the book and in the founding of National Review four years later, Buckley was forging a coalition of ideas and interests that had not come together before. In Hollywood, Ronald Reagan started reading the magazine; as a sophomore at Georgetown, Patrick Buchanan did. What they found was the first union of free-market economics, anti-Communism and antisecularism. Suddenly, tax cutters, cold war hawks and churchmen found themselves worshiping under the same roof. Buckley was the movement's intellectual pastor, Reagan its successful political hero. 
 In National Review's inaugural issue, the mission could not have been clearer. The magazine, it said of itself, ''stands athwart history yelling Stop.'' But the forward motion of history is not intrinsically bad, a point, one suspects, Buckley himself understands, despite the sharper edges of his rhetoric. From the 50's onward, he emerged as one of the more practical, even -- dare we say it -- moderate figures in the movement he made. He is one of a dwindling band of 20th-century giants who lived and worked at the nexus of books, politics, op-eds and New York cocktail parties. Like John Kenneth Galbraith and Arthur Schlesinger Jr., Buckley embodied an unapologetic ideology but was such good company that even his most virulent foes were able to separate the personal from the political. As an editor, he gave platforms to such writers as Joan Didion and Garry Wills, who would part political company with him, and to George F. Will, who would not. Through National Review, Buckley ultimately embraced many of the great reforms of the age. A supporter of segregation in the 50's and a foe of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, he came to regret his opposition to civil rights legislation and backed the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday. He denounced the extremist John Birch Society, and has stood resolutely against anti-Semitism.
 Not every conservative is as intellectually gifted or as cheerfully inclined as Buckley is. Far from it: the tent he pitched in the 50's has attracted all sorts and conditions of bitter-enders, and the fringes of the right (like the fringes of the left) can be grim and regrettable. Still, we could use more, not less, of the Buckley style in politics today. ''I have always held in high esteem the genial tradition,'' Buckley says. In this tradition he thanks Galbraith for writing ''pleasant tributes to my own books, inevitably advising the reader that my political opinions should be ignored, my fiction or accounts of life at sea appreciated.'' 
 BUCKLEY was an early political celebrity, a master of argumentative television long before cable news, and a tireless public lecturer. Writing in The Washington Monthly in 1988, Nicholas Lemann, now the dean of the Columbia School of Journalism, observed that Buckley ''could be a great thinker, but he's too busy running to the airport.'' Even here, though, Buckley turns a possible vice into a literary virtue. In ''Miles Gone By,'' he writes brilliantly of life on the road, and in sheer volume his work dwarfs even Trollope's: more than 45 books, 40 years of newspaper columns and 33 of ''Firing Line,'' untold hours speaking and editing. ''Miles Gone By'' is at once entertaining and instructive, and in this way it is a conservative version of Schlesinger's 2000 memoir, ''A Life in the Twentieth Century,'' a delightful book that took us into the realms of ideas, celebrity and politics. Schlesinger's world tacks left; Buckley's, of course, tacks right. Read together in decades to come, the two books will shed light on a fascinating era in America's intellectual life, the years of our greatest strength abroad and greatest soul-searching at home.
 Lord knows Bill Buckley -- like all of us -- can be wrong, but he has fought the battle of ideas with grace for more than half a century and is an emblem of a time when the life of the mind and the life of the nation seemed intertwined. To frustrated liberals or disappointed conservatives, the world can seem a gloomy place. ''But,'' Buckley writes, ''all is not lost; all is never lost'' -- a warm benediction from a man who has long found joy in the journey.


GRAPHIC: Photo: William F. Buckley Jr. in his office at National Review, about 1965.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); LITERATURE (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); CONSERVATISM (87%); RELIGION (83%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); POLITICS (76%); EQUESTRIAN SPORTS (72%); HORSES (72%); LIBERALISM (71%); ARMED FORCES (64%) Books and Literature; Reviews 

PERSON: Jon Meacham; William F Jr Buckley

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2004



392 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: Redeploying In Gaza Strip, Israel Finishes Its Pullback

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Oct. 16 

 BODY:
Israeli troops and armor completed their pullback from built-up areas in the Gaza Strip early on Saturday, but many soldiers have remained in the territory, redeployed on the hills overlooking the Jabaliya and Beit Hanun refugee settlements.
 The redeployment was the effective end to Israel's 17-day offensive to repress the firing of Qassam rockets into Israeli settlements and towns from the northern Gaza strip. Some 115 Palestinians died during the operation, Israeli Radio said Saturday morning. Western news agencies say at least a third of the dead have been civilians caught in the crossfire, including two schoolgirls killed by stray fire as they sat at their desks. 
 Israeli officials emphasized that forces would remain on high alert and would be prepared to retake positions on the edges of Jabaliya and other refugee areas if rocket attacks resumed in earnest. The troops are redeployed about a half-mile into Gaza, in the area from which many of the rockets have been fired by Palestinian militants, most of them affiliated with Hamas.
 ''We will move in and act whenever we feel there is a threat,'' said Raanan Gissin, an adviser to Prime Minister Ariel Sharon. 
 The pullback produced celebrations throughout the northern Gaza Strip, especially in Jabaliya, which exploded with firecrackers. A Hamas spokesman, Fathi Hammad, said: ''The Zionist army has retreated in defeat from all the positions. We consider it a victory for our resistance.''
 But the Israeli operation also left behind further destruction to the shaky economy of Gaza. Troops uprooted many olive and citrus groves -- having already uprooted many earlier this summer in Beit Hanun -- from where the militants can hide to fire the Qassams, an operation that can take less than 10 minutes.
 Electricity was out in Beit Hanun, Palestinians said, houses were destroyed in Jabaliya and roads and water pipes had been ripped up by tanks. ''The whole house is rubble and there is no way we can find anything,'' Ezzeya Daher, 50, told Reuters news agency in Jabaliya, as hundreds of people picked through mounds of debris to search for belongings. ''Now we are refugees for a second time.''
 Senior army leaders have argued for a week now that the goal of completely ending the rocket attacks is impossible without taking over the densely populated Jabaliya camp, which is more like a poor urban neighborhood, at great danger to both troops and civilians. Remaining in static positions is also dangerous, the army argued, and Mr. Sharon finally agreed to the redeployment on Thursday night.
 Pressure on Israel was also increasing from foreign governments, especially from the Bush administration and the European Union, to end the operation, which was beginning ''to seem disproportionate,'' as one American State Department official said. 
 Part of the army's goal, officials said, was to hit hard at the leadership and infrastructure of Hamas, Islamic Jihad and Al Aksa Martyrs Brigades in Gaza, which had built up considerably in the last four years. The army, with extensive use of camera drones and helicopter gunships, killed a number of militant commanders and destroyed metal factories and workshops where rockets are made, army officials said.
 The army also wanted to send a sharp message to the West Bank: that Israel would not tolerate the Qassams anywhere in the Palestinian territories.
 In that sense, one senior Israeli official said Saturday, ''the operation can be called a real success.'' But it is not necessarily over, he said. In another sense, the operation had a political value, the official admitted -- with Mr. Sharon proving that despite his intent to pull nearly 8,000 settlers from Gaza, he intends to protect Israel and its interests. In a symbolic vote against his opening speech to the Parliament last week, in which he talked of his plan to withdraw unilaterally from Gaza, 15 of 40 members of his Likud Party voted against him, abstained or refused to vote. Mr. Sharon faces an important vote for real on his plan on Oct. 25.
 Compared to the Palestinian dead during the Gaza operation, Israeli losses were small: three civilians, including two children killed by a Qassam in Sederot, two soldiers and a Thai farm worker.
 On Friday night a Palestinian woman, 75, was shot dead while eating her dinner, breaking the fast of the first day of the Muslim holy month of Ramadan. The Israeli military said it was investigating the incident and was not sure where the gunfire originated.
 More details emerged from one of the most shocking incidents of the operation, involving the shooting of a 13-year-old Palestinian girl. Soldiers said their company commander broke the rules of war by firing a magazine into the head and body of the girl, Iman al-Hams, to ''verify the kill'' after she approached an outpost near Rafah.
 A field investigation concluded that there was no evidence to substantiate the charges, but the army chief of staff, Lt. Gen. Moshe Yaalon, suspended the commander on Friday. 
 The commander, a captain, was suspended for severe operational errors, army officials said, including leaving his post, bringing other soldiers away from the post, firing in panic at the ground, showing poor leadership and allowing a bad atmosphere in the company.
 The military police are conducting a separate investigation, and the commander is likely to be court-martialed, the officials said. The field commanders concluded that soldiers at the post did not see the commander shoot the girl but had made operational errors themselves by letting her approach so close to the outpost before seeing her. They also noted that the soldiers had a history of bad blood with the commander.
 The soldiers said they suspected the girl of carrying a bomb to the outpost; her family said she was lost on the way to school. Her schoolbag contained only books.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A boy salvaged a window frame yesterday from an area of Jabaliya refugee camp demolished by Israeli forces who were seeking out rocket-firing guerrillas. Both sides called the Israelis' departure a kind of victory. (Photo by Mahmud Hams/Agence France-Presse--Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (91%); HAMAS (90%); ARMIES (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); REFUGEES (89%); TERRORISM (78%); POPULATION DENSITY (78%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); FUNDAMENTALISM (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (66%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); EUROPEAN UNION (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (60%) Palestinians; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (83%); HEZBOLLAH (59%); AL-AQSA MARTYRS BRIGADES (59%); AL-ISLAMI AL-JIHAD (59%) Hamas (Islamic Fundamentalist Movement); Islamic Jihad; Al Aksa Martyrs Brigades

PERSON: Steven Erlanger

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (50%) Israel; Gaza Strip; Israel

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2004



393 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1964 words

HEADLINE: Cheaper by the Half-Dozen? Hardly

BYLINE: By JENNIFER GOLDBLATT

DATELINE: MARLBORO TOWNSHIP 

 BODY:
FOR 32 weeks, Elizabeth and Eric Hayes the parents of two sets of twins -- waited nervously. They marked the calendar with an X, a heart and a ''thank you'' for each day that passed uneventfully.
 Then, a few minutes after 1 a.m. on Wednesday, Sept. 14, in Long Branch, six new residents beat some very long odds. In a span of two minutes and 47 seconds, the 37-year-old Ms. Hayes gave birth to six babies -- born about six weeks early -- who are believed to be the state's first surviving sextuplets: Tara, Rachel, Rebecca, Ryan, Connor and Eric Jr.
 So this, to understate matters, is a number story. 
 For instance, the parents had a 5 percent chance of conceiving sextuplets, and the babies had a 50 percent chance of gestating long enough to survive outside the womb. Indeed, the chances that the babies would be healthy were so low that the parents held off on desperately needed shopping and home improvements, fearing that if something went drastically wrong, they would be surrounded by reminders of their loss.
 ''It was the most strenuous eight months of my life,'' Mr. Hayes, 38, a drug abuse officer with the Marlboro Township Police Department, said a few days after the babies arrived -- a gasp escaping as his words registered. ''I know it's going to be hard. I don't know how we'll do it. But we'll figure it out.''
 They had about three weeks to figure it all out. By last week, the last of the six infants, Rebecca Mary -- who was born four pounds and three ounces and was kept hospitalized a bit longer than the others -- was brought home to the cacophony that is the Hayes household these days. 
 Every family accepts that the moment a child enters the world, the rest of life must be put on hold. Cries for food, sleep, comfort and a clean rear end take precedence. But when those cries are multiplied by six, answering those cries requires mastering the principles of mass production.
 Such will be the world of Elizabeth and Eric Hayes of Morganville, New Jersey's newest statistical anomaly.
 Consider this: Each day, approximately 60 bottles of formula must be prepared, served and cleaned. In the first year, the Hayeses will need to put on, change and toss out 17,520 diapers -- give or take any number of emergencies. They will go through 26,520 pre-moistened wipes -- again, subject to an infant's temperamental digestive system. Keeping straight six different sets of allergies, tempers and medications will require coding, sorting, infinite patience and a healthy sense of the absurd.
 Even nail clipping will be a production. After all, there are 60 fingers and 60 toes to deal with.
 Then there is the matter of simply going out, which will resemble the movement of a small army with fully stocked, industrial-sized diaper bags and car seats all around for the couple's two aging minivans, each of which has nearly 200,000 miles.
 Although the family belongs to Sam's Club and Costco, only so much can be bought in bulk; after all, they live in a house, not a warehouse off Exit 8A of the Turnpike.
 And that is the easy part, because they will still have to figure out how to finance the needs of 10 children on a policeman's salary.
 Just nine hours after the Hayes sextuplets were born, newspapers, magazines, radio and television stations inundated the Monmouth Medical Center requesting interviews and photographs (Oprah among them).
 Forget the sextuplets and two sets of twins, ages 6 and 8. Managing the sudden celebrity can be one of the biggest immediate challenges, says Maureen Doolan Boyle, executive director of Mothers of Supertwins, a nonprofit support network based in East Islip, N.Y. 
 Parents do not want to be diverted from their family's needs, Ms. Boyle explained, yet such attention often results in offers of community and corporate support -- which has fallen off as the number of multiple births has increased and the economy has softened.
 ''It's a tough thing,'' Ms. Boyle said. ''You don't want to miss out on any possible opportunity and at the same time you need to stay on and nurture your family and stay on top of the medical issues that come up.''
 The usually private Hayes family has been glad to satisfy the media's interest -- to a point. The hospital called a news conference on Sept. 15, the day after the children were born, and hired a local public relations company owned by a former classmate from Marlboro High School to handle all calls and create a Web site -- www.thehayes6.com. 
 In the first four weeks after the children were born, Mr. Hayes agreed to telephone interviews while his wife was recovering. But even in the weeks the babies spent in the hospital before coming home, he kept photographers and potential interviewers at bay. He and his wife did not have the time, he said, and they needed to focus on caring for their four other children and preparing the house for the stampede.
 ''It's a little overwhelming,'' Mr. Hayes said.
 After all, the four other Hayes children -- Kevin, Kyle, Kieran and Meghan -- have needs of their own. Mr. Hayes said the twins adore their new brothers and sisters, and have each picked out a baby that resembles them. He plans to have at least one night a week of one-on-one time out of the house for each of them, though a trip to Disney World they were saving for is off.
 In Marlboro, the close-knit community where Mr. and Mrs. Hayes grew up, some neighbors have already lent support. A friend donated car seats. A local mother of quadruplets started a diaper drive. A stranger mailed the Hayes family a set of hand-sewn bumpers for each of the cribs. The Marlboro Township Education Association raised $1,600 for the family. Officers with the Marlboro Township Police Department donated vacation days to Mr. Hayes so that he could be off until January. And the Ross division of Abbott Laboratories agreed to donate a year's worth of formula to the family.
 But the family did not receive the blizzard of cash and gifts some people assume is forthcoming when such a bumper crop arrives. That is why Annette Sherman organized the diaper drive.
 ''When I had my kids, everyone was telling me, 'Call Pampers, they'll give you diapers for life,''' said Ms. Sherman, who has 6-year-old quadruplets and a 15-year-old daughter. ''And it's just not like that.''
 Mr. Hayes -- who is going to have to support a family of 12 -- said that he has heard rumors that his children's college tuition has been paid for. And he has heard grumbling from some who have criticized him and his wife for contributing to overpopulation and looking for handouts.
 ''Nothing could be further from the truth,'' an exasperated Mr. Hayes said.
 With that, he turned his attention to more pressing concerns. He certainly has enough.
 Many parents of triplets, quadruplets, sextuplets (pick a number, any number) find themselves vastly outnumbered, in need of armies of volunteers to help feed, change and hold the babies -- all the while attending to the needs of the older children. But even that is complicated. Infants born prematurely are vulnerable to respiratory syncytial virus, a flu-like illness that can be fatal and highly contagious. So the volunteers must be healthy and conscientious. And accepting help means sacrificing even more privacy.
 ''It's an institutional existence,'' said Kate Gosselin, of Wyomissing, Pa., who has about 50 volunteers helping with her 5-month-old sextuplets and her 3-year-old twins. ''One of our bathrooms is like a public restroom because so many people are in and out of it. There are notes and signs Scotch-taped everywhere. That's just not normal.''
 Then they will have the risks any new parent takes. After the Gosselins had their sextuplets, Mrs. Gosselin lost her job as a nurse and Jonathan Gosselin, a network engineer, lost his. Though companies donated everything from diapers to home improvements, the Hayeses still have mortgage payments to make.
 ''We're scraping the bottom of the barrel,'' Mr. Gosselin said.
 Yet as difficult as life might seem now, mothers who have been through this assured them that it was possible to survive the experience with everyone remaining healthy and retaining their sanity.
 ''The amazing thing is that with everyone working together, the babies seem to adjust to what the parents can do,'' said Janet Bleyl, a mother of 21-year-old triplets from Stockton, Calif., and president of the Triplet Connection, a nonprofit support group.
 Becki Dilley, of Berne, Ind., who gave birth to the country's first surviving set of sextuplets in 1993, sounded shockingly relaxed as she reflected on her family's early years. Sure, Ms. Dilley conceded, she and her husband did not get a lot of sleep. But each baby's personality quickly emerged, so she and her husband learned how to juggle feedings, changings and naps. 
 There were even benefits to having lots of children at once. When it came to toilet training, the toddlers who caught on quickly set a positive example for the others, she said. 
 And the rules of run-of-the-mill parenting still apply, Ms. Dilley added. For instance, it helps to have a deep friendship at the root of the marriage, where one spouse can sense when the other needs a nap, and when a crisis calls for teamwork. There are mini-honeymoons when the children pass crucial milestones -- such as when they learn to feed themselves, and when they learn to say, not wail, what they want.
 And as soon as it starts to seem easy, the children evolve once again, and a new challenge crops up. 
 ''You'll feel like you have to cut corners, but ultimately the children will be just fine,'' said Mrs. Dilley. ''You just can't do all the things you think you should. You've got to pick the most important things. And just enjoy the time.''
 In giving birth to sextuplets, the Hayes family has joined a growing number of couples who, assisted by fertility technology, are experiencing the joys and headaches of child rearing in exponential proportions.
 While still relatively rare, the rate of children born as higher-order multiples, (triplets, quadruplets, quintuplets, sextuplets or more), has jumped by nearly 400 percent in the last two decades, according to the National Center for Health Statistics. In 2002, 7,401 babies were born in sets of triplets or more, up from 1,337 in 1980. Twinning rates have climbed by 65 percent in that time, while the number of single babies born has edged up just 10 percent.
 After having two sets of twins, Mr. and Mrs. Hayes yearned for another child. They used ovulation induction treatments, which stimulated the ovaries to produce more than one egg. The treatments improved the chances that the couple would successfully carry one baby, but also carried the risk that they would have more than one. 
 ''We would have been happy with one,'' said Mr. Hayes.
 Once doctors realized that the 37-year-old mother was carrying a set of six, they gave the couple the option of reducing the number of fetuses, a procedure that protects the health of the mother and improves the chances that any of the babies will survive. Often with higher-order multiples, the babies do not get enough room to properly grow, increasing the risk of miscarriage. 
 In addition, such babies are typically born prematurely, increasing the likelihood that their hearts, brains and lungs will not be fully developed. And a mother who is carrying that many fetuses faces threats of hemorrhaging; diabetes; pregnancy-induced high blood pressure that comes with swelling, sudden weight gain, headaches and changes in vision; and cardiovascular complications. 
 Despite the risks, the couple forged ahead.
 ''If I took pictures of our four kids, and someone said, 'Pick one of these to get rid of,' I couldn't do it,'' Mr. Hayes said. ''If it wasn't going to happen, it wasn't. We knew the risks and we accepted it.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: (Photo by Gary Gellman)(pg. 9)
 Elizabeth and Eric Hayes with newborn sextuplets. They already have two sets of twins. (Photo by Gary Gellman)(pg. 1)Drawing (Drawing by Dave Klug)(pg. 9)Chart: ''Back Up the Diaper Truck: Care and Feeding Tips''While it is still relatively rare, there are an increasing number of couples who are having triplets, quadruplets, quintuplets and sextuplets. For those parents, meeting the basic needs of the babies in their first weeks of life requires that the parents master economies of scale and principles of mass production while managing the very special needs of their babies, who are often born premature. Here are some suggestions from Maureen Doolan Boyle, executive director of Mothers of Supertwins, a support network in East Islip, N.Y.FeedingIn the beginning, the children will probably need to be fed every two to three hours. If possible, have three adults around at all times so that two people can be involved in feeding and the other person can be making bottles, changing diapers, preparing for the next feeding or meeting the needs of another baby who might have reflux, projectile vomiting or gas. It can take from 45 minutes to an hour to finish feeding and changing one baby.SleepAt first, the babies are going to be sleeping, eating and going to the bathroom -- with a limited amount of wakeful periods. Consider having some sort of white noise in the bedrooms, like an air-conditioner or a radio to help diminish the sound of disturbing noises like garbage trucks or flushing toilets. If possible, have three people available around the clock until the babies weigh about 10 pounds. Have a 20-watt bulb in the room for sufficient light to change diapers but not bright enough to wake the other babies. Have an electric cooking pot filled with water in the nursery to warm the bottles so you do not have to go downstairs. Make sure to restock the diapers, the wipes, extra clothes and the burping cloths before you go to sleep.ComfortIt's impossible to spoil a premature infant with attention. Research has shown that massages can help the rate of weight gain and development.DiapersOne of the biggest concerns for parents of premature infants is Respiratory Syncytial Virus, a highly contagious coldlike illness that can be fatal. With so many bowel movements, burping and throwing up going on under one roof, it is important that everyone in the house is healthy and that everyone washes his or her hands between changing the babies.(pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (91%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (89%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (67%); POLICE FORCES (65%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (51%) Multiple Births

PERSON: Eric Hayes; Elizabeth Hayes; Jennifer Goldblatt

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%) Morganville (Nj)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2004



394 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; PORTFOLIOS, ETC.; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 822 words

HEADLINE: The Dollar Is Defying Both Expectations and Gravity

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
THE dollar is confounding investors again and nibbling into their returns from abroad. And some forecasters say that the currency will continue to hold its own and even rally into next year, creating another headache for investors with a taste for foreign stocks and bonds.
 The dollar's strength is surprising, given the record deficit in the country's trade and services with the rest of the world -- known as the current account. That deficit could easily become a major drag on the dollar if foreigners curtail the hundreds of billions they invest in the United States each year. 
 So far, though, the unexpected rise of the dollar has hurt investors who bet it would fall for the third consecutive year. Instead, the dollar has gained 1.9 percent against the Japanese yen and 1 percent against the euro so far in 2004. It is also up 2.9 percent against the Australian dollar and 2 percent against the Mexican peso.
 When euros are translated back into the stronger American dollar, the 3.2 percent climb in France's CAC 40-stock index this year becomes a gain of just 2.2 percent. Similarly, the 2.9 percent gain in the Nikkei 225 index becomes an increase of just 0.9 percent. Those performances are still better than that of Wall Street but not as good as what would have been expected with a weaker dollar. 
 (The big exception is Canada: There, a vibrant economy, a strong commodity base and a trade surplus with the United States has pushed the American dollar down 3.4 percent, turning a 6.9 percent return on the Toronto stock exchange into a 10.7 percent return.)
 The current account deficit has to be covered by the inflow of funds from abroad into American assets, including Treasury securities, corporate bonds and stocks. Many economists suspected that this flow from abroad would begin to slow, setting off dollar selling as investors sought to beat a decline in the currency -- and a climb in interest rates.
 The current account has been worrisome enough that four top Federal Reserve officials have talked about it since September. Some said that the dollar could be pushed sharply lower if the deficit gets out of hand. 
 One of the four, Robert D. McTeer Jr., president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, said in a recent interview, ''I wasn't trying to convey the idea that it was a clear and present danger.'' He also said that the sequence of remarks was not coordinated. ''It was no conspiracy,'' he said. 
 Nonetheless, the comments by the Fed officials -- also including Janet L. Yellen, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco; Ben S. Bernanke, a Federal Reserve governor; and Roger W. Ferguson, Jr., vice chairman of the Fed -- pulled the dollar lower.
 David Gilmore, a partner at FX Analytics, explained the confluence of comments this way: Central bankers, he said, are just ''drawn to commenting on significant structural imbalances, like moths to a flame.''
 So far this year, the net flow of money from abroad is running ahead of last year's pace. Through July, according to the latest available Treasury data, the net flow was $500 billion, which would work out to an annual total of $857 billion, compared with $711 billion last year. That would easily outdistance the current deficit, which would total $627 billion, based on the quarterly average for the first half of this year.
 Robert Sinche, global head of currency strategy at Bank of America, says that there is another explanation for the dollar's resilience, at least against the euro: the improvement of interest rate differentials in favor of the United States. In January this year, based on the futures market, the expectation was that three-month interest rates in the euro zone would be as much as 0.65 percentage points higher than comparable American three-month rates by year-end. 
 By the end of June, the expected differential had narrowed significantly, and is now hovering around 0.08 percentage points in favor of the United States. ''That is a big shift in expectations,'' Mr. Sinche said.
 AGAINST the yen, the dollar has remained strong, although the Japanese in March stopped their extraordinary intervention in support of the dollar. The Japanese government had sought to prevent the yen from rising in value and curbing Japan's exports. The dollar has held up anyway, Mr. Sinche said, partly because foreign capital flows into Japan have slowed.
 Mr. Sinche said last December that the dollar would rise against the euro this year. Now he is predicting that the dollar will weaken in the beginning of next year, then rally, leaving the euro's value around $1.15 by the end of 2005; it is now about $1.25. As for the yen, he projects that the dollar will be in a range of 110 yen to 115 yen next year; it is now at 109.30 yen.
 If Mr. Sinche is right, foreign stocks and bonds will have to attract American investors on their own merits in coming months -- without the expectation of a boost from the dollar.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Coming to America''Net flow of money from abroad into United States stocks and bonds.Graph tracks twelve-month periods from 1996 through July '04.Adjusted for principal payments on asset-backed securities and for stock swaps in mergers and acquisitions.(Source by Treasury Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BONDS (89%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); EURO (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (77%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (76%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (76%); INTERVIEWS (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Currency

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS (62%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (60%); TMX GROUP LTD (53%)

TICKER: X (TSX) (53%); TXQ (FRA) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (62%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (62%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%)

PERSON: ROGER W FERGUSON JR (50%); BEN BERNANKE (50%) Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (54%) ONTARIO, CANADA (54%) UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%); MEXICO (79%); FRANCE (75%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2004



395 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR: RECONSTRUCTION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1299 words

HEADLINE: Inching Along, One More Piece To Rebuild Iraq

BYLINE: By JAMES GLANZ

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, Oct. 16 

 BODY:
Call it the Iraqi version of the tortoise and the hare.
 On a six-day journey this week, more than 500 tons of house-size components on their way to the capital crept across Al Anbar Province, a grimy and murderous border region, at the white-knuckle pace of 10 to 15 miles an hour. Protected by an armada of helicopters, Bradley tanks, Humvees and bulletproof Land Cruisers, the convoy looked like the makings of some kind of space program, but in fact it carried sections of an enormous generator, financed by American taxpayers, to upgrade the Iraqi power grid. In operations like this, Iraq's physical reconstruction inches forward.
 But lined up against the reconstruction effort is the danger that strikes with seemingly inescapable suddenness all over Iraq: in one recent example involving a similar convoy, two Jordanian drivers working for the company whose trucks move the generators were gunned down. 
 Pressure is increasing on the Bush administration to show that the rebuilding effort will win this race, and that some of the many projects that have been delayed or temporarily abandoned will soon improve the lives of Iraqis, giving them a reason to trust the government and reject the anarchy of the insurgency.
 More than any other sector of the infrastructure, it is the electrical grid that fills officials with hope. True, virtually every project is behind schedule, and few goals have been met. Indeed, officials involved with reconstruction expend great effort revising the overly optimistic projections made by the American occupation authorities in previous months. But there are, finally, more megawatts on the grid than before the invasion, and with a number of big projects under way behind the scenes, officials say it is just the start.
 ''We're getting the crisis back under control,'' said Simon Stolp, the program manager for electricity at the Project and Contracting Office, which is managing billions of dollars of Congressionally mandated reconstruction money. ''There are a whole basket of positive things to be seen,'' he said.
 The grid had been deteriorating under the pressure of sanctions and neglect ever since it was put back together after American bombers destroyed it in 1991, but Mr. Stolp said those problems were quickly becoming a thing of the past.
 ''There will be more megawatts on the grid next summer than there have been at any period of time since the gulf war,'' Mr. Stolp said.
 Iraqi electricity experts are less impressed. Saad Shakir Tawfiq, a scientist who leads Iraqi teams working at several power plants, said he was surprised that his relatively upscale Baghdad neighborhood was still subjected to regular blackouts, two hours off, and four hours on.
 ''It's the time of year when everybody switches off air-conditioners, and nobody uses heaters,'' Dr. Tawfiq said. ''There should be a surplus.''
 But Mr. Stolp said that Iraqis, with their newfound freedom, were buying more and more electrical appliances and sapping the network, and even Dr. Tawfiq conceded that it could take a while for the big generation projects to get more electricity into the homes of Iraqis. 
 The 340-mile journey the generator convoy took from Jordan, which a reporter joined for the final 75 miles, showed how determined the Americans are to push ahead with big electricity projects.
 The mission passed within a few miles of the insurgent strongholds of Ramadi and Falluja before the convoy of 42 vehicles reached Baghdad, snaking its way through the city's edgy streets in the dead of night. Workers climbed ladders to snip overhead power lines that were in the way, bulldozed obstacles on the ground and fixed a tank that had broken down in the convoy's path.
 Gunshots rang out repeatedly, although most of them came from American soldiers firing into the air to keep traffic back.
 ''This is one of those you'll-never-get-it-done tasks,'' said John Yourston, a former member of the British special forces and now the operations director in Iraq for Olive Security, a private company that directed the journey, from scouting out the route to positioning the tanks traveling in the convoy.
 The military's shorthand for the mission was MOAG, for Mother of All Generators. ''It's a monster, isn't it?'' Mr. Yourston said.
 The MOAG, along with a giant gas turbine to power it and two other huge truckloads of equipment, arrived intact at a south Baghdad power plant at first light on Wednesday morning, two days before the start of Ramadan.
 The generator is one of a pair manufactured by General Electric that are now set to be installed at the south Baghdad plant as part of a project to add more than 200 megawatts to the grid. That would more than double the current output of the ancient steam turbines at the plant and contribute substantially to the roughly 5,000 megawatts that the entire country is producing at the moment, said Abdul Hassan Qasim, the plant's director.
 ''What is produced by this turbine,'' Mr. Qasim said of the latest delivery, ''is essential to Baghdad, because it is in the heart of Baghdad.''
 So the juice will go right to power-starved consumers without being dissipated in long transmission lines, he said. David DeVoss, a spokesman for the United States Agency for International Development, which is administering the financing, said the estimated cost for the project was $162 million. Bechtel, the international engineering and construction giant, manages the work for the agency.
 Originally scheduled to be producing electricity by December, the generators are not expected to be ready until June. The pace slowed and security costs soared after the insurgency broke out across the country in April. Two months later, three General Electric employees were killed by a suicide bomber while riding in a convoy in Baghdad.
 Now the work site, which employs some 260 Iraqis, resembles Fort Knox, as one Bechtel employee put it. (Fearing reprisals, the company asked that none of its employees be named, and that no photographs showing landmarks around the compound be taken.) The site is surrounded by high concrete blast walls, and there is a bunkerlike inner perimeter where project managers work.
 Whenever a Westerner ventures from the inner perimeter and mingles with the Iraqi workers, he is accompanied by rifle-toting guards from ArmorGroup, another private security company. In addition, the site is protected by about 80 of the Nepalese guards known as Ghurkas. There are guard towers, checkpoints and sandbagged refuges for protection in case of a mortar attack.
 Like the Western managers and engineers, all of the security personnel must be fed and housed at the site. ''Security threw this project all out of whack,'' said a Bechtel official working inside the compound. ''There's no telling what it's going to cost.'' He cautioned, however, that not all of the cost increases could be attributed to security. Officials involved with the reconstruction say they are in negotiations with General Electric over cost increases. 
 Mr. DeVoss said he had no information on how much of the contract would be eaten up by security, but other officials say the proportion has risen to 30 percent and higher on similar projects.
 Still, it seems unlikely that an exact reckoning of security costs for the MOAG will ever be made. At various times the convoy was protected by the Army's First Cavalry Division; the Second Battalion, 11th Marine Regiment; and at least three other military units. Capt. Charley Von Bergen of the Marines guessed that 500 soldiers had been involved in one way or another, but he conceded that there was no solid estimate. Through it all, the MOAG kept rolling along, stenciled along its bottom edge with the word ''fragile'' and the universal sign for equipment that is easily damaged -- a wineglass.


CORRECTION-DATE: October 22, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A graph on Oct. 17 with an article about struggles to rebuild Iraq's electrical grid carried a mislabeled timeline. While the supply of current since the March 2003 invasion was depicted correctly, the letter ''O,'' for a month between November and December 2003, was inserted erroneously. With that letter deleted, the remaining month abbreviations should have been spaced evenly across the bottom. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: A guard with Olive Security, top, kept watch last week along a riverbank near Ramadi as a convoy transporting sections of a generator intended to upgrade the Iraqi power grid made its way over a bridge. Marines, above, stood guard near a turbine during a stop outside Baghdad during the convoy's six-day, 340-mile journey from Jordan. (Photographs by Shawn Baldwin for The New York Times)(pg. 13)Chart: ''Turning On the Lights''Although most Iraqi households still experience daily blackouts, the amount of electricity available has increased since the invasion in 2003.Graph tracks amount of electricity available in Iraq since August 2003.(Source by Project and Contracting Office)(pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); DESERT STORM (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); POWER PLANTS (75%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (75%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (75%); CIVIL WAR (74%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (65%); HELICOPTERS (56%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Persian Gulf War; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Blackouts and Brownouts (Electrical); Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare

PERSON: James Glanz

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); GULF STATES (78%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2004



396 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 2; Arts and Leisure Desk; TELEVISION; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: The Prestige HBO Series Is Going South

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES 

 BODY:
A PSYCHOTIC serial killer is on the loose in a harsh, soulless city, and the police are stumped. It's a familiar plot from a familiar genre, but among the things that make ''Epitafios'' different from the average television thriller is this: it is the first dramatic mini-series that HBO has ever commissioned in Spanish, and it was written and filmed in Latin America by Latin Americans with Latin American viewers in mind.
 On the air in the prime-time slot of Sunday night at 10 since mid-August, ''Epitafios'' (''Epitaphs'' in English) admittedly does feature a world-weary former cop as its main character, along with a few other conventions of the genre. But the 13-episode series has also emphasized some distinctly Latin American plot elements and production strategies with an eye to helping HBO raise its profile in a market that at times has proved difficult to penetrate.
 ''After years of being HBO's little brother, operating in a much smaller territory in terms of subscribers and economic strength than our domestic side, we needed to initiate a process parallel to what HBO did in the U.S. and generate our own programming,'' said Luis Peraza, a vice president of HBO Latin America who also is executive producer of the series. 
 Latin Americans, though, are raised on soapy telenovelas, which draw huge ratings everywhere they are broadcast, and have little exposure to thrillers other than what comes from the United States. Thus the choice of ''Epitafios'' as HBO Latin America's first effort was risky, as the directors and writers responsible for the show knew from the start.
 ''The Americans do the thriller a lot, and they do it well, whether in films, on television or in cable, and with more resources than we will ever have,'' said Alberto Lecchi, a veteran of film and television who is one of two directors of the mini-series, filmed in Argentina with an Argentine cast. ''So the first challenge we had to face was how to tell a story that has been told many times before and still, on the budget we had, glue the viewer to the screen.'' 
 One solution was to give the main characters traits that would be recognizable to viewers in the 20-plus countries where ''Epitafios'' is broadcast. Renzo Marquez, the former police detective turned cabdriver who is the protagonist, may be disillusioned, but he and the ex-colleagues he rejoins after his name appears on the killer's hit list are anything but hard-boiled. 
 ''We can't forget that we're in Latin America, with all the self-destructive processes and impulses that go with that fact,'' said Jorge Nisco, the other director of the series. ''These are not American or European characters. They are more passionate, with more exacerbated sensibilities, given to emotional explosions and not hiding their sentiments, whether love or fear or euphoria.''
 To make ''Epitafios'' even more realistic to HBO Latin America's two million or so subscribers, the series takes place in a world where the police ''lack the means to investigate, which forces them to improvise,'' said Walter Slavich, one of the scriptwriters. ''This isn't 'C.S.I.,''' he added, meaning that patrol cars run out of gas and forensic experts do not have the money to run tests that could help them crack the case. 
 Mr. Slavich and his twin brother, Marcelo, the other scriptwriter, also devised some unusual plot twists they hope will hook viewers. ''Epitafios'' not only features ''a killer chasing a police detective and not vice versa,'' as Mr. Lecchi noted, but also allows the identity of the killer, who has been knocking off teachers, students and administrators at an elite private school, to be revealed at the end of the third episode. 
 ''We wanted to be provocative,'' Marcelo Slavich said. ''We know the spectator is going to say, 'How can that be?' It's a different way of doing things, and I think it works. The audience knows the identity of the killer, but not why he kills or how the story turns out. And because the spectator knows who the killer is and the characters don't, we make the spectator an accomplice.''
 Once those issues were resolved, the producers then had to grapple with the problem of whether the actors should speak with Argentine accents, which are heavily Italianate in intonation and use some words and grammatical structures that are not common elsewhere. In the end, they decided to have the cast try to speak in what Mr. Peraza called ''neutral Spanish'' and to minimize Argentine inflections.
 ''It was very strange in the beginning, very odd,'' said Julio Chavez, who plays Renzo Marquez. ''I didn't think it was really necessary, but then I'm not the producer, so it's not my area. But what I could and did do was to grab the script and try to eliminate as many as possible of the usages that felt peculiar to me.''
 Similarly, though the setting of ''Epitafios'' is clearly Buenos Aires, with scenes set in identifiable local landmarks like Recoleta Cemetery, where Evita Peron is buried, the city's name is never once mentioned. ''We don't refer to the place because we want to tell a story that could take place in any Latin American metropolis,'' Mr. Nisco explained.
 As the series progresses, a brassy, burned-out detective named Marina Segal, played by Cecilia Roth, emerges as Renzo Marquez's bete noire turned ally. Ms. Roth, probably best-known outside Argentina as one of the muses of the Spanish film director Pedro Almodovar, hasn't worked much in television in recent years, but said she was attracted by the novelty of the ''Epitafios'' project and the challenges it presented. 
 ''We felt a little bit like lab rats in an experiment, in that we were aware that we were doing something new and very different,'' she said. 
 HBO Latin America is not seen in Spain, but there is already interest there and in other European countries in showing ''Epitafios'' on cable or broadcast channels. The show's producers recognize that in the United States the English-language audience that watches ''The Sopranos'' and ''Six Feet Under'' is a very hard sell. But they hope to reach the booming Hispanic market directly through the network's Spanish-language channel, HBO Latino. 
 ''We don't have a deal yet, but we are in discussions with HBO Latino,'' Mr. Peraza said. ''HBO domestic is more difficult for anything not spoken in English, but HBO Latino is very interested and we are very optimistic. Whether sooner or later, we are expecting some remuneration from our investment.''
 So far critics and audiences have embraced the series. There may even be an ''Epitafios II.'' But even if there is not a second season, Mr. Chavez already sees a spillover effect, both into network television here and across borders. 
 And regardless of the fate of ''Epitafios,'' HBO plans to plunge ahead with more original programming from other countries in Latin America. The network has already commissioned a pair of mini-series to be made in Brazil. The first, based on a character created by the Brazilian novelist Rubem Fonseca, is tentatively scheduled to go on the air a year from now and will give Spanish-speakers a glimpse of their giant Portuguese-speaking neighbor. 
 ''This is the good side of globalization, one that offers us the possibility for growth,'' Ms. Roth said. ''It is a good way for us to come together but at the same time see how we are different. The English-speaking world has been doing this sort of thing for a long time, but in Latin America, we have been distanced from each other. So this is an important step forward.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: On the set of ''Epitafios'' in Buenos Aires, Cecilia Roth, top, and Julio Chavez, below left, with the director Alberto Lecchi. (Photographs courtesy of HBO Ole Partners) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); MURDER (78%); HOMICIDE (78%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (77%); FILM (76%); WRITERS (76%); FILM DIRECTORS (76%); MOVIE FILMING (56%) Television; Latin-Americans; Spanish Language

COMPANY: HOME BOX OFFICE INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Home Box Office 

PERSON: Larry Rohter; Alberto Lecchi; Jorge Nisco

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (92%) LATIN AMERICA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); ARGENTINA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2004



397 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; SQUARE FEET/the Bronx; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: Old Goods Help to Bring New Liveliness

BYLINE: By C.J. HUGHES

 BODY:
SINCE the Third Avenue Bridge over the Harlem River closed two years ago, some drivers detoured onto Bruckner Boulevard have undoubtedly slammed their steering wheels in frustration. But others stuck in traffic in the Port Morris neighborhood in the South Bronx may be sitting up and taking notice. Unlikely as it may once have seemed, Bruckner Boulevard between Third Avenue and Willis Avenue has a surprisingly welcoming look. 
 Gone are the bombed-out buildings, shuttered storefronts and squeegee street brigades. Here instead are restored 1910 red-brick row houses and a growing parade of antiques stores. Facing them, old piano factories now house architects and accountants, breathing new life into a wheezy street. 
 Much of the sprucing up started nine years ago, when the city invested $500,000 for Belgian paving stone, pear trees and benches. Now, with new banners strung to lampposts announcing ''Bruckner Antique & Arts District,'' the street seems to have decisively moved beyond the days when Tom Wolfe used it as a set piece of 80's urban decay in ''Bonfire of the Vanities.''
 Bruckner has long been used by drivers heading to Manhattan from the north and seeking to bypass the Triborough Bridge tolls. Now, stuck in traffic, they can finally peek around, and the area is introduced to a whole new audience. ''Any retail area thrives on visibility, and we can now catch your eye when you drive through,'' said Neil Pariser, senior vice president of the South Bronx Economic Development Corporation, nicknamed SoBro. City leaders say the new bridge will be open next March.
 There are 11 antiques stores alone in this three-block stretch, squeezed between the Major Deegan Expressway and the Harlem River. Another antiques store will soon open on the corner of Bruckner and Alexander Avenue, and piggybacking on what's already there, woodworking, upholstering and refinishing stores have also set up shop.
 On weekends, families from Connecticut stroll the sidewalks, showing that the antiques industry can be a force for revitalization, bringing out-of-town dollars to hard-hit former manufacturing areas. 
 Denise Cruz, who owns Custom Design, a furniture and upholstery business on Bruckner, said that one morning a year ago a woman from Manhattan who was lost discovered the store, and later spent $15,000 to repair couches and chairs. ''Unfortunately, though, we don't see sales that big all the time,'' Ms. Cruz said. 
 Whereas the rehab of Bruckner's south side has been fairly small-scale, on the north side, it's writ large.
 Kelly's Furniture at 20 Bruckner Boulevard sells ''furniture rugs gifts'' from a cavernous 30,000-square-foot block-deep showroom, with an attached 135,000-square-foot warehouse in a 1900 building that used to store beer for the Ruppert Brewery.
 In 1999, the company's owner, Clyde Kelly, nearly sold his buildings to Morgan Stanley but agrees that Bruckner's cleanup has kept his business afloat. ''The antiques stores have brought more sophisticated customers up here,'' said Mr. Kelly, who grew up in Mott Haven. ''It's very symbiotic.''
 Creative reuse of commercial space is also a priority at 40 Bruckner, an arched two-floor, 60,000-square-foot building where Borden used to stable milk-delivery horses. There, the owner, D. Benedetto Inc., which has owned the site since the 40's, has moved a deli and upholsterer onto the first floor, although the second floor is still empty.
 At 26 Bruckner, all but 6,000 of the 86,000 square feet on its top five floors has been leased, for rents that average $14 to $22 per square foot. The owner, Bradford N. Swett Management, which owns properties from Brooklyn to the state of Wyoming, hopes to get a restaurant to pay $12 a square foot for a 4,000-square-foot space on the ground floor, according to the assistant property manager, Christopher Gallagher.
 The city announced on Oct. 4 that it was beginning a public review to rezone 11 blocks in the neighborhood from industrial to mixed use -- similar to the zoning on the antiques side of the street -- so that people can live and work there while existing factories hum nearby. Mr. Gallagher said it would be only a matter of time before people discover, or rediscover, the area. 
 So far, residential development in this part of the neighborhood has mainly been confined to the dozens of units in the top three floors of the row houses. These are almost fully occupied, landlords said.
 The Clock Tower building on the corner of Bruckner and Lincoln is also being converted to residences. An imposing former piano factory, whose renovation continues, it has lured people from Manhattan looking for more space and cheaper rents. 
 If Port Morris ever matures into a more multifaceted neighborhood, old furniture should take some of the credit, said Mitchell Moss, a professor of urban planning at N.Y.U.'s Wagner School. 
 ''The city can encourage conditions that make an area naturally attractive, but you have to let the market work,'' Professor Moss said. ''Antique stores came onto Bruckner, and now the zoning is trying to catch up with them.'' 
 Some residents of older sections of the neighborhood have expressed concern that improvements may cause people to be priced out of the area. For its part, the Bronx borough president's office said that community meetings have given residents plenty of chances to speak out about changes to their neighborhood.
 ''I absolutely believe that a balance can be achieved that benefits the existing community and the new influx of people and businesses,'' Adolfo Carrion, the Bronx borough president, said in an e-mail.
 For merchants like Rafael Ramirez, owner of Zion Antiques, which specializes in lamp shades, bed frames and American and Latin-American oil paintings, it will take a long time for rents to climb anywhere near what he was paying in Manhattan. At his old store on West 25th Street in Chelsea, Mr. Ramirez was paying $3,500, while he now pays $1,200 for a 150-square-foot space that he occupied last December. 
 And even if gentrification pushes the rents up in the neighborhood, Mr. Ramirez, a 14-year resident of the Bronx, would not complain. ''I would be glad not just for the Bronx to improve,'' Mr. Ramirez said, ''but for it to turn out better than it ever was.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: AN ANTIQUES ENCLAVE -- Left, inside True Antiques. Far left, Cashmere Robinson restores a sewing machine at Maxim's Antiques. There are 11 antiques stores on a three-block stretch of Bruckner Boulevard. (Photographs by Phil Mansfield for The New York Times)Map of Bronx highlighting Bruckner Boulevard and surrounding areas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); RETAILERS (90%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (89%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (89%); CITY LIFE (77%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (76%); REUPHOLSTERY & FURNITURE REPAIR (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); CITIES (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); EXECUTIVES (64%); BREWERIES (60%) Trees and Shrubs; Antiques

PERSON: C J Hughes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2004



398 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; SundayBusiness; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: What If a Sales Tax Were the Only Tax?

BYLINE: By DANIEL ALTMAN

 BODY:
REPRESENTATIVE JOHN LINDER, Republican of Georgia, is a man on a mission. He wants to replace the current tax system -- or at least personal income and payroll taxes -- with a national sales tax. When he brought this idea to the floor of the House of Representatives a couple of weeks ago, Democrats chided it as a pipe dream. 
 But in August, President Bush called it ''the kind of interesting idea that we ought to explore seriously.'' From a taxpayer's perspective, it may indeed sound like a great idea: no more long instruction booklet to read, no more endless hours calculating the figures for every box on the form; you just pay at the cash register. Yet when it comes to designing such a new system, it's not quite as simple as it sounds. 
 Begin by assuming that the government needs just as much tax revenue, regardless of the system in place. Last year, the Internal Revenue Service collected about $1.7 trillion worth of individual income and payroll taxes. 
 Some of that money was returned as refunds. So, say that the government depended on those taxes to raise $1.5 trillion.
 If every bit of spending in the economy were taxed -- in other words, every one of the 12.2 trillion dollars paid by American consumers, businesses and the government for domestically produced goods and services -- the rate would have to be about 12 percent. But hold on a second. Would the government really want to tax everything? Probably not. 
 For starters, having the government pay the tax on its own purchases wouldn't actually raise any money. Take out the government's spending, and the rate would have to rise to 15 percent.
 In most states with sales taxes, food and clothing are exempt. The reason is to protect the poor. If a national sales tax lacked that exemption, poor people who pay no income tax (many actually receive a credit) would see their tax burdens grow substantially. In addition, the tax would be regressive. Because low-earning people spend a bigger share of their income than high-earning people, the low earners' taxes would be relatively higher.
 So, say Congress made food and clothing exempt. That would carve an additional $1.4 trillion out of the tax base, and the rate would have to rise to 18 percent. Remember that food and clothing just became exempt for everyone, poor or not.
 To take some of that money back, the government could try to give the exemption only to low-earners. But how would they be identified? Would they have to file -- gasp! -- a tax return reporting the previous year's income? Would the government distribute ''I'm a low-earner'' identity cards, to be shown sheepishly to cashiers? And how would the government prevent card holders from buying things for other people?
 Putting those little problems aside, there are two other issues from the current tax system: housing and medical care.
 At the moment, homeowners can deduct interest they pay on their mortgages from their income taxes. Without an income tax, this subsidy, long seen as part of what made the American dream come true, would disappear. Bringing it back, perhaps through direct grants, would require raising the national sales tax rate to 21 percent.
 In addition, the current tax system subsidizes medical spending by allowing businesses to buy insurance for their employees out of pretax dollars. Many medical expenses paid out of pocket are also deductible from personal income tax. Would we want to eliminate these subsidies? Quite a few health economists would say yes, because it would discourage people from demanding care they didn't need. To keep the subsidies, the sales tax rate might have to climb to 25 percent.
 THERE'S still one thing to account for, though: How would the new tax system affect behavior? Slapping a 25 percent tax on all the remaining purchases in the economy, by consumers and companies alike, might well affect spending. When the sales tax burden rises, prices at the checkout counter climb, but typically not by the complete amount of the tax; buyers and sellers share the burden. 
 For example, a 25 percent tax might lead to prices that are about 15 percent higher. That means a product that sold for $100 would sell for $115, including the tax. The flip side, of course, is that businesses would receive less revenue. Instead of getting $100 for that sale, a business would collect $115 minus 25 percent, or $86. Yet its costs would be the same, and it would still be paying the same corporate income tax.
 That business might react by recognizing that its employees had just received a big increase in their take-home pay, from the abolition of the income tax. The business could actually cut salaries and still leave its employees with part of that raise from Uncle Sam. In fact, doing so might be the only way to make ends meet.
 High-wage workers might find that any increase in the take-home price of goods and services would still be offset by their bigger take-home pay. But low-earners, who paid no income tax to start with, would find their budgets squeezed. So spending might actually fall, necessitating an even higher tax rate to support the federal government.
 The national sales tax might have the upper hand in one area, however.
 As part of its drive to create an ''ownership society,'' the White House is chipping away at taxes on financial income and wealth. The estate tax is scheduled to vanish, taxes on dividends and capital gains have fallen, corporate income tax loopholes have grown, and proposals for enormous tax-free saving accounts would allow the sheltering of most portfolios. 
 All of these efforts point to a system that taxes only labor income like wages and salaries. Under this system, high-earning people might be able to shift their income into primarily nontaxed sources -- for example, by taking their pay only in stocks, bonds and derivatives like options. With a national sales tax, at least, the top earners in the nation would have a much harder time avoiding taxes altogether.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Taxing Value''Rates of some countries' value-added taxes (V.A.T.'s), which are similar to sales taxes.All countries listed also have an income tax.ITALY: 20%FRANCE: 19.6%BRITAIN: 17.5%GERMANY: 16%AUSTRALIA: 10%CANADA: 7%JAPAN: 5%SINGAPORE: 5%(Source by Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); SALES TAX (92%); VALUE ADDED TAX (90%); CORPORATE TAX (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%) Taxation; Sales Tax; Value-Added Tax

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%)

PERSON: JOHN LINDER (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%) Daniel Altman; John (Repr) Linder

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (69%); FRANCE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2004



399 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; The World; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1293 words

HEADLINE: We've Seen the Enemy and They Are ... Who, Exactly?

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG

DATELINE: BAGHDAD 

 BODY:
TO hear the American commanders in Iraq tell it, William Butler Yeats could well be the poet laureate of Iraq's insurgency. If the guerrillas were to win this war with their suicide car bombs and televised beheadings, what would come next? Nothing, the commanders say, but a widening gyre, and things falling apart, and, finally, mere anarchy being loosed in the cradle of civilization.
 ''This is a negative insurgency,'' Brig. Gen. Erwin Lessel, deputy director of operations for the multinational forces, said in an interview inside the fortified American headquarters here, near where two powerful bombs killed five people on Thursday and left the Americans bracing for more mayhem at the start of the holy month of Ramadan. ''Unlike a classical insurgency, these groups don't offer anything.''
 ''They've got differing goals, competing ideologies,'' he continued, ''and don't offer anything positive for the government.'' 
 The general's assertion raised a salient point about the guerrillas, particularly those in Sunni Muslim groups: A year and a half after Baghdad fell, the insurgency has yet to develop a full-fledged political wing, or a coherent political program. Classic insurgencies often have a division of labor between military and political arms, with the latter defining the goals of the struggle and pursuing them through opposition politics. The Vietcong and the Irish Republican Army, for example, had tactical commanders fighting on the battlefield while politicians hammered away at the bargaining table.
 But to think that the Sunni resistance's end goal is to spread chaos, or to assume that its lack of any apparent political machinery is a weakness that can be exploited, is to underestimate the fighters, say scholars of insurgencies who have been to Iraq.
 Yes, there are dozens of Sunni groups in the war, from Islamist cells of foreign fighters to more secular bands of former Iraqi Army officers, and they have disparate and even competing ideologies, said Bruce D. Hoffman, an insurgency analyst at the RAND Corporation. But, he added, they are united in wanting to drive America out of Iraq, and that is more than enough of a program to galvanize many Sunnis for now. 
 The universal political rule applies: The simpler the message, the more mass appeal it can gain, as the media-savvy insurgents here no doubt recognize. Presenting more sophisticated political platforms, such as ones that might lay out alternative systems of governance, could drive supporters away or reveal the discord among the groups. Within the insurgency, at least until now, hard-line clerics and secular former Baathists have no doubt maintained their marriage of convenience by focusing on the tactical goal that unites them, rather than on their competing ideologies, even as accused collaborators are threatened or executed. 
 ''You don't really need a comprehensive political program if you have a message that resonates,'' Mr. Hoffman said. ''They're not going to play around with what works.''
 A senior official in the Muslim Scholars Association, a group of Sunni clerics that has close ties to insurgent leaders, acknowledged that the goals of the cells are ''sometimes even antithetical to each other.'' 
 ''But they all have one goal, and that is to kick the Americans out of Iraq, and I don't think they'll be flexible in this goal,'' the official, Muhammad Bashar al-Fadhi, said. 
 The fact that the groups are not operating under a unified leadership with a well-developed political wing can be an advantage. The disparate nature of the insurgency has forced the Americans and the interim Iraqi government, led by Prime Minister Ayad Allawi, to try to pacify the groups one by one, an approach that leaves any deal with one group subject to being undermined by others. This problem cropped up in recent negotiations over the insurgent stronghold of Falluja: peace offers made by Dr. Allawi to the city's tribal sheiks have had no appeal for jihadists like Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, a militant from Jordan whose tactics include taping the beheadings of foreign hostages. 
 ''No one can sort out the exact motivation and ideology, or even how many groups claiming to exist are real,'' said Anthony H. Cordesman, a Middle East analyst at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. ''This makes it extremely difficult to attack the insurgents, except by one group, and center of activity, at a time.''
 The history of insurgencies shows, of course, that even a disparate rebellion can eventually unify itself and define its goals, although holding the coalition together is another matter entirely. In the recent civil war in the Congo, for example, it took years for the two major rebels groups to form political wings, which then negotiated with the standing government to enter into joint rule. Now, however, power struggles among the various factions are threatening to unravel the partnership once and for all.
 In Iraq, Mr. Hoffman says, the current American effort to hold elections in January could put pressure on the Sunni groups to lay out political programs. Now that the Sunni insurgents have struck a populist chord in central Iraq, Mr. Hoffman says, it is likely that ''political activities will increase by emerging parties that would likely be insurgent front groups.''
 ''The stakes will be too high for any party to miss out,'' Mr. Hoffman said, ''and political subversion combined with armed action is a perennial dimension of insurgency.'' 
 The Americans and the Allawi government say they hope to draw insurgent groups into the political process in order to pacify them. But, as Mr. Hoffman implied, this tactic can have its own dangers. In Algeria in 1991, for example, the fundamentalist rebels of the Islamic Salvation Front were allowed to compete in general elections, and unexpectedly won the first round. The French-backed government's response was to cancel the election results, plunging the country into a new round of civil war.
 In the weeks ahead, the Sunni insurgent groups here will no doubt watch closely the careful dance unfolding between the American military and the Allawi government on one side, and the firebrand Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr on the other. Mr. Sadr, too, has led an insurgency, but unlike the Sunni guerrillas, he has indicated for months that he wants to take part in mainstream politics. ''We have many channels; we have the armed resistance and we have the political channel,'' Ali Smesim, one of Mr. Sadr's closest aides, boasted in an interview.
 That raises some tantalizing, if risky, possibilities for American strategists who seek to replace the violence here with electoral politics. If they bargain with Mr. Sadr, and if the Sunnis see him gaining from it, the Sunni insurgents might be tempted to try to paper over their differences and form their own political front. The young Shiite cleric has already had considerable success: An arrest warrant issued against him is all but forgotten, and Iraqi and American officials have agreed not to prosecute his followers on the condition that he disarm his thousands-strong militia and channel his aggression into mainstream politics. The same officials have their doubts about how seriously he is disarming now, especially given his history of reneging on such promises, but the plan is proceeding anyway.
 In other words, just by forcing the authorities to compromise with him, Mr. Sadr has shown that an insurgent with both a private army and a populist political machine can, at this fragile moment, call at least some of the shots. This is likely the message the Sunni guerrillas are taking away right now, though it is probably not quite the lesson the Americans wanted them to learn about what entering politics can bring them.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Near Falluja, where foreign jihadists and former Baathists both fight Americans, a boy celebrates on a downed American helicopter. (Photo by Fares Dlimi/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); POLITICS (87%); ARMIES (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); RAMADAN (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POETRY (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (70%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism

COMPANY: RAND CORP (63%)

ORGANIZATION: IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (63%)

PERSON: Edward Wong

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2004



400 of 747 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 17, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 10-17-04: THE ETHICIST; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: Addressing the Vote

BYLINE: By Randy Cohen

 BODY:
I've lived in New York City for seven years, paying city and state taxes and doing my time in the jury box, but I am still a legal resident of Florida as far as the Board of Elections knows. (I have a semivalid address, my parents' house.) May I ethically vote absentee there, a swing state, where it would really count, rather than here, a state almost certain to go Democratic? Patrick Parrish, New York
Are any words more evocative of the high ideals of democracy than ''semivalid address''? 
 It is exasperating indeed that the winner-take-all system of awarding electoral votes can make a vote cast in one state enormously more significant than one cast in another, but that is insufficient reason to play fast and loose with election law. There is real social good in honest elections. You ought not so casually contemplate undermining that.
 To establish legal residency in Florida, a person must declare that it is his or her ''principal home, and that he or she intends to continue it permanently as such.'' Intent is slippery. People change their minds about where they want to live, and no harm done. And college students, for example, may simply be unsure and should not be disenfranchised for it. But your situation is clear: you are a New Yorker; so unless you plan to migrate South -- which might please your candidate but alarm your parents -- you're out of luck. 
 In lieu of my making a caustic remark about Florida's idiosyncratic method of tallying (or not tallying) certain votes, insert your own joke here.
 My mother wants to hire someone to clean house and handle the laundry. To assure this person's integrity, she plans to leave loose money around as ''bait'' during the housecleaner's first few days of work. Here in Brazil, those stray bills can constitute a significant percentage of a housecleaner's wages. My mother sees this ''trap'' as a perfectly ethical precaution. Do you? Daniel Hutchins, Juiz de Fora, Brazil
 Your use of ''trap'' implies one distasteful feature of your mother's scheme: it tiptoes toward entrapment, if not legally, then certainly ethically. The target is minding her own business, only to be lured into wrongdoing. While others working in your mother's house might be in a position to steal, they are unlikely to come upon piles of cash -- so impersonal, so fungible, so pocket-size. Theft is clearly wrong, but there is a well-known injunction not to put temptation in someone's path. (''Tempt not a desperate man,'' says Romeo to Paris.) That's why I don't wear a sport coat made of hundred-dollar bills. (That and because I look so sickly in green.)
 People are not crudely divisible into honest and dishonest; different circumstances elicit different behaviors in us all. (Millions of otherwise law-abiding citizens have illegally downloaded music.) As a prudent employer, your mother should not strew cash around the house; as a sensitive human being, she should be mindful of the economic gulf between her and her housekeeper. We do not wave food in the faces of the hungry.
 This sort of integrity testing might be justifiable were there probable cause of serious wrongdoing and no other way to address it -- for example, in a police precinct plagued by bribe-taking. But it should be a last resort, not a routine part of the job application.
 Your mother would do better to check references and hire someone of demonstrated honesty. In any case, she doesn't keep the crown jewels in her bathroom; she will have time to act if her baubles begin vanishing.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Christoph Niemann)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); ETHICS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (72%); ELECTION LAW (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (51%) Presidential Election of 2004; Ethics; Absentee Voting; Voting Requirements and Voters; Residence Requirements; Domestic Service

PERSON: Randy Cohen

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (92%) New York State; Florida

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2004

 
