

201 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: Education Law Isn't a Cure-All

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Why the Achievement Gap Persists'' (editorial, Dec. 8):
 There are no doubt repairable weaknesses in the No Child Left Behind law. Nevertheless, it has an irreparable flaw.
It is rooted in the myth that school-only solutions can cure educational inequality. 
 In 1983, a presidential report, ''A Nation at Risk,'' launched the standards movement. This book encouraged two illusions that still undo efforts at school reform. 
 The first is that the problems of American education are systemwide and require solutions that touch all schools. 
 In fact, the ills of American schools are largely an urban problem resulting from the fact that many urban schools are overwhelmed with the children of poor and minority parents, who are concentrated in urban areas. 
 The second is that schools have the power to overcome inequalities in achievement apart from other reforms that address the circumstances of disadvantaged children's lives. 
 There is no credible research to substantiate either assumption. 
 We cannot successfully reform education if we decouple educational productivity from broader issues of inequality. President Bush has described such views as the soft discrimination of low expectations. 
 In fact, No Child Left Behind helps perpetuate the hard discrimination of allowing many children to grow up in circumstances that make the job of schools almost impossible.
 We need to emphasize better health care for urban children, stabilize their housing, provide preschool and finance the many additional improvements that will enable schools to do their jobs. Only then will reforms like No Child Left Behind have a real chance.

Kenneth A. Strike
Thendara, N.Y., Dec. 8, 2006

The writer is a professor of cultural foundations of education and philosophy at Syracuse University.

To the Editor:
 After reading yet another editorial bemoaning the failure of the No Child Left Behind Act to get better teachers into struggling schools, I have one question: 
 Why are droves of highly qualified teachers going to suddenly flock to a profession where they will be poorly paid, underappreciated and publicly blamed for every social ill the country faces?
 No Child Left Behind will never solve the qualified teacher problem (which I agree is the key to properly educating all children) because our country doesn't respect or reward teachers. 
 Better to work in business, law or medicine, where you can earn a professional's wage and aren't expected to turn around centuries of economic and racial discrimination. 
 From the start, No Child Left Behind placed teachers into an adversarial relationship with the Bush administration. If anything, the law undermines our ability to attract and keep the very people who can help every child succeed.

Reed Dyer
Casco, Me., Dec. 8, 2006

The writer is a public school teacher.

To the Editor:
 While the intention of the No Child Left Behind law is meritorious, it tends to be a simple answer to a very complex question: How to close the achievement gap between minority and non-minority students?
 In addition, the focus on overall achievement for all students as a goal cannot be dismissed lightly. 
 We agree that quality teaching is an essential ingredient for the success of all students, but there has been little attention paid to quality supervision and appropriate supervisory ratios in our schools.
 Of significant importance is the fact that education does not begin the moment a child enters the doors of a school.
 For many children, the very early years of social and cognitive development are seriously endangered. Research is clear about the impact of early intervention and early childhood development, yet the No Child Left Behind law ignores this essential ingredient, which places some children far ahead of others when entering school for the first time. 
 If the law is modified, we should take a look at early childhood education that begins with appropriately supervised, academically and socially structured day care for children whose parents cannot afford private programs and who are working and contributing to our economy. 

Jill S. Levy
President, Council of School
Supervisors and Administrators
Brooklyn, Dec. 8, 2006

To the Editor:
 The educational achievement gap is not, and never was, about teacher quality. The focus is misplaced; it needs to be on the student. 
 As one local educator observed, ''You cannot improve the quality of education until you improve the quality of the student to be educated.''
 It is the student's work ethic, not his or her possible impoverishment quotient, that should be the center of attention.

Stanley J. Kavan
Milford, Conn., Dec. 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION LAW (91%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (90%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (90%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); EDUCATION REFORM (90%); CHILDREN (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); WRITERS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); TEACHER CERTIFICATION (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (74%); RACE & RACISM (74%); CITIES (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Education and Schools; Teachers and School Employees; Law and Legislation; Education and Schools

ORGANIZATION: Council of School Supervisors and Administrators

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%) Kenneth A (Prof) Strike; Reed Dyer; Jill S Levy; Stanley J Kavan

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006



202 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; THE 6th ANNUAL YEAR IN IDEAS; Pg. 82

LENGTH: 353 words

HEADLINE: Walk-In Health Care

BYLINE: By RACHEL DONADIO

 BODY:
With health-care costs soaring and an estimated 46 million Americans uninsured, many see cause for despair. Others see opportunity -- for retail medical care. This year, a company called QuickHealth opened several clinics in Northern California -- some in pharmacies, one inside a Wal-Mart -- offering primary care on a pay-as-you-go, first-come-first-served basis seven days a week. For $39, a patient can have a 15-minute consultation with a licensed physician. A comprehensive physical is $59, while on-the-spot cholesterol tests, rapid strep tests and diabetes screenings are $29 each. For $99, the clinic offers wound suturing (including local anesthetic and a return visit to remove the stitches), while $199 buys the HealthyLover package, including physical exam and H.I.V. and S.T.D. tests. 
Each QuickHealth clinic has one doctor and one or two assistants. The clinics provide referrals, but they don't provide specialty care -- in part to avoid malpractice insurance beyond what primary care requires. Nor does QuickHealth accept insurance: its 14,000 patients are mostly working families and the uninsured, people who would normally seek primary care at the emergency room, says Dave Mandelkern, a high-tech entrepreneur who helped found QuickHealth in 2005. Two QuickHealth clinics are in branches of Farmacia Remedios, a drugstore that caters to Hispanics. By year's end there will be a clinic in another Wal-Mart, and more are in the works. (The clinics might also prove a boon for Wal-Mart employees; the company has been under attack for its employee-benefit programs.)
 David Cutler, a Harvard economist who specializes in health care, says that as long as you can integrate the roles of ''real'' doctor and ''convenience'' doctor, such clinics are ''both a good idea and a wake-up call to 'real' doctors.'' For his part, Mandelkern sees QuickHealth as a profitable business model. If the government created a universal-health-care system, ''I'd be the first one in line to hand them the keys to my clinic,'' he says. Until then, ''I think my business is unfortunately pretty secure.'' RACHEL DONADIO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); PHARMACIES (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (77%); WOUND CARE (76%); PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY INSURANCE (75%); FAMILY (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); DIABETES (71%); DIABETES TESTING (70%); CHOLESTEROL (55%) Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: QuickHealth Inc ; Wal-Mart Stores Inc

PERSON: Rachel Donadio

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%) California

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006



203 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; HOTELS OF THE YEAR THE TOILETRIES, THE CONCIERGES, THE SPAS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1489 words

HEADLINE: For 2007, Conspicuous Luxury Is In

BYLINE: By DENNY LEE

 BODY:
PLASMA screens and L'Occitane bath products no longer impress. And preloaded iPods? They're as novel today as plastic ice buckets. 
 To stand out in today's overdesigned and overhyped market, hotels in 2007 will be rolling out new twists on luxury, opening in exotic new locations (the more esoteric, the better), and dropping lots of boldface names -- not just celebrity hoteliers, but celebrities-turned-hoteliers.
Tired of limousine transfers? Land your microjet outside Warapuru (www.warapuru.com), a lavish resort opening next year in Itacare, a resort town on Brazil's jet-set Bahia coast. Designed by Anouska Hempel, best known for the Hempel and the Blakes hotels in London, the Warapuru has 40 pavilions set in a rain forest and geometric pools that overlook the Atlantic Ocean -- and a private airstrip. 
 How about room service in the Arctic tundra? Then take a dog sled to the Other Side (www.theotherside.no), a 12-room design hotel opening in Neiden, a tiny village in the polar reaches of Norway. There's midnight sun tanning in the summer, and gazing at the northern lights in the winter, when temperatures dip below zero Fahrenheit. 
 Want a big name in hotels, but not a megachain like Hilton? Then check into Nicky O South Beach, a 95-unit condo hotel in Miami from Nicky Hilton, who is branching out beyond her handbag and jewelry businesses. Expected to open next spring, the hotel promises ''fashion, glamour, celebrity and an unparalleled social environment,'' at least according to its Web site (www.nickyosouthbeach.com), which carries as much information about Ms. Hilton as it does about the hotel.
 From the poorest backwaters of central India to the ruble-lined boulevards of central Moscow, high-end hotels are raising the bar on in-room amenities, offering stylish alternatives to cookie-cutter minimalism and charging higher and higher prices for a good night's sleep. 
 Asia is again leading the way, especially in Beijing as it gears up for the 2008 Olympics. Among the 100-plus hotels under construction now is Rem Koolhaas's highly anticipated Television Cultural Center, a public companion to his CCTV Tower, which will include a luxury hotel with 300 rooms. Ritz-Carlton (www.ritzcarlton.com), which just completed a chinoiserie-style hotel with 253 rooms on Financial Street, is opening a second 320-room hotel next year on the bustling Chang An Avenue. China's tourism boom is by no means limited to Beijing. A Royal Meridien (www.lemeridien.com) recently opened in Shanghai, a 448-room Westin (www.westin.com) will open in Guangzhou in April, and new Shangri-La Hotel and Resorts (www.shangri-la.com) are scheduled next year for Baotou, Chengdu, Futian, Guangzhou, Huhhot and Xian -- home of the famous terra-cotta warriors. 
 Another rising giant, India, is getting an Amanresorts (www.amanresorts.com), in New Delhi -- the high-end hotelier's first in a metropolitan area -- and a Four Seasons (www.fourseasons.com), in Mumbai. Tokyo's economic optimism can be glimpsed next year at the Peninsula Tokyo (www.peninsula.com) and at a Ritz-Carlton, which will occupy the top nine floors of the city's tallest skyscraper. 
 Tsunami-stricken regions continue to rebound. More hotels are opening in Thailand, including the futuristic Library in Ko Samui (www.thelibrary.name; rooms starting at $270), and two Six Senses resorts (www.sixsenses.com) -- an Evason Hideaway on the tiny island of Yao Noi (starting at about $600 a night) and Soneva Kiri and Spa on Koh Kood. Another much-anticipated resort, the Cape Yamu in Phuket (www.capeyamu.com), designed by Philippe Starck for GHM Hotels, probably won't open until 2008. 
 If you can't wait that long, head to the historic Vietnamese town of Hoi An, where GHM opened the Nam Hai (www.thenamhai.com) this month with 100 templelike villas, a half-mile stretch on China Beach and 40 private swimming pools. Rooms range from $550 to $2,300 a night.
 In Europe, boutique hotels are multiplying into minichains, many of them part of the Design Hotels network (www.designhotels.com). London-based Firmdale Hotels, which owns the SoHo and five other intimate hotels around London, is adding the 55-room Haymarket (www.haymarkethotel.com) near Trafalgar Square to its portfolio this March. Elsewhere in England, Karim Rashid is lending his molded-plastic touch to the myhotel Manchester (www.myhotels.co.uk), part of a small chain that already has hotels in Bloomsbury and Chelsea. 
 The Spanish minichain Hospes Hotels (www.hospes.es) is converting three palaces and convents into sumptuous guesthouses: Hospes Madrid, Palacio del Bailio in Cordoba and Palacio San Blas in Jerez. Rates will range from $180 to more than $1,400 a night. The Amsterdam design firm FG Stijl is opening a fourth hotel, the Dominican (www.fgstijl.com), this time in a former monastery in Brussels. And in Italy, a stylish outfit called Mobygest (www.mobygest.it) is transforming the seaside annex of a medieval castle in Sicily into a 70-room hotel called the Falconara Charming House and Resort. 
 One notable nonboutique hotel opening in 2007 is the Molino Stucky in Venice, a former flour mill on the Canale Giudecca, which is being transformed into a Hilton (www.hilton.com) with 380 rooms and a rooftop pool with sweeping views. 
 And in Eastern Europe, Ritz-Carlton is promising an ''unheard-of level of conspicuous luxury'' when it opens a 334-room hotel near Red Square in Moscow in March. Conspicuous luxury includes 30,000 pieces of solid-silver tableware by Robbe & Berking, china by Wedgwood and KPM, toiletries by Bulgari and 2,500 sets of Frette 400-thread-count bed linens. 
 The Middle East, by contrast, is having a relatively quiet year, but that's because the grandest projects are more than a year away. In Dubai, where hotels bearing names like Versace, Armani and Trump are all in the works, a pyramid-shaped Raffles (www.dubai.raffles.com) is opening this summer with 248 pharaoh-chic rooms and a two-and-a-half-acre rooftop greenhouse. In Kuwait, a 200-room hotel from the fashion label Missoni is expected to open on the waterfront. And in Oman, an 82-villa Evason Hideaway opens on Zighy Bay, a remote crescent of white sand where guests can swoop in on paraglides. 
 New hotels in the Americas seem tame by comparison, but not by much. In addition to the Warapuru, Brazil will welcome the Fasano Hotel e Restaurante in Rio de Janiero (www.fasano.com.br), the stylish new address designed by Philippe Starck on Ipanema Beach. In the Caribbean, W Hotels (www.whotels.com) brings its martini glasses and sleek decor to Vieques, the Puerto Rican island that may be the next St. Bart's (or worse). The Bahamas gets a bit more exclusive with the Cove Atlantis on Paradise Island (www.thecoveatlantis.com), an upscale cousin to the Las Vegas-style Atlantis, and with Starwood's Cotton Bay Estates on the pink sands of Eleuthera (www.cottonbayeleuthera.com).
 In Mexico, the Hotel Habita group is planning four new hotels including La Purificadora in the historic city of Puebla. Occupying an old factory, the 26-room hotel is being designed by Ricardo Legorreta, the celebrated Mexican architect. 
 On the domestic front, Miami continues to cultivate a slew of new hotels. The Royal Palm Resort in South Beach (www.royalpalmmiamibeach.com) is getting a $20 million shot of testosterone that includes a Maxim Lounge created by the night-life impresario Rande Gerber. At the other extreme is Canyon Ranch, which is opening a 150-suite hotel in Miami Beach (www.canyonranchmiamibeach.com), part of a residential complex devoted to health living. And, of course, there's Nicky O. 
 But the most hyped hotel in the country may be Robert De Niro's Downtown Hotel, scheduled to open in Manhattan next year. Unlike Ms. Hilton, the actor is tight-lipped about the $43 million hotel, a new brick and terra-cotta structure in TriBeCa at Greenwich and North Moore Streets. It will have 90 rooms, a restaurant called Ago and, probably, a taxi stand. 
 Other boutique hotels opening in Manhattan include 6 Columbus (www.6columbus.com), part of Thompson Hotels, which created 60 Thompson in SoHo; the Lamb Hotel on West 44th Street, the latest from the hotelier Vikram Chatwal, owner of Time, Dream and Night hotels in Midtown Manhattan; and Andre Balazs's the Standard in the meatpacking district, though 2008 looks more likely. 
 And then there's the fabled Plaza Hotel (www.theplazahotel.com), which is reopening next year with 130 rooms (and 152 condo-hotel units), down considerably from the original 807 hotel rooms that it had before it was purchased by Elad Properties and most of its space was turned into private residences. The hotel portion, to be managed by Fairmont Hotels & Resorts, will have HDTVs, wireless Internet access and a touch-screen device for ordering caviar, retrieving a car from the valet and making dinner reservations. What would Eloise think?


CORRECTION-DATE: December 24, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on Dec. 10 about notable hotel openings in 2007 misstated the name of a new hotel that is part of the myhotel chain. It is myhotel Brighton -- not myhotel Manchester.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Library, Ko Samui, Thailand
Ritz-Carlton, Beijing
Ritz-Carlton, Moscow
 the Plaza, New York.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (93%); CELEBRITIES (89%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (78%); RAIN FORESTS (78%); RESORTS (78%); WINTER SPORTS (78%); RELOCATIONS (77%); HOTEL AMENITIES (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (75%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (72%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (72%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (70%); OLYMPICS (69%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (66%); TOURISM (50%); WEB SITES (50%) Hotels and Motels

COMPANY: HILTON WORLDWIDE (92%); SHANGRI-LA ASIA LTD (58%)

TICKER: S07 (SGX) (58%); 0069 (HKSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (92%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (92%)

PERSON: Denny Lee

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (86%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (72%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%); GUANGZHOU, CHINA (51%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); EAST CHINA (72%); SOUTH CHINA (72%); NEI MONGOL, CHINA (57%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (57%) CHINA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (86%); INDIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); ARCTIC (79%); BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (68%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006



204 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: As the Dollar Falls, Some Dominoes Don't

BYLINE: By DANIEL ALTMAN

 BODY:
EXCHANGE rates are changing -- and fast. While American consumers may not react right away -- say, by buying fewer imports and thus narrowing the trade deficit -- investors may be a different story.
 When the dollar drops, several things happen. Returns on dollar-denominated assets become less valuable to foreigners. The dollars they receive in interest, dividends and other distributions don't buy as many euros or yen. And dollar-denominated assets become cheaper to buy. If foreign investors think that the dollar will recover someday, or if they are seeking a combination of risk and return that still looks good with a lower dollar, they may go on a shopping spree.
Other effects occur with a bit more time. For example, if investors are predominantly selling their American assets to buy foreign ones instead, the demand for dollars will drop. That pushes the dollar's value down further, and the effect can start to snowball, perhaps uncontrollably. 
 So, are any of these things happening now? The dollar has certainly taken a big tumble since its highs of February 2002 -- a whopping 18 percent in a broad measure calculated by the Federal Reserve, both in raw exchange rates and after adjusting for differences in the prices of goods at home and abroad. The dollar has moved substantially more against some currencies. Say you are a German who bought an American bond paying 8 percent four years ago, when the euro was about one to one with the dollar. Now that bond is paying only 6 percent, as far as you're concerned.
 Different types of investors may react to this effect in different ways, said Richard Portes, a professor of economics at London Business School. ''You've got two categories of investor,'' he explained. ''One is the central banks, which have been putting their reserves in the dollar securities, typically Treasury securities. The other is the private sector. The private sector has not, in the past couple of years, net been putting its money into American securities. In fact, there's been a net outflow in equities.''
 Central banks will eventually take the same cue, he added, if they continue to see the value of their dollar-denominated reserves plummet. ''People say central banks don't care if they lose money,'' Professor Portes said. ''That's just not true. I've talked to central bankers who have said, 'I'm not going to be the last one out of this room if a fire breaks out.' ''
 Indeed, central banks have already started to diversify holdings away from the dollar, which is a factor behind its drop. But this process hasn't created a crisis yet, nor has it substantially cut the funds available for businesses and consumers in the United States.
 ''Asian central banks have already diversified and will continue to do so,'' said Kathleen Stephansen, director of global economics at Credit Suisse. ''But that's not putting into question the fact that the dollar remains the predominant currency in the basket, and I'm thinking particularly with regard to China.''
 Ms. Stephansen pointed out that new sources of funds for the American market are popping up all the time. 
 ''There are a lot of emerging markets that are extremely good at creating gross domestic product, and they don't really have the financial wherewithal at the moment to invest the proceeds,'' she said. ''The U.S. still remains the most liquid market. And that's why I think we'll continue to see capital flows coming here.''
 Even with more money rolling in from developing countries -- and, more recently, oil exporters as well -- you might expect savvy American investors to start putting their money overseas. After all, if you had bet on the euro five years ago, you would have earned a 50 percent return by now.
 Though investors have been shifting money overseas, they haven't moved as much as you might expect. Ms. Stephansen said that American investors still had a significant homeward bias, and that, given market realities, their portfolios were still ''very much skewed towards the U.S.''
 And what of the opportunity for foreigners to do some bargain-basement shopping for American assets and companies? Ms. Stephansen said the dollar would probably have to fall further before a wave of rate-driven foreign direct investment occurred. It might not be too far away, though; she suggested that a climb by the euro to $1.40, compared with $1.32 on Friday, could be enough.
 In the meantime, the dollar's plunge may have actually had a salutary effect on investors' view of the United States. Professor Portes remarked that as the dollar falls, so does the value of the nation's debt in international markets. In fact, he estimates that the value of the nation's debt, restated in terms of other currencies, has fallen enough this year to offset the entire trade deficit -- which, after all, is a collection of debts as well.
 ''That should be reassuring to foreign investors, that the weight of this debt overhang has been reduced very substantially,'' he said. ''Roughly speaking, this valuation effect has just about accounted for the current account deficit. Talking about what foreign investors see, I'm suggesting they see a picture that is not as grim as you would have seen a year ago, even.''
 With all of these counterbalancing effects, the dollar's decline could continue in an orderly and relatively benign fashion. The economy could see what, under the circumstances, would be the best of all possible worlds: a lower dollar helping to support American exports, while foreign money continues to rush into the country. Even this outcome wouldn't be entirely painless, though, since consumers and businesses would have to pay more for imported goods and services.
 Right now, Ms. Stephansen said, the principal danger is an outside shock that would dent foreigners' confidence in American markets. In the absence of something so significant, shifts in trade and investments will happen gradually -- though it's hard to tell how far along the process is.
 ''It's difficult to draw any clear-cut conclusion here,'' she said. ''I don't think that we'll have much in terms of a clear picture until we get more data. What does that sound like? A typical economist, right?''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Less Hungry for Dollars''Since the dollar's peak in early 2002, Americans have generally been buying more foreign securities. Foreigners, excluding their governments, were buying more American securities until late last year.Graph tracks the quarterly net purchases of U.S. securities by foreign residents (excluding foreign official agencies) and net purchases of foreign securities by U.S. residents since 2002.(Source by Bureau of Economic Analysis)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXCHANGE RATES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (86%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); EURO (76%); TRENDS (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); TREASURY SECURITIES (71%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (69%); HOME PRICES (68%) Currency; Foreign Investments; Economic Conditions and Trends; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); United States Economy

PERSON: Daniel Altman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006



205 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OPENERS: SUITS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 135 words

HEADLINE: THANKS, BOSS 

BYLINE: By JANE L. LEVERE

 BODY:
In his annual role as a not-so-secret Santa, Patrick J. McGovern, chairman of the International Data Group, began personally distributing cash bonuses to each IDG employee in the United States last week. 
 When he started the company, and the tradition, in 1964, he gave $200 in cash to each of IDG's 16 employees in its sole office, in Newton, Mass. This year, through Dec. 21, he will visit 15 offices from Boston to San Francisco, leaving each of the 1,600 employees he meets $500 richer.
 Mr. McGovern says he gets as much out of the meetings as his employees. ''I ask them for new ideas and suggestions for us to continue to grow and improve,'' he said. Among the ideas obtained this way: creating the Macworld Conference and Expo, which drew 20,000 people the first time it was held, in 1985. JANE L. LEVERE


GRAPHIC: Photo: Each year, Patrick McGovern, chief executive of the International Data Group, personally delivers holiday bonuses to all employees in the United States. Here, Cindy Derby accepts the cash. (Photo by Jodi Hilton for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (88%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (88%) Computers and the Internet; Bonuses; Labor; Christmas

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL DATA GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: International Data Group

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: Patrick Mcgovern

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (55%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006



206 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2625 words

HEADLINE: Poisoned by Scandal, Craving an Antidote

BYLINE: By CHARLES DUHIGG

 BODY:
NEAR midnight on a Friday in 2000, William E. Morgenstern, the chief executive of Rent-Way, one of the nation's largest rent-to-own retailers, was preparing for bed when a woman called to warn him that the company he had built from scratch was about to fall apart. 
 In the days before that call, Mr. Morgenstern had been scrambling to reconcile discrepancies he had discovered in Rent-Way's books. He had much at stake. Since its founding in 1981 in Erie, Pa., Rent-Way had grown into a national powerhouse by renting furniture and electronics to low-income consumers through more than 1,100 stores.
The stock price had tripled since its initial offering in 1993, making Mr. Morgenstern a Wall Street darling and propelling dozens of Erie families who had invested in the company to sudden wealth. 
 When he discovered the accounting problems, Mr. Morgenstern initially hoped for a quick explanation. But interviews with executives led to more questions. Then came the midnight phone call: a weeping employee told him that for three years Mr. Morgenstern's top deputies had forced her to cook Rent-Way's books. 
 Mr. Morgenstern then called the company's lawyer in a panic. What, he asked, should they do?
 Over the following years, similar dilemmas would arise at Enron, WorldCom, Tyco and dozens of other companies. Today, hundreds of executives are anxiously discussing how hard they should look for evidence of options backdating or other accounting problems. 
 At companies where far lesser frauds or malfeasance emerge, executives face an even more ticklish quandary: Should they reveal everything, and then confront the hazards of bad publicity and outside investigations, or clean things up and hope that the problems will evaporate unnoticed? Rent-Way's own journey, which came to a head last month, offers a chilling lesson: Even the most virtuous decisions have unforeseen, often damaging, consequences, and full disclosure may create as many problems as it solves.
 ''It was the darkest moment of my life,'' said Mr. Morgenstern, who stepped down as Rent-Way's chief executive last year, retaining the chairman's post. ''I started this company at 22 after three years of college. It represented all of my wealth. I tried to make the right decision at every juncture, but we had to pay a terrible price.''
 Rent-Way's board made a decision within days of detecting the fraud -- Mr. Morgenstern called the Securities and Exchange Commission and revealed everything. The company would turn over documents typically protected by attorney-client privilege, he said. He then invited the S.E.C. to set up an office at Rent-Way's headquarters to conduct an on-site investigation. 
 ''There was a stunned silence from the regulators,'' said one participant in the call. ''Then the S.E.C. attorney said, 'Can you say that again?' ''
 The S.E.C. had good reason for surprise. Rent-Way's openness was unusual, especially in an era when other companies actively masked glaring frauds or covered up problems to avoid the legal and financial complications they might incur.
 ''There's a huge amount of pressure to fight,'' said Lanny J. Davis, a lawyer who has advised many besieged executives, including the HealthSouth founder Richard M. Scrushy, the former White House occupant Bill Clinton, and, for a period, Mr. Morgenstern. ''If you let regulators in, you lose control of everything. Suddenly, they start exposing problems you didn't know existed. Some say the safest route is to fight and hope regulators won't be able to make their case.''
 Enron, WorldCom and Tyco, for instance, battled regulators and investors when accounting questions arose. More recently, during the options backdating scandals, companies such as UnitedHealth Group, Altera, CNet Networks and Affiliated Computer Services have tried to complete internal investigations before opening their books to outsiders. Such resistance is understandable, some say.
 ''People get scared, and that makes them crave control,'' said Roderick M. Hills, a former S.E.C. chairman who helped clean up fraud-damaged organizations as a director at Waste Management, Sunbeam-Oster and Drexel Burnham Lambert. ''There's an instinct to hope your crimes will just slip through the cracks. When you hand everything over, it can feel like you're handing your enemies a gun.'' 
 But at Rent-Way, executives hoped that openness would contain the damage. The company had experience confronting criticism. For years, consumer advocates had attacked the rent-to-own industry as predatory, complaining that the business's rough-and-tumble practices focused on low-income, unsophisticated customers and included exorbitant fees to rent appliances.
 The board fired three executives who had overseen the fraud, and hired an outside investigator. Everything was shared with regulators and investors as soon as it was compiled. 
 ''We were committed to not letting this company be brought down by a small group of people engaged in criminal activity,'' said William Lerner, a Rent-Way director and former S.E.C. official. ''We were determined to do everything as morally and ethically as we could.''
 Initially, Rent-Way's open-door strategy had little effect. When its stock began trading after the fraud was revealed, shares plummeted 75 percent within hours. Law firms began encouraging investors to file class-action suits. The company eventually issued a $127 million financial restatement -- turning a cumulative $45 million profit from 1998 to 2000 into a $35 million loss. 
 Although the adjustment represented only 8 percent of Rent-Way's revenue and primarily involved arcana like depreciation rates, the news pushed Rent-Way's stock into a free fall. By December, just over a month after the fraud's detection, the stock price bottomed at $3.25 a share, down from more than $30 two months before. 
 Some board members raised the possibility of the company's declaring bankruptcy, a tack taken later by larger and more infamous companies such as WorldCom, Refco and Adelphia Communications. Others suggested selling the company to a private equity group, an option that had allowed other scandal-plagued companies to escape public scrutiny and quietly rebuild.
 Those paths became more attractive as anger mounted in Erie toward Rent-Way. Walking through a local supermarket, a shopper confronted Mr. Morgenstern and shouted that he could not afford groceries because his portfolio had disappeared. Anonymous callers made threatening phone calls to Mr. Morgenstern's home. His children asked to stay home from school because teachers told them that their father was a crook, he said. Mr. Morgenstern and his wife, meanwhile, spent most of their time locked in their home, afraid to venture outside.
 ''Bill was a basket case,'' Mr. Davis said. ''He ceased to have a life outside of his office. We sat down for dinner one night and he broke into tears just describing what each day was like.''
 EVEN so, Mr. Morgenstern fought suggestions to sell.
 ''Our employees had invested their entire life savings and would have been wiped out,'' he said in an interview. ''If I ran away, I would have regretted it for the rest of my life.''
 And small glimmers of hope were beginning to emerge. At Rent-Way's annual convention in Las Vegas, four months after the fraud was revealed, Mr. Morgenstern appeared before thousands of employees and told them that he knew they were concerned. He knew that they read the newspapers and were worried that their paychecks would disappear. Alone on the stage, he promised that the company would survive and would emerge stronger than ever. The room erupted into cheers.
 ''Most of our managers aren't college graduates,'' said Mr. Lerner, who attended the speech. ''We count on people who live paycheck to paycheck to make these stores work. So when Bill told them that everything was fine, it was like a wave of electricity moved through the room. Everybody believed in him.''
 Indeed, most of the company's stores were still profitable. From a revenue perspective, Rent-Way was stronger than ever. Unlike scandals at Enron and Tyco, where fraud disguised huge losses, Rent-Way's deceptions exaggerated growth. Real expansion continued after the Internet bubble popped and more consumers started renting rather than buying appliances. A year after the fraud emerged, revenue had rebounded, increasing by 10 percent. 
 Little of that showed up in the company's stock price, however. The taint of scandal had frightened away stockbrokers and individual investors, and institutional shareholders were leery of trusting its books.
 More threatening were the company's debt woes. The fraud had caused Rent-Way to violate covenants with many lenders, requiring the company to refinance. But banks looked at the restated earnings and pending lawsuits and demanded interest rates up to six percentage points higher than the norm. 
 Even as revenue grew, Rent-Way had to use more and more income to pay interest. In the two years after the fraud's detection, the company paid down over $100 million in debt, leaving $215 million outstanding, but interest still consumed an amount roughly equal to 40 cents a share.
 Executives hoped that the additional costs would be temporary: If the stock's price rebounded, it would allow them to erase debt more quickly by selling rising shares. 
 So Rent-Way executives issued glowing press releases announcing that investigations had ended and that auditors had given the company a clean bill. The board found Mr. Morgenstern innocent of any wrongdoing. The S.E.C., citing Rent-Way's cooperation, said the company would escape without sanction or fine. 
 The United States attorney's office in Erie, which successfully prosecuted three Rent-Way executives for criminal fraud, commended Mr. Morgenstern's openness as ''a good example of how a company can alleviate'' the consequences of misconduct ''by fully and openly cooperating with the government.''
 Despite the good words from the law enforcement authorities, the financial markets continued to batter Rent-Way. Its interest payments consumed more and more cash, and the stock price refused to budge. 
 According to board members and advisers, some directors began wondering whether they should replace Mr. Morgenstern as chairman and chief executive. Some argued that he was responsible for allowing a culture of fraud to flourish, regardless of his lack of involvement. 
 They said Mr. Morgenstern -- who had attended church alongside the corrupt executives -- was too trusting of his deputies. Mr. Morgenstern himself often wondered aloud if his staff had mistakenly construed his relentless cheerleading about beating stock market expectations as encouragement to break the law.
 A new chief executive -- such as a high-profile business leader from outside -- would give Rent-Way a new image, some board members said. Indeed, crisis experts say a leadership change is essential at any company where fraud is exposed.
 ''You have to get new people in place right away, and recruit outsiders who Wall Street respects to show that the company has changed,'' said Mr. Hills, the former S.E.C. chairman. ''If the same faces represent the company before and after the fraud, you have to wonder how they've fixed the problem.'' 
 Many companies caught up in the current options backdating scandals have replaced senior executives, even when it has been unclear how much they knew. Leaders at Affiliated Computer Services, Altera, the Apollo Group, the Boston Communications Group, McAfee, CNet Networks, Cyberonics, Trident Microsystems and dozens of other companies have resigned in the last year, despite assertions that many were unaware backdating had occurred. 
 Nonetheless, Rent-Way's board, which had united to confront the crisis, ultimately could not bring itself to oust Mr. Morgenstern. ''We should have recruited someone who could send a message to Wall Street,'' Mr. Lerner said. ''We knew it at the time. But it would have hurt Bill so much, after he had put so much into saving the company. It just seemed impossibly cruel.''
 In 2003, when two of the Rent-Way executives responsible for the fraud were sentenced to prison, the company began selling stores to reduce its crippling debt. Almost 300 locations were sold to Rent-A-Center, its biggest rival. Rent-Way announced a $25 million settlement of lawsuits stemming from the fraud, but still the stock price did not improve.
 SO, in 2004, four years after the fraud was detected, Rent-Way revealed a new strategy: the company would open one new store a week over two years. Although the plan would require more debt, executives hoped that investors would rediscover Rent-Way and treat it like a growth company deserving a higher stock price. As the stock's value increased, the company could refinance its debt at better rates.
 The plan worked. Rent-Way opened 54 new stores in 2005, and income grew. The stock price began to inch higher; it would climb 18 percent in six months. Mr. Morgenstern appointed a new chief executive from within the company while retaining his position as chairman. 
 Then, outside forces intervened. Hurricane damage temporarily closed 25 percent of Rent-Way's stores in the Southeast. An increase in gas prices made it harder for low-income customers to spend on televisions and sofas. The overall economy began to slow, and Rent-Way's stock began to slide again.
 ''We were finally getting out of survival mode, and then it all came apart,'' said William Short, who replaced Mr. Morgenstern as the C.E.O. ''If everything had held out for just one more year, the company would have survived. But because of a relatively small mistake five years earlier, we had no margin of error.''
 This year, despite increasing its operating revenue by more than 300 percent since the fraud was revealed, Rent-Way discreetly put out word that the company was for sale. 
 In November, Rent-A-Center acquired Rent-Way for $567 million, or $10.65 a share. Any investor who bought Rent-Way stock one day before the accounting fraud was announced received just 35 cents for every dollar of shares held six years later -- despite the company's hauling in $2.5 billion in revenue during the same period. An investor who bought Rent-A-Center stock six years ago would have nearly doubled his money by today. 
 The sale, the stock losses, the damaged reputations and the shattered careers and lives, Rent-Way insiders say, can be traced to the accounting scandal despite everything that has happened since.
 ''We were never able to get over the taint of damaged goods,'' said Mr. Lerner, who said the board had a fiduciary duty to accept the 31 percent premium to its stock price that Rent-A-Center offered. ''There's a real sadness over this sale.''
 Crisis consultants say the lessons from Rent-Way's experiences are troubling.
 ''This company did the right thing in letting the S.E.C. and the public know about the fraud as quickly as possible,'' said Ron Hartwig, a crisis communications expert now with the J. Paul Getty Trust. ''But when you're besieged by lawyers and reporters and shareholders, it's easy to lose control. If executives don't appear to have a plan, if they don't seem to know all the answers, everything begins to slip away. Sometimes being honest and forthright isn't enough.''
 For Mr. Morgenstern, who now lives in North Carolina and is seeking new business opportunities, that has been the hardest lesson of all.
 ''I did everything that I thought was right, but in some ways it didn't matter,'' he said. ''This wasn't a broken company. And when I found illegal activity, I exposed it. But that shouldn't have ended a great company. I don't know what else we should have done.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: William Morgenstern of Rent-Way, which tried to cooperate fully with regulators over an accounting fraud. (Photo by Rich Forsgren/Erie Times-News)(pg. 1)
Roderick Hills, a former chairman of the S.E.C., says management changes are essential to companies recovering from a scandal. (Photo by David Scull/Bloomberg News)
Lanny Davis, a lawyer who has advised executives in crisis, says the pressure to resist an admission of wrongdoing is great. (Photo by Alex Wong/Getty Images, for Meet the Press)(pg. 8)
 A shopper, Mark Smith, examining furniture last week at a Rent-Way store in West Haven, Conn. The chain is now owned by Rent-A-Center. (Photo by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)(pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING (90%); RETAILERS (90%); CONSUMER GOODS RENTAL (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (86%); SCANDALS (86%); MISCONDUCT (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); DIVESTITURES (72%); LAWYERS (70%); PRIVILEGED COMMUNICATIONS (69%); BACKDATED STOCK OPTIONS (69%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (68%); ETHICS (67%); ATTORNEY CLIENT PRIVILEGE (65%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (55%) Retail Stores and Trade; Frauds and Swindling; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Renting and Leasing; Accounting and Accountants; Ethics

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (55%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Rent-Way Inc; Rent-A-Center Inc

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (55%); VZ (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (55%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: Charles Duhigg; William E Morgenstern

GEOGRAPHIC: ERIE, PA, USA (72%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006



207 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 419 words

HEADLINE: A Terrible Thing to Waste. Or Try This.

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
ENERGY conservation has been linked with more than its fair share of ambitious causes: preserving American liberty and saving humanity, for starters.
 If ever an issue was ripe for one of those ubiquitous, can't-get-it-out-of-your-head public service slogans, one would think that this is it. 
But advertisers and the federal government aren't rushing to produce a public service campaign along the lines of ''Only you can prevent forest fires'' and ''This is your brain on drugs,'' which have become part of the national consciousness. The New York Times enlisted three advertising agencies known for their creative flair to take a shot.
 The assignment was to imagine that the Ad Council, the nonprofit organization behind some of the most memorable public service announcements, has asked them to create the definitive campaign to promote energy conservation. 
 Creating any P.S.A. is a chore, ad executives said, because the goal is getting people to alter everyday behavior.
 ''To compel people to change their behavior, we need to help them decide what's at stake is worth changing their lifestyle for,'' said Gail Barlow, creative director with Kirshenbaum Bond & Partners, an advertising agency in New York. ''You need to identify something that people hold dearly.''
 Is that their pocketbooks? Drinking water? Security?
 The White House has said that the nation's ''addiction'' to oil threatens its ability to compete in the global economy. ''We are too dependent on oil,'' President Bush said recently. 
 Experience shows that even if faced with the loss of something they say they hold dear, it is hard to sway many Americans because they don't see the need to change.
 Vice President Dick Cheney, the former chief executive of an oil-services company, famously dismissed conservation as a ''personal virtue'' in 2001. Senator James M. Inhofe, Republican of Oklahoma and chairman of the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee until control shifts to the Democrats, has called global warming ''the greatest hoax ever perpetrated on the American people.'' In a committee hearing last week, he said that global warming was exaggerated by ''advocates for alarmism.''
 Here are the efforts of three advertisers, two of whom said unabashedly that they have no problem with alarmism.

THE ENERGY CHALLENGE
Articles in this series are examining the ways in which the world is, and is not, moving toward a more energy-efficient, environmentally benign future. Previous articles are at nytimes.com/energychallenge.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Deutsch -- ''We wanted to shake people up and let them know this is a grave situation,'' said Bryan Black, an executive vice president with Deutsch in New York. In addition to the print ad, his firm proposed a mock magazine that would be aimed at readers who live in a polluted future.
Anomaly -- ''This is really more to be symbolic, but it has some practical application as well,'' said Johnny Vulkan, a partner with Anomaly in New York. His firm proposed a campaign that would include these signs and temporarily lower the speed limit to 54 m.p.h. to demonstrate how a relatively modest effort could produce significant results.
 Kirshenbaum Bond & Partners -- ''America, to be truly free in the world, needs to be dependent on itself and not on foreign oil,'' said Lance Ferguson, associate creative director with Kirshenbaum Bond & Partners in New York. The slogan is meant to tap into both national pride and feelings of vulnerability.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); PUBLIC SERVICE ADVERTISING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (79%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (69%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (66%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (64%); GLOBALIZATION (64%); FOREST FIRES (55%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (55%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%) Energy and Power; Advertising and Marketing; Surveys and Series

COMPANY: KIRSHENBAUM BOND & PARTNERS (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (55%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (55%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (59%); JIM INHOFE (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%) Jeremy W Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006



208 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MARKET WEEK; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: Which Economy Will Guide The Fed? 

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
WHEN Federal Reserve policy makers meet on Tuesday, they will examine conditions in the economy and make a decision on interest rates. But which economy will they focus on -- the one that manufactures things and builds homes, which seems to be on the brink of recession, or the one that provides services of all sorts, which continues to surge? 
 Robert B. MacIntosh, chief economist at the fund manager Eaton Vance, says it is a matter of ''simple math.''
''The manufacturing side is one-sixth of the economy and the service side is five-sixths,'' he said. ''If 83 percent of the economy is doing well, it certainly overwhelms the one-sixth that isn't.''
 Though the Fed has been closely monitoring the threat of inflation from the service side of the economy, Mr. MacIntosh does not expect a rate increase this week, and more than 80 economists polled by Bloomberg News were unanimous in predicting that the Fed's key rate would remain at 5.25 percent.
 When it comes to calculating the odds of rate cuts next year, the math no longer seems simple. Prices on futures contracts for short-term debt imply that traders foresee the Fed easing rates at least once in the next few months, probably because the housing market is so feeble.
 Yet Mr. MacIntosh considers that highly doubtful, with so much strength evident in services. ''I don't see that there's any way they can cut rates for a while,'' he said.
 He doubts that any concern for manufacturers would tilt the central bank toward easing credit, he said.
 ''I'm not sure how much manufacturing weakness is due to the Fed,'' he said. ''A lot of it is old-line industries paring activities over time.'' He did place the slowdown in housing at the Fed's doorstep, but he noted that weakness in that sector would affect businesses in manufacturing and services alike.
 The statement that will accompany the Fed's announcement this week is likely to confirm recent remarks by the chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, and his colleagues indicating that they remain cautious about inflation, Mr. MacIntosh said. ''I think they've made it clear that rate cuts are not on the horizon for a while,'' he said. ''For the markets to be pricing one in is a mistake.''

DATA WATCH -- Investors will get an indication on Friday of the Fed's success at taming inflation, with the release of consumer price data for November.
 The Bloomberg poll predicts a 0.2 percent increase, after food and energy items are removed from consideration. The increase for October was 0.1 percent.
 A snapshot of the nation's trade balance in October is due shortly before the Fed announcement on Tuesday. The deficit is forecast to have shrunk to $63 billion from $64.3 billion.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Federal Funds Target Rate since 2004.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); FUTURES (73%); MUTUAL FUNDS (71%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (65%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (50%) United States Economy

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%) Conrad De Aenlle

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006



209 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; DANCE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1183 words

HEADLINE: An '80s Darling, Here and Now, And Home Again

BYLINE: By ROSLYN SULCAS

 BODY:
IN high heels and a short strapless dress made of artfully assembled alternating strips of black and transparent fabrics, Karole Armitage took a bow on the stage of City Center after the recent premiere of her ''Gamelan Gardens,'' created for the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater. With her long, lean frame and cropped blond hair, she still looked like the young choreographer who both shocked and enthralled New York audiences in the late 1970s and early '80s with high-voltage, punk-influenced dances like ''Do We Could'' and ''Drastic Classicism.''
 But more than two decades have passed, and Ms. Armitage, now 53, after a long stretch in Europe, is once again a relative newcomer, a stranger to a large segment of local audiences. To those who remember or have read about the new era that her early choreography seemed to promise, however, she is a prodigal daughter.
 ''For more than 20 years, since Balanchine's death, people have been waiting for someone to carry on his project,'' Joan Acocella wrote in The New Yorker in 2004, reviewing a new work by Ms. Armitage at the Joyce Theater in New York. ''Armitage seems to be trying to do so. She should come home, and stay.'' 
 That's a lot of pressure on an artist, but ''my own ambition about what I'm trying to do,'' Ms. Armitage said the day after the ''Gamelan Gardens'' premiere, ''has always exerted way more pressure than anyone else could.'' That ambition has, she added, remained the same since the early days of her career: ''To take classical thinking about technique and form, and bring to it the way we are thinking and experiencing things now.''
 In the 1980s she was something of a downtown ''It'' girl, creating her own high-decibel pieces, choreographing for Madonna and Michael Jackson on the side, and forming part of an artistic set that included Jeff Koons and David Salle, with whom she had a long relationship. The title ''Drastic Classicism'' summed up her approach in those years: take the rigor and integrity of expression inherent in classical dance, and push it -- hard -- into the contemporary world. In the '80s that meant pairing her jagged bursts of formal ballet steps with eardrum-challenging rock music and anarchic set and costume designs by Charles Atlas.
 Critics and the downtown audience loved her radical style and irreverent playfulness. ''It was all great fun and thought provoking, like a cerebral Halloween party,'' Anna Kisselgoff wrote, reviewing ''Drastic Classicism'' in The New York Times in 1981.
 Ms. Armitage grew up in Lawrence, Kan., and trained at the North Carolina School of the Arts and at School of American Ballet summer sessions. Her first job, at 17, was with the Balanchine-affiliated Geneva Ballet, but she left after a year, dissatisfied with what she called ''the ballet mentality.'' 
 ''I loved dancing the contemporary Balanchine pieces, like 'Agon,' '' she said, ''but I felt like a bit of an impostor in the 'Ballet Imperial' things.'' A friend introduced her to Merce Cunningham, and she returned to New York to take classes at the Cunningham studios. ''I had never even seen modern dance until then,'' she said. ''It was a different era: we were literally forbidden to take modern dance class at school. We never even saw those students. I think they were in the basement.''
 Mr. Cunningham invited Ms. Armitage to join his company, subsequently creating several important roles for her. After five years, however, she felt the same restlessness she had experienced in Geneva. ''I wanted something more of the time, more contemporary,'' she said. ''It was the rule of no: no virtuosity, no costumes, no scenery. I felt like it was time to say yes, to reintroduce passion and relationships and emotion to dance. So I just made a piece. I had no plans.''
 The success of her early works, created while she was still performing with the Cunningham company, led to offers from France, where she choreographed several pieces for her own group of dancers (among them Michael Clark, a British dancer who was later to become fairly famous as a choreographer prone to excess both on and off stage). Ms. Armitage was also invited to choreograph for the Paris Opera Ballet and American Ballet Theater. By the end of the decade she had tired of trying to sustain her own company while commuting between continents.
 ''I was very young, and I was trying to dance, do the administration of the company and choreograph all at the same time, and I felt like I was doing everything badly,'' she said. ''Then the bottom really fell out of the New York economy in 1989, and so I just took on more and more European projects.'' From 1995 to 1999 she directed the MaggioDanza company in Florence, which she describes as ''a wonderful adventure.'' 
 After a few more years taking on freelance projects and working as the resident choreographer for the Ballet de Lorraine, in the French city of Nancy, ''I felt that I'd reached the end of something,'' she said. In flagrant contrast to the scores of dancers and choreographers dreaming of a better, state-subsidized life in Europe, she decided to return to the United States. The turning point, she says, was ''Time Is the Echo of an Ax Within a Wood,'' a 2004 commission from the Joyce for which she put together a small group of dancers. 
 ''I remembered how much drive New York dancers have,'' she said. ''You really have to be passionate about your art here, because it's so undervalued, and that creates a special intensity. Afterwards I thought I should just try to keep this group together and go on a voyage with them instead of starting over each time.'' 
 Early last year she formed her new company, Armitage Gone! Dance, presenting a new work, ''In That Dream That Dogs Me,'' at the Duke on West 42nd Street last December. When Judith Jamison, the artistic director of the Ailey company, heard that Ms. Armitage had returned to New York, she immediately approached her. 
 ''I had seen her work ages ago in Europe,'' Ms. Jamison said. ''I was always fascinated by her dancing. She was always just a little off center, a little quirky, and I liked her style as a person, and her underlying drive. I want my dancers to stretch, to move around in other people's shoes, and I knew she would do that.''
 It might be argued that Ms. Armitage put the Ailey dancers a little too firmly in her own stylistic shoes in ''Gamelan Gardens,'' which John Rockwell described as ''disappointingly flat'' in a review on Monday in The New York Times. To absorb the nuances of the intricate, detailed movements that inform much of the piece, the dancers may well need more rehearsal time than is commonly available in a big company. 
 But for Ms. Armitage each new work back in New York is a chance to connect with the audience and the inspiration closest to her heart. ''No one is going to replace Balanchine,'' she said. ''But I'm happy to be counted among the people trying to do that in their own way. There is a hunger here for work that has something of that beauty, that transcendence, the idea of the ephemeral. I hope I can convey some of that.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Clifton Brown and Dwana Adiaha Smallwood performing Karole Armitage's ''Gamelan Gardens.'' (Photo by Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE COMPANIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); CHOREOGRAPHY (90%); DANCE (90%); BALLET (77%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (73%); POP & ROCK (70%); HALLOWEEN (60%) Dancing

ORGANIZATION: Ailey, Alvin, American Dance Theater

PERSON: Roslyn Sulcas; Karole Armitage

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%); KANSAS, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006



210 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; HOME FRONT; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: Trading Up to Careers in the Operating Room

BYLINE: By JOSEPH P. FRIED. 
This column about the local economy appears every other week. E-mail address: homefront@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
AFTER seven years as a secretary in the psychiatry department at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx, India Rouault said, she was ''tired of pushing papers.'' She also welcomed the prospect of earning more money.
 Lillian Gonzalez spent 12 years in clerical jobs at the hospital, most recently verifying surgical patients' insurance coverage. She wanted to deal with patients hands-on and see more pay in her hands.
James Mangum Jr. felt that he was stagnating after nine years in Montefiore's nutrition department, doing jobs like preparing the trays of food sent to patients. 
 Ms. Rouault, 41; Ms. Gonzalez, 42; and Mr. Mangum, 28, all Bronx residents, are no longer in those jobs. Instead, on a recent day, they could be found in a classroom in Manhattan with 14 other Montefiore employees and a supine female mannequin that could be opened to reveal models of internal organs.
 The group is attending a 10-month full-time training course to become surgical technologists at Montefiore.
 Among other tasks, surgical technologists, also known as operating room technicians, help prepare the operating room and the patient, by laying out surgical instruments and other equipment, shaving and disinfecting the incision site, and positioning and draping the patient on the table. During the operation, they hand the instruments to the surgeon. 
 As with health-related occupations generally, surgical technology is expected to be a source of solid job growth in the coming decades as the post-World War II baby-boom generation ages and life spans continue to lengthen. That will increase the population of the elderly, who generally need more surgical procedures than younger people. The federal Bureau of Labor Statistics has estimated that from 2004 to 2014, surgical technology jobs in the nation will increase by 30 percent, to nearly 110,000.
 There are training courses at community colleges and vocational schools and in nondegree programs at universities. In addition, some hospitals, like Montefiore, sponsor other programs to train employees who are working in less-skilled and lower-paying jobs to become operating room technicians.
 ''Since we started teaching a surgical technology course in 1998, about 15 hospitals in the city and Westchester have sent their people to take it,'' said Smyrna Clause, director of the Health Care Institute of the nonprofit Consortium for Worker Education, an organization sponsored by nearly 50 labor unions.
 The group from Montefiore is among those taking the institute's course. It is the third class of Montefiore employees since 2002 to be groomed to become surgical technologists, and the second to be trained by the institute. The union at Montefiore, 1199 S.E.I.U. United Healthcare Workers East, has co-sponsored all three classes and helped pay for them, using government grants.
 Montefiore began recruiting existing employees to fill its surgical technology ranks after having little success with advertising openings, said Janett Hunter, the training manager in its education department. ''When we did our first class, we had nine openings that had been unfilled for a year,'' she said. 
 Today, more than half of Montefiore's 44 surgical technologists are graduates of its two completed courses, she said. The current class will fill spots created by turnover and by the construction of more operating rooms. 
 The first half of the course is being spent largely on learning anatomy, physiology and other topics at the union consortium's headquarters in Manhattan. The second half will be spent mostly at Montefiore, where the students will ultimately assist, under supervision, in real operations.
 While they take the course, they are paid $600 a week, which in some cases is less than they were earning in their former jobs. Mr. Mangum, from the nutrition department, for example, was making $100 a week more there. 
 ''But to me it's still a blessing,'' he said of the course, which has no tuition or fees. ''To get this training on my own would be very expensive.'' 
 And the starting salary of a surgical technologist at Montefiore is $44,000 a year, about $8,000 more than Mr. Mangum's old job paid. And he can get $4,000 more if he passes a voluntary national certification test. Ms. Rouault and Ms. Gonzalez, both single mothers, could get similar raises.
 Mr. Mangum was also impressed by another number. ''We were told there are over 200 kinds of surgical instruments,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A CLEAN CLASSROOM -- Arlene Soja shows how to set up a sterile field to, from right to left, James Mangum Jr., India Rouault and Lillian Gonzalez. Dr. Orlando Lopez is in back. (Photo by Marko Georgiev for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (89%); LABOR UNIONS (88%); SPONSORSHIP (85%); MEDICAL DEVICES (78%); PSYCHIATRY (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (76%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (69%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (67%); BABY BOOMERS (64%); STATISTICS (63%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (62%); WORLD WAR II (50%) Medicine and Health; Hospitals; Organized Labor; Labor

COMPANY: CONSORTIUM FOR WORKER EDUCATION INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Montefiore Medical Center (NYC); United Healthcare Workers East; Consortium for Worker Education

PERSON: Joseph P Fried

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006



211 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: If You Cheer for the Tortoise, Applaud for Dividends

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a financial writer at U.S. News & World Report. E-mail: fund@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
THERE is nothing unusual about year-end stock-market rallies. In fact, they've become almost a tradition. But there is something strange about this latest surge.
 Consider which stocks are leading the charge, and which ones are bringing up the rear.
By now, more than four years into a bull market, you might expect that the mind-set of investors would be shifting from speculation to stability. The time for highflying stocks that don't throw off dividends should be over; these stocks tend to do best at the beginning of bull markets. By now, if history is any guide, dependable dividend-paying stocks should be coming to the fore. 
 But that hasn't been the case in this end-of-the-year run-up. Since equities emerged from their doldrums in August, stocks in the Standard & Poor's 500-index that don't pay dividends soared 17.8 percent, on average, through Wednesday, according to S.& P. By comparison, dividend payers gained 11.2 percent.
 ''It is kind of puzzling,'' said Chris Orndorff, head of equity strategy at Payden & Rygel, the asset management firm in Los Angeles, noting the age of this bull market. 
 Given the attention that dividends have received lately, the situation is especially perplexing. Earlier this year, Congress extended the favorable tax treatment that dividend investors enjoy. Under the Tax Increase Prevention and Reconciliation Act, the maximum rate on qualified dividend income will be capped at 15 percent through 2010.
 To proponents of dividend investing, who have been growing in numbers lately, this performance gap may seem a discouraging development. Yet this is no time to turn your back on dividends. In fact, you could argue that dividend-paying stocks are just doing what they were designed to do. 
 Because of their payouts, dividend-issuing stocks are far less volatile, on average, than stocks that rely solely on capital appreciation. ''Dividends function sort of like anchors,'' said Howard Silverblatt, senior index analyst at S.& P. ''This means that during good times, stocks that pay dividends don't go up as much. But when times are bad, they don't go down as much.'' 
 When the broad stock market was hammered in July, the shares of nonpayers tumbled 4.3 percent, on average. But dividend-issuing stocks lost only 0.6 percent in total return. 
 Avoiding big short-term losses, of course, is just as important -- if not more so -- than hitting the occasional home run. Say you owned two different portfolios, both averaging a total return of 5 percent a year. The first, a group of dividend-paying stocks, gains 5 percent in Year 1 and another 5 percent in Year 2. The second is a basket of volatile nonpayers that falls 10 percent in the first year but advances 20 percent in the second. 
 While both portfolios averaged an annual return of 5 percent over the two-year stretch, you would have earned slightly more in the first -- by avoiding losses. In fact, $10,000 in the first portfolio would have grown to $11,025 by the end of Year 2; the same investment in the more volatile portfolio would have become just $10,800.
 That may explain why dividend-paying stocks tend to fare better over longer periods. For instance, this year through Wednesday, dividend payers in the S.& P. 500 were up 17.2 percent, on average, versus 13.9 percent for the nonpayers in the index.
 Moreover, since 1980, dividend payers have beaten the nonpayers by an average of 2.2 percentage points a year, Mr. Silverblatt said.
 The recent performance lag may offer a buying opportunity for dividend seekers.
 ''Historically, high-quality dividend-paying companies trade at premiums to lower-quality companies that don't pay any dividends,'' said Jack A. Ablin, chief investment officer at Harris Private Bank in Chicago. That's because, in the long run, investors are willing to pay more for the safety and stability of dividends.
 But the recent underperformance by dividend payers may have reduced this gap, Mr. Ablin said. ''In essence,'' he said, ''the current environment allows for a free upgrade in your portfolio.'' 
 Investors also need to understand why nonpayers have been doing so well in recent months. Instead of climbing the proverbial wall of worry, stocks now appear to be scaling a mountain of hope.
 Judith A. Saryan, vice president and portfolio manager at Eaton Vance, said that investors ''are anticipating that the Federal Reserve will start to lower interest rates next year.'' As a result, they have been gravitating to sectors of the economy that tend to do best in the early stages of a new cycle.
 Not surprisingly, ''the sectors that have done well lately are consumer discretionary stocks and information technology,'' she said. And those two sectors happen to be the lowest-yielding sectors in the S.& P. 500.
 Technology in particular has been on a tear. Since the market caught a second wind on Aug. 11, tech stocks have returned 21.3 percent, on average, according to S.& P. That's nearly twice the gain of the S.& P. 500. Yet only about a third of tech companies pay dividends, Mr. Silverblatt said.
 Investors are banking on future tech earnings. While profits for the S.& P. 500 are expected to slow considerably next year, tech earnings are expected to accelerate rather rapidly. In fact, Wall Street's consensus forecast for 2007 earnings growth for tech stocks is 21 percent, according to Thomson Financial.
 BUT what if the economy slows more than expected and tech earnings grow more modestly? ''I don't want to say that tech is priced for perfection,'' Mr. Orndorff said, ''but expectations are high.'' 
 Mr. Ablin added that ''any small changes in the earnings forecast could have a large consequence on stock prices; you'll see huge swings.'' 
 We already have. Tech stocks have proved to be quite volatile this year. Consider the period from May 5 to Aug. 11. During this troublesome stretch, the S.& P. 500 lost 4.5 percent of its value. But tech stocks tumbled significantly more: 12.7 percent.
 ''It would seem that we're on a collision course between those who think the economy is just fine and that tech is the place to be, and those who think the economy is slowing down,'' Mr. Ablin said. 
 The question is, are you willing to bet the dividends in hand for the potential gains in technology? 
 Not if you're a long-term investor. You'll probably want to hold onto those dividend-paying stocks.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Dividends and Performance''Since August, shares of companies in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index that do not pay dividends have outperformed those that do. But dividends helped investors earlier in the year.Graph tracks total return of stocks (Non-Dividend Payers and Dividend Payers) from April to November.(Source by Standard & Poor's)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); DIVIDENDS (89%); BONDS (76%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); TAX LAW (70%); STOCK OFFERINGS (67%) Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: PAYDEN & RYGEL (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%)

PERSON: Paul J Lim

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006



212 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; EVERYBODY'S BUSINESS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: Out of the Clubhouse and Into the Classroom

BYLINE: By BEN STEIN. 
Ben Stein is a lawyer, writer, actor and economist. E-mail: ebiz@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
AS a hardened newspaper reader, poring over the major papers day after day, I have gotten to the point where it takes a fair amount to startle me. But a startling amount was what I got a couple of weeks ago when I read an article in this very newspaper about income gains and the lack thereof over the last quarter-century or so. 
 The article was filled with exciting facts and figures from the Internal Revenue Service, digested smoothly by David Cay Johnston. The leading data was on a topic I have covered my own bad self for a while now: the Bush tax cuts that were supposed to raise incomes enough to compensate for the revenue lost by cutting the tax rates. It has not worked.
Income did not rise from 2000 to 2004, after adjusting for inflation, while tax receipts fell drastically. That is something I knew. But then the story went on to some numbers about income inequality, and there my jaw dropped. 
 To make it simple, in 2004, the top 130,500 taxpayers -- roughly the wealthiest 0.1 percent of earners in this great nation, with added family members that brought their numbers to 300,000 -- had more income than the 120 million Americans at the bottom. Put another way, that sliver of the population at the top of the heap was paid, as a group, more than the bottom 40 percent of all Americans combined.
 To be sure, there has always been income inequality and there always will be income inequality, just as there will always be death and taxes. But to give you an idea of where we're heading, in 1979, a scant 25 years earlier, the top 0.1 percent had aggregate income that was one-third that of the big group at the bottom.
 To understand this change, you need know only that while the income of the bottom 60 percent of Americans has barely budged since 1979, the income of the top dogs has risen by more than a factor of three.
 Again, the poor, or at least the relatively poor, you will always have with you. But a few factors concern me.
 One, I don't really care how rich the rich are. I see them and visit them on their yachts and I hear them talk about their private jets and, once in a great while, I get to fly on one. But I am incomparably happier lying in my bed with my dogs than I am on a yacht or in a private jet, so the wealth of others is their issue, not mine. 
 But I do care desperately that in a country where the average taxpayer at the very top had income of roughly $5 million per annum -- which means that a great many had incomes far higher than that -- we have tens of millions of Americans without health insurance. True, as the new and lovely American Enterprise Institute magazine, The American, recently pointed out, many of these are people who could afford insurance and don't get it, or could qualify for Medicaid and don't sign up. But that still leaves more than 10 million who are in a state of endless fear about their health and how to maintain it.
 Socialized medicine is absolutely the last way I would like to see this handled. Doctors are far too mistreated and burdened by government and H.M.O. regulations as it is, and I don't want to see more rules. But it's just not a pretty picture to see so many Americans without medical care. 
 Yes, some of them are illegal aliens who are not supposed to be here anyway. But they are the ones who probably prepared the food I am about to eat, they have pain and fear and they are human beings, too. It's way above my pay grade to know how to fix the problem. But I am certain that it is a moral necessity to fix it, and I am also certain that we have the money to fix it.
 Second, I have to wonder how the top 0.1 percent got that way, and how we could fix things so that they share some of their expertise in getting rich with the folks at the bottom.
 Many years ago, a great but little-known economist, Edward F. Denison, wrote a paper, later expanded to a book, about the sources of economic growth. I know that material because, in about 1960, I had a summer job as an office boy at the prestigious business executives' research group, the Committee for Economic Development. 
 That summer, I typed the mimeograph stencils for Mr. Denison's paper and proofread them. (I was about 15.) In the paper, he pointed out that superior education, superior industrial organization and human capital generally were responsible for the economic growth of a nation -- and of individual humans, too.
 But the real point is something else: I got that job, and got to learn about Mr. Denison's research and conclusions, because my father was the research director of the Committee for Economic Development. I got the benefit of human capital that privileged young Americans get from having smart, well-educated parents who get them interesting, educational jobs that also offer great personal connections.
 I wonder how many of the children in that bottom 120 million have those kinds of connections, those kinds of human inputs. I know my father did not have them. His father was an immigrant and a skilled tool-and-die maker at Ford and then at General Electric, and was unemployed for much of the Depression. 
 But Pop got his connections and the human capital that sent him rocketing into a major career because of his intelligence and discipline and ambition, but also largely through the kind intercession of F. Taylor Ostrander, a professor at my father's alma mater, Williams College. I wonder how many Hispanic immigrants, how many children of Watts and Compton, have the kind of mentoring that Professor Ostrander offered the young Herbert Stein.
 Now I know that some of my readers are waiting for me to say we should tax the rich more to pay for better medical care for the folks without insurance -- and we should. But I am not going to say we that should tax the rich more to pay for better education for the nonrich. It is clear beyond doubt that more money spent per pupil does not necessarily offer better results per pupil. So not every answer is ''tax the rich.''
 BUT the rich know something. They know how markets work. They know how to get from nowhere to somewhere. They know what kind of work ethic works. They know what savings means. The rich of this country often -- not always -- know how the world works, as far as money is concerned. They are a vast reservoir of advice and example for how to get ahead.
 I wonder if there is a way that these people can be brought off of the fairways of the nation's country clubs and put before the students of America to tell them how the world works and how to make their way in it. Yes, I want to tax the rich more for military pay, to try to close the deficit, to rebuild the military equipment of the nation. But maybe the rich can offer their minds and their skills to the nonrich, too, to teach them the way up.
 No book, not even the best, is a substitute for a man or woman with experience, strength and hope. Is there a way to have the super-affluent reach out across the inequality divide to teach those who want to learn about how to make their way onto the fairway at the country club, even if their fathers did not go to Williams?
 I sure hope so. Or maybe I should say, ''There had better be.'' A free society with as much inequality as ours, with inequality growing as rapidly as ours, is not a society that will last, and this society is far too beautiful to lose.
 Again, I don't mind at all that the rich are rich: I just want a lot more of them, and a lot fewer poor.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Philip Anderson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); TAX LAW (76%); TAX AUTHORITIES (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%) United States Economy; Income

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (57%)

PERSON: Benjamin Stein; David Cay Johnson

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006



213 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; DataBank; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 199 words

HEADLINE: Hints of a Strong Economy Help Stocks

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
The stock market rose for the week as upbeat economic news offset concerns about inflation and interest rates. 
 On Friday, a government report said that 132,000 new jobs were created in November, more than Wall Street had anticipated. On Tuesday, a separate report showed a growth surge in the service industries. All of this data suggested that the economy remained robust. 
Coca-Cola, with a gain of 5 percent, had the best weekly performance among the Dow Jones industrials. The company should benefit from the decline of the dollar and strong demand abroad, analysts said. Pfizer dropped 9.7 percent, the index's worst weekly performance. It halted tests on a new cholesterol drug that might have replaced Lipitor when that blockbuster's patent expires in 2011.
 For the week, the Dow gained 113.36 points, or 0.9 percent, to close at 12,307.49. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 13.13 points, or 0.9 percent, to 1,409.84. The Nasdaq composite index rose 24.15 points, or 1 percent, to 2,437.36. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 4.55 percent from 4.43 percent the previous week. The euro traded at $1.32, up 11.4 percent against the dollar this year. JEFF SOMMER


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''STOCKS IN THE NEWS''Note: Graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable.KrogerNYSE: KRThe supermarket operator reported higher third-quarter income, helped by remodeled stores and more competitive pricing. The company said profit rose to $214.7 million from $185.4 million a year earlier.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $23.07WEEK'S CHANGE: +6.56%EST. '06 P/E: 15.78Home DepotNYSE: HDThe hardware and home-improvement retailer concluded its review of stock-option practices, saying that it spent nearly two decades backdating options, leading to a $200 million accounting adjustment.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $38.80WEEK'S CHANGE: -0.44%EST. '06 P/E: 13.65Hershey FoodsNYSE: HSYThe candy and snack maker lowered its full-year sales and profit targets, citing a recent product recall and plant closure in Canada and slow improvement in marketplace trends in the United States.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $49.65WEEK'S CHANGE: -2.44%EST. '06 P/E: 20.57BiovailNYSE: BVFThe Canadian specialty drug maker forecast a 2007 per-share profit above Wall Street's expectations, tripled its dividend and unveiled a shift in strategy that includes the elimination of its United States sales force.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $21.67WEEK'S CHANGE: +16.57%EST. '06 P/E: 8.47Sirius Satellite RadioNNM: SIRIThe company reduced its forecast of subscribers, saying that it now expects to have 5.9 million to 6.1 million of them by the end of the year, compared with the forecast of 6.3 million that it made on Nov. 8.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $3.79WEEK'S CHANGE: -10.82%EST. '06 P/E: -Henry ScheinNNM: HSICThe health care services provider cut its 2006 profit forecast because of lower-than-expected sales of certain vaccines. It now says it expects to distribute 9 million doses of flu vaccine, not 13.5 million.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $50.72WEEK'S CHANGE: -2.97%EST. '06 P/E: 25.25Hewlett-PackardNYSE: HPQThe world's largest technology company said that it had agreed to pay $14.5 million to settle a lawsuit brought by California's attorney general, Bill Lockyer, over the company's ill-fated boardroom spying investigation.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $39.64WEEK'S CHANGE: +0.51%EST. '06 P/E: 15.53ChevronNYSE: CVXThe nation's second-biggest oil company, after Exxon Mobil, said that it was raising capital spending by 20 percent in 2007, to $19.6 billion. It also plans to buy back $5 billion of its stock for the third consecutive year.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $72.83WEEK'S CHANGE: -0.38%EST. '06 P/E: 9.08(Source by Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CURRENCIES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (88%); INTEREST RATES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (71%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (71%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (69%); CHOLESTEROL (54%); PATENTS (53%) Stocks and Bonds; Dow Jones Industrial Average; Standard & Poor's 500-Stock Index; Nasdaq Composite Index; Finances; Credit; Interest Rates; Government Bonds

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (57%); COCA-COLA CO (57%)

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (57%); PFEB (BRU) (57%); PFE (NYSE) (57%); KO (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (57%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (57%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%)

PERSON: Jeff Sommer

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006



214 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ON THE CONTRARY; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: Profiting With Honor

BYLINE: By DANIEL AKST. 
Daniel Akst is a journalist and novelist who writes often about business. E-mail: culmoney@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
THE soaring compensation paid to those at the very top of the pay scale -- corporate C.E.O.'s, private-equity tycoons and durable starting pitchers, to name just a few -- is prompting enough hand-wringing to warrant a second shift at the Jergens plant. The latest worry is that smart people are being seduced away from more socially useful work by the lure of the almighty dollar. The American Bar Foundation, for example, frets that fewer law school graduates are going into government work or public-interest law.
 But is this really a problem? Law school, for instance, has been diverting bright young people from becoming social workers or remedial-reading teachers for a long time. What's remarkable is how many smart people still turn their backs on financial gain to seek careers as unheralded poets, misunderstood video artists and itinerant philosophy instructors schlepping from campus to campus without hope of tenure. 
The fortunate truth is that most people have always let money influence their choice of careers, just as philosophers and theologians have always fretted about the corruption sure to follow the pursuit of money. In his wonderful book, ''The Mind and the Market: Capitalism in Western Thought,'' the historian Jerry Z. Muller notes that while Aristotle recognized the desirability of wealth, he saw commerce (unlike slavery) as morally hazardous. Early Christian theologians later condemned not just buying and selling but also earning interest, something that is still considered bad form in much of the Islamic world.
 If career choices today are influenced more by money, it's mainly because social circumstances have changed for the better. Smart women, for example, may choose banking over teaching, but this reflects only their hard-won freedom. Is anyone suggesting that we take this away? Besides, most of us are poor judges of how useful our own work is, and by putting a price on what we do, the marketplace offers a bracing corrective to our inherent myopia.
 Scoundrels aside, remuneration is a rough but grimly reliable indicator of social utility, and Adam Smith himself pointed out how much the rest of us benefit when the talented pursue wealth. Yes, markets will sometimes fail to compensate activities we cherish, but consider the alternative. 
 Imagine for a moment two strange countries. In one nation, Cardia, people choose careers with complete disregard for financial compensation. In the other, a land known as Crania, people choose work based entirely on how much it pays. Neither country sounds like a very pleasant place to live. But I'll wager that Crania would be a much nicer place than Cardia, if only because somebody there would pick up the trash. 
 Don't underestimate this. In Crania, financial motives would promote hard work, innovation, specialization and economic growth, resulting in longer life, better health and a richer culture for its residents. The contractual relationships between citizens, however impersonal, would at least free Cranians from the kind of dependent servility they might fall victim to in Cardia, which would most likely be one of those awful places where politics, flattery and backstabbing expand to fill the gaping vacuum that remains when financial motives are absent. 
 Fortunately, we live in neither Crania nor Cardia. In our economy, people are motivated by all sorts of things, including status and altruism, which is why we're unlikely to run out of smart people willing to work for peanuts. But we might be better off if more of us had the sense to grab for the big bucks. Not only could society then afford more social workers and public-interest lawyers, it could also afford to pay them more, which might make it easier for young people with college debt rather than trust funds to go into these lines of work.
 THIS is not to say that some professions aren't worthier than others. It's better to work in a hospice than as a hit man. But that doesn't mean we'd be better off having Warren Buffett mopping brows instead of running Berkshire Hathaway. As an investor and philanthropist, Mr. Buffett has done far more good than he ever might have done by tending to the sick. Nor do I believe that the world would be better off if Alex Rodriguez quit the Yankees to teach phys ed, or if the head of Blackstone Group had decided instead on a career at the S.E.C. 
 And the same is likely true, on a much smaller scale, for many others. That's why the best bet is simply to let people follow the money, as they mostly always have. 
 The answer, in other words, is to tax the well-paid, not to dissuade them. Some of our greatest minds will still be diverted into tax law, but think of all the people who'll be spared the jarring realization described in a line I like to quote from ''The Man Without Qualities,'' a novel by Robert Musil. He warned that ''in every profession that is followed not for the sake of money but for love, there comes a moment when the advancing years seem to be leading into the void.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (77%); PHILOSOPHY (75%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (75%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (75%); LAWYERS (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); CONTRACTS LAW (70%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (70%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (69%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (68%); WRITERS (68%); HISTORY (65%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (64%); RELIGION (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (59%) Taxation; Labor; Wages and Salaries

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BAR FOUNDATION (57%)

PERSON: Daniel Akst

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006



215 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: After The Fall

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
In fall 2007, the United States began to withdraw troops from Iraq, and so began the Second Thirty Years' War. This war was a bewildering array of small and vast conflicts, which flared and receded and flared again across the entire Middle East, but which were joined by a common theme.
 The essence of all this disorder was that the Arab nation-states lost control. Subnational groups -- like Hezbollah and the Mahdi Army -- and supranational groups -- like loosely connected terror networks, the new Sunni and Shiite Leagues and the satellite television networks -- went from strength to strength while central national governments toppled and fell. The collapse of national governments led to a power vacuum that the more authentic and deeply rooted social groups sought to fill. 
 This war had several stages. The first was the disintegration of Iraq. No national institutions could survive the onslaught: there was no impartial justice, no effective law enforcement, no political organization that put loyalty to nation above loyalty to sect or tribe. Absent a government of laws, government by death squads emerged. Militias -- with their own hospitals, schools and indoctrination systems -- sought to impose order through assassination and revenge. 
 The Muslim world watched the Sunni-Shiite bloodletting on satellite television and became enraged. Militias, seminaries and terror organizations developed transnational alliances. Shiite uprisings occurred in Saudi Arabia, Bahrain and Pakistan. Furious Sunnis rallied in places like Egypt, demanding that their leaders preserve Sunni supremacy.
 The environment was ripe for new sorts of radical leaders, influenced by Moktada al-Sadr and Sheik Hassan Nasrallah. These leaders were hot, charismatic and divisive. They had no intellectual ties to the old 20th-century Arab nationalism, which was scorned as the model that failed.
 Chaos spread as governments in Lebanon and Jordan collapsed. The Palestinian Authority fell into complete dysfunction as Hamas and Fatah waged a low-boiling civil war. Al Qaeda reveled in the bloodshed and spread it with rapturous fury. The spreading disorder vindicated an observation that the historian Michael Oren had once made: that there are really only three nations in the Muslim Middle East: Iran, Turkey and Egypt. The other nations are make-believe. The borders are arbitrary and the governments are artificial.
 The surviving governments scrambled to stay in front of their radicalized populations and meddled ceaselessly in the wars around them. Turkey meddled in Kurdistan. Iran meddled everywhere through Hezbollah and a legion of mini-Hezbollahs. The Saudis tried to buy their enemies off, but only ended up financing them. Egyptians spread out everywhere as foot soldiers and assassins, especially after the end of the Mubarak era.
 Westerners had a great deal of trouble understanding the ever-shifting conflicts among sects they didn't understand and tribes they'd never heard of. Early in the war, Americans engaged in a moronic debate about whether Iraq was in civil war, which illustrated that American vocabularies were trapped in the nation-state paradigm, and how unprepared Americans were to understand the non-nation-state world.
 Parallels were made, some apt, some inapt, to the first Thirty Years' War, which decimated Europe in the 17th century. That, too, was a spasmodic constellation of conflicts not among nation-states, but among faiths, tribes and local groupings.
 This second version of that war produced a Middle East that looked medieval and postmodern at the same time. The core weakness of Middle Eastern nations was that over centuries Arab society had developed intricate social organizations based on family, tribe and faith. Loyalty to these superseded national bonds. Notions of federalism, subsidiarity and impersonal administration -- the underpinnings of the nation-state -- had trouble flourishing in these sands.
 The Middle East's weak national ties were ripped apart by the rising forces of the 21st century: religious fundamentalism, global terrorism, economic globalization and transnational communications networks. Efforts to do nation-building without security faced long odds. Efforts to exhort Iraqi and other leaders to behave ''responsibly'' -- as defined by Western nationalist categories -- were doomed to failure. The American defeat sealed the deal. 
 It was a terrible era for those brave patriots fighting for national unity. There was horrific turmoil, and the emergence of sociopolitical organizations whose likes the world had never seen.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); HEZBOLLAH (89%); HISTORY (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); ARMIES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); HAMAS (76%); TERRORISM (76%); AL-QAEDA (75%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (71%); AL FATAH (68%); POLITICS (67%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (64%) United States Armament and Defense; United States International Relations

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (57%)

PERSON: HASSAN NASRALLAH (58%); MOQTADA AL-SADR (58%) David Brooks

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); EGYPT (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); TURKEY (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); JORDAN (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); LEBANON (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); BAHRAIN (79%) Iraq; Middle East

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006



216 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 172 words

HEADLINE: Cornelia Calder, Nathaniel Krenkel

 BODY:
Cornelia Martin Calder and Nathaniel John Krenkel were married last evening at St. James' Episcopal Church in New York. The Rev. Martha Metzler, an Episcopal priest, performed the ceremony. 
 The couple met at Bowdoin College, from which they graduated. The bride, 34, is keeping her name. She works in New York as an independent producer of documentary films. Her latest credit was as a coordinating producer on ''Las Vegas,'' part of the ''American Experience'' series that ran on PBS last year. She is a daughter of Ann Martin Calder and Donald Grant Calder of New York. Her father is the president of G. L. Ohrstrom & Co., an investment firm in New York.
The bridegroom, 33, is the manager of the indie rock music group Bright Eyes, and is a founder of the recording label Team Love in New York. He is a son of Susan McCowan Krenkel and John Mark Krenkel of Heber City, Utah. His mother is a medical technologist at Heber Valley Medical Center. His father teaches history and economics at Park City High School in Park City, Utah. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (76%); POP & ROCK (72%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); UTAH, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006



217 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; THE 6th ANNUAL YEAR IN IDEAS; Pg. 63

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: New Inequality, The

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
Economic inequality has now been increasing in the United States for more than 30 years, and for much of that time its causes seemed fairly clear. Computers and other new technologies replaced many blue-collar workers, undercutting the bargaining power of those workers. Global trade was doing the same by allowing companies to make their products elsewhere. Highly educated workers, on the other hand, were able to work more efficiently -- and thus make more money -- thanks to new technology, and to play on a bigger stage thanks to globalization. This was the story of inequality from the mid-1970s through the late 1990s.
But the story seems to be changing. This year, a new economic statistic that casts doubt on the old consensus began getting some serious attention. Over the last five years, the average pay of college graduates grew at only a little better rate than inflation. For now, most holders of bachelor's degrees appear to be on the wrong side of the inequality divide, which suggests that the slice of the American work force on the right side of the divide has become extremely narrow. Even families at the 90th percentile of the income distribution (now earning about $110,000 a year) have received only a marginally bigger raise over the last decade than those in the middle of the distribution. 
 For years, research on inequality generally didn't go higher than the 95th, or occasionally the 99th, percentile. But two economists in their mid-30s, Emmanuel Saez and Thomas Piketty, have made names for themselves by conducting more detailed studies and discovering that at the very highest levels of the income ladder, inequality has indeed continued to accelerate. The top 0.1 percent of earners -- that's one out of every 1,000 families -- made 6.8 percent of the nation's pretax income in 2004, up from 4.7 percent a decade earlier and about 2 percent in the '60s and '70s.
 For Democrats, these trends seem to have given inequality a new political resonance, because they suggest, as liberals long have, that education alone won't change things. In this year's Virginia Senate campaign, for example, Jim Webb argued that people at the top had ''never had it so good'' but that everyone else was struggling. Tax policy and trade policy, not education, topped of his list of solutions.
 Still, nobody has yet come up with a wholly persuasive explanation for what has caused the new inequality. Education is still a big part of the overall picture. Beyond education, it's possible that social mores have changed to make huge salaries for chief executives and other top earners more acceptable. It's also possible that the new inequality is a natural outgrowth of what Robert Frank, a Cornell professor, has called the ''winner-take-all society,'' in which globalization and technology have raised the relative value of the very highest paid jobs. Or it's possible that the rightward drift of government policy over the last generation -- deregulation and falling tax rates, for example -- has somehow enabled the rich to gain at everyone else's expense.
 Whatever the causes, the work by Saez and Pikkety suggests that there may not be a solution to please everyone. From World War II through the 1970s, while most Americans were getting solid raises every year, the incomes of the richest 1 percent were doing only a little better than inflation. Since the 1980s, the two groups have switched places. The affluent have received huge gains, and everyone else's pay growth has slowed down. For the last six decades, in other words, the American economy has been much more of a zero-sum game than we might like to believe. DAVID LEONHARDT

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (79%); LABOR FORCE (79%); FAMILY (79%); TRENDS (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (68%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%); LIBERALISM (66%); EXECUTIVES (50%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%) United States Economy; Income; Millionaires and Billionaires; Research

PERSON: JIM WEBB (50%) Thomas (Prof) Piketty; Emmanuel (Prof) Saez; David Leonhardt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006



218 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; THE 6th ANNUAL YEAR IN IDEAS; Pg. 60

LENGTH: 387 words

HEADLINE: Myth of ''the Southern Strategy,'' The 

BYLINE: By CLAY RISEN

 BODY:
Everyone knows that race has long played a decisive role in Southern electoral politics. From the end of Reconstruction until the beginning of the civil rights era, the story goes, the national Democratic Party made room for segregationist members -- and as a result dominated the South. But in the 50s and 60s, Democrats embraced the civil rights movement, costing them the white Southern vote. Meanwhile, the Republican Party successfully wooed disaffected white racists with a ''Southern strategy'' that championed ''states' rights.'' 
It's an easy story to believe, but this year two political scientists called it into question. In their book ''The End of Southern Exceptionalism,'' Richard Johnston of the University of Pennsylvania and Byron Shafer of the University of Wisconsin argue that the shift in the South from Democratic to Republican was overwhelmingly a question not of race but of economic growth. In the postwar era, they note, the South transformed itself from a backward region to an engine of the national economy, giving rise to a sizable new wealthy suburban class. This class, not surprisingly, began to vote for the party that best represented its economic interests: the G.O.P. Working-class whites, however -- and here's the surprise -- even those in areas with large black populations, stayed loyal to the Democrats. (This was true until the 90s, when the nation as a whole turned rightward in Congressional voting.)
 The two scholars support their claim with an extensive survey of election returns and voter surveys. To give just one example: in the 50s, among Southerners in the low-income tercile, 43 percent voted for Republican Presidential candidates, while in the high-income tercile, 53 percent voted Republican; by the 80s, those figures were 51 percent and 77 percent, respectively. Wealthy Southerners shifted rightward in droves but poorer ones didn't.
 To be sure, Shafer says, many whites in the South aggressively opposed liberal Democrats on race issues. ''But when folks went to the polling booths,'' he says, ''they didn't shoot off their own toes. They voted by their economic preferences, not racial preferences.'' Shafer says these results should give liberals hope. ''If Southern politics is about class and not race,'' he says, ''then they can get it back.'' CLAY RISEN


GRAPHIC: Chart: The chart shows the percentage of white Southerners who voted for the Republican presidential candidate in 1950, 1960, 1970, & 1980, in conjunction with their income level. (Chart by Catalogtree)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (67%) United States Economy; Research

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (56%)

PERSON: Clay Risen

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) United States; Southern States (US)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006



219 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 2; Magazine; THE 6th ANNUAL YEAR IN IDEAS; Pg. 77

LENGTH: 357 words

HEADLINE: Taxing Virtual Economies 

BYLINE: By CLAY RISEN

 BODY:
Economists, along with accountants and government officials, have started to think hard about the phenomenon of ''massive multiplayer universes,'' or M.M.U.'s. These are online video games in which players work, play and increasingly earn real money -- income that some argue should be taxed. ''A great deal of assets that have real economic value are being created inside video games,'' the economist Edward Castronova says. To that end, the Joint Economic Committee of the U.S. Congress recently began an examination of the tax implications of virtual commerce. 
An M.M.U. is a virtual world that players access from their computers. Some M.M.U.'s, like World of Warcraft, are specific in their objectives (killing dragons and the like), while others -- most notably Second Life -- are designed to approximate the ebb and flow of everyday life: players open virtual businesses, publish virtual newspapers, hang around in virtual space and even get virtually drunk. All the games involve economies in which players acquire goods from other players by bartering or paying with virtual money.
 Some of these games, including Second Life, provide an exchange system in which players can convert real money into virtual scrip and vice versa. According to some reports, the game generates $5 to $6 million in economic activity per month. Hence the tax question.
 Taxing virtual economies actually has a precedent. In the '70s, the I.R.S. cracked down on so-called barter clubs, an estimated $200 million economy in which club members earned ''trade dollars'' in a virtual currency, either by selling goods or performing services. In 1980, the I.R.S. ruled that such transactions could be taxed, even though no actual money was involved. The clubs quickly dried up.
 Of course, it is one thing to talk about taxing virtual economies and another to develop the regulations and software necessary to do it. And doing so would likely drive players away from what is, after all, just a game. ''In a fantasy world, if you go in and start taxing, you would destroy it,'' Castronova says. ''Fantasy places need to be treated as fantasy places.'' CLAY RISEN

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ONLINE COMPUTER GAMES (91%); COMPUTER GAMES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (79%); INTERNET VIDEO (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); VIRTUAL REALITY (70%); CURRENCIES (69%) Taxation; Computer and Video Games

PERSON: Clay Risen

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006



220 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: The Name Is Bond

BYLINE: By ISAAC CHOTINER. 
Isaac Chotiner is a reporter-researcher at The New Republic.

 BODY:
THE MAN WHO SAVED BRITAIN
 A Personal Journey Into the
 Disturbing World of James Bond.
 By Simon Winder.
 288 pp. Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $25.
James BOND aficionados are used to smirks and eye rolls. What could be sillier, really, than a fictional hero who has turned even the defusing of nuclear weapons into a groan-worthy cliche? Simon Winder's book ''The Man Who Saved Britain,'' then, is more than good scholarship; it is sweet revenge. Here at last is a book that not only takes Ian Fleming's stories and the films they spawned seriously, but also places them in the context of British history. This is art (yes, art) criticism through the lens of geopolitics and national psychology. In short, 007 is receiving respectful treatment, and not a moment too soon. 
 More of a meditation on England after World War II than an obsessive companion to all things Bond, Winder's study explains how Fleming's hero was a product of his time. Touching on various features of postwar malaise, from the lack of defining artistic achievement to economic stagnation, Winder paints a complex and nuanced picture of 1950s English life. But he is principally concerned with Britain's loss of empire, and the agonizing effect this had on his country's psyche. 
 For most Americans, 1945 is remembered as the year of Allied victory. But the end of the war also led to the end of Britain's imperial ''commitment.'' If the English ''understood in 1945 that Britain had won the war only because the United States and the U.S.S.R. had won it with them,'' Winder writes, ''then they certainly did not understand that the consequence would be the demolition of the British Empire, a cornerstone of national identity, hopes, fears and opportunities.'' Indian independence in 1947 may have been the most scarring element of this fragmentation, but by 1960 countries from Sri Lanka to Nigeria had followed suit. Winder's achievement is to describe skillfully and viscerally the feelings of British loss, while never losing sight of the fact that the dissolution of empire was long overdue. 
 Fleming capitalized on two aspects of the British mentality. First, as Winder notes, the humiliations of the era summoned a ''wistfulness'' for past glory ''among many that would ... ultimately create Fleming's own enormous fan base.'' But nostalgia was only part of Bond's appeal, as Winder makes clear. British decline ''generated a bitterness and loss of identity that found solace in, among other things, certain high-quality action books of the 1950s.'' Of course, there were also less subliminal reasons for Bond's popularity: the fast cars and luxurious travel in a time of economic paralysis; the fetishization of food in an era of rationing; and, always and above all, the sex. A conservative hero navigating the remnants of a colonial world and bent on restoring British centrality in the international arena was perfectly positioned to capture the spirit of the age. 
 Fleming himself worked for naval intelligence during the war, and apparently had quite a way with women. He loved good food and fine goods, and nursed a fascination with sadism and torture (a proclivity that, unlike the one for cars and caviar, was largely lost in the translation from page to screen). As Winder notes, Fleming's espionage background and residency in Jamaica provided crucial material and setting for his work: ''The war then put him on the outer rim of the inner circle of power, specifically linking the imperial, naval and military worlds ... linking too the British and American worlds.'' Later, Fleming was ''equally engaged and interesting talking to old intelligence chiefs in London or to New York lawyers or to Jamaican neighbors, a novelist and a journalist, a man who split his life between three countries with side trips to many more.'' 
 Fleming's Jamaican home, Goldeneye, not only gave him a base in one of Britain's last colonial outposts, but also served as a much-needed place of rest for Prime Minister Anthony Eden during the Suez crisis in 1956. So while he was writing books in which indefatigable Britain served as the smarter, wilier and in no way junior partner in the ''special relationship,'' Fleming offered the use of his home to the very embodiment of Britain's most humiliating episode since Dunkirk. And it was all at the hands of the Eisenhower administration, which had decided to replace British imperial rule with Pax Americana. 
 Winder, the publishing director of Penguin Press in London, capably outlines Fleming's unsurprising and unsubtle dismissals of 1950s America, which he saw as vulgar and oversexed, enthralled by an ever expanding consumer culture. The book doesn't say whether he was aware before his death, in 1964, that critics on both sides of the Atlantic had made precisely the same observations about his own work (and the ensuing films). Nonetheless, the Bond movies went on to be ''consumed'' by more people than any franchise in Hollywood's history. It is interesting to wonder what wry comment Fleming would have made about such an uncomfortable fact. (''Casino Royale,'' the latest Bond film, happens to be the most faithful adaptation of a Fleming story in at least 40 years. Thus, as in the novel, the only major American character provides Bond with money, but exhibits a decided lack of style and dexterity.) 
 When Winder turns his attention to the books and films themselves, his analysis is less deft. He is flat-out wrong to say Bond doesn't change as the novels progress. Fleming's hero becomes increasingly more depressed and exhausted by his job, and there is a melancholy air to some of the later adventures. Winder's harsh judgment of the cinematic 007 is sometimes accurate (he rightfully flags a noticeable decline in quality in the early '70s) but often misguided (the smooth appeal of ''The Spy Who Loved Me'' somehow eludes him). Bond fans can (and do) debate these particulars endlessly, but it would have been useful to get more insight into what now seems the most relevant question regarding Bond: why do millions of people, many of whose homelands were once British colonies, still love to watch a British spy save the world?


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Marc Alary)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (90%); HISTORY (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); LITERATURE (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (57%); MILITARY WEAPONS (57%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: Isaac Chotiner; Simon Winder; James (Fictional Character) Bond

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); NIGERIA (79%); ENGLAND (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006



221 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 4; Long Island Weekly Desk; THE WEEK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 231 words

HEADLINE: Study to Help Coordinate Transportation Solutions

BYLINE: By LINDA SASLOW

 BODY:
Concerned with traffic congestion in an area scheduled for extensive commercial, residential and industrial growth, Steve Levy, the Suffolk County executive, and Steven H. Stern, a county legislator from Dix Hills, have announced a $500,000 traffic and planning study for the Sagtikos Regional Development Zone. 
 The 2,500-acre area includes parts of the Towns of Babylon, Huntington, Islip and Smithtown and is bounded by the Northern State Parkway, the Sagtikos Parkway, Commack Road, Pine Aire Drive and Grand Boulevard. It is the site of several approved or proposed high-volume developments, including the new Tanger Mall in Babylon, which have raised concerns about traffic congestion.
 The study, which is expected to take about six months, will be financed primarily by a $400,000 grant from the New York Metropolitan Transportation Council, with a county supplement. The study's aims are to formulate short-term and long-term measures to control congestion and to find transportation solutions, including a truck route to be built parallel to the Sagtikos Parkway. 
 The regional study was a result of an earlier countywide study, which looked at five major centers of potential economic growth and their cumulative impact.
 Because decisions are up to the towns, Mr. Levy said the county, as an adviser, was trying to get the towns to coordinate their planning. LINDA SASLOW

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTY GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COUNTIES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%) Roads and Traffic; Area Planning and Renewal

COMPANY: NEW YORK METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION COUNCIL (56%)

PERSON: Steve (County Exec) Levy; Steven H Stern; Linda Saslow

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Suffolk County (NY)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006



222 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1666 words

HEADLINE: Black-Market Weapon Prices Surge in Iraq Chaos

BYLINE: By C. J. CHIVERS; James Glanz contributed reporting from Baghdad.

DATELINE: SULAIMANIYA, Iraq, Dec. 8 

 BODY:
The Kurdish security contractor placed the black plastic box on the table. Inside was a new Glock 19, one of the 9-millimeter pistols that the United States issued by the tens of thousands to the Iraqi Army and police.
 This pistol was no longer in the custody of the Iraqi Army or police. It had been stolen or sold, and it found its way to an open-air grocery stand that does a lively black-market business in police and infantry arms. The contractor bought it there.
He displayed other purchases, including a short-barreled Kalashnikov assault rifle with a collapsible stock that makes it easy to conceal under a coat or fire from a car. ''I bought this for $450 last year,'' he said of the rifle. ''Now it costs $650. The prices keep going up.''
 The market for this American-issued pistol and the ubiquitous assault rifle illustrated how fear, mismanagement and malfeasance are shaping the small-arms market in Iraq. 
 Weapon prices are soaring along with an expanding sectarian war, as more buyers push prices several times higher than those that existed at the time of the American-led invasion nearly four years ago. Rising prices, in turn, have encouraged an insidious form of Iraqi corruption -- the migration of army and police weapons from Iraqi state armories to black-market sales.
 All manner of infantry arms, from rocket-propelled grenade launchers to weathered and dented Kalashnikovs, have circulated within Iraq for decades.
 But three types of American-issued weapons are now readily visible in shops and bazaars here as well: Glock and Walther 9-millimeter pistols, and pristine, unused Kalashnikovs from post-Soviet Eastern European countries. These are three of the principal types of the 370,000 weapons purchased by the United States for Iraq's security forces, a program that was criticized by a special inspector general this fall for, among other things, failing to properly account for the arms. 
 The weapons are easy to find, resting among others in the semihidden street markets here, where weapons are sold in tea houses, the back rooms of grocery kiosks, cosmetics stores and rug shops, or from the trunks of cars. Proprietors show samples for immediate purchase and offer to take orders -- 10 guns can be had in two hours, they say, and 100 or more the next day.
 ''Every type of gun that the Americans give comes to the market,'' said Brig. Hassan Nouri, chief of the political investigations bureau for the Sulaimaniya district. ''They go from the U.S. Army to the Iraqi Army to the smugglers. I have captured many of these guns that the terrorists bought.''
 The forces propelling the trade can be seen in the price fluctuations of the country's most abundant firearm, the Kalashnikov.
 In early 2003, a Kalashnikov in northern Iraq typically cost from $75 to $150, depending on its condition, origin and style. Immediately after the invasion, as fleeing soldiers abandoned their rifles and armories were looted, prices fell, pushed down by a glut and a brief sense of optimism.
 Today, the same weapons typically cost $210 to $650, according to interviews with seven arms dealers, two senior Kurdish security officials and several customers. In other areas of Iraq, prices have climbed as high as $800, according to Phillip Killicoat, a researcher who has been assembling data on Kalashnikov prices worldwide for the Small Arms Survey, a Geneva-based organization.
 The price ranges reflect not only a weapon's condition but its model. A Kalashnikov made in a former Soviet-bloc factory costs more than a Kalashnikov made in China, North Korea or Iraq. Collapsible-stock models have become disproportionately expensive. The price ranges do not include the most compact Kalashnikovs, like those Osama bin Laden has been photographed with, which now have a collector's value in Iraq and can cost as much as $2,000.
 In many ways, weapon prices provide a condensed history of Iraq's slide into chaos.
 Prices began moving upward in the summer of 2003 as several classes of customers entered the market together, Iraqi security officials and the arms dealers said. Western security contractors, Sunni insurgent groups, Shiite paramilitary units and criminals who were released from prison by Saddam Hussein before the war all sought the same weapons at once.
 Kalashnikov prices quickly reached $200, they said. Since late last year, prices have been moving up again, as sectarian war has spread. Militias have been growing at the same time that more civilians have been seeking weapons for self-defense -- twin demand pressures that pushed prices to new heights this fall.
 ''Now the Sunni want the weapons because they fear the Shia, and the Shia want the weapons because they fear the Sunni,'' said Brig. Sarkawt Hassan Jalal, the chief of security in the Sulaimaniya district. ''So prices go up.''
 Mr. Killicoat put it another way. ''When households start entering the market, that's a free-for-all,'' he said.
 The surge is evident across a spectrum of arms. Pistol prices have nearly tripled since 2003. Western 9-millimeter pistols now sell for $1,100 to $1,800 in the bazaars of this city. Sniper rifles cost $1,100 to $2,000, the dealers said. In the West, similar pistols sell for $400 to $600. 
 Arms dealers say that rising prices have led to more extensive pilfering from state armories, including the widespread theft of weapons the United States had issued to Iraq's police officers and soldiers.
 ''In the south, if the Americans give the Iraqis weapons, the next day you can buy them here,'' said one dealer, who sold groceries in the front of his kiosk and offered weapons in the back. ''The Iraqi Army, the Iraqi police -- they all sell them right away.''
 No weapons were displayed when two visitors arrived. But when asked, the owner and a friend swiftly retrieved six pistols, a rocket-propelled grenade launcher and three Kalashnikovs from a car and another room.
 The rifles and the grenade launcher were wrapped in rice sacks. He slipped two of the rifles out of the cloth. They were spotless and unworn, inside and out, and appeared never to have been used. They had folding stocks and were priced at $560 each.
 The dealer said they had recently been taken from an Iraqi armory. ''Almost all of the weapons come from the Iraqi police and army,'' he said. ''They are our best suppliers.''
 One pistol was a new Walther P99, a 9-millimeter pistol that the dealer said had been issued by the Americans to the Iraqi police. It was still in its box.
 Glock pistols were also easy to find. One young Iraqi man, Rebwar Mustafa, showed a Glock 19 he had bought at the bazaar in Kirkuk last year for $900. Five of his friends have bought identical models, he said.
 When asked if he was surprised that the Iraqi police and soldiers sold their own guns, he scoffed.
 ''Everything goes to the bazaar,'' he said.
 He added: ''It is not only pistols. A lot of police cars are being sold. The smugglers brought us three cars and asked if we wanted to buy them. Their doors were still blue, and police labels were on them. The lights were still on top.''
 Although the scale of weapons sales is unmistakably large, it is impossible to measure precisely. Sales are almost always hidden and unrecorded. 
 Tracing American-issued weapons back to Iraqi units that sell them is especially difficult because the United States did not register serial numbers for almost all of the 370,000 small arms purchased for Iraqi security forces, according to a report by the Special Inspector General for Iraq Reconstruction.
 The weapons were paid for with $133 million from the Iraq Relief and Reconstruction Fund. Among them were at least 138,000 new Glock pistols and at least 165,000 Kalashnikov assault rifles that had not previously been used, according to the report.
 Lt. Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, commander of the Multi-National Security Transition Command-Iraq, agreed that weapons provided by the United States had slipped from custody.
 ''I certainly concede that there are weapons that have been lost, stolen and misappropriated,'' General Dempsey said. He noted that the inspector general had estimated that 4 percent, or about 14,000 weapons, were lost between arriving in Iraq and being transferred to Iraqi forces. Most of the weapons were pistols.
 The general said that he thought the estimate was high and that accountability was improving. A weapons registry was being created, he said. ''Serial numbers are being registered,'' he said.
 But the estimate of a 4 percent loss did not include weapons that were lost or stolen after being issued to Iraqi units. The arms dealers said this was the main source of their goods.
 The arms dealers described several factors that kept weapons flowing from state custody.
 Some have been taken by insurgents in ambushes or raids. Defections and resignations have also been common in Iraqi police and army units, they said, and often departing soldiers and officers leave with their weapons, which are worth more than several months of pay.
 Aaron Karp, a small-arms researcher at Old Dominion University, said Iraq resembled African countries that had had extraordinary difficulties with the police selling off their guns. ''The gun becomes the most valuable thing in the household,'' he said.
 ''If anything happens to a police officer's family and he needs money, he walks into work the next day and says, 'Hey, my gun got stolen.' ''
 Another weapons dealer, who Kurdish officials said had been providing them with weapons since 1991, said the latest black-market sales followed an old pattern precisely.
 Throughout Mr. Hussein's rule, Iraqi Army officers were in the arms trade, he said, selling weapons to smugglers. This was how the Kurdish guerrillas kept themselves supplied.
 Now, he said, the smugglers remain in business, and their trade is made easier because the units often do not have inventories. ''I am surprised sometimes by the numbers,'' he said. ''Sometimes they come by the hundreds.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: AT HOME -- American-made ammunition, bought on the black market and kept in an Iraqi house.
IN A TRUCK -- A dealer's wares: rifles, pistols and a grenade launcher.
IN A SHOWROOM -- In 2003, Kalashnikov rifles cost $75 to $150
now they are $210 to $650. The compact ''Osama'' models, right, can cost more.
IN A GROCERY STORE -- Two AK-47 rifles are displayed for sale among other items in a shop in northern Iraq. (Photographs by Christoph Bangert for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 IN A BAZAAR -- An arms dealer selling an AK-47 assault rifle in a market in Sulaimaniya. New militias and worried civilians have increased demand. (Photo by Christoph Bangert for The New York Times)(pg. 28)Map of Iraq highlighting Sulaimaniya: Weapons, sold by troops or stolen, are easy to find in Sulaimaniya. (pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (91%); FIREARMS (90%); ARMIES (90%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMS TRADE (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); SMUGGLING (75%); MISCONDUCT (74%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); FLOOR COVERING STORES (71%); COSMETICS (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); CORRUPTION (65%); ETHICS (65%); COSMETICS & BEAUTY SUPPLY STORES (63%); TERRORISM (60%) Black Markets; United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Ethics; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

PERSON: C J Chivers

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (97%); EASTERN EUROPE (53%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006



223 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: Pulling Out Combat Troops Would Still Leave Most Forces in Iraq

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 9 

 BODY:
Frontline combat troops in the 15 brigades carrying out the American fight in Iraq -- which the Iraq Study Group says could be largely withdrawn in just over a year -- represent about 23 percent of the 140,000 military personnel committed to the overall war effort there. 
 On any given day, according to military officers in Baghdad, only about 11 percent of the Army and Marine Corps personnel in Iraq are carrying out purely offensive operations. Even counting others, whose main job is defensive or who perform security missions to stabilize the country for economic reconstruction and political development, only half of the American force might be considered combat troops. 
Even if all of the group's proposals were carried out, it is not possible to predict exactly how many Americans will stay, or for how long. Decisions will hinge on military conditions on the ground and political conditions in Washington. 
 But an analysis of the current numbers and tasks of American forces suggests that it will prove difficult to drop far below 100,000 by early 2008, and that 70,000 or more troops might have to stay for a considerable time.
 The bipartisan report, which acknowledged that a sustained and ''considerable'' troop presence would be necessary, called urgently for increasing the 4,000 American trainers now with Iraqis to as many as 20,000. That shift has been endorsed in general terms by President Bush. And commanders in Iraq, on their own accord, are already moving troops from their combat ranks to the training teams. So members of American brigade combat teams will stay for some time, in any case. 
 Americans assigned to join Iraqi units as advisers and trainers -- fighting alongside the Iraqis when necessary, with other combat forces on call in case of emergency -- must be backed up by the full array of drivers, cooks, guards, planners, intelligence analysts, communications teams, helicopter crews, mechanics and medical units without which no military operation can be mounted. And as long as the violence in Iraq persists, they must be protected from attack.
 According to Pentagon statistics, about 23 percent of the troops currently assigned to the Iraq mission conduct primarily combat jobs. The 15 combat brigades -- each with an official roster of about 3,500 and totaling about 52,500 soldiers and marines in Iraq -- make up well over a third of the overall force. But each brigade includes units that provide support, logistics and security for those troops conducting direct combat operations.
 Electricians and mechanics make up 20 percent of the overall American mission, with ''functional support/administrative'' personnel and ''service and supply handlers'' each contributing another 11 percent, according to Pentagon personnel statistics.
 Other major categories include communications and intelligence troops -- 8 percent -- and health service providers, including such critical missions as medical evacuation teams, at 4 percent of the force. Craftsmen account for just under 4 percent. Those statistics do not includes their officers.
 These statistics were drawn from an unclassified Pentagon report dated Sept. 30, 2006, which listed American deployments in the Middle East to carry out and support what the Pentagon classifies as ''The Global War on Terror.'' Three senior officers who served yearlong deployments in Iraq at the headquarters level reviewed the Pentagon statistics on regional deployments and said they provide an accurate if somewhat rough picture of how American troops are assigned military tasks in Iraq today.
 But that is just one set of statistics describing troop deployments. Those statistics listing official military occupations in the region do not tell the full story of how the force deployed on the ground carries out the mission each day, according to officers in Baghdad.
 Lt. Col. Michelle L. Martin-Hing, spokeswoman for the Multinational Corps-Iraq, offered different statistics that show that during day-to-day operations, about 40 percent of the troops conduct combat missions while about 60 percent carry out support missions. 
 She provided statistics compiled by the military's operational headquarters in Iraq that list 11 percent of the force as assigned to offensive operations on any given day, and another 22 percent of the troops assigned to force protection and another 22 percent to security operations. About 35 percent carry out tasks that sustain the mission.
 Iraqi security forces are not able to gather and analyze sufficient intelligence to carry out all of their missions, nor even to plan them. Likewise, the Iraqis do not have the infrastructure to buy, transport and distribute all of the ammunition, food and fuel that those indigenous forces require, nor to maintain all of their equipment. 
 Those logistical tasks fall to Americans, and, given the time it will take to build up Iraq's capabilities, are likely to continue to for years to come, even long after the Baghdad government has assumed full military command.
 The Iraq mission is not especially top-heavy, according to Pentagon statistics. Generals and their executive staffs amount to one-tenth of one percent of the force. 
 Other categories in the Pentagon personnel statistics include tactical operations officers, at 6 percent; engineering and maintenance officers, at 2 percent; supply and procurement officers, at 1.7 percent; and health care officers, at 1.5 percent.
 Despite increased agility and speed in how it carries out its combat operations, the American military's ratio of combat to support troops has remained in Iraq at levels seen throughout modern history, mostly because the insurgency eliminated the concept of safe and comfortable rear areas that existed in previous wars, making every supply and planning and convoy job more difficult and dangerous.
 Andrew F. Krepinevich Jr., executive director of the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments here, said militaries traditionally require three to five soldiers to support every fighter, and in the case of Iraq some of that support is elsewhere in the Persian Gulf region. 
 ''In the time of Alexander the Great, everyone on the battlefield carried a spear,'' Mr. Krepinevich said. ''But over the great sweep of history, the tail has increased faster than the tooth.'' In America's most recent sustained conflict, in Vietnam, ''when we had roughly half a million soldiers on the ground, less than 100,000 were actually combat troops, carrying rifles around,'' he said.

 Supply: 131
Administration: 125
Intelligence and communications: 94
Tactical operations officers: 61
Medical: 60
Other: 34
Generals and their staff: 1

(Source by Defense Department)

GRAPHIC: Photo: An American soldier searching a house in Anbar Province in November. The Iraq Study Group said combat troops could be pulled in 15 months. (Photo by Joao Silva for The New York Times)Chart: ''For Every 1,000 Deployed''Job functions of American military personnel, including troops and officers, deployed in Iraq and the region in the ''global war on terror.''Combat troops: 229Mechanics, electricians and craftsmen: 263

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (91%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); ARMIES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (70%); TERRORISM (61%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism

PERSON: Thom Shanker

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006



224 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 1828 words

HEADLINE: Some Made Men Struggle to Make Ends Meet

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. RASHBAUM

 BODY:
Richard Martino, a slender 47-year-old, favors Prada shoes and until recently drove a sleek black Mercedes-Benz. He has owned multimillion-dollar homes in Harrison and Southampton, N.Y. He spent much of the last decade running a telecommunications and Internet business to which his expertise helped bring in hundreds of millions of dollars. By one accounting, he made tens of millions for himself.
 John Setaro, 57, did not finish high school, and has worked recently managing a fast-food restaurant in Seaford on Long Island. He generally wears neat but casual clothes, and lives in a modest, vinyl-sided, colonial-style house in Franklin Square. During a difficult period several years ago, according to his lawyer, he was making $2,400 a month.
But the two men nonetheless share an extraordinary bond, according to federal authorities: Both swore an oath to the Gambino crime family in a secret induction ceremony. 
 The striking disparities underscore a simple truth not always understood outside the ranks of the city's five crime families: Some mobsters reap millions from rackets, and in some cases from legitimate enterprises, but many struggle to maintain a middle-class existence, and some are routinely broke. The impoverished gangster barely eking out a living is so commonplace that mobsters have a word for these poorer men of honor: brokesters.
 The archetypal Hollywood image of a wiseguy with prodigious appetites, swaggering in a finely tailored suit with a diamond pinkie ring and a fat roll of 50s, conceals the more nuanced reality of mob economics, according to some prosecutors, federal agents, organized-crime experts and a few mobsters. Crime figures are not immune to ordinary financial burdens and woes, like struggling to make car payments and finding money for groceries.
 No self-respecting mobster wants to be seen as a brokester -- nor would he want his peers to think he struggles to keep up with his middle-class suburban neighbors. But the pressure is great as well to keep up appearances as a successful criminal. Mobsters have even been known to borrow money from loan sharks to throw it around on the street -- and to pass it up as tribute to superiors -- while at the same time scrimping in the privacy of their home.
 ''The hours are long, there is no benefits package, there is a high risk of prosecution, and very little job security,'' said Gerald L. Shargel, a lawyer who has represented a number of mobsters, rich and poor, including several members of the Gotti clan.
 By most accounts, mobsters fall into two types, earners and shooters, a division in some measure between the rich and those who wish they were. An earner is a man who can scheme and develop strategies, quickly deciphering the complexities of industry and commerce and labor. He is also someone who can sit down and blend in effortlessly with legitimate businessmen -- often big businessmen -- and union leaders.
 Mr. Martino is an earner, according to federal prosecutors in Brooklyn. His work in an Internet pornography and a phone-cramming scheme was a boon to the Gambinos, netting hundreds of millions by billing people for ''free tours'' on pornographic Web sites and adding small charges to hundreds of thousands of telephone bills nationwide.
 In September, he started serving a nine-year prison term after pleading guilty to wire fraud conspiracy and extortion in the scheme. 
 Pete Savino, a Genovese family associate, is also said to be an earner. He had a window installation business and was the mastermind of a scheme in the late 1980s and early '90s to earn millions for four mob families by billing the New York City Housing Authority for a few extra dollars on every one of the millions of thermal-pane windows being installed in the authority's buildings. 
 A shooter is, well, a shooter. A leg-breaker. A killer. Someone who can readily and rapidly use violence as a business practice.
 Mr. Setaro's role in the mob division of labor seems clear. He is firmly ensconced in the mob's middle class, according to court papers and interviews with law enforcement officials. 
 According to an F.B.I. source cited in a report from 2000, Mr. Setaro, in a conversation about how he hated working as a bookmaker, said that ''if he is ever going to jail it is going to be for what he really is, 'a shylock and a tough guy,' '' referring to his work as a loan shark and a debt collector.
 His prediction seems to have been accurate. He served 41 months for extortion.
 James Tartaglione, a onetime Bonanno family captain who became a government witness in 2003 and has testified against fellow mobsters in several recent trials, explained the distinction to a jury in 2004. 
 ''There's people that go out there, just have a knack for earning money,'' Mr. Tartaglione said at the trial of Bonanno boss Joseph Massino, an earner in his own right who was forced to give up more than $9 million in ill-gotten gains after he was convicted of murder and racketeering, and then agreed to cooperate with prosecutors. ''They know how to put businesses together, and they are just good at what they do, as far as business. Then you got those tough guys that could go out and kill somebody and do whatever they have to do.''
 It is not easy to gauge the real net worth or earning capacity of an organized-crime figure. Most are constantly scheming to hide their assets and income -- and not only from taxing authorities and federal prosecutors eager to seize them. 
 They often deceive their own crime families about schemes that are ''off the books'' and unknown to their superiors. 
 In New York's crime families, money generally flows up, from associates to soldiers to their captains to the administration and ultimately to the family's boss. But few procedures are set in stone. 
 The families do not have auditors. They rely on harsh punishment as a deterrent. In many mob murders, the victims were killed because they failed to pay tribute, or so the bosses thought, according to prosecutors and investigators.
 Organized crime has many rules. Drug-dealing and prostitution are taboo; one cannot strike a fellow made man, or sleep with his wife or daughters; soldiers cannot borrow from a loan shark without approval; killing a boss is forbidden. But these rules are for people who revel in breaking rules.
 Money flows into organized-crime families from almost as many sources as there are schemes in the heads of mobsters, from traditional staples like loan sharking, gambling, labor racketeering, cargo theft and bank robbery to skimming from industries that the mob once controlled and still influences in some cases: garbage hauling, construction, the piers, the garment district and the commercial linen business. Modern innovations include stock manipulation, Internet fraud, identity theft, health care schemes and everything from importing contaminated fish to counterfeiting designer blue jeans.
 ''There is no generally accepted percentage'' that gets passed up, says Mark Feldman, who was in charge of the Organized Crime Section in the Brooklyn United States attorney's office for a decade. ''It's a sliding scale driven by the particular greed and need and mentality of the particular individuals who control it.''
 In the early 1990s, when John Gotti was at the height of his power as the boss of the Gambino family, his 20 captains each handed up $3,000 for him at Christmastime, far less than the $10,000 demanded by his predecessor, Paul Castellano. 
 Joseph DeFede, who served as the acting boss of the Luchese family from 1994 until 1998, required that $1,000 from each soldier be passed into the family coffers each year. Much of that money went into a fund called the Well, to pay for lawyers' fees, to use for loan sharking and to finance other schemes, according to Mr. DeFede, a gravel-voiced 72-year-old who became a government witness in 2001.
 He testified at a 2003 trial that he made about $1.14 million during the four years he served as acting boss and that the organization brought in $6 million, in a stretch of hard times for the crime family that prosecutors say continues.
 Since Vincent Basciano, a former acting boss of the Bonanno family, was convicted of racketeering earlier this year, federal prosecutors have sought to seize $11.4 million from him, citing profits they say he has made over two decades, including $5.2 million from gambling operations, $6 million from joker poker and $200,000 passed up to him as tribute in 2004 alone.
 Mr. Basciano, who took over the family after Mr. Massino's conviction in 2004, revealed his thinking about the division of lucre and labor in a conversation he had just before Christmas 2003. A captain at the time, he was speaking with Anthony Urso, then the family's acting boss, and Mr. Tartaglione, who was secretly cooperating with prosecutors and wearing a wire.
 ''Like I told Tony at Christmastime, I'm not taxing any of the guys that are doing the work,'' Mr. Basciano said, meaning the shooters. Let the earners put up the money, he said.
 Mr. Tartaglione underscored the idea that it takes people with different skills to keep the family strong. ''You need a lot of different things in the pot to make a good soup,'' he said.
 Inveterate brokesters are a different matter. Few would argue they are a necessary ingredient in any recipe. This colorful cast of crime figures sometimes leaves prosecutors and investigators, not to mention defense lawyers, shaking their heads.
 Carmine Russo and Elio Albanese are two such men, according to interviews with law enforcement officials and defense lawyers. Identified by prosecutors as soldiers in the Genovese family, the two were part of a loose-knit but active bank robbery crew in the 1980s and 90s that pulled off several high-profile heists, according to federal authorities. Mr. Russo most recently pleaded guilty to plotting to rob the payroll of a New York Times printing plant in Queens and was sentenced to 57 months in federal prison.
 Mr. Russo, known as Baby Carmine, lived with his mother at the foot of Mulberry Street until she died. He and Mr. Albanese, known as Chinatown, often seemed down on their luck, according to investigators who tracked them over the years. As a rule, they quickly burned through their money and often found themselves hustling and lounging along Mulberry Street. 
 They found ways to scrape by. In the weeks leading up to the Fourth of July, the two men could be seen from the windows in the rear of the criminal court building in Lower Manhattan, selling fireworks by the case to people in cars who pulled up on Mulberry below Canal Street. 
 Mr. Russo was released from federal prison in January. A person who knows him says he had been selling plastic bags at the Fulton Fish Market before it moved and was now hoping to open a small business in his Chinatown neighborhood.
 His sentence included a $7,500 fine. He has been paying it off in monthly increments of $50 or $60.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Carmine Russo, holding money, and Elio Albanese, facing him, were photographed by investigators in 1993 as they sold fireworks on Mulberry Street. Investigators describe them as brokesters: gangsters eking out a living. (pg. 45)
 Richard Martino, left, now in prison for wire fraud conspiracy and extortion, and John Setaro, who has served time for extortion. (pg. 52)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ORGANIZED CRIME (91%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (88%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); PERSONAL DEBT (73%); FAMILY (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); RESTAURANTS (70%); LAWYERS (70%); CRIME RATES (68%); SUBURBS (66%) Crime and Criminals; Organized Crime

PERSON: William K Rashbaum

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006



225 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; The Neediest Cases; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: Rejoicing in American Life, and in Open Displays of Faith

BYLINE: By KARI HASKELL

 BODY:
Tarlan Abramov, 63, and her husband, Khanuk Abramov, 75, are each barely five feet tall, but through their three daughters, they hope to cast a long shadow in America. 
 It is for their girls, Natilla, 31, Enya, 30, and Elvira, 28, that they immigrated from Azerbaijan in April 2000 as refugees.
The Abramovs continue to be amazed by and grateful for the open society in which they live. 
 They are even more elated that their brood has grown by six grandchildren. One, a 2-year-old, Joseph Abramov, who has the family's last name to pass on to future generations, was visiting their apartment on Ocean Parkway in Brooklyn on a recent afternoon.
 Joseph climbed on a tricycle and rode around the room, with two sofas covered with oriental rugs. ''We don't have a lot of furniture,'' Mrs. Abramov said in Russian, gazing at her grandson. ''It is better for the children.''
 Their focus on their family helps to erase memories of Russian tanks and soldiers patrolling the streets of their hometown, Baku. And each day in America further separates them from the religious oppression that they had endured.
 When the Abramovs were young, during Soviet rule, Jews were not allowed to go to synagogue or openly celebrate Jewish holy days, and there were also restrictions on property ownership. 
 ''My father was a religious man,'' Mr. Abramov said. His father made the candles for their menorah and would explain traditions of their religion in secret, Mr. Abramov said.
 Mrs. Abramov, who had similar experiences growing up, added, ''We believed in our hearts.'' 
 The restructuring of the Soviet economy, or perestroika, began in the late 1980s. Azerbaijan's detachment from a central government and the ensuing social and government disarray meant Mr. Abramov, a mechanical engineer, did not receive his $100-a-month salary for months. 
 The hardship grew after Azerbaijan and Armenia fought over the Nagorno-Karabakh enclave. Baku is located on the coast, far from the heart of the conflict, but the instability created a feeling that catastrophe could erupt in the city at any moment, she said. 
 ''Many people didn't have a job, no money, nothing,'' Mrs. Abramov said. Their concerns mounted for their daughters. ''For young women, it was especially dangerous.''
 They also heard that people were being killed in Baku. More and more Jewish people were leaving to go abroad. 
 Mr. Abramov worried that if he were to die, his family would not be able to find enough men to recite minyan, a communal prayer for the dead during the funeral ceremony. As the tanks rolled by, the Abramovs feared that the emerging religious freedoms would be snuffed out.
 They began making plans to leave. The couple applied for refugee status in Moscow. With savings, Mr. Abramov bought five airline tickets for $2,545 and obtained an $850 apartment for his family through a sister in New York.
 Their first culture shock here was meeting some Jews who were proudly wearing the Star of David around their neck. ''I couldn't understand how it could be done so openly,'' Mrs. Abramov said. 
 Through Jewish centers, they met friends and received assistance in adjusting to American life. Once such agency is the Selfhelp Community Services, a beneficiary agency of UJA-Federation of New York. The federation is one of seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. 
 Last year, the Abramovs moved into their rent-controlled apartment in an area where many Russian Jewish immigrants live. They receive $1,008 monthly in Supplemental Security Income and pay $680.72 in rent. 
 ''Ask me about my current life. Now, I am in America,'' he said, raising his hands up in the air. Mr. Abramov went into his bedroom and returned with an envelope that contained their American passports. The Selfhelp agency guided the couple through the citizenship application process and paid the $800 fee. 
 Mr. Abramov's eyes sparkled as he spoke about his new country and the knowledge that their children will have many more opportunities. 
 ''My children, they are treated well, and they are very smart,'' Mrs. Abramov said. The family is happy, although Mrs. Abramov has developed severe asthma since moving here. 
 ''They don't know why I have it,'' she said, explaining that she uses a respirator three times a day and is on medication. On Aug. 11, their social worker from Selfhelp, Fran Tarshish, realized that the stifling heat in their apartment was inhibiting Mrs. Abramov's ability to breathe. She drew $400 from the Neediest Cases through the federation for an air-conditioner. ''I breathe much better now,'' she said. 
 ''We can't believe how many people help us,'' Mr. Abramov said. ''We came here and we did nothing for America and they gave us S.S.I. and everything. We are very, very grateful.'' 

HOW TO HELP

Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245, or any of these organizations:

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street
Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street
Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue
New York, N.Y. 10022

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22nd Street
New York, N.Y. 10010

COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22nd Street
New York, N.Y. 10010

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South
New York, N.Y. 10010

UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station
P.O. Box 4100
New York, N.Y. 10261-4100

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.

Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (800) 381-0075 or online, courtesy of NYCharities.org, an Internet donations service, at www.nytimes.com/neediest or www.nycharities.org/neediest. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556-4450.

The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.

Contributions to the fund are deductible on federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.

To delay may mean to forget.

Previously recorded: $2,567,078.61
Recorded Thursday: $88,611
Total: $2,655,689.61
Last year to date: $2,914,791.70


GRAPHIC: Photo: Tarlan Abramov, with her grandson Joseph, said she was surprised to see American Jews wearing the Star of David around their necks. (Photo by Jeremy M. Lange for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (90%); RELIGION (90%); REFUGEES (89%); WOMEN (78%); IMMIGRATION (72%); HANUKKAH (71%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (70%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (66%); JEWISH HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (62%) New York Times Neediest Cases Fund

ORGANIZATION: Uja-Federation of New York

PERSON: Kari Haskell; Tarlan Abramov; Khanuk Abramov

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); AZERBAIJAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ARMENIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006



226 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: In Bronx, Job Statistics Paint a Complex Picture

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY WILLIAMS

 BODY:
Jesus Padilla has not held a steady job in six years. He earns cash doing whatever he can -- repairing cars on the street, making deliveries, working construction, cleaning offices. He has not given up looking for something permanent, but he is beginning to wonder whether his job search is pointless.
 ''The jobs out there aren't for me,'' the 31-year-old said as he waited outside a city employment office in the Bronx recently. ''I don't have qualifications, the language, the right education. If there's a retail job, those are hardest to get because everyone's trying for it.'' 
While many people hailed state employment figures for October, which found a record low in the city's jobless rate, thousands of people in the Bronx like Mr. Padilla were in no mood to celebrate because even as that borough's unemployment numbers have fallen, the Bronx's 5.5 percent unemployment rate is the highest of any county in the state. 
 In fact, the Bronx's unemployment rate was one full point higher than any other county and 1.4 percentage points higher than the city average. The national unemployment average was 4.4 percent and the state's 4 percent.
 The borough has, however, reduced its levels of joblessness faster than almost any other county in the state: In January 2003 the rate was at 11.2 percent, and last October, had fallen to 7.5 percent. The improvement alone is cause for jubilation, said the Bronx borough president, Adolfo Carrion Jr. 
 ''The Bronx is doing exceedingly well along with the rest of the city, as the unemployment rate is currently at the lowest it's been in over a decade,'' Mr. Carrion said. ''The only way we're going to continue to progress in this battle against unemployment, in the Bronx and throughout the city, is if we continue to implement strong and smart economic development.''
 The unemployed however, say jobs seem to be in as short supply as ever.
 A group of young men standing outside a bodega in University Heights all said they had effectively stopped looking for work.
 ''No one I know has a regular job,'' said Michael Martinez, 20, who has not worked in several months after hurting his back while working construction.
 ''What about Joe?'' asked his friend Jose Jimenez, 19. ''He got himself something. Delivering sodas.''
 ''That's not a regular job,'' scoffed Mr. Martinez. ''They call him maybe once every two weeks. That ain't real work.''
 Mr. Martinez said he had been among several thousand people who had waited in line for hours recently to fill out an application for one of 200 jobs at a new candy store in Times Square. The crowd grew so large that the police sent everyone home. The job seekers were told to e-mail their applications. Mr. Martinez does not own a computer and knows no one who does.
 Economists say that the Bronx's unemployment rate is likely to remain significant as long as its poverty rate -- about 27 percent -- remains high, and its education levels low. Only 62 percent of its residents 25 or older have high school diplomas, and just 15 percent have bachelor's degrees. Outside of well-to-do enclaves in Riverdale and the eastern Bronx, graduation rates are far lower.
 ''The population of the borough has a number of demographic factors all associated with unemployment,'' said Jim Brown, a labor market analyst for the State Department of Labor. Mr. Brown said in addition to the Bronx's poverty and high dropout rates, its large immigrant population and the percentage of its residents who speak languages other than English factors in its high unemployment rates.
 ''Employment has grown in the Bronx, but it is hardly booming'' he said.
 Andrew Breslau, executive director of City Futures, the parent organization of the Center for an Urban Future, a nonprofit think tank, said high unemployment levels should be no surprise given that the Bronx has yet to recover from its nadir in the late 1970s and early 1980s when it was best known for violent crime, abandoned neighborhoods and burning buildings.
 ''It's a long path to complete recovery,'' Mr. Breslau said. ''It was the poster child for blight and urban neglect and municipal incompetence in the 1970s. People don't understand, but it takes decades to recover from that.''
 According to economists, the borough is also recovering from an economic downturn after Sept. 11, 2001. 
 When restaurants, hotels and stores in Manhattan lost business they often laid off workers -- many of whom lived in the Bronx. 
 More than half of Bronx workers have jobs outside the borough, according to economists, most in Manhattan and neighboring Westchester County, where the economy suffered less and recovered more quickly after 9/11. 
 But even before the attack, in August 2001, the Bronx's 9.5 percent unemployment rate was the highest in the state. Unemployment remained above 9.8 percent throughout 2003 and dipped below 8 percent for the first time in several years in December 2004. It fell to 7 percent in May 2005 and to 6.3 percent in June 2006. For most of that time, the Bronx, with a population of about 1.3 million, had the highest unemployment level in the state, challenged only by a few rural, upstate counties that rely heavily on seasonal employment.
 The Bronx's largest employers are hospitals, government and small stores. Some economists believe the borough's unemployment rate may be far higher than 5.5 percent because the State Department of Labor's unemployment statistics include only people who are actively seeking work. The figures also did not include people paid off-the-books.
 ''There's an awful lot that's going on in the Bronx that's not being counted,'' said Christopher Jones of the Regional Plan Association.
 The young men outside the bodega would agree.
 ''No one bothers with us,'' Mr. Jimenez said. ''No one's offered me a job, even after I applied.''
 ''Me either,'' Mr. Martinez said. The rest of the young men nodded their heads in agreement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); STATISTICS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (50%) Labor; Unemployment

ORGANIZATION: Labor Department (NYS)

PERSON: ADOLFO CARRION JR (55%) Timothy Williams

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York State; New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006



227 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 47

LENGTH: 940 words

HEADLINE: Connecticut Takes a Lead In Stem-Cell Research Aid

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Dec. 7 

 BODY:
One researcher will get $3.5 million to explore how embryonic stem cells might be used to repair skin, muscles, cartilage and bones badly injured in war. Another will get a few hundred thousand dollars to examine ways such cells could repair neurons damaged by epilepsy and seizures. A third will track their use in treating Parkinson's and other degenerative brain diseases.
 Doling out $20 million to 21 research projects, Connecticut is moving faster and further than other states to take the most controversial form of stem-cell research, that involving tissue from human embryos, from the political arena to the laboratory. The money will flow beginning next year, and is just a start: the state has allocated $100 million over the next decade. 
Connecticut leads several states that have started to take more aggressive steps to support stem-cell research since President Bush vetoed a provision last summer to spend federal money on it. That veto came after a White House move in 2001 to restrict federally funded research to a limited number of stem-cell lines.
 Soon California will begin to decide how to distribute nearly $150 million. New Jersey has already awarded nearly $10 million, though most of the research projects there do not involve embryonic cells; the state plans to allocate millions more for additional research facilities. Maryland and Illinois have also agreed to finance stem-cell research. 
 Private companies and foundations have also paid for some projects.
 It will take years, if not decades, for the research proposals Connecticut is supporting to be translated into clinical trials for therapies or cures. Each proposal reflects the high expectations for the use of embryonic cells, which scientists believe can be developed into any type of body tissue and thus provide the basis for comprehensive treatments. 
 Opponents of such research, which uses destroyed embryos, want it to be severely restricted or banned outright as inhumane.
 The first round of grants will pay for research at the University of Connecticut -- which received $12 million, more than half the total -- Yale University and Wesleyan University. 
 ''Certainly we put an emphasis on research that cannot or is not being done elsewhere, which means embryonic stem cells,'' said Dr. J. Robert Galvin, the commissioner of Connecticut's Department of Public Health and chairman of its stem-cell advisory board. ''We want to create an atmosphere here where we are showing that this is welcome in Connecticut. We are operating under the belief that if we build it, they will come.'' 
 More than 70 proposals were considered by scientific review boards before being submitted to the research advisory committee appointed by the state. 
 One rejected proposal included a plan to clone a human embryo and use it to produce new stem cells. Dr. Galvin said that it was turned down because it received low marks from the review board, and that there was no vocal opposition to the idea of cloning embryos in principle. 
 The committee made a special effort to finance scientists who are only beginning such research. 
 Dr. David W. Rowe, a professor of genetics and developmental biology at the University of Connecticut Health Center in Farmington, who will get $3.5 million for experiments on healing serious war wounds, said he was confident that such work would bring attention to the university. 
 Like several other researchers receiving the grants, Dr. Rowe has done some research using adult stem cells, but is hoping that embryonic cells will be stronger and more efficient to repair the most serious wounds. 
 ''What's going on with soldiers now is that injuries are so catastrophic, massive injuries and losing large segments of bone,'' Dr. Rowe said. ''This really is transformative for us because we can look at ways of doing things we had only thought about so far.'' 
 Laura Grabel, a professor of biology at Wesleyan, whose $800,000 research project focuses on epilepsy, has done some similar work using stem cells in mice, and said that using human stem cells would take the research one step closer to an ability to apply it in patients. 
 ''We're not anywhere near the level of this happening in humans, and there are many roadblocks,'' Dr. Grabel said. ''But there are some models of the system that look very promising, and we're just at the very beginning. This is going to be far beyond what we were able to do before.'' 
 Like other scientists pushing for such research, Dr. Grabel said she was thankful for the ''extremely supportive political climate'' in the state and said she expected other researchers to take notice. 
 ''There is no question that more money is going to translate into more research, and we will be in an excellent position to get more dollars from the federal government if the funds ever become available,'' she said. 
 While the financing is widely praised in scientific circles and many advocates view it as a potential boon for local economies, some caution that financial support from states alone could result in a patchwork and haphazard approach to the research. 
 ''There are many states moving money around, but the implementation is not the same everywhere, so while we are grateful for state governments filling the void, it points to real problems,'' said Sean Tipton, president of the Coalition for the Advancement of Medical Research and a leading lobbyist in Washington for stem-cell research funding. 
 ''It is quite inefficient to have every state trying to figure out their own way of how to review grants, spend the money and monitor what the researchers are doing,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STEM CELL RESEARCH (93%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (93%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); BIOETHICS (90%); VETO (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); PARKINSONS DISEASE (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); HUMAN CLONING (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (78%); CLONING (78%); BRAIN (78%); BUDGETS (78%); SCIENCE FUNDING (77%); EPILEPSY (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (76%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (71%) Medicine and Health; Stem Cells; Research; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%) Jennifer Medina

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (57%) CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006



228 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; ON BASEBALL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1314 words

HEADLINE: Week in Review: Few Trades but Feverish Spending

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
Commissioner Bud Selig might regret hailing this as ''the golden age of baseball.'' He has said it so often that he has convinced his constituents, the clubs. He has done such a good job of convincing them that they have started a gold rush the past few weeks, with all of the gold going to the players.
 Critics of clubs' spending practices have said in previous instances that as soon as clubs get their hands on some money, they spend it, and the clubs are proving them right once again. They probably could not be spending more if the general managers stood at home plate, had the players stand in the infield and threw $100 bills at them.
The Chicago Cubs committed $136 million to a player who will have a salary of $18 million at the age of 39, the Baltimore Orioles are paying middle relievers as if they are an endangered species and teams in the National League West cannot sign free agents fast enough. 
 The Los Angeles Dodgers and the San Francisco Giants especially have waged a signing war the past few weeks, as if next season's division championship depended on it. Well, it probably does. 
 ''If you're going to try and control your own destiny with the makeup of your club,'' said Ned Colletti, the Dodgers' general manager, ''you have to delve into the free-agent market and do it that way right now because there's no way of knowing when teams will seriously entertain trades and what that will be like.''
 The unwillingness of teams to make trades was apparent at last week's winter meetings, where only four major league trades involving seven players were made. By comparison, teams made six trades involving eight players who were selected in the annual draft of minor league players. 
 The usual trade avenue should open in the not-too-distant future, but in the meantime, detour signs have been posted directing general managers to free agents.
 ''The division is very competitive,'' Colletti said. ''Most years it plays pretty tough. We felt we needed to upgrade our club in a handful of areas. The trading options right now are very few and far between. Everybody's waiting to see how the free-agent market plays out.''
 The Dodgers signed two starting pitchers, Jason Schmidt and Randy Wolf, and two outfielders, Juan Pierre and Luis Gonzalez. They re-signed their first baseman, Nomar Garciaparra, and they signed Mike Lieberthal to be their backup catcher. The Dodgers lost three players as free agents -- Greg Maddux to San Diego and J. D. Drew and Julio Lugo to Boston.
 The Giants, who finished 11 1/2 games behind the wild-card Dodgers last season, re-signed Barry Bonds, their notorious left fielder; half of their infield, second baseman Ray Durham and third baseman Pedro Feliz; and reliever Steve Kline. They also signed catcher Bengie Molina, outfielder Dave Roberts and infielder Rich Aurilia. The Giants lost Schmidt to the Dodgers and outfielder Moises Alou to the Mets.
 The Dodgers were so busy scooping up players last week that at the end of the meetings, when Colletti was asked what was left for him to do, he said: ''I'd like to get three hours of sleep. That's the only thing that's left on the list.''

Bonds Gets His Contract
 People who stand in unemployment lines had to be heartened to hear that Barry Bonds showed up at the winter meetings looking for a job. The last time Bonds was at the meetings was in 1992, when he signed a six-year, $43.75 million contract with the Giants. Bonds didn't exactly show up hat in hand last week; he had just finished a five-year, $90 million contract with the Giants.
 Why was Bonds there? The Giants had been dragging their feet on a new contract, so Bonds's agent, Jeff Borris, very likely thought it would be a good idea to let other teams see Bonds on the loose, maybe even have a conversation with Bonds and possibly make the Giants nervous enough to hurry up and make an offer he couldn't refuse. 
 If that was the strategy, it worked. The Giants raised their offer, Bonds lowered his price and they agreed on a one-year contract for $16 million.

Cubs as a Winning Investment
 The uncharacteristic way the Cubs have spent money on free agents the past few weeks can mean only that they will soon be on the market themselves. Cubs officials have explained that they have added players because they are tired of losing. 
 When it has been suggested that the signings indicate the Tribune Company plans to sell the team, the contrary view is that the Cubs would be foolish to burden prospective new owners with expensive contracts.
 Look at the expenditures another way, though. In allowing the Cubs to spend the way they never have, the Tribune Company is making an investment. If the new high-priced players help the Cubs win -- the World Series, especially -- the value of the franchise will skyrocket, probably to a level exceeded only by the Yankees. 

From D.H. to D.O. Award?
 The American League may have to change the name of its award for the season's best designated hitter. It is currently known as the Edgar Martinez award, named for the Seattle Mariners' outstanding designated hitter. Martinez was the league's leading D.H. five times in seven years (1995 to 2001).
 David Ortiz of Boston won the Martinez award this year for the fourth successive season. No one else has won it more than two years in a row.

Red Sox Being the Red Sox
 The Boston Red Sox may have honorable intentions, but the next time they let it be known that they are trying to trade Manny Ramirez, everyone should ignore them. The Red Sox are wasting everyone's time. The Mets were smart this time for not even asking about Ramirez.
 The Red Sox have supposedly tried to trade Ramirez, their slugging outfielder, the past three off-seasons and have yet to let him go anywhere. It's understandable that they just don't want to give him away, but if they haven't been able to get equal value for him in three tries, they're not going to get it.

Going to Bat for Metal
 Yankees pitcher Mike Mussina has joined the battle of the metal bats. He doesn't use a metal bat; he hardly uses a wood bat (43 career at-bats). But he has come out in defense of metal bats. Politicians are trying to ban them on the grounds that they are more dangerous than wood bats despite statistics to the contrary.
 A bill in the New Jersey State Assembly and a more recent one in the New York City Council would ban the use of non-wood bats. The campaign follows an episode last summer in which a 12-year-old pitcher from Wayne, N.J., was hit over the heart by a line drive off a metal bat. The youngster can't speak and remains hospitalized. 
 Mussina, a member of the Little League international board of directors, issued a statement recently, saying, ''I can unequivocally state that nonwood bats are no more dangerous than their wooden counterparts.''
 When he was an amateur player, Mussina said, balls hit off nonwood bats traveled at a higher velocity, but his reaction time was about the same. His safety, he said, ''was in no more jeopardy when facing batters with wood or nonwood bats in their hands.'' Today's nonwood bats, he added, are different, required to meet wood-bat standards.
 Baseball is not without risk, Mussina said, but added, ''If New York City were to ban nonwood bats for high school players, those kids would be no more safe than when they take the field today.''
 Just about every amateur baseball organization, including Little League, the American Baseball Coaches Association and USA Baseball, which operated the United States team in the World Baseball Classic, has written to the city council urging it notto pass the bill, saying they have not found metal bats to be more dangerous than wood bats.
 Stephen Keener, the Little League president, told the council that of the eight Little League deaths from batted balls since 1963, six have come from wood bats and two from nonwood bats, none since 1973.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jason Schmidt left the Giants and agreed to a three-year, $47 million contract with the Dodgers last week in what has been a signing war between the rival clubs. (Photo by Barton Silverman/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); ATHLETES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (69%); SECURITIES TRADING (50%) Baseball; Trades (Sports)

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES DODGERS (83%); SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (82%); NEW YORK GIANTS (59%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (56%); CHICAGO CUBS (56%)

PERSON: Murray Chass

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006



229 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 3; Sports Desk; COLLEGE FOOTBALL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1496 words

HEADLINE: An Audit Reveals More Academic Questions at Auburn 

BYLINE: By PETE THAMEL

DATELINE: AUBURN, Ala., Dec. 7 

 BODY:
An internal audit at Auburn University found that a grade for a scholarship athlete was changed without the knowledge of the professor, raising the athlete's average in the final semester just over the 2.0 minimum for graduation.
 The grade, which was changed to an A from an incomplete, was one of four A's the athlete received in the spring semester of 2003. None of the courses required classroom attendance.
The athlete, who was not identified because of privacy laws, received the other three A's in directed-readings courses supervised by Professor Thomas Petee. Petee was forced to resign as chairman of the sociology department in August because of ''poor judgment'' in the number of his directed-readings classes, one-on-one courses similar to independent study. 
 Auburn began a four-month inquiry in the wake of an investigation by The New York Times in July, which showed that at-risk athletes had received unusually high grades in directed-readings courses. Petee and another department head resigned from their leadership positions. The university also overhauled its policies on directed-readings courses. Petee still teaches criminology at Auburn. 
 The university maintained that the courses, which often involved little work but resulted in high grades, were available to all students, not only athletes. Edward R. Richardson, the Auburn president, considers the issue dead, a university spokeswoman said. Richardson declined requests for comment in person and on the telephone this week. 
 The athletic department has maintained that it does not do scheduling for athletes, but the audit showed that someone with knowledge of the system had helped the athlete who received the four A's and graduated with a 2.01 grade point average.
 ''This ain't over,'' said Jim Gundlach, the director of the sociology department, who in the summer revealed Petee's unusual teaching load to The Times. ''That was my first reaction to this, looking at the academic characteristics of the person involved and how many classes they had with Petee and how much of it was during that last semester, and the grade-change thing was the deciding factor in graduation.''
 Gundlach said the student whose grade change was found in the audit was a scholarship athlete but not a football player.
 The grade was changed without the consent of the instructor listed for the course, the sociology professor Paul Starr. He said he did not teach the course to the athlete that semester and did not recall ever meeting the athlete. 
 ''It was a phantom student in a phantom class,'' Starr said in an interview in his office this week. ''The schedule was a very strange one. You don't cook up a schedule like that yourself. There was obviously some kind of guidance and special allowances with someone who had that kind of schedule.'' 
 Starr said he found out about the grade change, which occurred May 12, 2003, only eight days ago, when he received an e-mail message as part of the internal audit. The information systems auditor who sent the message, Robert Gottesman, said the audit had nothing to do with the sociology department or the athletic department. It is not known whether the grade changes were widespread, but other sociology department professors received e-mail messages from the auditor this week. 
 The e-mail message Starr received Nov. 29 said, ''As part of an ongoing audit, Auburn University Internal Audit is reviewing changes made to grades where the documentation was signed by someone other than the instructor of record.''
 It went on to ask Starr about a course in the spring 2003 term, SOCY4300-001, an internship-type course known as field instruction. The e-mail message asked whether he was aware of the grade change and the circumstances that had caused someone else to change it, and whether he had been contacted by anyone about the change. 
 Starr replied by e-mail to Gottesman that he had taught it one-on-one to ''no more than three students over the last 20 years.'' He also informed the auditor that he was not aware of the grade change submitted on his behalf. Further, he wrote that he did not enroll the athlete or permit the athlete to take the course.
 That semester, Starr gave a grade of incomplete to a nonathlete in the same course. That grade became an F six months later, in accordance with university policy for students who do not complete the coursework.
 Starr said that he would like to find out who had authorized the grade change but that he had heard nothing since replying to Gottesman on Nov. 30.
 ''I want to know more about the circumstance,'' Starr said. ''If credit is assigned by my name, I should know the background to it, whether it was an error or an inappropriate act, because I'm the instructor of record.''
 The same week Starr received the audit notice, other professors in his department, which includes sociology, anthropology, social work and criminology, received e-mail messages from an auditor. 
 The interim head of the department, Paula Bobrowski, said she was not told formally about the audit and was unsure of how many teachers had received e-mail notices. She did not know the nature of any grade changes or how many might have involved athletes. 
 Bobrowski appeared surprised when she was told about the grade change in Starr's course during an interview in her office this week. 
 ''That's what's good about having an audit,'' she said. ''We're talking about academic integrity, and if it's out of whack, I'm extremely happy that we're having an audit. This will not happen during my term here.''
 Gundlach said the manner in which Starr found out about the grade change was similar to how he discovered problems with directed readings. 
 Gundlach was watching a football game on television when he saw a sociology major honored as a student-athlete of the week. 
 Gundlach never had the football player in class. He asked two other full-time sociology professors about the player and learned they had never taught him, either. That prompted Gundlach to go through the files, where he found that 18 players on the undefeated 2004 Auburn football team had taken a combined 97 hours of directed-readings courses with Petee during their careers. The courses included core subjects like statistics, theory and methods, which are almost always taught in a classroom setting. 
 Petee, who declined to be interviewed for this article, had said that he did nothing wrong. He told other news media in the summer that his classes, which included 152 one-on-one courses in one semester, were the only way that he could keep up with rising student demand and a shrinking department budget. 
 ''I will openly acknowledge that I wanted to have more rigor in the classes, but, given the circumstances, I wasn't able to,'' Petee told The Villager, a weekly newspaper in Auburn, over the summer. ''If I gave them each a 40-page paper, I would have had to grade them all. Was this an ideal way to do the curriculum? Of course not.''
 He told The Birmingham News in August that he should not have given a directed-readings course in statistics to Carnell Williams, a star tailback now with the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. 
 The National Collegiate Athletic Association received Auburn's initial internal report, which included an investigation into the athletic and academic arms of the university. It can accept the university's findings or investigate on its own. 
 A spokesman, Erik Christianson, said the N.C.A.A. would not comment other than to say it had received the report. 
 The report was also sent to Auburn's accrediting agency, the Southern Association of College and Schools. 
 Auburn's findings, made public last month, showed that Petee made about 55 grade changes for students from January 2003 to the spring of 2006. The average for professors in the department in that period was 22. The report did not break down the number of grade changes for athletes. It also did not say that Petee changed grades in courses other than his own. Petee gave 24 incompletes during that period, 67 percent to athletes. 
 The report admonished him for failing to keep accurate grade records, including those involving grade changes. 
 ''Dr. Petee's lack of course records for some classes violates Auburn University policy on proper maintenance of class documents and records,'' the report stated. 
 Gundlach said that he felt the report should have been tougher on Petee but that he had been generally pleased with Bobrowski's tenure. He said he told her of a professor in the department who had been giving unsupervised tests by computer for years. 
 Bobrowski not only stopped that professor, but she also found and stopped another professor who had been doing the same thing.
 ''There has been a substantial improvement in the academic climate at Auburn since this,'' Gundlach said. ''The Auburn faculty hasn't felt there has been much support for them to bear up against the pressure of grade inflation until this.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); AUDITS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); SOCIOLOGY (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ETHICS (75%); RESIGNATIONS (75%); SCHOOL ATTENDANCE (71%); GRADES & GRADING (71%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (56%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (55%) Football; Ethics

ORGANIZATION: AUBURN UNIVERSITY (94%) Auburn University

PERSON: Pete Thamel; Thomas (Prof) Petee

GEOGRAPHIC: ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006



230 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: The Steroids, the Hall, the Shame

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY. 
E-mail: geovec@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The sight of Barry Bonds lurking in a hotel lobby at the winter meetings was so delicious that the baseball press could not resist making him sound like some unemployed first-base coach. 
 Bonds's agent termed that conclusion the most irresponsible story in the history of journalism. As far as I'm concerned, if sullen, swollen Barry Bonds trudges through a lobby at Disney World, reporters have a free pass to imagine him bearing a tin cup, mooching for nickels.
The man with the outsized mandible has left himself open to such flights of fancy by consorting with seedy types like the boys from Balco and a personal trainer-supplier. Major League Baseball, which raked in the shekels from the steroid-driven home run frolics, is not about to bust Bonds or take back a percentage of his home runs. But we all pretty much know what happened when Bonds used those drugs and cream that people just kept giving him. 
 As it happens, Bonds agreed to a one-year, $16 million contract with the Giants, so he can collect his 22 home runs to pass Henry Aaron's career record of 755, a chase that figures to be mostly joyless.
 The steroid years -- if they are indeed over -- keep ticking, with the duration of Chernobyl. Mark McGwire, the bulked-up behemoth who briefly held the single-season home run record, is on the ballot for the Baseball Hall of Fame, but he is likely to be shunned by a significant percentage of the voting baseball writers.
 The New York Times does not allow its employees to vote for awards -- a sensible policy, since the paper wants us to report news and comment on news rather than make news. So here's my opinion. 
 There are plenty of worthy candidates for the Hall this year -- Tony Gwynn and Cal Ripken Jr., both no-brainers, and also Rich Gossage (more fearsome than Bruce Sutter) and Jim Rice (comparable to Billy Williams and Tony Perez). Let McGwire wait a decade or two, by which time he may be growing a second head from the androstenedione and whatever else he might have been using.
 At the same time, Sammy Sosa seems to be getting the feeling there may not be another job for him in baseball. He and McGwire stiffed the Congressional hearing on March 17, 2005, using a sudden language barrier in Sosa's case and an ill-conceived stonewall in McGwire's case. 
 Sosa already got a freebie in his final season in Baltimore, being paid a huge sum of money by the Tribune Company, which was more than glad to trade him away from the Cubbies. The money would have been much better invested in journalism. 
 Ever since the Balco revelations and the subsequent positive test by Rafael Palmeiro, another hero of the March 17 charade, people have been criticizing reporters for not having come up with the goods years earlier. (The San Francisco Chronicle has done a great job of digging into the Balco scandal, but now two admirable reporters are under threat of jail to reveal their sources to a grand jury. Meanwhile, the suppliers, users and perjurers generally walk.) 
 Many sportswriters could see with our own four eyes that the players were growing larger, but we did not exactly have access to the players' medical records, as the clubs and the players union did. I've gotten tired of flagellating myself for this. What about the industry itself?
 As far as I can see, Kevin Towers, the general manager of the San Diego Padres, is the only baseball executive with a working conscience. I just went back to find Towers's remarks, early in 2005, to Buster Olney of ESPN the Magazine, saying he had suspected that Ken Caminiti was using steroids. Caminiti had also confirmed his usage in an interview with Tom Verducci of Sports Illustrated. 
 ''I feel somewhat guilty, because I felt like I knew,'' Towers said, adding: ''The truth is, we're in a competitive business, and these guys were putting up big numbers and helping your ball club win games. You tended to turn your head on things. And it really wakes you up when someone you admire as a person is no longer around. 
 ''I hate to be the one voice for the other 29 G.M.s,'' Towers continued, ''but I'd have to imagine that all of them, at one point or other, had reason to think that a player on their ball club was probably using, based on body changes and things that happened over the winter.'' 
 He concluded, ''I think we all knew it, but we didn't say anything about it.''
 Towers's colleagues were quick to say no, they never suspected a thing, which leaves us where we are today -- skipping our borrowed Marriott ballpoint pens right past the name of Mark McGwire on the Hall of Fame ballot. And hoping Sammy Sosa stays away. 
 And when reporters spot Barry Bonds at the winter meetings, they ignore the obvious explanation that this most gregarious of fellows just wants to hang out with his chums in his business. Instead, they come up with a scenario that Bonds is working the lobby in a desperate effort to break a home run record that will bring less honor to him than it ever did to Babe Ruth or Henry Aaron.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Barry Bonds, top, signed a one-year, $16 million contract with the Giants to remain in San Francisco next season. Mark McGwire, above left, is on the Hall of Fame ballot, but he is likely to be shunned by voters, while Sammy Sosa may simply be shunned. (Photos by Top, Jeff Chiu/Associated Press
above left, Rusty Kennedy/Associated Press
 Marc Serota/Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (93%); STEROIDS (90%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (90%); JOURNALISM (89%); DRUGS IN SPORTS (78%); WRITERS (72%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (50%) Baseball; Sports of the Times (Times Column); Steroids; Doping (Sports)

ORGANIZATION: SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS (82%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (56%) Baseball Hall of Fame (Cooperstown, NY)

PERSON: George Vecsey

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006



231 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; KEEPING SCORE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: Fearing Inflation at the Same Time as Fueling It 

BYLINE: By ALAN SCHWARZ. 
E-mail: keepingscore@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Two winters ago, after the Dodgers signed the oft-injured outfielder J. D. Drew to a five-year contract worth $55 million, the Los Angeles news media roasted the club's general manager, Paul DePodesta, alongside his order of magic beans. This, the chorus went, was a horrible deal for the Dodgers, yet another example of baseball's sickening profligacy.
 Fast-forward to this November, after Drew performed roughly as expected -- one good season, one ruined by injuries. He exercised a roundly forgotten opt-out clause in his contract. Knowing that he could make more money in today's free-agent market, Drew cut himself free and was signed by the Red Sox for another five years and a raise to $14 million a season. So naturally, DePodesta (who had since been run out of town) was cooked anew -- for leaving such a bargain contract open to player escape. 
This parable is a hard one to remember with the passing of each winter-meetings talent auction, whose 2006 version finished last week with another slew of head-slapping signings. But it is one which most general managers must consider: that whatever seems expensive now may appear a steal later.
 ''The market keeps growing,'' Walt Jocketty, the Cardinals' general manager, said. ''Clubs anticipate that.''
 The Royals caused quite a stir by signing the mediocre right-hander Gil Meche for five years and $55 million. Even before the winter meetings, Gary Matthews Jr., a 32-year-old journeyman whose fine 2006 season for Texas was either revelation or aberration, got $50 million over five years from the Angels. These deals indicated more than a faith in the players' future productivity. Like Manhattan apartment buyers, clubs were placing grudging bets that the future costs for such productivity would only swell.
 Various analyses can illustrate this inflation numerically, though others cast a murkier picture.
 Onlookers since the 1880s -- Albert Spalding was particularly aghast -- have known that ballplayer compensation almost always rises. The average salary over the last 10 years has increased to $2.87 million from $1.18 million, an annual rate of 9.3 percent. Given new labor and television deals, surging industry revenue and baseball's bustling Internet operation, average salaries will probably reach $4 million in 2009.
 Yet average salary does not fully describe the rising cost of acquiring talent. First, as opposed to younger players whose paychecks are kept artificially low, free agents can have the open market determine their true value. Second, relatively expensive veteran players annually leave the workforce and are replaced by rookies making the minimum, dampening the overall average. Both of these factors lead many industry insiders to believe it's prime free-agent contracts that grow the fastest of all.
 Yet predicting when those dollars will fly -- thereby increasing costs for all that follow -- is dangerous business. Each off-season brings a unique marketplace with different elixirs of supply and demand.
 The average annual value of free-agent contracts signed the last eight off-seasons has varied wildly, jumping from $3.4 million in 2000 to $7.1 million in 2001, then slumping each winter from 2002-4, then going up, then down, and then seemingly going up this year. (The winter of 2001 was a dark one for baseball financiers, headlined by the giddily massive contracts to Alex Rodriguez and the left-hander Mike Hampton.) 
 While costs do go up in general, available player quality, individual team needs and the nation's overall economy leave ultimate costs more volatile than is assumed.
 Dave Dombrowski, the general manager of the Tigers, says that player skill does not always drive costs. One mediocre pitcher in a thin market can affect future prices more than five better arms with many suitors, with the order in which players sign -- with each successive contract building off the other -- further affecting how agents and teams determine value.
 ''What one winter brings, another does not,'' he said. ''People ask you every winter, 'How do you see the market to be?' That's a hard question to answer each time, let alone four or five years in advance.''
 Major League Baseball has devoted resources to educating club officials on how to make better decisions on contracts. One step was emphasizing how most players in their early 30s, though known commodities, quickly lose their productivity and value.
 More subtle is the message that purchasing extra years to hedge against market inflation -- particularly with pitchers -- may be outweighed by added risk. The player can become injured or simply not be as good as expected, leaving the club saddled with a payroll-draining deal or the drag of paying another club millions to take the player off its hands.
 That situation happens every season with former free agents whose value was misjudged years before. Still, general managers do not stop trying to see the future before everyone else.
 ''You're always thinking ahead to where you think the market may be,'' Dombrowski said. ''But I don't know anyone who has figured that all out.''
 Until then, others follow a more simple strategy. The best way to avoid salary inflation is to cause it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETES (90%); BASEBALL (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (87%); PRODUCTIVITY (85%); LABOR FORCE (77%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); AUCTIONS (72%) Athletics and Sports; Wages and Salaries

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES DODGERS (91%)

PERSON: Alan Schwarz

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006



232 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1275 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: December 10, 2006

 BODY:


	 	 	 			Weeks		This	Last	On		Week	Week	List	FICTION		 	 	 	1	1	2	CROSS, by James Patterson. (Little, Brown, $27.99.) Alex Cross, retired from the F.B.I., has a chance to track a rapist who may have murdered his wife.		 	 	 	2	2	9	FOR ONE MORE DAY, by Mitch Albom. (Hyperion, $21.95.) A troubled man gets a last chance to reconnect and restore his relationship with his dead mother.		 	 	 	3	3	4	DEAR JOHN, by Nicholas Sparks. (Warner, $24.99.) An unlikely romance between a soldier and an idealistic young woman is tested in the aftermath of 9/11.		 	 	 	4*		1	THE SHAPE SHIFTER, by Tony Hillerman. (HarperCollins, $26.95.) Lt. Joe Leaphorn, a tribal detective, tracks down an antique Navajo rug with a complicated history.		 	 	 	5	4	2	NATURE GIRL, by Carl Hiaasen. (Knopf, $25.95.) A single mother takes revenge on her lecherous ex-boss and an annoying telemarketer in the Florida Keys.		 	 	 	6	7	5	LISEY'S STORY, by Stephen King. (Scribner, $28.) A widow's journey through grief after the death of her husband, a famous novelist with terrible memories.		 	 	 	7	5	3	WILD FIRE, by Nelson DeMille. (Warner, $26.99.) Detective John Corey and his wife, an F.B.I. agent, help to foil a nuclear plot against the United States.		 	 	 	8	8	2	SANTA CRUISE, by Mary Higgins Clark and Carol Higgins Clark. (Scribner, $22.) Passengers on a Christmas cruise for charity, including an amateur sleuth, manage to foil two escaping felons.		 	 	 	9	9	6	THE COLLECTORS, by David Baldacci. (Warner, $26.99.) The members of the Camel Club reunite to solve a murder at the Library of Congress.		 	 	 	10	6	3	BORN IN DEATH, by J. D. Robb. (Putnam, $24.95.) Lt. Eve Dallas investigates the disappearance of a pregnant woman; by Nora Roberts, writing pseudonymously.		 	 	 	11	10	5	FIRST IMPRESSions, by Nora Roberts. (Silhouette, $17.95.) Seeking peace, a wealthy businessman retreats to a small town but his lovely and charitable neighbor won't stay away; reprint of a 1984 novel.		 	 	 	12	11	4	H.R.H., by Danielle Steel. (Delacorte, $27.) An American-educated European princess faces unexpected challenges when she works at an African Red Cross camp.		 	 	 	13		1	AGAINST THE DAY, by Thomas Pynchon. (Penguin Press, $35.) From the time of the Chicago World's Fair in 1893 to World War I, a sprawling cast of characters engage in Pynchonesque high jinks.		 	 	 	14	12	3	THE RISING TIDE, by Jeff Shaara. (Ballantine, $27.95.) The first volume of a projected trilogy of novels about World War II focuses on campaigns in North Africa and Sicily.		 	 	 	15	14	8	THIRTEEN MOONS, by Charles Frazier. (Random House, $26.95.) A man raised in the North Carolina wilderness travels America in defense of his adopted Indian people and broods over an elusive woman.		 	 	 			Weeks			 	 	 	This	Last	On			 	 	 	Week	Week	List	NONFICTION		 	 	 	1	2	7	THE INNOCENT MAN, by John Grisham. (Doubleday, $28.95.) Grisham's first nonfiction book concerns a man sentenced to death for a crime he did not commit.		 	 	 	2	1	6	THE AUDACITY OF HOPE, by Barack Obama. (Crown, $25.) The Illinois junior senator proposes that Americans move beyond their political divisions.		 	 	 	3	3	9	CULTURE WARRIOR, by Bill O'Reilly. (Broadway, $26.) The host of $(3$)The O'Reilly Factor$(2$) describes a culture war between traditionalists and secular-progressives.		 	 	 	4	5	58	MARLEY & ME, by John Grogan. (Morrow, $29.95 and $21.95.) A newspaper columnist and his wife learn some life lessons from their neurotic dog.		 	 	 	5	4	10	THE GOD DELUSION, by Richard Dawkins. (Houghton Mifflin, $27.) An Oxford scientist asserts that belief in God is irrational.		 	 	 	6	6	17	I FEEL BAD ABOUT MY NEck, by Nora Ephron. (Knopf, $19.95.) A witty look at aging from a novelist and screenwriter (''When Harry Met Sally'').		 	 	 	7	8	6	THE MR. AND MRS. HAPPY HANDBOOK, by Steve Doocy. (Morrow, $23.95.) Humorous observations on marriage and family life.		 	 	 	8	7	9	STATE OF DENIAL, by Bob Woodward. (Simon & Schuster, $30.) The third $(3$)Bush at War$(2$) volume by the longtime Washington Post reporter and editor describes the inept conduct of the invasion and occupation of Iraq.		 	 	 	9	9	5	THUNDERSTRUCK, by Erik Larson. (Crown, $25.95.) Intertwined stories of early-20th-century murder and scientific intrigue; from the author of ''The Devil in the White City.''		 	 	 	10*	10	6	I LIKE YOU, by Amy Sedaris. (Warner, $27.99.) The actress's wacky approach to entertaining.		 	 	 	11	13	4	A HAND TO GUIDE ME, by Denzel Washington with Daniel Paisner. (Meredith, $24.95.) Stories from celebrities about people who inspired them.		 	 	 	12		4	U2 BY U2, by Bono, the Edge, Adam Clayton and Larry Mullen Jr. with Neil McCormick. (HarperCollins, $39.95.) Photographs, documents and extensive interviews with members of the legendary band.		 	 	 	13		1	A PHOTOGRAPHER'S LIFE, by Annie Leibovitz. (Random House, $75.) More than 300 images, 1990-2005, mixing Leibovitz's trademark celebrity photos with intensely personal work.		 	 	 	14	15	81	FREAKONOMICS, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Morrow, $27.95.) A maverick scholar and a journalist apply economic theory to almost everything.		 	 	 	15*	12	86	THE WORLD IS FLAT, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $30.) A columnist for The Times analyzes 21st-century economics and foreign policy. 		 	 	 	16*	14	6	THE LIFE AND TIMES OF THE THUNDERBOLT KID, by Bill Bryson. (Broadway, $25.) A memoir of growing up in mid-America at midcentury by the author of ''A Short History of Nearly Everything.''		 	 	 	Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended Nov. 25, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger () indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books.Editors' Choice
 Other recent books of particular interestPATHFINDERS: A Global History of Exploration, by Felipe Fernandez-Armesto. (Norton, $27.95.) An illuminating study of the divergence and convergence of cultures brought on by explorers.
 BETJEMAN: A Life, by A. N. Wilson. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.) Wilson delivers a frank but judicious biography of the poet John Betjeman, the great chronicler of English middle-classness. 
 COLLECTED POEMS, by John Betjeman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux; paper, $25.) The accessibility of these old-fashioned verses made Betjeman the best-selling British poet since Tennyson.
 WALT DISNEY: The Triumph of the American Imagination, by Neal Gabler. (Knopf, $35.) In the end, Gabler vividly portrays a cold fish.
 COLLECTED STORIES, by Roald Dahl. Edited by Jeremy Treglown. (Everyman's Library, $30.) Dahl wrote clever, often savage tales for adults before turning toward children's books. 
 ASSASSINATING SHAKESPEARE: The True Confessions of a Bard in the Bush, by Thomas Goltz. (Saqi; paper, $19.95.) Hitchhiking across Africa in the 1970s, at 21, Goltz survived by performing Shakespeare with masks and puppets. 
 THOMAS JEFFERSON ON WINE, by John Hailman. (University Press of Mississippi, $38.) Jefferson's oenophilia was prescient and passionate.
 ASK THE PARROT, by Richard Stark. (Mysterious, Warner, $23.99.) The enigmatic hood Parker returns in this sequel to ''Nobody Runs Forever.''
 TUNNEY: Boxing's Brainiest Champ and His Upset of the Great Jack Dempsey, by Jack Cavanaugh. (Random House, $27.95.) An entertaining, if worshipful, account of a great boxer who seemed troubled by the violence of his craft.
 SCOTT OF THE ANTARCTIC: A Life of Cour-age and Tragedy, by David Crane. (Knopf, $30.) Crane's stylishly written biography of Robert Falcon Scott is perhaps the most balanced yet.
 AN ANTHOLOGY OF GRAPHIC FICTION, CARTOONS, AND TRUE STORIES, edited by Ivan Brunetti. (Yale University, $28.) A manifesto of the comics' coming of age.
 The full reviews of these and other recent books are on the Web: nytimes.com/books.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); MURDER (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); WRITERS (78%); SINGLE PARENTS (76%); WOMEN (76%); LIBRARIES (73%); FELONIES (72%); WORLD WAR II (70%); WORLD WAR I (70%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (68%); CHRISTMAS (64%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (63%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%)

PERSON: JAMES PATTERSON (73%); STEPHEN KING (58%); MITCH ALBOM (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (74%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007



233 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1252 words

HEADLINE: When Winning Feels a Lot Like Losing

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
IF you're an investor who has filed an arbitration case against your stockbroker, you would be wise to steel yourself for an irrational and unjust outcome. 
 Mabel Strobel certainly should have done so. An 86-year-old former client of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, she sued the firm in 2002 for $281,729 in investment losses. Her case -- which she won, by the way -- ended in a truly bizarre twist: she was awarded damages of $5,000 but was ordered to pay $10,350 in fees even though an arbitration panel found Morgan Stanley liable for her losses.
Given that securities firms require investors to arbitrate any grievances with their brokers, the Strobel case is not only wacky, it's downright disturbing. 
 A single woman living on a fixed income in San Diego, Ms. Strobel heeded her stockbroker's advice and sold a rental property and invested the proceeds in the stock market. Starting in 1998, she placed her entire life savings of $1 million in Morgan Stanley's hands, then lost $281,729 over the next four years. Her broker put almost everything she owned into racy technology stocks and so-called Class B shares of proprietary Morgan Stanley mutual funds -- shares with the heaviest fees that have been the subject of regulatory action against some brokerage firms, including Morgan Stanley. 
 By June 2000, stocks made up 99 percent of Ms. Strobel's account, and her portfolio was clobbered when the technology bubble collapsed that year. In 2002, she brought an arbitration case against Morgan Stanley and her broker, Suzanne C. LaTour. Ms. Strobel said the firm had invested her money inappropriately, given her objectives, risk tolerance and sophistication. Not so, said Morgan Stanley. The firm contended that Ms. Strobel was a savvy, aggressive investor -- and that even though she was 79 when Morgan Stanley signed her up, she had a 10-year investment horizon (meaning she could ride out the market's ups and downs until she was almost 90). 
 There was one thing that Morgan Stanley did not dispute: Ms. Strobel's assertion that she lost almost $300,000 of her money investing with the firm. An NASD arbitration panel spent five days deliberating the Strobel case in 2004. In May that year, the panelists sided with Ms. Strobel, holding Morgan Stanley liable for her losses. The panel dismissed the claim against Ms. LaTour, who is now a broker with Citigroup Global Markets. She did not return a phone call seeking comment. 
 BUT the good news for Ms. Strobel ended there. The award of just $5,000 in compensatory damages did not begin to cover the $10,350 in arbitration forum fees -- which, by the way, were far more than the $6,900 in forum fees that Morgan Stanley was required to pay. The arbitrators, as is customary, gave no explanation for their ruling. 
 Imagine winning your case but being required to pay $5,350 more than you received in damages. If that's a win, what on earth constitutes a loss for a wronged investor? 
 Fortunately, Ms. Strobel did not give up. Her lawyer, Jeffrey P. Lendrum, filed a motion in federal court to vacate the arbitration award. Last month, Judge Roger T. Benitez, of federal district court for the southern district of California, who is overseeing the matter, ordered the arbitration panel to take up the Strobel case again and ''make a proper damage award.'' 
 ''The record clearly establishes that Strobel suffered a lost of $281,729 and that Morgan Stanley was liable to her for malfeasance in relation to her account,'' Judge Benitez thundered. ''The decision to award her only $5,000 in compensatory damages, and to assess forum fees against her is completely irrational and 'shocks the conscience' of this court.'' 
 The judge, who was appointed by President Bush, continued: ''If the court was able, it would award Ms. Strobel the full $281,729 that the undisputed evidence establishes as the amount of damages to which she is entitled.'' 
 A spokeswoman for Morgan Stanley said in a statement: ''The arbitrators' unanimous decision to award nominal damages, dismiss all claims against the broker and expunge reference to the arbitration from the broker's record demonstrates that the arbitrators believed the case lacked merit.''
 Earlier this month, Morgan Stanley asked the court to reconsider its order, arguing that the judge has no authority to force the arbitrators to revisit the award. ''Such a mandate would circumvent the arbitration process in clear violation of settled law,'' Morgan Stanley said in its filing. Arguments in the matter are scheduled for January. 
 ''In the current environment, I believe arbitrators are not following the law with respect to awarding appropriate damages where liability is found to exist,'' said Mr. Lendrum, the lawyer who represented Ms. Strobel. ''I am extremely confident that if the broker dealers were forced to present their cases before a jury, the results of these cases would be substantially different.''
 Judge Benitez seems to agree, at least where Ms. Strobel is concerned. Other judges also seem to be wading into arbitration matters these days, reflecting perhaps an increased concern that arbitrators are not adhering sufficiently to the law. 
 Lewis D. Lowenfels, an expert in securities law at Tolins & Lowenfels in New York, has been a proponent of arbitration since the Supreme Court ruled 20 years ago that investors can be required to resolve disputes in arbitration, not the courts. But, he said: ''Arbitration is not a predictable process and in many ways not a rational process and that makes it very dangerous for both sides. The courts are realizing that the process does have some deficiencies and it could use a little more oversight.''
 None of the panelists on the Strobel matter were lawyers. Paul J. Sipe, the panel's chairman, was a founder of two local San Diego banks; Robert B. Hansohn is a former Los Angeles Police Department official; and Nils S. Sandberg is an investment adviser. Neither Mr. Sipe nor Mr. Hansohn could be reached for comment. 
 Mr. Sandberg, reached by phone on Thursday, said he had not heard about the judge's order to revisit the case and make a proper award, even though it has been nearly a month since it was issued. After a reporter sent him the ruling, Mr. Sandberg did not return a phone call.
 One explanation for why awards may not reflect the facts of the cases, Mr. Lendrum asserted, is that arbitrators, who are often retired, want to be chosen to serve on future panels. Those known for giving big awards to plaintiffs are more likely to be stricken by brokerage firms from lists of potential arbitrators. 
 Steven B. Caruso, a lawyer at Maddox Hargett & Caruso who is president of the Public Investors Arbitration Bar Association, said: ''These three arbitrators should be immediately suspended from the arbitration pool and a full justification for their decision should be given to the NASD to decide whether they should ever again be allowed to sit as an arbitrator.'' 
 A spokeswoman for the NASD said on Friday, ''We will do everything we can to expedite the matter.''
 Given Ms. Strobel's age, Morgan Stanley has an incentive to drag out the legal process. Reached last Thursday at her home in West Texas, Ms. Strobel said her experience in the case had damaged her faith in both Wall Street and the arbitration process. ''I like to see people being treated fairly,'' she said. ''Before this happened, I thought that Morgan Stanley was a company that is fair and honest. And I don't trust arbitration anymore, believe me.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Jeffrey P. Lendrum is representing an 86-year-old woman who lost a chunk of her retirement savings. (Photo by Sandy Huffaker for The New York Times)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (91%); DAMAGES (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); SECURITIES BROKERS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); BUSINESS TORTS (77%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (76%); VERDICTS (75%); BONDS (73%); RENTAL PROPERTY (53%) Stocks and Bonds; Suits and Litigation; Decisions and Verdicts; Arbitration, Conciliation and Mediation

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (93%); CITIGROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Morgan Stanley

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (93%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (93%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (93%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

PERSON: Mabel Strobel; Roger (Judge) Benitez; Gretchen Morgenson

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006



234 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; THE 6th ANNUAL YEAR IN IDEAS; Pg. 84

LENGTH: 325 words

HEADLINE: Web-Based Microfinancing 

BYLINE: By SONIA NARANG

 BODY:
The idea of microfinancing -- small-scale loans to the entrepreneurial-minded poor -- reached the front page this fall when the Bangladeshi economist Muhammad Yunus and his Grameen Bank won the Nobel Peace Prize. But now the San Francisco-based nonprofit Kiva.org may have taken the idea a step further: with just a few clicks of the mouse, most everyone can become a microfinancier. At Kiva.org, a schoolteacher in Kansas can partner with an expert seamstress in countries like Kenya, Mexico and Ecuador to jump-start a tailor shop. 
The founders Matthew Flannery, a Stanford graduate, and his wife, Jessica Flannery, a Stanford M.B.A. candidate, came up with the idea for Kiva, which means ''unity'' in Swahili, after spending time in East Africa. They noticed that many people there had no access to affordable credit. By contrast, Kiva.org offers loans to handpicked microfinance institutions at zero percent interest. These microfinance institutions, in turn, screen local applicants and lend money to individuals at an average interest rate of about 19 percent, lower than the 35 percent worldwide average for microfinance loans. 
 On Kiva.org, a Web site that includes photos of loan recipients and stories about them, lenders can choose aspiring small-business owners and make their own loans. (The current average is about $70.) Since it went online last year, Kiva.org has worked with more than 20 microfinance institutions around the world and enabled more than $1 million in loans for more than 2,000 businesses. (Across the entire microfinance industry, recipients of loans meet their repayment obligations more than 95 percent of the time.)
 Jessica Flannery says that one of the earliest small loans helped a Ugandan fish seller take a bus to the Nile River and buy fish for a fraction of the price she previously paid a distributor. ''A $10 bus ticket,'' Flannery notes, ''separated her from vastly expanding her profit.'' SONIA NARANG

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MICROFINANCE (94%); NOBEL PRIZES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); AWARDS & PRIZES (77%); FISH & SEAFOOD STORES (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (70%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); TRAVEL TICKETS (62%) Credit; Computers and the Internet; Third World and Developing Countries

ORGANIZATION: Kiva.org

PERSON: MATTHEW FLANNERY (79%) sonia narang

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); NILE RIVER (56%) UNITED STATES (88%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%); UGANDA (79%); AFRICA (71%); KENYA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006



235 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 130 words

HEADLINE: The City's Surplus And Its Youths

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Your Dec. 3 editorial ''Another New York Windfall'' is extremely myopic. You commend Mayor Bloomberg for his ''fiscal realism,'' but is it realistic or shortsighted to stash away billions while ignoring the 200,000 New York City youths who are out of work and out of school? 
With lots of money available, it is socially irresponsible to disregard these young people and the tens of thousands who will drop out of school before the mayor's term expires. 
 Our city has no prevention plan or strategy for these disconnected youth. Earmarking 10 percent of the huge surplus to develop one would be money well spent and ultimately saved in social service and criminal justice costs. 

Cary Goodman
Upper West Side

The writer is executive director, Directions for Our Youth.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MAYORS (88%); WRITERS (73%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Children and Youth; Labor; Unemployment; Editorials

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (73%) Cary Goodman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006



236 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: Reducing the Cost of Congestion

 BODY:
It is reassuring that Mayor Michael Bloomberg has not shut the door on congestion pricing, even in the face of those who incorrectly call it a tax. The mayor and his planners have no doubt observed the success of congestion pricing in cities like London and Stockholm, which have eased traffic gridlock by charging drivers a fee to use the most heavily-traveled streets. 
 The argument for considering congestion pricing got a further boost last week with a study from the Partnership for New York City showing that clogged streets cost New York $13 billion a year. 
If anything, that number seems conservative. The federal Department of Transportation, using figures from the Texas Transportation Institute, puts the costs of traffic backup around cities across the nation at an astounding $200 billion. That doesn't even count the unmeasurable value of lost time and opportunity. Businesses and consumers lose when goods and services aren't delivered efficiently, and both human health and the general environment suffer greatly from dirty air. 
 Washington is now handing out planning money to help cities find ways of easing congestion. Mr. Bloomberg should grab it. Even though polls show that New Yorkers want relief from traffic overload, an actual test of congestion pricing could help seal the deal. That's what happened in Stockholm, where citizens first balked, then voted to approve congestion pricing after a seven month trial. 
 Workers in New York have the longest commute in the nation. If solutions are not found now, the situation will only get worse as the city's population grows, as expected, by one million people, to 9.2 million, in the next 25 years.
 The Partnership study offers other compelling data. If traffic were to come down just 15 percent, it says, as many as 52,000 jobs could be created. This is an achievable goal. In London, which charges a fee of about $16 to most drivers in its main business district, traffic has been reduced about 17 percent. In Stockholm, where charges vary by time of day, downtown traffic dropped 25 percent. 
 The benefits would ripple to choke points in all five boroughs, Long Island and New Jersey, where the study found that traffic bound for Manhattan's busiest streets moved at less than 12 miles an hour.
 The epicenter of New York's mess is Manhattan, south of 60th Street. More than 800,000 cars enter the area every weekday. About one-fifth of these vehicles are just passing through, going between New Jersey and Queens or other points east. 
 But the more amazing figure is that fully 40 percent of the vehicles in the area are occupied by just one person, the driver. Congestion pricing could turn some of these drivers into users of mass transit, which in turn would receive the revenues from congestion pricing fees to improve subway service, expand the number of express buses and subsidize affordable ferries.
 Critics of congestion pricing -- including some garage owners, who fear empty parking spaces -- say they're standing up for the small business owner, who may have no choice but to drive into the city. Others express concern for city residents who own cars and may need to use them. But the system could be tailored to meet these objections. 
 The discussion of how New York might implement a pricing plan is less important right now than keeping it on the table as an option. Mr. Bloomberg has been seeking ways to grow New York's economy, reduce carbon emissions and improve public health. All of these goals could be furthered by simply relieving traffic congestion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (86%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); APPROVALS (65%); JOB CREATION (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Roads and Traffic; Delays (Transportation); Editorials; Tolls

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (57%); TRANSPORTATION INSTITUTE (56%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%); SWEDEN (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006



237 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; The City Life; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: How Green Was My Rally 

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE DOWNES

 BODY:
To roars and applause and whistles so loud and shrill they stabbed the ears even more than his double-bagpipe escort, Senator Charles Schumer swept into the packed church auditorium, levitating on a cloud of affection. For another entrance as grand, you'd probably have to go back to Groucho Marx in ''Animal Crackers,'' borne in on a litter by bare-chested natives and multiple choruses of ''Hooray for Captain Spaulding.'' 
 This happy moment was a rally by Irish immigrants the other night at St. Barnabas Church in the Woodlawn section of the Bronx. Mr. Schumer wore a green tie and that grin of his, so wide you could drive on it from Galway to Dublin. He was there to announce the miraculous rebirth of immigration reform, courtesy of the new Democratic Congress. But first he did what politicians always do before a throng of happy Hibernians. After a few courteous preliminaries and a line from St. Matthew's Gospel, he committed Irish identity theft. 
''My sister's name,'' he let slip in a lusty roar, ''is Fran Schumer McNULTY!'' 
 Cheers and more cheers. 
 ''Up Mayo!'' the senator cried. ''Up Leitrim!''
 He was just getting started. He introduced an aide, the one who named his daughters Siobhan, Fiona, Maeve and Nora. The love spilled over, like foam on a Guinness.
 ''The more Irish there are in America, the better we all are!'' Mr. Schumer declared, repeating a line he had caught some flak about a few months before. Some non-Irish immigrants had grumbled about how unlikely it would be to hear another group's name tucked into that equation. They had a point about ethnic favoritism, though Mr. Schumer, who sweet-talks everybody, was perhaps not the best example of it.
 Mr. Schumer's final bit of stagecraft was in Gaelic. ''Tiocfaidh ar la!'' he bellowed. It means ''our day will come'' and is pronounced, to the senator's evident gratitude, ''Chucky-AR-LA.'' With that he tied the ribbon on the gift wrap of his speech. The wave of cheers crested and fell, and Mr. Schumer departed into the windy night.
 It's now a regular thing for big-ticket politicians to go to Woodlawn, where the Irish pubs and delis have been struggling as people go back home to ride the Celtic Tiger, as Ireland's resurgent economy is known. With Irish-American neighborhoods in decline, Irish illegal immigrants have rallied urgently to the cause of friendlier immigration laws. They are a drop of 50,000 in a bucket of 12 million illegal immigrants, but as Mr. Schumer's special blessing showed, they command attention.
 He is far from the only politician to be drawn to the white, English-speaking sliver of the immigration problem. That fondness for Irish audiences helps reinforce the odd sense of solipsism surrounding the Irish immigrant lobby. When you hear the chairman of the Irish Lobby for Immigration Reform, Niall O'Dowd, vow to fight ''to get what is rightfully ours'' -- more visas for the Irish -- you can't help wondering how quickly such words would get a Latino banished to the militant fringe. 
 ''We Are America'' is the Latinos' and Asians' cry. The well-organized Irish don't feel the need to say that. Their slogan, on T-shirts and the Irish Lobby's Web site, is blunt: ''Legalize the Irish.'' 
 The Irish have a just cause, but I only wish they and their many friends would preach the gospel of immigration reform in a bigger tent. It is, after all, every immigrant group's fate to start out in this country unloved, as the Irish are only too eager to remind us. LAWRENCE DOWNES

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (78%); LEGISLATION (73%); REFUGEES (71%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (69%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (67%); IDENTITY THEFT (52%) Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Immigrants; Law and Legislation

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (91%) Lawrence Downes; Charles E (Sen) Schumer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (57%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRELAND (57%) Ireland ; New York City; United States

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006



238 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Editorial Desk; 79 Steps to Victory in Iraq?; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 256 words

HEADLINE: Have Faith in Maliki

BYLINE: By RORY STEWART

 BODY:
President Bush says the Iraq Study Group report ''did a good job of showing what is possible.'' Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain said, ''It offers a strong way forward.'' The New York Post called it the work of ''surrender monkeys.'' There is no shortage of opinions. Here are a dozen worth considering. 
 THE Baker report is refreshingly honest in its description of Iraq. But its recommendations are less reliable and in some cases dangerous. It states, ''If the Iraqi government does not make substantial progress toward the achievement of milestones on national reconciliation, security and governance, the United States should reduce its political, military or economic support.''
This is back to front. Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki will fail to meet those milestones, but we should support him nonetheless. He is the democratically elected head of a sovereign state, with a better understanding of his own country than the coalition. Our attempts to manipulate and control Iraqi politicians have historically undermined their authority, frustrated their political compromises and strengthened opposition. Empowering Mr. Maliki, though necessary, will be unpleasant: the militias and Iran will remain strong and the security forces weak. 
 But progress will come only if we provide almost unconditional economic and political support to the elected president and allow him to rebuild his state in his own way. 
 -- RORY STEWART, former British Foreign Service officer in Iraq and the author of ''The Places in Between.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICS (79%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (69%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (92%); TONY BLAIR (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%) Rory Stewart; Nuri Kamal Al- (Prime Min) Maliki

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006



239 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 3; Editorial Desk; 79 Steps to Victory in Iraq?; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 329 words

HEADLINE: We Can Watch Iraq From the Sea

BYLINE: By ROBERT PAPE

 BODY:
President Bush says the Iraq Study Group report ''did a good job of showing what is possible.'' Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain said, ''It offers a strong way forward.'' The New York Post called it the work of ''surrender monkeys.'' There is no shortage of opinions. Here are a dozen worth considering. 
 GETTING American combat forces out of Iraq is imperative. From Lebanon to Sri Lanka to the West Bank to New York, more than 95 percent of all suicide terrorist attacks around the world since 1980 have been caused by the presence of foreign combat forces on territory the terrorists value. Since 9/11, American combat soldiers stationed on the Arabian Peninsula have increased from 12,000 to more than 150,000. And suicide terrorism both in Iraq and by Al Qaeda has escalated simultaneously.
But leaving is not enough. If Iraq explodes while Americans withdraw, the resulting chaos would be a strategic and humanitarian nightmare. To contain violence, the Iraq Study Group suggests expanding the role of American advisers embedded in the Iraqi security forces. The value of this idea, however, is contradicted by the group itself, which reports only ''fitful progress'' building the Iraqi Army with embedded advisers. More embeds only means more potential hostages.
 Here's a better idea: Move a large fraction of all American forces into staging areas outside Baghdad so that, within hours, tremendous air and ground power could suppress any major escalation in attacks against civilians. Over the next year, American ground troops should gradually pull back and their mission should evolve into a longer term, off-shore balancing strategy using naval and air forces and allies.
 This would not end violence in Iraq. But it would head off the worst and buy time for international economic and political assistance to help stabilize the Iraqi government. 
 -- ROBERT PAPE, a professor of political science at the University of Chicago and the author of ''Dying to Win.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); ARMED FORCES (88%); POLITICS (79%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); ARMIES (77%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (75%); SUICIDE (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (75%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); AL-QAEDA (70%); HOSTAGE TAKING (70%); AIR FORCES (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (56%)

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%) Robert (Prof) Pape

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%) ILLINOIS, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); LEBANON (92%); SRI LANKA (79%); GULF STATES (58%) Iraq; Baghdad (Iraq)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006



240 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 12-10-06; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: Iraq 2013

BYLINE: By James Traub. 
James Traub, a contributing writer, is the author most recently of ''The Best Intentions: Kofi Annan and the U.N. in the Era of American World Power.''

 BODY:
Scholars and diplomats who have closely studied civil wars describe them almost as forces of nature, grinding on until the parties exhaust themselves, shredding bonds that cannot be stitched back together even long years after the killing stops. In Bosnia and Herzegovina, the United Nations and other international actors have spent a decade trying to undo the psychic as well as the physical destruction of four years of intramural mayhem. There's not a great deal to show for it. David Harland, the head of a small policy team inside the U.N. peacekeeping department, points out that ''on the eve of the war, Sarajevo was 40 percent Muslim and 60 percent everything else. Now it's 90 percent Muslim, and of the remaining 10 percent, most are mixed marriages or the elderly. You can't reverse ethnic cleansing.'' 
And you generally can't stop it either, as we are now learning in Iraq. The question of whether Iraq has descended into civil war has, of course, become an obsessive issue, if basically a semantic one. President Bush insists that it has not, though American military officials concede that sectarian violence now poses a greater threat to Iraq than does the (largely Sunni) insurgency. In October, according to a U.N. report, Iraqi civilian deaths reached a record 3,709, though the real number is almost certainly higher. One hundred thousand Iraqis are now fleeing abroad every month, in addition to vast numbers internally displaced. Experts have no trouble describing what they're seeing. In Congressional testimony this past September, James D. Fearon, an expert on civil conflict at Stanford University, said that ''by any reasonable definition, Iraq is in the midst of a civil war.''
 The White House's steadfast refusal to call this conflict a civil war feels more like denial than delusion; President Bush understands that using the term would force him to concede that the defining act of his presidency had ended in ruin. Americans will not continue to send their sons and daughters into the Iraqi maelstrom in order to defend Iraqi factions from one another. What's more, civil wars rarely have the kind of equitable conclusion that the Bush administration has envisioned in Iraq. Fearon testified that the 54 such conflicts he studied typically lasted more than 10 years and normally ended with decisive military victory rather than power-sharing agreements. History, he said, indicates that the current administration strategy ''is highly unlikely to succeed, whether the U.S. stays in Iraq for six more months or six more years (or more).''
 In many respects, Iraq feels less like Bosnia than like Lebanon, where militias representing Christians, Shiites, Sunnis and secular leftists fought one another from 1975 to 1990, killing or wounding 5 percent of the country's population and uprooting half. Paul Salem, an authority on Lebanon at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, points out that in the early part of the war, the various parties kept fighting so long as they believed they could tip the existing balance of power. By 1984 or so, he says, ''the domestic players got tired and realized that none of them would win'' and only then prepared to negotiate. In Iraq, Salem laments, the ''pent-up rage'' from decades of repression seems to have scarcely spent itself. 
 Lebanon typifies the fundamentally sectarian or ethnic character of modern civil wars. In his recently published ''War of the World,'' the historian Niall Ferguson argues that the collapse of multiethnic empires in the late 19th and early 20th centuries gave free rein to rivalries that had been constrained by imperial power. Ferguson observes that many nation-states that emerged out of the wreckage of the Ottoman Empire, from Yugoslavia to Iraq, were able to contain those conflicts by ruthless repression. Centripetal energies often exploded once the dictator died or was toppled. Lacking, in most cases, any tradition of power sharing, such states prove ''far too multiethnic to function as democracies,'' Ferguson maintains. Minority groups are bound to conclude that they have more to gain by fighting than by submitting to the will of an unleashed majority. Ferguson, a onetime supporter of the Iraq war, has argued that ''trying to get democracy in a rush in conditions of economic and political instability'' is a formula for disaster.
 For this administration, so ready to deploy the tools of American power, the conclusion that it is helpless to stem the avalanche it has set off may be even harder to accept than the fact that it has made a terrible mistake. If only for that reason, President Bush may grudgingly accept at least some of the advice he receives from the panel headed by James Baker, the family consigliere, and the former representative Lee Hamilton. But it may already be too late for some of the measures that Baker and others propose to do much good.
 When the sectarian combatants finally do exhaust themselves, Iraq will need a great deal of outside help, though not the kind it has received so far. Civil wars liquidate the trust among parties that makes settlements possible; outsiders must act as guarantors and, usually, peacekeepers. And they have to be prepared to make a major commitment: NATO put 60,000 troops in Bosnia, with a population less than one-sixth that of Iraq, to police the Dayton Accords that ended the war. Today 1,900 soldiers from the European Union are sufficient to do the job. Croats, Serbs and Muslims have reached a wary standoff, which leads David Harland to posit a second world-weary hypothesis: ''If you apply enough force, you can get people to live adjacent to one another.'' That's a long, long way from the trailblazing Middle Eastern democracy around which the Bush administration wove such glittering fantasies. Still, the Bosnians are not killing one another and don't seem likely to start. And in today's Iraq, that would be a consummation devoutly to be wished.

 The chart show the states with the longest-lasting Civil Wars, 1945 -2002. (Source: ''Ethnicity, Insurgency and Civil War.'' By James D. Fearon and David Laitin, American Political Science Review, February 2003. (Chart by L. Eckstein)

GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by Sabah Arar
 AFP/Getty Images)Chart: ''CEASELESS STRIFE''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); POPULATION SIZE (74%); ETHNIC GROUPS (74%); RELIGION (74%); PEACEKEEPING (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); TESTIMONY (69%); MARRIAGE (54%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Civil War and Guerrilla Warfare

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (54%) George W (Pres) Bush; James Traub

GEOGRAPHIC: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); LEBANON (92%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006



241 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION: Firsts; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1239 words

HEADLINE: The Pattern May Change, If 

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY; Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting.

 BODY:
AFTER a 217-year march of major presidential nominees who were, without exception, white and male, the 2008 campaign may offer voters a novel choice. 
 But as Barack Obama, the senator from Illinois whose father is from Kenya, spends this weekend exploring a presidential bid in New Hampshire, and Hillary Rodham Clinton, the first woman to represent New York in the Senate, calls potential supporters in Iowa, the question remains: are Americans prepared to elect an African-American or a woman as president?
 Or, to look at it from the view of Democrats hungry for victory in 2008, is the nation more likely to vote for a woman or an African-American for president? 
 Without question, women and blacks have made significant progress in winning office. The new Congress will include 71 women -- one of whom will be the first female speaker of the House -- compared with 25 when Representative Geraldine Ferraro, a Queens Democrat, became the first woman to run as a major-party vice presidential candidate in 1984. There will be 43 blacks in the new Congress, compared with 13 when the Congressional Black Caucus was formed in 1969. A Gallup Poll in September showed a steady rise in the number of people who expect the nation to elect a woman or an African-American as president one day: Americans, it seems, are much more open to these choices than, say, someone who is an atheist or who is gay.
 Times are indeed changing. But how much? 
 Over the past of the past eight years, in the view of analysts from both parties, the country has shifted markedly on the issue of gender, to the point where they say voters could very well be open to electing a woman in 2008. That is reflected, they say, in polling data and in the continued success of women running for office, in red and blue states alike. ''The country is ready,'' said Senator Elizabeth Dole, the North Carolina Republican, who ran unsuccessfully for president in 2000. ''I'm not saying it's going to happen in '08. But the country is ready.''
 By contrast, for all the excitement stirred by Mr. Obama, it is much less certain that an African-American could win a presidential election. Not as many blacks have been elected to prominent positions as women. Some high-profile black candidates -- Harold Ford Jr., a Democrat running for the Senate in Tennessee, and Michael Steele, a Republican Senate candidate in Maryland -- lost in November. And demographics might be an obstacle as well: black Americans are concentrated in about 25 states -- typically blue ones, like New York and California. While black candidates cannot assume automatic support from black voters, they would at least provide a base. In states without big black populations, the candidate's crossover appeal must be huge.
 ''All evidence is that a white female has an advantage over a black male -- for reasons of our cultural heritage,'' said the Rev. Jesse L. Jackson, the civil rights leader who ran for president in 1984 and 1988. Still, he said, for African-American and female candidates, ''It's easier -- emphatically so.''
 Ms. Ferraro offered a similar sentiment. ''I think it's more realistic for a woman than it is for an African-American,'' said Ms. Ferraro. ''There is a certain amount of racism that exists in the United States -- whether it's conscious or not it's true.'' 
 ''Women are 51 percent of the population,'' she added.
 Many analysts suggested that changing voter attitudes can best be measured in choices for governors, since they, like presidents, are judged as chief executives, rather than legislators. There will be one black governor next year -- Deval L. Patrick in Massachusetts, the second in the nation since Reconstruction. 
 By contrast, women will be governors of nine states, including Washington, Arizona and Michigan, all potential battleground states in 2008, a fact that is no doubt viewed favorably by advisers to Mrs. Clinton. 
 ''Voters are getting more comfortable with seeing governors as C.E.O.'s of states,'' said Gov. Kathleen Sebelius, a Kansas Democrat. Gov. Jennifer M. Granholm, a Michigan Democrat who won a second term last month, said in an interview that when she first ran, she had to work harder. ''Not this time,'' she said in an interview. ''They are used to a woman being governor.''
 Of course, governors don't have to handle national security. And Mrs. Clinton has used her six years in the Senate to try to counter the stereotype that women would not be as strong on the issue, especially with the nation at war. Mrs. Clinton won a seat on the Armed Services Committee, and was an early supporter of the war in Iraq. 
 Mr. Obama is in many ways an unusual African-American politician, and that is why many Democrats, and Republicans, view him as so viable. 
 Mr. Obama is a member of a post-civil-rights generation of black politicians and is not identified with leaders like Mr. Jackson and the Rev. Al Sharpton of New York, who are polarizing to many white voters. He has a warm and commanding campaign presence that, as he showed in Illinois, cut across color lines. 
 Donna Brazile, a prominent Democratic strategist who is black, said that she had been deluged with e-mail messages from people looking to volunteer for Mr. Obama -- and that most of the requests were from white voters.
 Moreover, there is abundant evidence that attitudes toward black candidates are changing among white voters. In Tennessee, Mr. Ford lost his bid to become the state's first black senator since Reconstruction, but by only three percentage points. 
 Surveys of voters leaving the polls showed that 40 percent of white voters supported Mr. Ford, compared with 95 percent of black voters. More intriguing, the final result was the same as what the exit polls had suggested. Before this, in many races involving black candidates, the polls predicted that they would do better than they actually did -- presumably because voters were reluctant to tell questioners they did not support the African-American. 
 That said, Mr. Ford lost his race after Republicans aired an advertisement that Democrats said was explicitly racist. Many Democrats said a lesson of the loss was that racial appeals still have force, particularly in the South.
 Race and gender are big issues in American politics, but they are not the only ones, particularly in the coming race. Mr. Obama, should he run, may find his lack of experience will be far more troublesome to voters than his color. He is 45 and serving his first term as senator. 
 Mr. Obama said that many black voters he spoke with have serious questions about whether America is ready to elect an African-American president.
 ''I think there is a protectiveness and a skepticism within the African-American community that is grounded in their experiences,'' Mr. Obama said in an interview. ''But the skepticism doesn't mean there's a lack of support.'' 
 David A. Bositis, senior political analyst with the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, a nonpartisan Washington group that studies black issues, said that it would certainly be hard, but not impossible for an African-American candidate to win. 
 ''I certainly felt in the '90s that if Colin Powell had been nominated on a major party ticket, he would have had a very good chance to win,'' Mr. Bositis said. ''If it's the right black candidate, I do think there is propensity to elect a black. But it has to be the right black candidate.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Possibilities -- Some political analysts say they think the country may accept a woman as president. But they are less sure about an African-American, even one as popular as Barack Obama. (Photo by Bebeto Matthews/Associated Press)
 (Photo by Jessica Rinaldi/Reuters)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); WOMEN (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); RELIGION (50%) Presidential Election of 2008; Blacks; Women; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2008

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); ELIZABETH DOLE (57%); MICHAEL STEELE (55%) Adam Nagourney; Hillary Rodham (Sen) Clinton; Barack (Sen) Obama

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); KENYA (93%) New York State; Kenya

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006



242 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; SUNDAY MONEY: INVESTING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1275 words

HEADLINE: Democrats May Give Alternative Energy a New Push 

BYLINE: By NORM ALSTER

 BODY:
THE fortunes of alternative energy companies have been linked to two factors outside their control: oil prices and politics. 
 Rising oil prices have moved in the companies' favor over the last few years, making the price of producing energy from wind, solar, geothermal or organic sources more competitive.
Now some analysts and money managers are hoping the imminent Democratic takeover of Congress will also be bullish for alternative energy stocks by improving prospects for favorable legislation for the industry.
 One likely initiative, known as a national renewable portfolio standard, would require utilities to derive 10 percent of their electricity output from renewable sources by 2020. Currently, less than 3 percent of electricity is generated from such sources. Senator Jeff Bingaman, Democrat of New Mexico, the presumptive chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, says he hopes to pass ''some version'' of a renewable portfolio standard in the next Congress. 
 The details of such legislation -- as well as whether it would be approved by Congress and signed by President Bush -- are very much uncertain. But that hasn't stopped investors from placing their bets.
 Democrats may be in the forefront, but they aren't the only ones to jump on the alternative energy bandwagon, said Randy Gwirtzman, a research analyst at Baron Capital, which is based in New York. ''Both sides of the aisle have shown they're in favor of alternative energy sources,'' he said. 
 Senator Jeff Sessions, Republican of Alabama, for example, is concerned about the nation's reliance on imported oil. ''With the surging prices of oil,'' he said, ''there's a strong feeling among Republicans that our economy and national security can be damaged if we don't decrease our dependency.''
 Mr. Gwirtzman recommends shares of SunPower, which he said has a highly competitive solar-cell product line that is well positioned to benefit from a more sympathetic Congress. Stuart Bush, technology analyst at RBC Capital Markets based in Austin, Tex., also likes SunPower, which is a spin-off of Cypress Semiconductor. Mr. Bush says SunPower solar cells are more efficient than the industry average in converting solar energy into electricity. Unlike many other alternative energy companies, SunPower already generates a small profit, and its revenue could reach $600 million next year and $1 billion in 2008, Mr. Bush said.
 A renewable portfolio standard should help alternative energy move closer to parity with traditional energy sources, Mr. Bush said. ''Each technology individually is on a path to reducing costs and achieving parity with traditional energy sources, some very dramatically. The wind industry is probably closest to achieving economic viability without any support'' from the federal government. 
 One company he favors is Zoltek, which makes lightweight carbon-fiber blades for wind turbines. 
 Zoltek could also be helped by a longer extension of federal renewable energy tax credits, a legislative goal of wind-energy lobbyists. The production tax credits, which reward electricity producers for each kilowatt of energy they generate from renewable sources, are scheduled to expire next year. In the past, the credits have typically been extended for two years at a time, which the wind-energy industry maintains is too short a period to stimulate long-term investment. 
 Democrats will support a longer extension, Senator Bingaman said. ''Clearly, we do need to extend those tax credits that relate to renewable energy, and we need to do so for a longer period,'' he said. 
 A consensus on alternative energy is perhaps closest in biofuels, which have the support of many Republicans, particularly from farm belt and southern states. ''I do think we need to increase the use of biofuels as much and as quickly as possible,'' Senator Sessions said. 
 He said he favors increased research support for cellulosic ethanol -- ethanol produced from plant matter -- along with government aid to test production of the fuel. The Bush administration is soon expected to outline a plan to aid cellulosic development. 
 Matthew W. Patsky, co-portfolio manager of the Winslow Green Growth fund in Boston, said that of all the alternative energy technologies, ''cellulosic ethanol has the greatest upside.'' But he added that it was hard to identify worthwhile investments. ''I don't know who's going to win,'' he said, because, at the moment, it is too costly to producing cellulosic ethanol. 
 In the meantime, most ethanol in the United States will be derived from corn, and Democrats in Congress plan several initiatives that would help the growing roster of publicly traded corn ethanol producers like Archer Daniels Midland, Aventine Renewable Energy, The Andersons, VeraSun Energy and Pacific Ethanol. 
 In a position paper on energy, the Democrats set a goal of having ethanol available at 10 percent of domestic gas stations by 2015, along with a mandate that would require automakers to increase production of vehicles that can run on either gasoline or an 85 percent ethanol mix. Such a mandate is necessary to push major oil companies that own many gas stations to install ethanol pumps, said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York. ''We believe we have to push the country into alternative fuels whether the oil companies like it or not,'' he said.
 But corn ethanol investments are risky because producers remain hostage to both rising corn prices and falling gas prices. A ''sliding credit'' that increases ethanol subsidies as gas prices fall ''is the type of thing that has to be looked at,'' Senator Schumer said. 
 Still, oil and gas prices are likely to rise over the long term, with increased demand from China, India and other developing countries, he added. ''Even if oil goes down $10, the price is still high enough for alternative energy to compete,'' he said. ''Alternative fuels are viable with oil at $50 a barrel.'' 
 Senator Bingaman said he hopes to tighten standards on carbon emissions from coal-burning utilities by instituting a nationwide cap, along with ''a market-based system for emitters to buy allowances to emit and trade allowances to emit.'' 
 Headwaters, a company based in South Jordan, Utah, that has technologies that treat coal to reduce sulfur, nitrous oxide and mercury emissions, stands to benefit from caps, Mr. Bush of RBC Capital said. He has a ''high 30s'' target for Headwaters shares, which now trade at around $24. The White House has opposed strict emission caps in the past, but opposition may be more muted this time around, the RBC Capital analyst said. 
 INVESTORS in alternative energy may also get help from the states. New Democratic governors in Massachusetts and Ohio are expected to join an alliance of Northeastern states that has pushed to tighten emission standards for coal-fired plants, Mr. Patsky said. One beneficiary might be Fuel Tech, which sells systems that reduce such emissions, he said. The stock is up more than 170 percent this year. It closed on Friday at $24.90, but Mr. Patsky said it could rise to $35 or $40 within a year. 
 Some states may also move to impose ''green'' building standards, Mr. Patsky said. Beneficiaries may include Interface, which makes synthetic carpets from recycled plastics, and Herman Miller, which makes extensive use of recycled materials in its office furniture. 
 The re-election of Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California on an enthusiastically pro-environment platform could encourage other states to pass green legislation, Mr. Patsky said. ''That single state alone could have tremendous impact.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Fuel Tech equipment in use in Wyoming. The company makes various systems to reduce emissions from a variety of chemical and coal-fired plants. (Photo by Holly Kuper)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); WIND ENERGY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PHOTOELECTRIC CELLS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%) Electric Light and Power; Law and Legislation; Finances; Energy and Power; Electric Light and Power

COMPANY: RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (52%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Baron Capital

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JEFF BINGAMAN (58%); JEFF SESSIONS (58%) Randy Gwirtzman; Norm Alster

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006



243 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: A Bipartisan Moment

BYLINE: By Sarah M. Morehouse. 
Sarah M. Morehouse is a retired professor of political science at the University of Connecticut.

DATELINE: Fairfield 

 BODY:
IN their infinite wisdom, the voters of Connecticut elected Democrats with two-thirds majorities in both the state House and Senate for the first time in 26 years. At the same time they overwhelmingly elected a Republican, M. Jodi Rell, as governor. Why?
 Governor Rell has emphasized steady state politics. She seems to have realized that the people of Connecticut are weary of the corruption that brought the downfall of John G. Rowland, whom she replaced when he resigned two years ago. She has worked at sustaining economic growth by preserving jobs and investing in educational programs. Although her campaign did not emphasize future policies, she was positive and reassuring about the future, and she now has a mandate from the people and is free to act boldly. This may be what she has been waiting for. Here's her chance to pursue policies that address the huge problems of health care costs, mass transportation, economic incentives to attract business to the state, education and job creation. 
Meanwhile, the Democrats in both houses are examining their strategies and issues. They recognize that the citizens of Connecticut wanted to have a Republican governor and a Democratic Legislature. The leadership of both chambers are discouraging vetoes and seems determined to work with Governor Rell, at least for now. 
 To take advantage of this spirit of cooperation, the governor should introduce health care as a major plank in her agenda. Universal health care will probably be the biggest issue before the General Assembly this session and the governor should assume the leadership. Medical costs are rising and there are more than 350,000 residents who are not covered by insurance. The governor and legislative leaders have taken note that Massachusetts has enacted a law to create near-universal health coverage for its residents starting in 2007. 
 The coming debate in the General Assembly will focus on health policy that emphasizes prevention as the best way to improve health and control health costs. That's good news because emergency rooms statewide are being used as primary care centers. And this is a problem. Emergency care is the most expensive form of health treatment available and those costs can be brought down drastically through preventive programs. Preventive services include everything from community-based care directed at cardiovascular disorders, cancer, H.I.V., accidents and obesity to programs that manage high-cost illnesses like diabetes and asthma. 
 Under a single health care system the savings achieved through prevention can be used to offset the cost of improved access and quality. The public health system in Connecticut has been underfinanced and understaffed for decades and is not able to meet the demands for preventive services of universal health insurance. This is a life-and-death issue that the governor and the General Assembly need to solve together. 
 The governor has made mass transportation a major priority since she assumed office and she needs to continue with that commitment. Last year, the General Assembly passed a bill that focused on rail service from New Haven through Hartford to Springfield, Mass., parking and rail station improvements on branch lines. In addition, the bill made improvements to Long Island Sound ports to facilitate its use for passenger ferries and freight barges. But more needs to be done. 
 Railroad cars need to be replaced. Parking spaces are needed near mass transportation to enable citizens to avail themselves of this service. Shuttle buses to jobs are needed for those who take mass transit. We need to get trucks off the highways and onto the rails, and freight containers need to be transported by water. 
 Housing affordability is another major concern in Connecticut and the governor cannot ignore this issue. Over the last five years, housing costs have increased more than three times that of wages. These high costs have caused 20- to 30-year-olds to leave the state, taking with them their talent, income and sales tax revenue. In fact, a poll conducted last year found that 43 percent of state residents considered leaving Connecticut because of high housing costs and only a small percentage think they will be able to afford to live in Connecticut when they retire, or that their children will be able to live here. The governor and the legislators must create incentives for municipalities to develop affordable housing. 
 Can the Democratic General Assembly and the Republican governor handle these issues, along with many more? The governor was elected with more than 60 percent of the vote, indicating significant popular support that she can use to her advantage. The House and Senate have veto-proof majorities, which confers substantial power on them. Recognizing each other's power should promote respect rather than rivalry and allow everyone to rise to the challenge.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE (88%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (88%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (88%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); VETO (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); JOB CREATION (75%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); OBESITY (68%); CANCER (65%); DIABETES (50%) Medicine and Health; Transit Systems; Housing ; Legislatures and Parliaments; Governors (US); Elections; Politics and Government

PERSON: M JODI RELL (90%) Sarah M Morehouse; M Jodi (Gov) Rell

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006



244 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: Interests Drive U.S. to Back a Nuclear India 

BYLINE: By SOMINI SENGUPTA

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, Dec. 9 

 BODY:
Ask the champions of the landmark nuclear deal with India that President Bush is expected to sign into law next week why only that country will be allowed into the world's nuclear club while others are denied, and a common reason you will hear is this: unlike those others, India will be a responsible nuclear citizen.
 But beyond simple good will, unique commercial and strategic imperatives have driven a bipartisan swell of support for the deal, even though New Delhi steadfastly rejects the global nonproliferation treaty and advances a nuclear weapons program. 
The nuclear accord opens the door, for the first time in more than 30 years, for New Delhi to buy fuel, reactors and other technology to expand its civilian nuclear program.
 R. Nicholas Burns, the United States under secretary of state for political affairs, called it the ''symbolic center'' of a sweeping new relationship with India. K. Subrahmanyam, a foreign policy analyst and one of the best-known Indian advocates of the nuclear partnership, called it a ''litmus test for the future of India-U.S. relations.''
 The economic incentives for the United States are huge. 
 As India gradually opens its vast market, American companies stand to make a great many gains, from investments in Indian real estate to selling soybean oil and fighter planes. There is also New Delhi's growing strategic value in a rapidly changing Asia.
 ''We see India as important for both intrinsic and extrinsic reasons,'' said Ashley Tellis, senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and a former adviser to Mr. Burns. ''Intrinsic because it's a large country growing very rapidly, it's a market for American goods, and a country with which we share common values. Extrinsically, India is a growing power in the context of where Asia is evolving.''
 That a contentious bill has enjoyed so much bipartisan support is revealing. Neither Democrats nor Republicans, it seems, think that the opportunity can be passed up. 
 ''India can be an important partner on a range of issues, from combating the threat of terrorism and proliferation to promoting democracy and regional security,'' Senator John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts, said by e-mail late Friday from Washington. ''Cooperation on the civilian nuclear front can move this essential partnership forward.''
 The Heritage Foundation, a conservative research group, described India as ''a vibrant democracy with a rapidly growing economy,'' and predicted that good relations with New Delhi ''will provide a stabilizing influence in Asia.''
 The two countries are poised to expand their range of counterterrorism operations. Just this year, in two major military deals unthinkable a few years ago, India bought a used American naval vessel and six military helicopters; together they are worth nearly $90 million.
 India is also in the market to buy as many as 126 new fighter planes, and American manufacturers are eager to fill the order -- a deal that could total as much as $6 billion. If they win the contract, the United States could well supplant Russia and Israel as India's biggest military supplier.
 Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., a Delaware Democrat set to take over the Senate Foreign Relations Committee next month, described the nuclear bill as implicit recognition of India's long-term value to the United States.
 ''We can talk about the various aspects of India's importance in the coming decades -- as a counterweight to China, as a rising military power, as an energy consumer, as an economic force, as a bulwark against terrorism and extremism, as a cultural beacon throughout Asia and the world,'' he wrote by e-mail. ''We can parse the various ways in which India will be vitally important -- but we can't seriously question that India will be vitally important, and that's why I've been saying for years that there's no bilateral relationship more important than the one between the U.S. and India.''
 With the Indian economy growing at a steady clip of up to 8 percent in recent years, India last month hosted the largest American trade delegation to any single country, including vendors of nuclear equipment.
 Wal-Mart recently announced its long-awaited entry into the Indian retail market. And Boeing has an $11 billion contract for 68 commercial airplanes for India's booming airline industry.
 The Americans are nudging India to relax rules on foreign investment, notably in the banking sector. The U.S.-India Business Council, a lobby group, predicted in a news release that the nuclear law would ''yield a bounty of opportunity for both our countries.''
 Many in India are already celebrating. On Saturday, the Hindustan Times, an English-language daily newspaper, boasted in a headline stretching across its front page: ''India gets to have its nuclear cake and eat it, too.''
 Generally prickly about any perceived slights to its sovereignty, the Indian government had worried that Congress would attach conditions to the nuclear bill that would influence Indian foreign policy or emasculate its nuclear weapons program. One of those conditions, though not binding on New Delhi, calls for Indian cooperation to contain Iran's nuclear weapons buildup.
 The Indian foreign ministry, in a statement Friday, welcomed the bill but made note of what it called ''extraneous'' requirements. ''No legislation enacted in a foreign country can take away from us the sovereign right to conduct foreign policy determined solely by our national interests,'' it said.
 India and the United States have yet to see eye-to-eye on a host of foreign policy issues, and they continue to have their own reasons to cozy up to each other's foes.
 India, for instance, has cultivated closer ties to the military junta in Myanmar, or Burma, which Washington has consistently sought to isolate. Human Rights Watch earlier this week said that New Delhi had offered arms and counterinsurgency training to Myanmar. 
 The Indians say they reserve the right to cultivate the relationships they choose, and they naturally point to American affection for the government in Pakistan. 
 ''There has to be a certain amount of understanding. If you have got some compulsions about Pakistan, we have got some compulsions about Myanmar,'' said Mr. Subrahmanyam, who is chairman of the Indian government's Task Force on Global Strategic Developments. ''We are living in a very complex world, in which your interests and our interests are, at present, different. It will take time for it to be harmonized. All we can say is the door has opened.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); COUNTERTERRORISM (76%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (75%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (75%); CONSERVATISM (73%); NAVAL VESSELS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); FOUNDATIONS (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (65%); TERRORISM (60%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (60%); HELICOPTERS (50%) United States International Relations; Atomic Weapons; International Trade and World Market; Law and Legislation; Foreign Investments ; Treaties

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOHN KERRY (79%) Somini Sengupta; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (94%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); INDIA (95%); ASIA (93%) India; United States; India

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006



245 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: After Flurry of Votes Stretching Into Morning, Lawmakers Head Home

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 9 

 BODY:
Republicans relinquished their political grip on Capitol Hill early Saturday as the 109th Congress adjourned after a final spurt of legislation and accusation.
 In one of their last acts in the majority, Republican leaders forced through a broad tax and trade bill packed with provisions that drew substantial bipartisan support after harsh opposition that melted away when it became obvious the legislation was headed to the president and lawmakers were ready to head home after a difficult year.
''I recognize I am going to lose,'' said Senator Judd Gregg, Republican of New Hampshire, in making a final, futile procedural attack against the measure, which was approved on a 79-to-9 vote just before 2 a.m. The House had passed the provisions in two separate packages.
 With the conclusion of the Congress, four years of full Republican control over the apparatus of Washington came to an end because of election gains that will install Democrats in the House and Senate majorities when Congress reconvenes Jan. 4. The election also interrupted 12 straight years of Republican reign in the House, where Democrats were steamrolled for years. 
 Reactions to the looming transfer of power depended on whether a ''D'' or an ''R'' followed a lawmaker's name. 
 Senator Charles E. Schumer, the New York Democrat who was instrumental in engineering the Democratic takeover of the Senate, beamed as he left the chamber. ''Not a bad year,'' Mr. Schumer said.
 But Republicans were subdued, with some who were defeated in November saying goodbye to colleagues and staff members and lingering a few extra minutes on the floor after casting their last votes.
 In the House, Representative J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois made his final speech as speaker and received a hug and a kiss on the cheek from the incoming speaker, Representative Nancy Pelosi, Democrat of California, a frequent target of Republican attacks.
 ''Those of us on this side of the aisle will become the loyal opposition, and the gentle lady from California, Mrs. Pelosi, will assume the duties as our speaker,'' Mr. Hastert said. ''I know she will do so with skill and grace and that she will bring honor to this institution.''
 The trade measure, a compendium of last-minute priorities sent to President Bush, was the chief legislative accomplishment of the final hours. It restored $38 billion in popular tax breaks; established normal trade relations with Vietnam and granted trade benefits to Haiti and four South American countries; and blocked a cut in Medicare payments to doctors. The measure also fulfilled a long-sought objective of Gulf Coast lawmakers and the oil industry by expanding offshore drilling opportunities in the eastern Gulf of Mexico and directing hundreds of millions of dollars in new royalties to the region.
 ''Just when everyone bet against us, Republicans put together a broad package of energy, tax, trade and health care measures,'' said Senator Bill Frist of Tennessee, whose four-year tenure as majority leader concluded with the final gavel in the Senate at 4:40 a.m.
 Hours earlier, just minutes before a midnight deadline, the Senate approved a stopgap measure to maintain financing for government agencies at current or lower levels through Feb. 15 -- a temporary fix required because Congress had failed to pass 9 of the 11 routine spending bills that were due Oct. 1.
 That collapse raised complaints from Democrats that Republicans were irresponsibly leaving them with major unfinished business to take care of next year. Some Republicans were pointing fingers as well.
 ''The breakdown of regular order this cycle -- indeed the failure to get our bills done -- should be squarely placed at the feet of the departing Senate majority leader who failed to schedule floor time for the consideration of appropriations bills,'' Representative Jerry Lewis, Republican of California and the departing chairman of the Appropriations Committee, said in an unusual public attack on a fellow Republican. 
 As they plowed through legislation in the early morning, Congress also whisked through a package of three major health care initiatives that continued a program for H.I.V. and AIDS that will provide more than $6 billion for care over three years, created an agency to centralize efforts against bioterrorism and restructured the National Institutes of Health.
 ''Tonight, Congress put partisanship aside to do the right thing for the health of millions of Americans,'' said Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, who helped squeeze through the health legislation.
 With approval by the House before it adjourned at 3:15 a.m., Congress also gave the first overhaul in years to fisheries laws, trying to limit overfishing of certain species. ''By passing this bill, Congress has agreed that the threats facing our oceans are too great to wait another year,'' Matt Rand of the National Environmental Trust said.
 Congress also adopted a measure intended to strengthen the ability to predict tsunamis. Lawmakers approved the first reorganization of the Postal Service in more than 30 years and sent Mr. Bush an agreement allowing the United States to share civilian nuclear technology with India. And Congress passed a bill to make obtaining personal telephone records without permission a federal crime.
 Mr. Bush, who signed the stopgap spending legislation early Saturday, praised Congress for delivering the last batch of bills, singling out the oil drilling, AIDS assistance and fisheries legislation, as well as the nuclear agreement with India and the elevated trade status for Vietnam.
 ''The American people welcome the remarkable transformation and economic progress in Vietnam, and we will continue to work together to strengthen our ties,'' said Mr. Bush, who made his first visit to Vietnam last month. 
 But even as he complimented the old Congress, the president may have to brace for a different relationship with the new one.
 In the Democratic radio address broadcast Saturday, Representative Silvestre Reyes of Texas, who will be the chairman of the Select Committee on Intelligence in January, promised intense scrutiny of the president's policies regarding Iraq.
 ''I intend to focus on oversight, holding administration officials accountable to the American people,'' Mr. Reyes said. ''Oversight need not be partisan, and under my leadership, it won't be. It will be bipartisan, focused and serious.''
 Even though Republicans took all the Congressional losses in November, conservative Republicans helped block a proposal to pay a total of about $10 million in severance to hundreds of senior committee and leadership aides who will lose their jobs when the changeover shrinks the Republican payroll. Critics said the severance was too generous.
 Lawmakers will return to a changed world in January, and they acknowledge it will take some getting used to.
 ''John McCain told me they don't know they've lost yet and we don't know we've won,'' Senator Kennedy said.
 But as he left the Senate chamber in the early morning, Senator Mel Martinez, Republican of Florida, appeared to know who was up and who was down, acknowledging a greeting as ''Mr. Chairman,'' reflecting his new position leading the Republican National Committee.
 ''I'm the only guy who is going to be called that next year in my caucus,'' Mr. Martinez said, because the top Congressional committee posts will soon be in the hands of Democrats.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator Judd Gregg, Republican of New Hampshire, failed in his effort to block a tax and trade bill. (Photo by Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images)
 In a final address as House speaker, J. Dennis Hastert welcomed his successor, Nancy Pelosi. (Photo by Lauren Victoria Burke/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); TAX LAW (78%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); APPROVALS (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (63%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); MEDICARE (50%) Taxation; International Trade and World Market

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); NANCY PELOSI (79%); JUDD GREGG (74%); CHARLES SCHUMER (59%) Carl Hulse; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (74%) UNITED STATES (93%); HAITI (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006



246 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1446 words

HEADLINE: Bush Aides Seek Alternatives to Iraq Study Group's Proposals, Calling Them Impractical

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG and DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 9 

 BODY:
Administration officials say their preliminary review of the bipartisan Iraq Study Group's recommendations has concluded that many of its key proposals are impractical or unrealistic, and a small group inside the National Security Council is now racing to come up with alternatives to the panel's ideas. 
 In interviews over the last two days with officials from the White House, the State Department, the Pentagon and foreign diplomats, President Bush and his top aides were described as deeply reluctant to follow the core strategy advocated by the study group: to pressure Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki to rein in sectarian violence faced with reduced United States military and economic support. 
Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice has cautiously embraced that approach, several officials said, but others -- including people in the National Security Council and the vice president's office -- argue that the risks are too high. ''The worry is that the more Maliki is seen as our puppet, because he is abiding by our timelines and deadlines, the internal political dynamics will become so fragile that the whole government would collapse,'' said one senior official participating in the internal review. ''That would set us back a year.'' A senior official said the administration was not near a ''decision point'' on how to go about influencing Mr. Maliki to move faster, and he said it was taking seriously some of the report's suggestions.
 But in interviews, senior administration officials, who would not be quoted by name because Mr. Bush has made no final decisions about how to deal with the Iraq panel's recommendations, questioned the study group's assertions that Iran had an interest in helping to stabilize the situation in Iraq, or that it made sense to start negotiations with Iran without conditions. And they took issue with the decision by former Secretary of State James A. Baker III and the nine other members of the commission to make no mention of promoting democracy as an American goal in the Middle East, and to drop any suggestion that ''victory'' was still possible in Iraq when they presented their findings to Mr. Bush and to the public on Wednesday.
 ''You saw that the president used the word 'victory' again the next day,'' said one of Mr. Bush's aides. ''Believe me, that was no accident.''
 The administration's inclination to dismiss so many of the major findings of the bipartisan group sets the stage for what could become a titanic struggle over Iraq policy. Just two months ago, administration officials were saying that they believed the findings by the panel headed by Mr. Baker and Lee H. Hamilton, a former congressman, would be all but written in stone -- and that Mr. Bush would have little choice but to carry out most of them. But in recent weeks, the White House sought to describe the panel's role as that of one advisory group among many. 
 Andrew H. Card Jr., the president's chief of staff until last spring, said that whatever Mr. Bush did in Iraq would probably fall short of many of the commission's recommendations, and that he was likely to continue making decisions that he believed were right even if unpopular. Referring to Mr. Bush's secret intelligence briefings, Mr. Card said, ''The president by definition knows more than any of those people who are serving on these panels.'' 
 ''The president's obligations sometimes require him to be very lonely,'' he said. 
 Mr. Bush has empowered the ''Crouch Group,'' a small group of advisers being coordinated by Jack D. Crouch II, the deputy national security adviser, to assemble alternative proposals from the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the State Department, the Treasury Department and staff of the National Security Council. 
 The administration's strategy appears to be: Adopt parts of the recommendations that are under way already, or that are considered minor modifications of those efforts, and pick away at those that the administration believes imply retreat or folly. For example, the administration is embracing a recommendation that it put energy into reviving Israeli-Palestinian peace talks. Ms. Rice is planning a trip to the region early next year, and the administration says it plans to build on a new initiative by Israel's prime minister, Ehud Olmert. Similarly, officials have described the report's call for the creation of an ''Iraq International Support Group'' as a natural expansion of two regional forums that Ms. Rice has already met with several times, an economic cooperation group called the ''Compact for Iraq'' and the ''Gulf Plus Two'' group, which includes the Gulf Cooperation Council, plus Egypt and Jordan.
 But other recommendations are being cast as overly optimistic. For example, while White House and Pentagon officials note that they are already embedding additional trainers and advisers in Iraqi units, they expressed deep skepticism that the force of 4,000 advisers could be rapidly increased to the 10,000 to 20,000 envisioned in the report. As a result, they said, they doubted it would be possible to pull back all 15 American combat brigades from Iraq's streets and towns by the first quarter of 2008, the goal in the panel's report. 
 The primary author of the military section of the report, William J. Perry, who was defense secretary under President Clinton, said in an interview on Friday that the administration's resistance was baffling to him. ''There are many ways in which the training goals can be achieved in a timely way,'' he said. ''If there is a will to carry out the proposed embedding program, it can be done.''
 That argument appears to foreshadow the debate that will develop as Mr. Bush seeks advice at the State Department, the Pentagon and elsewhere next week. Members of the study group say they expect to be defending both their individual proposals and the need for an integrated diplomatic and military package. ''Given the track record these guys in the White House have, you would think they would show a little humility about taking aboard some outside ideas,'' said one Republican member of the commission who spoke on condition of anonymity.
 Dan Senor, a former administration spokesman for the Coalition Provisional Authority in Iraq, said that in conversations with administration officials, they had dismissed many of the report's recommendations as ''not terribly realistic from an operational standpoint.''
 He said former colleagues had told him they felt comforted by the recognition that there were no good options, because despite all of the intellect brought to the endeavor, the members of the panel had failed to make the leap from strategy to implementation. ''It's easy to suggest these steps in theory, but we haven't been able to figure out the how,'' Mr. Senor said. ''Now, neither have these 10 wise men and woman.''
 One of the continuing debates within the White House and the Pentagon is whether to temporarily ''surge'' the number of American forces in Baghdad, in an effort to regain control over Baghdad. But the Pentagon has said that most of the additional 30,000 forces should be Iraqis. 
 One foreign diplomat, who requested anonymity because he was discussing American deliberations, said one strategy being considered would include dividing the labor between American and Iraqi forces -- with Americans focusing on hunting down elements of Al Qaeda, and the Iraqi forces focusing more on sectarian clashes. The Iraq Study Group report leaves open the possibility of a temporary increase in forces, and envisions a similar role for the United States in seeking out Al Qaeda. 
 An administration official said that such a division of labor could not be so black and white. And Vice President Dick Cheney is said to be urging caution in dealing with the Shiite and Sunni factions, concerned that the administration avoid signaling that the Shiites would be abandoned as they were at the end of the Persian Gulf war.
 The report's authors say their strategy will work only if taken largely as a whole; Mr. Baker warned against treating it like a ''fruit salad,'' picking the juiciest pieces. The White House, however, appears to be groping for the right fork to do exactly that. 
 Tony Snow, the White House spokesman, said that in spite of Mr. Baker's public suggestion that the administration should follow its recommendations fully, ''Members of the Baker-Hamilton commission made it clear that they don't expect everybody to agree with each and every jot and tittle.''
 ''And the president as commander in chief,'' Mr. Snow said, ''still has the obligation to take seriously every bit of analysis and advice he gets, and to make his own decisions.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); TRENDS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); RESEARCH REPORTS (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); TERRORISM (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Terrorism; Economic Conditions and Trends; Foreign Aid

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (93%) National Security Council

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (91%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Jim Rutenberg; David E Sanger; George W (Pres) Bush; Condoleezza (Sec) Rice; Nuri Kamal Al- (Prime Min) Maliki

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006



247 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 10, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; THE 6th ANNUAL YEAR IN IDEAS; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 503 words

HEADLINE: Big Urbanism

BYLINE: By DAVID HASKELL

 BODY:
''Make no little plans,'' the architect and urban planner Daniel Burnham wrote a century ago, ''they have no magic to stir men's blood.'' For the last four decades, however, little plans have been the signature creations of the American city. Ever since 1964, when Robert Moses, New York's master builder, was prevented from blasting a freeway through SoHo, the most successful urban-design strategies undertaken by large American cities have been essentially conservative. Jane Jacobs's crusade against architectural master plans, combined with a growing historic-preservation movement and the fall of heroic high modernism, led to a generation of planners, architects and activists intent on restoring, rather than drastically reshaping, the urban fabric. 
But now cities are once again planning with grandiosity. This year witnessed the return of what you might call big urbanism, with large-scale redevelopment projects sprouting nationwide. In the summer, the New York City Planning Commission approved the controversial $4.2 billion, 22-acre Atlantic Yards project, which only a few years prior was widely dismissed as impossibly overscaled. In late October, a coalition of developers presented an audacious $3.6 billion plan to revitalize downtown Yonkers, a struggling postindustrial city. (Construction is expected to begin next spring.) The city of Atlanta purchased Bellwood Quarry, which will be transformed into a 300-acre park that will become the linchpin of a 22-mile belt-line corridor of rails-to-trails that will constitute a 50 percent increase in city park space. This fall, Denver celebrated the opening of the $110 million Hamilton Wing of the Denver Art Museum and the corresponding cultural master plan, both designed with characteristic bravura by Daniel Libeskind. And soon, Related Companies will break ground on the first phase of the $1 billion-plus Frank Gehry Grand Avenue project in Los Angeles, which in total will create 3.6 million square feet of development and a 16-acre park.
 Taken together, these projects represent a new confidence among designers, as well as developers and public officials, in reshaping the American city. In part, this can be attributed to mechanics like ''tax increment financing,'' a newly popular device that allows municipal governments to issue bonds on the expected tax-revenue windfall upon a development's completion. (TIF development projects are able to receive public support without threatening to dip into city coffers.)
 But more important, the cautionary lessons of Jane Jacobs, who died in April, have been reinterpreted by a new generation of designers, developers and civic officials who hope to bring a vibrant urbanism to large, new developments. Skeptics wonder whether tall towers and developer-engineered neighborhoods can truly create the lively streetscapes Jacobs loved. Even so, it would have been difficult to predict 40 years ago that the legacies of Robert Moses and Jane Jacobs would one day find common cause. DAVID HASKELL


CORRECTION-DATE: December 24, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An item in the Year in Ideas issue on Dec. 10 about the increasing scale and size of urban planning referred imprecisely to the Atlantic Yards project in Brooklyn. The New York City Planning Commission endorsed it but did not approve it; final approval can be given only by state officials.

GRAPHIC: Drawing: BIG URBANISM: A rendering of the new Hamilton Wing at the Denver Art Museum. (Rendering by Miller Hare/Denver Art Museum

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (91%); CITIES (91%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (86%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (68%); APPROVALS (67%); TAX INCENTIVES (60%); BOND ISSUES (60%); TAX LAW (60%) Urban Areas; Area Planning and Renewal

PERSON: David Haskell

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) COLORADO, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2006



248 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Bills Scheduled for This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financings this week includes today's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of four-week bills tomorrow.
 At the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 4.94 percent. The rate on the six-month issue was 5.06 percent, and the rate on the four-week issue was 4.86 percent.
The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:

TAX EXEMPT

TOMORROW
 
 Lexington-Fayette County, Ky., $66.9 million of refunding revenue bonds. Competitive.

WEDNESDAY
 New Hampshire, $75 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.

THURSDAY
 Newport-Mesa Unified School District, Costa Mesa, Calif., $75 million of debt securities. Competitive.

ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
 Adams County, Colo., School District, $78 million of debt securities. George K. Baum.
 Adams County School District No. 50, Westminster, Colo., $98 million of debt securities. George K. Baum.
 Allen Park, Mich., Public Schools, $52.9 million of debt securities. A. G. Edwards & Sons.
 Arizona Board of Regents, Phoenix, $66.9 million of certificates of participation for Arizona State University. UBS.
 California Health Facilities Financing Authority, Sacramento, $300 million of debt securities. Bear Stearns.
 Dearborn, Mich., School District, $77.5 million of debt securities. A. G. Edwards & Sons.
 Delaware County Authority, Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, $103.8 million of hospital revenue bonds for Crozer-Keystone Obligation Group. Wachovia Bank.
 Delaware Solid Waste Authority, Dover, Del., $93 million of debt securities. Citigroup.
 Kentucky Housing Corporation, Frankfort, Ky., $80 million of debt securities. Merrill Lynch.
 Lewis Palmer Consolidated School District No. 38, El Paso County, Monument, Colo., $57 million of general obligation bonds. RBC Capital Markets.
 Lewisville, Tex., Independent School District, $170.5 million of debt securities. RBC Capital Markets.
 Main Street Natural Gas, $550 million of gas revenue bonds. J. P. Morgan.
 Maryland Health and Higher Educational Facility Authority, Baltimore, $80 million of debt securities for Doctors Community Hospital. UBS.
 Massachusetts Health and Education Facilities Authority, Boston, $275 million of debt securities for University of Massachusetts. Merrill Lynch.
 Massachusetts Health and Educational Facilities Authority, $62.9 million of revenue bonds for Williams College. Morgan Stanley.
 Metropolitan Transportation Authority, New York City, $433.3 million of transportation revenue bonds. J. P. Morgan.
 Miami Dade County, Fla., $232 million of school board certificates of participation. Bear Stearns.
 Missouri Health and Educational Facilities Authority, Chesterfield, Mo., $231.6 million of debt securities for Washington University. J. P. Morgan.
 Nashua, N.H., $58 million of general obligation bonds. A. G. Edwards & Sons.
 New Hampshire, $140 million of debt securities. Merrill Lynch.
 New York City Housing Development Corporation, $100 million of debt securities. J. P. Morgan.
 New York State Dormitory Authority, $50 million of debt securities for Ozanam Hall of Queens Nursing Home. Merrill Lynch.
 New York State Mortgage Agency, $66 million of debt securities. Citigroup.
 San Mateo County, Calif., Community College District, $332.6 million of general obligation bonds. Morgan Stanley.
 Stafford County Economic Development Authority, Stafford, Va., $125 million of debt securities. Citigroup.
 State Environmental Improvement and Energy Resources Authority, Jefferson City, Mo., $57.5 million of debt securities. Goldman Sachs.
 State Public School Building Authority, Camp Hill, Pa., $51.7 million of revenue bonds for Lehigh Career and Technical Institute. RBC Capital Markets.
 Tarrant County, Tex., Cultural Education Facilities Finance Corporation, $58.2 million of hospital revenue bonds. Ziegler Capital Markets.
 Waco, Tex., Health Facilities Development Corporation, $237.4 million of mortgage hospital revenue bonds for Hillcrest Health System. Goldman Sachs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); DEBT FINANCING (90%); BONDS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (88%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (75%); COUNTIES (75%); STUDENT HOUSING (74%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (74%); SCHOOL BOARDS (74%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); TAX LAW (70%); HOSPITALS (69%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (91%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (85%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (55%); WELLS FARGO & CO (54%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (53%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY (55%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); WFC (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); DOVER, DE, USA (79%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); LEXINGTON, KY, USA (79%); FRANKFORT, KY, USA (79%); NASHUA, NH, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (77%); EL PASO, TX, USA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (93%); KENTUCKY, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (92%); DELAWARE, USA (91%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2006



249 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1714 words

HEADLINE: In Web Traffic Tallies, Intruders Can Say You Visited Them 

BYLINE: By PETER EDMONSTON

 BODY:
In late May, more than five million Web users vanished.
 The disappearing act came when Nielsen/NetRatings, a leading company in measuring Internet traffic, sharply cut its previously reported statistics for the financial Web site Entrepreneur.com to 2 million unique visitors in April, from 7.6 million.
Why the change? For millions of Web surfers, Entrepreneur.com visited them -- and not the other way around, the measurement company said.
 As computer users visited other sites, new browser windows popped up containing articles from Entrepreneur.com, according to Scott Ross, senior product manager for Nielsen/NetRatings. 
 Pop-up windows appear all over the Internet, including the Web site of The New York Times. But they are typically used as advertising to pitch a product or a service. 
 Entrepreneur.com's pop-ups were unusual because they contained news content, like articles on how to start a small business, making them hard to distinguish from an intentional visit to Entrepreneur.com's site. This hailstorm of pop-ups more than tripled Entrepreneur's reported traffic before it was detected and factored out a month later.
 The technique of using pop-ups to gain readers underscores just how important sheer numbers have become in the online media business. Advertisers are shifting their marketing dollars to the Internet, but the rates they pay are low compared with traditional media. 
 Consequently, publishers who have struggled for years to find a way to make money online are taking aggressive steps to get their Web pages in front of as many eyes as possible.
 Entrepreneur.com, owned by Entrepreneur Media in Irvine, Calif., did not return calls seeking comment. But it is not the only online publisher to use pop-ups, according to Benjamin G. Edelman, a Harvard doctoral student who has compiled a large database by installing on his computer many kinds of software, known as adware, that generates pop-ups. 
 (Mr. Edelman has also provided expert testimony on behalf of publishers, including The New York Times Company and other newspaper concerns, in a lawsuit involving adware. The publishers had sued to prevent pop-ups, by the Gator Corporation, from appearing on their Web sites. The suit was settled in 2003 under terms that were not disclosed.) 
 Other sites that appear to have used pop-ups for content in the last year include Concierge.com, the Web site of Conde Nast Traveler magazine; ForbesAutos.com, part of the Forbes financial publishing group; and Heavy.com, a popular humor site, Mr. Edelman said. 
 The concern over pop-up content goes beyond traffic numbers. Many advertisers pay premium prices to reach readers of certain Web sites. Through pop-ups, these advertisers may find their orders are being fulfilled with low-cost page views that users never requested and may never have seen.
 This list of sites surprised Scott Symonds, vice president for media at Agency.com, who advises companies on where to spend their online advertising budgets. Pop-ups delivered by adware are usually seen as a ''nuisance form of advertising,'' and most mainstream publishers avoid them, he said.
 ''You would hope that publishers of high-quality content would use advertising techniques that were in keeping with that,'' Mr. Symonds said. He added, though, that pop-ups could be a legitimate way to reach new viewers if the publisher took certain precautions, like not using pop-ups to inflate traffic or satisfy orders from advertisers.
 There are legal issues as well. Many sellers of pop-up ads have been sued by regulators and consumers, who say the software to allow pop-ups is often installed without a users' consent. The adware hitches a ride on another application, like a game or a screen saver, and the pop-up function can be buried in the fine print. Sometimes it is never disclosed.
 ''You can almost look at it like steroids,'' Mr. Ross said of pop-up content, which his firm calls ''non-user-requested'' traffic. Others in the online media business call it ''push traffic,'' because Web pages are actively pushed to computer users who do not request them.
 Used indiscriminately, push traffic is like printing extra copies of a magazine and tossing them onto doorsteps or, because pop-ups can be intentionally hidden behind other windows, simply dropping them in an alley.
 Mr. Ross and executives at comScore, a rival measurement company, say they can usually detect such activity and remove it from their data. But both companies concede that they cannot catch everything.
 ''It is a cat-and-mouse game,'' said Magid M. Abraham, comScore's chief executive. 
 In the case of Concierge.com, which has articles on luxury resorts and expensive spas, the site recently bought pop-up services from Zango, one of the largest adware companies. In one case, Zango's software caused a page featuring ''Hot List Hotels 2006'' and other travel articles (created by Concierge.com) to appear unexpectedly while Mr. Edelman was browsing other sites, he said.
 Concierge.com declined to comment, but Zango has faced harsh criticism from the Federal Trade Commission. In early November, Zango agreed to pay a $3 million fine to settle the commission's charges that it had used unfair and deceptive practices to install its software on personal computers and to make it difficult to remove.
 ''If consumers choose to receive pop-up ads, so be it,'' Lydia B. Parnes, director of the commission's Bureau of Consumer Protection, said in announcing the Nov. 3 settlement. ''But it violates federal law to secretly install software that forces consumers to get pop-ups that disrupt their computer use.''
 Zango, based in Bellevue, Wash., said that third-party affiliates were the source of the problems and that it had long since cut ties with them. Zango also said it had operated within the requirements of the F.T.C. settlement, including verifying computer users' consent, since Jan. 1 and had hired an outside auditor to confirm its compliance.
 Zango's chief executive, Keith Smith, said he would not identify or discuss any of his company's clients. Asked about Zango's potential as a tool to inflate traffic numbers, he said that publishers and measurement companies need to work out the issue themselves. ''The measurement piece is still evolving,'' he said.
 Zango is just one of the adware providers that work with online publishers. Until late last year, ForbesAutos.com, an auto-related offshoot of the financial site Forbes.com, was using the services of eXact Advertising, whose adware is sometimes bundled with free games and other applications.
 Screen images from December 2005 show several cases in which eXact delivered unsolicited pages -- in one instance, a review of a BMW Z4 coupe -- from ForbesAutos.com. The pages were actually ''pop-unders,'' positioned so they were mostly obscured by the main browser window, to be revealed when that window was closed.
 Forbes.com declined to say how long it used pop-ups or how many pages were generated that way, but Jim Spanfeller, Forbes.com's chief executive, said they accounted for a ''very small fraction'' of its page views. He also said the site abandoned the practice last year.
 ''We decided in 2005 to stop using pop-ups of any sort, delivered by adware or otherwise, for site promotion after determining they were of less utility than other efforts,'' Mr. Spanfeller said. A spokeswoman for eXact Advertising declined to comment.
 Heavy.com, a site that tries to attract young men with its irreverent video clips and animation, is also a page popper, though the company says it has taken steps to avoid inflating traffic statistics or upsetting advertisers. Citing data from Hitwise, a traffic measurement company, Heavy.com said that in October it was the second-largest entertainment video site after YouTube.com. Rather than rely on videos alone, though, the site has also been using pop-ups to position its pages in front of users.
 In a recent session, Mr. Edelman said he saw two Heavy.com pages appear on his screen within the space of a minute, each generated from a separate piece of adware. In one case, the Heavy.com home page appeared while he was browsing Netflix, the video rental service.
 Some users seem to be bombarded by Heavy.com pop-ups. ''HELP! tons of pop-ups from heavy.com and webcrawl.com!!'' was the plea posted a few weeks ago in the forums of SpywareInfo.com, which offers advice on shedding unwanted software.
 Heavy.com acknowledges using pop-ups, but Andy Morris, a spokesman for the company, said it did not use adware or condone its use. Instead, Heavy.com works with ad networks whose member sites initiate the pop-ups, a practice it calls an ''effective marketing tool.''
 Presented with Mr. Edelman's pop-up examples, Mr. Morris said they were not generated at Heavy.com's request. In some cases, he said, the site has been used by ''unscrupulous third-party Web operators'' that tried to use its videos as bait; in others, Heavy.com worked with ad networks that then violated the terms of their agreement by using adware.
 ''Quite simply, we've been ripped off,'' Mr. Morris said.
 Heavy.com said its advertisers were never charged for pop-up pages and that the pop-ups did not inflate its traffic because it flagged those pages so that comScore could exclude them from its statistics. ComScore confirmed this arrangement.
 ''They did the honorable thing,'' Mr. Abraham said.
 But Nielsen/NetRatings was unaware of Heavy.com's pop-up campaign until recently, a NetRatings spokeswoman said. When it began excluding those pop-ups in October, Heavy.com's traffic dropped 35 percent from the previous month, to 1.8 million, although NetRatings said it was unclear how much of the decline was related to removing the pop-ups. (ComScore reported 7.8 million visitors to Heavy.com in October, more than four times the NetRatings number and a large gap even in the inexact world of Web measurement.)
 Heavy.com strongly disputes the accuracy of the NetRatings data. Among other things, it argues that the company does a poor job of tracking sites like Heavy.com that use Flash multimedia software throughout their pages. It also said that NetRatings had relatively few college students, who are a large part of Heavy.com's audience, in its survey group.


GRAPHIC: Photos: A page from Entrepreneur.com, delivered as a pop-up via adware. (Photo by Rick Friedman for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 Benjamin Edelman, a doctoral candidate at Harvard who has built a database to track pop-ups. (Photo by Rick Friedman for The New York Times)(pg. C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); WEB SITES (89%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (86%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (78%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (74%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (70%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (61%); LITIGATION (61%); INTERNET BROWSERS (56%); TESTIMONY (50%) Computers and the Internet; Ratings and Rating Systems; Advertising and Marketing; Computers and the Internet; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); News and News Media; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: NETRATINGS INC (92%); NEW YORK TIMES CO (84%); FORBES INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: Entrepreneur.com; Entrepreneur Media; Nielsen/netratings; Concierge.com; Conde Nast Traveler (Magazine); ForbesAuto.com; Heavy.com; Forbes Inc

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (92%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (92%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%)

PERSON: Peter Edmonston; Benjamin Edelman

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2006



250 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 372 words

HEADLINE: Personal Data Of Aid Clients Is Left in Street

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
Computer printouts with personal information of some recipients of public assistance were left in a trash bin at a curb near Union Square over the weekend, exposing them to anyone who walked by. 
 The papers contained the names, addresses, birth dates, phone and Social Security numbers of people who had filed complaints about their benefits. The papers spilled out of a garbage pile yesterday and spread under cars parked in front of a building on East 16th Street that houses offices of the city's Human Resources Administration.
Barbara Brancaccio, executive deputy commissioner of the Human Resources Administration, said last night that she could not explain how the documents wound up in the street, but said that their presence there violated the agency's ''very intensive and very extensive'' measures for handling client information. The agency's standard procedures involve placing such documents in locked boxes and having them hauled away to be shredded, Ms. Brancaccio said. 
 ''We will take every step to discipline the employees who violated this protocol,'' she said, adding that the agency had sent somebody to retrieve any documents that remained.
 One client of the administration, Manuel Montanez, 43, an unemployed computer technician who lives in Lower Manhattan, was distressed to hear that his vital statistics were on display.
 ''At the very least they should be shredded,'' Mr. Montanez said of the documents, which included his cellphone number. ''But they're a city agency, they don't care.''
 Reached at a Bronx church where he serves as youth minister, he said he had complained about the adequacy of the benefits he received through the city. There was a hearing about his dispute before the New York State Office of Temporary and Disability Assistance, which administers public assistance programs. Mr. Montanez said that the dispute was resolved. But, he added, ''Now, I have another one.''
 A spokesman for the Office of Temporary and Disability Assistance in Albany, Michael Hayes, said officials of his agency wanted to know how records of its cases wound up in the street and planned to investigate the matter this morning. 
 ''This is a serious issue, and we'll look into it immediately,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RESOURCES (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); IDENTITY THEFT (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%) Welfare (US); Privacy; Identity Fraud

ORGANIZATION: Human Resources Administration (NYC)

PERSON: Patrick Mcgeehan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (66%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2006



251 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; THE STRUGGLE FOR IRAQ; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1778 words

HEADLINE: Oil Revenues Are in the Billions, But Iraq Is Failing to Spend Them

BYLINE: By JAMES GLANZ

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Dec. 10 

 BODY:
Iraq is failing to spend billions of dollars of oil revenues that have been set aside to rebuild its damaged roads, schools and power stations and to repair refineries and pipelines.
 Iraqi ministries are spending as little as 15 percent of the 2006 capital budgets they received for the rebuilding -- with some of the weakest spending taking place at the Oil Ministry, which relies on damaged and frequently sabotaged pipelines and pumping stations to move the oil that provides nearly all of the country's revenues. In essence, the money is available -- despite extensive sabotage, the oil money is flowing -- but the Iraqi system has not been able to put it to work.
The country is facing this national failure to spend even as American financial support dwindles. Among reasons for the problems -- like a large turnover in government personnel -- is a strange new one: bureaucrats are so fearful and confused by anticorruption measures put in place by the American and Iraqi governments that they are afraid to sign off on contracts. 
 The inability to spend the money raises serious questions for the government, which has to demonstrate to citizens who are skeptical and suspicious of government corruption that it can improve basic services, and that at a time when American funds for reconstruction are being reduced, it can prove to other foreign donors that it can quickly put to use the money they may be willing to commit.
 After the expenditure of roughly $22 billion in American taxpayer dollars on Iraq reconstruction, the increase of the Iraqi capital budget was seen by many as a sign that oil revenues could finally begin paying for the rebuilding, four years after Bush administration predictions that the country could afford the program on its own.
 Iraq's overall capital budget in 2006 was nine trillion Iraqi dinars, or about $6 billion, said Abdulbasit Turki Saeed, president of the Iraqi Board of Supreme Audit and a member of the Iraqi cabinet's economic committee.
 But Mr. Saeed said that across the entire government, only about 20 percent of the capital budget had been spent, according to the committee's recent figures. A senior Western official agreed with that estimate.
 ''It's slow. It's disappointing,'' the Western official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss the subject publicly. ''In general, they have had trouble getting projects started.''
 The problem was briefly acknowledged in the report last week by the bipartisan Iraq Study Group, which gave similar figures for capital expenditures and said that ''many ministries can do little more than pay salaries.''
 In interviews, alarmed Western and Iraqi officials sought to put the best face on the problem, saying they thought that the pace of spending had picked up in the last two to three months as the government began taking steps to improve its performance.
 Those officials said that in a nation with reconstruction needs around every corner, the puzzling phenomenon of unspent money was partly explained by the rapid turnover in governments, security woes, endemic corruption and a lack of technocrats skilled at jobs like writing contracts and managing complex projects. In short, nearly all the ills that have undermined the American rebuilding program seem to be plaguing the Iraqi one.
 Hussain al-Shahristani, the Iraqi oil minister, said he thought that he could spend substantially more of this year's budget if he could resolve administrative bottlenecks, like Finance Ministry delays in authorizing payments.
 ''It's the bureaucracy,'' Mr. Shahristani said. ''Particularly financial people take too long to change their old habits.''
 But some American and Iraqi officials here are also saying that the stringent measures they had favored to slow the rampant corruption may be especially daunting for bureaucrats who have little experience with Western-style regulations and oversight. Those officials say that Iraqis who have seen their colleagues arrested and jailed in anticorruption sweeps are reluctant to put their own name on a contract.
 ''As it's applied right now, this new thing scares the hell out of everybody,'' one Western official here said.
 The colliding priorities of oversight and spending have left American and Iraqi officials in a quandary as they work behind the scenes on the so-called ''Compact with Iraq'' -- the centerpiece of the American Embassy's effort to create economic and political milestones that this nation promises to meet in exchange for pledges of foreign investment and support.
 Anticorruption officials themselves are facing a loss of support, with the most serious impact felt by Rathi al-Rathi, the head of Iraq's Commission on Public Integrity, who has been privately accused by Western and Iraqi officials of zealotry, political bias and other failings.
 A previously undisclosed letter to Mr. Rathi from prime minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, dated Sept. 6, is close to an accusation that Mr. Rathi himself is guilty of corruption. The letter, a copy of which was provided to The New York Times, directs him to account for what the prime minister asserts are hundreds of thousands of dollars of undocumented expenses by the commission.
 Ali al-Shabot, a spokesman for Mr. Rathi, who was traveling last week, at first insisted that the letter was secret and that he could not discuss it. But finally he dismissed its charges as based on bad information. Mr. Shabot indicated there was at least one good reason that, despite the pressure, the commission would remain in business. He confidently pointed out that international donors who provide financing to Iraq do so ''with the guarantee that there are institutions to oversee the money.''
 While it is clear that new financial support is unlikely without a strong anticorruption campaign in place, Iraq's inability to spend its own money undermines the message that the country will actually be able to use the support if provided.
 ''People we are trying to deal with and obtain additional funds for Iraq will come back and say, 'Iraq is not spending its own resources,' '' said Yahia Said, a research fellow at the London School of Economics who is working as a consultant to the United Nations on the compact.
 Mr. Shahristani, the oil minister, who has put new anticorruption measures in place on top of those imposed from the outside, said the solution was to teach the bureaucrats how to cope with the new rules.
 ''Obviously I've heard of these complaints,'' he said of the criticisms of the anticorruption organizations. ''I don't think that they have gone too far. I think this is necessary given the level of corruption that we have inherited.''
 Iraq's total budget is about $32 billion in 2006 and is projected to be more than $40 billion in 2007, said Bayan Jabr, the Iraqi finance minister, in an interview. Most of the budget, which comes almost entirely from oil revenues, is consumed in operating expenses, including roughly $8 billion for ministry salaries and pensions and $6 billion for Iraq's socialist-style food and fuel subsidies.
 The nation has spent those funds much more easily than it has spent the $6 billion for capital improvements -- a number that by some projections could roughly double next year in view of Iraq's vast infrastructure needs. 
 According to a report by the Oil Ministry, about half of the money was to go for repair of pipelines, building refineries, improving oil fields, repairs on export terminals, and other improvements to the oil industry. The remainder was to be spent on projects ranging from improving the electrical system to irrigation systems to roads and government buildings of various types. 
 The same report says that, for example, Iraq is in need of major new oil storage tanks, a 42-inch-diameter pipeline in the south and better electrical generation to run the oil pumps.
 Officials are still sorting out what went wrong in the early months of the 2006 program, but some of the problems were similar in kind if not in detail to the ones that derailed major portions of the American effort.
 First, after the December 2005 elections, politicians jockeyed for ministerial posts for months, creating uncertainty about whether priorities would change, and then the newly seated officials were unfamiliar with their jobs. At the same time, deepening security problems not only made purchasing and construction difficult, but also continued to drive skilled midlevel ministry employees out of the country.
 Final numbers across the ministries will not be available until year's end, but Mr. Jabr, the finance minister, said that a few trends had emerged. Expenditures at the Housing and Construction Ministry and the Oil Ministry were low, while at the other end of the spectrum, the Electricity and Water Resources Ministries were spending as much as three-quarters of their allocations.
 But the overall picture is clear, said Lt. Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, who as commander of the Multi-National Security Transition Command-Iraq works extensively with the Interior and Defense Ministries, which he expects to spend about half of their capital budgets this year.
 ''I think the government of Iraq has got a challenge writ large,'' General Dempsey said. ''The 27 ministries will not execute their 2006 budgets.''
 American and Iraqi officials are already taking steps to improve the situation, streamlining the contracting process, giving training sessions on the process to ministry employees and, Mr. Jabr said, putting in place measures to penalize ministries that do not spend money fast enough.
 General Dempsey said the unspent money in the security ministries in 2006 would not be lost, because Iraq had agreed to allow the funds to be held in the same foreign accounts that are used to coordinate the Pentagon's military purchases until the agencies were ready to use it.
 As the financial and political stakes rise within the Iraqi-financed rebuilding program, few officials have escaped blame. 
 The public integrity commission is cited most often as intimidating. But those who deal with investigations of questionable deals and officials on the take in a historically corrupt country are not surprised by those complaints. ''This is normal,'' said Mr. Shabot, the integrity commission spokesman. ''They hate us because we are monitoring them.''
 Mr. Jabr expressed deep impatience with ministry officials who, he said, told him that part of the reason they were moving so slowing was to avoid running afoul of the integrity commission.
 ''I said, 'Why are you afraid? If you are not a thief, don't be afraid,' '' Mr. Jabr recalled.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Iraqi children lined up in Baghdad for fuel last January. Although the Oil Ministry has the money to rebuild, it is not spending most of it. (Photo by Karim Sahib/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (89%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); POWER PLANTS (73%); CORRUPTION (73%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (73%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); INTERVIEWS (67%); ETHICS (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Ethics; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Foreign Aid; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Refineries; Pipelines; Restoration and Rehabilitation

PERSON: James Glanz

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (89%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (96%) Iraq; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2006



252 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1435 words

HEADLINE: In Kansas, a Line Is Drawn Around a Prairie Dog Town

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

DATELINE: RUSSELL SPRINGS, Kan., Dec. 6 

 BODY:
On Wednesday, the prairie dog poisoners stayed home.
 Their absence, in a landscape whose contours are etched by absence -- not many trees, not many hills, not many people -- would have been unremarkable had it not been for the general expectation that the day would bring a climactic confrontation over the fate of the largest prairie dog colony in Kansas.
The Logan County commissioners want the prairie dogs dead. But two ranchers, Larry Haverfield and Gordon Barnhardt, and their allies in two environmental groups want the 5,500-acre colony on their property to flourish, for the good of the land and for the eventual delectation of black-footed ferrets. The ferrets, an endangered mammal, thrive on a diet of prairie dogs. 
 The ranchers' defense of prairie dogs prompted bewilderment then anger in this county of about 3,100 people. Here in this red corner of a red state, where the sanctity of property rights is seldom questioned and the sanity of the government is questioned all the time, the prairie dog debate has turned everything upside down. 
 Some people are demanding enforcement of a century-old state law allowing the county to send exterminators onto the Haverfield and Barnhardt ranches -- against the owners' wishes but at their expense -- to protect local property values.
 This confrontation is one of several in recent years across the West that pit property owners trying to restore wildlife against local governments who see the actions as a threat to local economic interests. It also reflects the persistent belief in the Great Plains that the prairie dog is not a valued remnant of the short-grass prairie of the past, but a despised pest that eats grass needed to fatten cattle. 
 Alan Pollom, the director of the Kansas chapter of the Nature Conservancy, called the question of conserving prairie dogs ''one of the more vexing problems you can possibly come up with in the arena of wildlife management'' because property lines tend to be incompatible with the prairie dogs' age-old practice of digging new holes and expanding their tunneled colonies across the landscape. 
 The anger at the large prairie dog town was sharpened when the federal Fish and Wildlife Service began to consider a proposal by the two ranchers to reintroduce the black-footed ferret on their lands. It is widely believed here that having an endangered species anywhere near one's land means nothing but trouble.
 Mr. Haverfield, who is 70, and his wife, Betty, 71, are perfectly content to have neighbors and friends shoot some of the thousands of prairie dogs for sport. They just do not want them poisoned en masse. Neither does Mr. Barnhardt, who lives a few counties away and whose land Mr. Haverfield keeps an eye on.
 The Haverfield way of ranching -- rotation grazing, a rarity in this region -- is designed to mimic the patterns of bison grazing. By moving the cows from pasture to pasture quickly, he said, he can accommodate both cattle and rodent, improve the soil and the grass and promote the return of those species drawn either to prairie dogs' abandoned holes (such as burrowing owls and badgers) or to their flesh (foxes, rattlesnakes, hawks and eagles).
 In recent years, as the prairie dog town expanded, ''We're seeing some species that we've never seen before,'' Mr. Haverfield said, as his 1979 Ford pickup lumbered over some thoroughly munched grass and beneath a high-soaring golden eagle. ''Other animals are affected,'' he added. ''The swift fox eats prairie dogs. So do the ferruginous hawks. And coyotes.'' 
 A few miles north, Byron Sowers, a neighbor of Mr. Haverfield's, was busy with the wintertime weaning of this year's calves. Mr. Sowers's voice has been among the loudest of those demanding that the county do something about the prairie dogs, which he says are exporting their young to his land.
 ''It's devaluing my property,'' Mr. Sowers said, raising his voice to be heard over the complaining calves. 
 He does not necessarily share the other widespread -- and, environmentalists say, unproven -- belief that cattle break their legs in prairie dog holes. But because the rodents compete for grass, renting out grassland with prairie dogs brings in less money, the county appraiser confirmed. In general, Mr. Sowers feels about ranching near a prairie dog town the way urban parents feel about living near a halfway house.
 Mr. Sowers argues that his 900-acre property bordering Mr. Haverfield's had only 10 acres of prairie dog town when he bought it. Now, he said, despite annual poisonings costing $2,500 or more, the colony covers 500 acres. 
 He blames Mr. Haverfield's rodents. He may well be right; the tendency of prairie dogs to seek new territory is well-established -- although so is the tendency of the remnants of a poisoned colony to multiply quickly, especially during droughts like the current one. 
 Jonathan Proctor, a prairie dog specialist with Defenders of Wildlife, an environmental group, is fond of asking why this native of the Great Plains, which once numbered in the billions, cannot be allowed a few thousand acres. 
 ''Maybe it is possible,'' Mr. Sowers said. ''But we don't want it around us.''
 Mr. Sowers's position reflects the common wisdom of 100 years of settlement in the dry western plains. An essay by Steve C. Forrest and James C. Luchsinger in the book ''Conservation of the Black-Tailed Prairie Dog'' (Island Press, 2006) describes how federal biologists in the early 20th century fattened their budgets by joining the farmers and cattlemen in a huge prairie dog eradication campaign. 
 That campaign lasted more than half a century and killed billions of prairie dogs. In 1901, Kansas passed a law giving county governments the right to send poisoners onto private land, at the owner's expense, if neighbors complained. That law is at the root of the current stalemate. 
 More than a year ago, Mr. Sowers and other neighbors of Mr. Haverfield's began complaining that the prairie dogs were out of control.
 At about the same time, Ron Klataske, the executive director of Audubon of Kansas, suggested the Haverfields offer their land to federal officials as a site for black-footed ferrets. Ten other ferret-reintroduction projects are centered on federal or native lands. That news inflamed an already tense situation. The Endangered Species Act's prohibitions against intentionally harming an endangered animal conjured up fears that a dead ferret found on someone's property could be turned into a federal case, literally. ''Things happen to animals,'' Mr. Sowers said. ''Would I have to prove that I didn't kill it?''
 Mike LaValley, supervisor of the federal Fish and Wildlife Service's Kansas office, said that Mr. Sowers's fear was unfounded. 
 In February, Mr. Sowers threatened to sue the Logan County Commission if it did not enforce the 1901 law. Mr. Haverfield suggested a compromise, a 90-foot buffer zone of poisoned land, with an electric fence. The commissioners rejected it. 
 Shortly before Thanksgiving, Mr. Haverfield said he had seen a man applying Rozol, a poison in pellet form, around prairie dog holes on Mr. Barnhardt's land. Mr. Haverfield said he had run him off.
 In a defensive maneuver, the two ranchers decided to put their cattle around the prairie dog town. It is a violation of federal rules to apply Rozol near cattle.
 The county commissioners shot back a letter to the ranchers saying that if the cattle were not gone by Dec. 6, a new round of poisoning would begin, with an expensive gas that is considered safe near cattle. ''What else can you do?'' said Nick Scott, a commissioner. ''This is something we have to control.''
 On Tuesday, the day before the deadline, Mr. Haverfield's lawyer sent the commission a letter threatening legal action. All Wednesday, the Haverfields and Mr. Barnhardt's daughter and son-in-law, three neighbors and two environmentalists kept watch. No poisoners came.
 They later learned why: the county commissioners were waiting to hear from their insurers' lawyers. ''We won't do anything unless our lawyers tell us we can,'' Mr. Scott said.
 Mr. LaValley of the Fish and Wildlife Service called the uproar discouraging. 
 As for the ferret-reintroduction proposal, he said, ''All I can tell you is things are not looking good.'' 
 Mr. Scott said this had been the most divisive issue in Logan County since the county seat was moved to Oakley from Russell Springs half a century ago. 
 But Mr. Haverfield said his relationships with his neighbors had been affected very little. ''I'm kind of a loner,'' he said. ''This hasn't changed anything that much.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Byron Sowers, right, with son Bryon, on their farm in western Kansas. ''It's devaluing my property,'' Mr. Sowers said of the prairie dog colony.
 A colony of prairie dogs, above, is thriving on a ranch owned by Larry and Betty Haverfield, top. The Haverfields want to preserve the colony. (Photographs by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)Map of Kansas highlighting Russell Springs: Logan County officials hope to exterminate the prairie dog colony.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MAMMALS (90%); RODENTS (90%); DOGS (90%); WILDLIFE (89%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (89%); COUNTIES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (75%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%) Prairie Dogs; Poisoning and Poisons; Prairie Dogs

PERSON: Felicity Barringer

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Logan County (Kansas)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2006



253 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; BANDA ACEH JOURNAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: In Tsunami's Wake, Old Foes in War Now Wage Politics

BYLINE: By SETH MYDANS

DATELINE: BANDA ACEH, Indonesia, Dec. 10 

 BODY:
When tsunami waves hit Aceh two years ago this month, Irwandi Yusuf saved himself by climbing onto the roof of the jail where he was being held as a political prisoner.
 Now he is a candidate for governor of the province, and in the election being held here on Monday, one of his eight opponents is a former commander of the Indonesian forces he faced as a separatist rebel.
 ''He is so friendly to me,'' Mr. Irwandi said of his former enemy. ''We can cut off the line from the past to now. We just talk about funny things.''
 The tsunami that killed 170,000 people and left half a million homeless here in Aceh Province seems to have taken the fire out of a 29-year conflict. A hard-won peace agreement that made the election possible appears to be holding. There are still obstacles ahead, but if the process continues to move forward, an armed insurgency group will perform the rare feat of transforming itself into a political party within the government it opposed. 
 ''It's a very difficult process,'' Muthiah Alagappa, director of the Washington office of the East-West Center, said in a telephone interview. ''There are very few cases like it.''
 Even as post-tsunami reconstruction has bogged down in bureaucratic confusion and corruption, the dismantling of the war has proceeded quickly with what appears to be a genuine commitment from both sides. Only 43,400 permanent homes have been built in the two years since the tsunami, but 128,000 are needed, according to the United Nations. Twelve thousand families remain in temporary accommodations.
 The Indonesian Army has withdrawn half the 50,000 soldiers it had in Aceh, though, and the rebels have laid down their arms and joined this special election that is part of what is called a memorandum of understanding with the government.
 It is a delicate and difficult process, but the turn away from war seems irreversible, most political analysts and rebel leaders say. ''No, no, we never think of using arms any more,'' Mr. Irwandi said in an interview.
 Even before the tsunami's apocalyptic destruction shocked the combatants on both sides here, tentative moves were under way to find an exit from an unwinnable war.
 ''We were tired and they were tired,'' Mr. Irwandi said. ''We could not achieve the mission militarily, and the military thought it could defeat us in five months or eight months or eight years, but found themselves trapped in a very protracted war.''
 In Sri Lanka, by contrast, the tsunami didn't halt a Tamil separatist insurgency that was not yet ready to look for a way to end the conflict.
 As it moves from war to peace, the Acehnese insurgency is facing what analysts say is a predictable complication -- a rift in the insurgency, called the Free Aceh Movement, between an old guard that lived in exile and younger former combatants.
 In addition to his former combat enemy, among the opponents Mr. Irwandi, 46, faces in the election Monday is a fellow former insurgent who has been backed by the rebel group's leadership from its exile headquarters in Sweden.
 ''The fault lines are completely normal,'' said Sidney Jones, the Southeast Asia coordinator for International Crisis Group, an international monitoring group. ''We've seen this in East Timor and in almost every civil conflict that exists. But it does make it difficult to pull together a coherent party structure.
 ''Right now, the fissures are so deep that it's going to make it all the more difficult to get the party up and running.''
 There is no shortage of difficulties for any new government in a province recovering from the twin devastations of war and natural disaster.
 For years, Aceh has effectively been under the administration of the Indonesian military and police. Many of the province's skilled workers and civil servants died in the tsunami. Whatever the results of the election, Aceh must build a functioning government amid both physical and political ruins.
 As foreign aid groups begin to pull out, taking with them jobs, skills and economic support, the challenges will become harsher. Among these will be the integration, with international assistance, of thousands of guerrillas and political prisoners into the mainstream.
 As with other former insurgencies like those in Northern Ireland and the southern Philippines, there are concerns that a violent splinter group could emerge if not all of the combatants are satisfied.
 A devastated province in which tens of thousands of people are without homes or jobs is not the most welcoming environment for former rebels hoping to start a new life.
 The rebels and the victims of the insurgency, which took 15,000 lives, will compete for resources and financial assistance with surviving victims of the tsunami.
 Many fighters have spent years in the mountains and have few skills or resources to support themselves. Many have not yet received the aid that has been promised, and there are reports that some are turning to banditry and other crimes.
 The election is unlikely to bring order to the political scene. Analysts here do not expect any of the eight candidates for governor to win the 25 percent of the vote required for outright victory, and a runoff is expected early next year. Former rebels are also running for some of the 20 other local executive positions in the election. 
 But leaders of the rebel group say they are prepared to lose in this first attempt at electoral politics. They say they see it as a trial run as they try to form a party, or parties, for a provincial parliamentary election in 2009.
 The election is about power, not policy, and it is not clear what changes the former rebels will make if they win office. They now concede that the independence for which they fought is unattainable. The peace agreement has given them a measure of local autonomy and the right to form a local political party, and they have been promised two-thirds of the revenues from rich oil and natural gas reserves in Aceh.
 ''If the economy here is O.K. and the Indonesian government doesn't play around with us, what do we need separatism for?'' said Muhammad Zainal Abidin, 52, a former rebel who spent 16 months in prison before being released, with other political prisoners, in August 2005. Like many other former rebels and others here, he said he had little interest in the strict Islamic Shariah law that had led to canings for adultery and gambling over the past year in Aceh.
 ''We don't like that at all,'' he said as he sat cross-legged on the floor above his small grocery store. ''We want democracy in Aceh. We don't want the Shariah police here.''
 Most of all, the people of Aceh want a chance to live quiet, ordinary lives. ''What I am afraid of is that we could end up with dissatisfied groups and that could lead to conflict again,'' said Azwar Hasan, who runs a local aid group. ''Oh, God, no one wants to live in conflict again.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Irwandi Yusuf prepared to sign a ceremonial stone in November in Banda Aceh, pledging a peaceful election. (Photo by Nani Afrida/European Pressphoto Agency)
 A man worked yesterday on a damaged mosque in Banda Aceh. (Photo by Binsar Bakkara/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TSUNAMIS (93%); INDIAN OCEAN TSUNAMI (90%); POLITICS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); GOVERNORS (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ARMIES (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ARMED FORCES (76%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (76%); PEACE PROCESS (75%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (53%) Tsunamis and Tidal Waves; Earthquakes; Elections

ORGANIZATION: EAST-WEST CENTER (55%)

PERSON: Seth Mydans

GEOGRAPHIC: SUMATRA, INDONESIA (94%) INDONESIA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); SRI LANKA (79%) Indonesia; Aceh Province (Indonesia)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2006



254 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: Selling Fuel Efficiency the Green Way

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH

 BODY:
REMEMBER the dueling beer drinkers in the Miller Lite commercials? Tastes great! No, less filling! 
 The message, of course, was loud and clear: the beer is both, dummy!
Now the automotive world is doing its own take on a ''not either-or, but- and'' message, albeit without the histrionics. Back in the spring, when Americans were terrified that gas prices would soar past $5 at the pump, car companies promoted the fuel efficiency of their models -- or at least came up with ways to make the gas consumption more palatable. In May, General Motors began offering prepaid gas cards to buyers of S.U.V.'s and midsize cars in California and Florida. Honda began referring to itself as Small Oil. 
 Gas prices have come down, and the panic has subsided. Car companies, however, are still emphasizing fuel efficiency -- not just as a way to spare the wallet this time, but also as a way to save the planet. Or, to paraphrase that Miller Lite ad: Less costly! No, fewer greenhouse gas emissions!
 The signs are all around. 
 In late August, the Chevrolet division of G.M. sent a fleet of 60 ethanol-compatible S.U.V.'s to transport people and equipment to and from the MTV Video Music Awards at Radio City Music Hall. Never mind that ethanol is not particularly easy to find in Manhattan, or that S.U.V.'s in general are not particularly fuel-efficient vehicles. It was a strike for green-ness. As Ed Peper, Chevrolet's general manager, put it at the time, ''Going green never looked so good.''
 The Ford Motor Company's Focus car was recently granted the Environmental Protection Agency's SmartWay seal, which the E.P.A. grants to vehicles that spew forth relatively low levels of both regulated pollutants and greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide that, while generally considered safe to breathe, are thought to contribute to global warming. In its advertisements, Ford still stresses fuel efficiency, but it is highlighting the SmartWay designation in the brochures that dealers give out. 
 ''It isn't that we are changing course from gas mileage to concern for the environment,'' said Kristen Kinley, who handles environmental communications for Ford. ''But the two go hand in hand, and the E.P.A. designation for the Focus was a good fit for marketing and point-of-sale materials.''
 Honda, too, is going for harmonic messages. Honda used to run one series of ads on the fuel efficiency of its cars and a separate series lauding how cleanly they run. One ad, for example, played on the concept of air bags, in this context meaning lungs, while another showed Mr. Clean (with Procter & Gamble's approval) standing in front of a Honda Accord. ''Drive one,'' the ad challenged, ''and see what the neighbors call you.''
 But Honda's current campaign, called Environmentology, tries to position Honda as the ''most fuel-efficient auto company in America'' as well as one that is ''committed to developing environmentally responsible technology.'' Environmentalism ''is not just the flavor of the week with us,'' said Jeffrey Smith, vice president for corporate communications at American Honda Motor. ''But we recognize that climate change and sustainable fuel are both important global issues, so the Environmentology campaign is addressing our holistic approach to both.''
 Auto makers do not have a lock on the holistic approach. Oil companies and rental car companies are jumping on the bandwagon, too.
 Exxon Mobil ran full-page newspaper ads in November that claimed that the company was developing engine and fuel systems that could improve fuel economy by 30 percent while significantly reducing emissions. And Hertz recently inaugurated its ''Green Collection.'' For an extra $3 to $5 a day, environment-conscious drivers can reserve a Toyota Camry, Ford Fusion, Buick LaCrosse or Hyundai Sonata, all family-size cars that are rated by the E.P.A. as getting at least 28 miles to the gallon. About half the cars in the green fleet carry the SmartWay seal. 
 ''Customers that don't want small cars keep telling us they still want cars that are fuel-efficient and environmentally sound,'' said Richard D. Broome, vice president for corporate affairs.
 Of course, Hertz already had thousands of such cars in its fleet, and Mr. Broome knows that the additional charge for reserving one could raise eyebrows. But since Hertz guarantees the availability of a green car, he said, it must buy more of them, and devise better ways to allocate them among Hertz locations.
 ''Normally, if a car you reserve isn't available, a rental car company upgrades you to the next-highest vehicle class,'' which could mean an S.U.V. or other gas guzzler, he said. ''We have to make sure these cars are available, and the extra fee covers the logistics of doing that.'' 
 Paradoxically, those car companies that have traditionally trumpeted their environmental good citizenry are muting that message, at least temporarily. Subaru, for example, has often been praised for its environmentally sensitive manufacturing and printing methods and its large roster of green vehicles. Subaru recently won a SmartWay designation for its Outback S.U.V., and many Subaru dealers put a sticker noting that on showroom Outbacks.
 But Subaru's ads still stress fuel efficiency, not environmental correctness. The reason is that all-wheel drive, which Subaru was one of the first to use, has become so common on S.U.V.'s that the company fears that drivers will erroneously associate all-wheel drive with gas guzzlers. 
 ''We've got a limited budget, so it comes down to, How many messages can we afford to send out?'' said Lee Garfinkel, chairman and chief creative officer of DDB New York, Subaru's ad agency. ''Maybe down the road we'll talk more about the environment, but right now we've got to stay focused on fuel economy.''
 That is fine with the E.P.A., which cares only that more cars are running clean enough to earn the SmartWay designation; whether they make promotional hay with it is immaterial. 
 ''Probably less than 20 percent of new cars meet this standard, and next year it's going to get even tougher,'' said Margo T. Oge, director of the agency's office of transportation and air quality. ''So we're going to be pleased when any organization is going after the SmartWay label, and using it in any way. It shows they realize that people really do care about cleaner, more sustainable transportation choices.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Honda's latest campaign stresses its commitment to the environment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); BEER & ALE (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (87%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (76%); ALCOHOLS (76%); EMISSIONS (76%); CLIMATE CHANGE (76%); MOTOR VEHICLES (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); GASOLINE PRICES (76%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (76%); ETHANOL (76%); GREEN MARKET (74%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (71%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (71%); POP & ROCK (70%); MUSIC (70%); POINT OF PURCHASE ADVERTISING (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (50%) Automobiles; Weather; Global Warming; Fuel Efficiency

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (93%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Ford Motor Co; Honda Motor Co; Subaru of America Inc

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (93%); F (NYSE) (93%); GM (NYSE) (57%); PGP (PAR) (50%); PG (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (50%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (50%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (50%)

PERSON: Claudia H Deutsch

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2006



255 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 344 words

 BODY:

THE INTEREST RATE WATCH The Open Market Committee of the Federal Reserve Board will meet to consider a possible change in interest rates (Tuesday). In recent speeches, Fed governors have said that they remain concerned about inflation, an indication that they may be more inclined to raise rates than to lower them. Most analysts expect the Fed to leave the rate unchanged, but they will be scouring the statement released at the end of the meeting for signs of how the governors view the current state of the economy. 


THE INFLATION WATCH Inflation will take center stage when the Labor Department releases the Consumer Price Index for November (Friday). Analysts expect the monthly figure to rise 0.2 percent and the 12-month figure to rise to more than 2.2 percent, a rate above the desired target range of the Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke.

THE RETAIL SALES WATCH The Commerce Department will release figures on retail sales for November, which will include the start of the holiday shopping season (Wednesday). Analysts expect the figure to rise by 0.1 percent to 0.2 percent. Some big retailers are expected to report quarterly results this week, among them Best Buy and Dollar General (Tuesday) and Costco Wholesale (Thursday).

THE OPEC WATCH The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries meets to consider a cut in production (Thursday). The price of crude oil has declined about 20 percent since it reached a peak of more than $78 a barrel in mid-July, and the president of OPEC, Edmund Daukoru, left, said last week that he would push for lower output to help support prices.

THE WALL STREET WATCH Wall Street will get a look at its recent performance this week when the Goldman Sachs Group reports quarterly results (Tuesday), followed by Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers (Thursday).

THE CHINA WATCH Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. and Mr. Bernanke will lead a delegation to China (Thursday). The Bush administration is under pressure from legislators and manufacturers to persuade China to adopt a market-based exchange rate for its currency.

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (75%); RETAILERS (75%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (74%); EXPORT PRICES (74%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); EXPORT TRADE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (84%); COSTCO WHOLESALE CORP (57%); DOLLAR GENERAL CORP (56%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (82%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (84%); COST (NASDAQ) (57%); DG (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (57%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (57%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (56%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (56%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%); HENRY PAULSON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2006



256 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2006
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; CHANGING STRATEGIES, CHANGING ALLIES; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 1844 words

HEADLINE: Bush Capitulates to Reality in the Middle East

BYLINE: By Georg Mascolo and Bernhard Zand, Der Spiegel

 BODY:
US President George W. Bush doesn't have much time to implement a change in strategy in Iraq. And anything he does is likely to be questioned in the Middle East. Reactions from the region have been full of skepticism. 
 Last Wednesday, the day the Iraq Study Group report on US involvement in Iraq was released, three blue cars, all Opel Vectras, separated from the early morning traffic at the al-Qadisiyah highway interchange in Baghdad and forced a red Mercedes to the side of the road. Young men wearing flip-flops and tracksuits, their faces wrapped in Palestinian scarves, got out, clicked off the safeties on their Kalashnikovs and moved toward the Mercedes. Traffic came to a halt.
Unhurriedly, the hooded men fired into the red Mercedes: a couple of shots each at the driver, the passenger and a third man in the back seat. They opened the doors, dragged the three dying men out of the car and threw them onto the roadway. They then stamped on them, spit on them, and -- as two of the Vectras moved away -- the third car began to drive over the bodies, first forwards, then backwards. 
 "Words cannot describe the battering these men inflicted," says Ahmed Hadi, who, paralyzed in fear, witnessed the scene from the opposite lane. The murderers were Sunni Muslims from al-Qaida, and the victims were Shiites. But even the growing animosity between the two groups doesn't come close to explaining the desecration of the bodies and the cruelty displayed. "This terror sends a message," says Hadi, "to the Iraqis and to the Americans: We alone control this city, and no one tells us what to do." 
 The western entry to the Green Zone, where the Iraqi prime minister, the US ambassador to Iraq, and the senior commanders of the US military reside, is only a few hundred meters from the Qadisiyah crossing. Even still, the killers were long gone when the first patrols reached the crime scene. 
 "Very, very serious" 
 Ten hours later, the bi-partisan Iraq Study Group -- a panel of big names led by former Secretary of State James Baker, 76, and former Representative Lee Hamilton, 75 -- met the press in Washington. "The situation in Iraq today is grave and deteriorating," said Hamilton. 
 The report itself is just as grim. "If the situation continues to deteriorate, the consequences could be severe," one section of the report reads in its unsparing appraisal of Washington's failed foreign policy. "A slide toward chaos could trigger the collapse of Iraq's government and a humanitarian catastrophe. Neighboring countries could intervene. Sunni-Shia clashes could spread. Al-Qaida could win a propaganda victory and expand its base of operations. The global standing of the United States could be diminished. Americans could become more polarized." 
 President George W. Bush and his unsettled country now face the collection of 79 recommendations, complete with a comprehensive plan for the Middle East, put forth by the report. It is a document of cold realism. 
 Yet even as the report focuses on the big picture in the region, its acerbity is to be found in the details. It points out that only six of the 1,000 US Embassy employees in Baghdad are fluent in Arabic. Moreover, whereas a US military report spoke of 93 violent incidences having taken place in a single July day, it was actually 1,100. Only 10 US military intelligence officers worked for more than two years on addressing the uprising in Iraq; the others were transferred before they could learn the ropes. One can hardly say, in other words, that the Iraq fiasco came out of nowhere. 
 Operation "Iraqi Freedom," the former senators, chiefs of staff and ministers who make up the study group conclude, is on the verge of collapse on all fronts: militarily, politically and diplomatically. The word "chaos" turns up 15 times; Bush's favorite word, "victory," just three times. 
 Not surprising then that the president accepted the report with a stony countenance. He now has his work cut out for him -- he must consider which of the 79 recommendations to include in a new foreign policy. And he does not have much time. Indeed, it may already be too late. 
 Massive build up of security forces 
 The prospect of a strategy change and a possible troop withdrawal in the mid-term future may represent a ray of hope for a war-weary America. But such a shift would be a major threat for Iraqi Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki. The commission expects him to undertake a massive build up of security forces, providing US forces some relief and ultimately the opportunity to withdrawal. 
 But it would be naive to expect too much. Shiite militias have infiltrated the Iraqi police forces to such a degree that it is largely worthless as a government instrument. Of 10 divisions in the Iraqi Army, only three are battle ready -- with many of the soldiers having served under Saddam. 
 The other seven divisions have a ways to go yet, according to the report. When in early December a unit of the 9th Iraqi Division undertook its first independent mission, an American military advisor complained that US forces had to take over after just five minutes. 
 In response, the report urges the Bush Administration to take off the kid-gloves when dealing with Maliki. The United States, the report reads, "should be unambiguous that continued US political, military, and economic support for Iraq depends on the Iraqi government's demonstrating political will and making substantial progress toward the achievement of milestones on national reconciliation, security, and governance." 
 But Iraq is not the only concern. Three and a half years after the overthrow of Saddam, chaos in the Middle East has developed to such a degree that three civil wars, King Abdullah of Jordan warns, could break out: in Iraq, in Lebanon, and in the Palestinian Territories. 
 The Baker commission addresses these dangers too and encourages Bush to launch a major diplomatic offensive and an "Iraq International Support Group" before the end of the year. All of Iraq's neighboring countries plus Egypt should take part in this group, the study group recommends, as should the five veto-wielding members of the United Nations Security Council, the European Union, Japan and Germany. 
 Syria as a possible winner 
 It is a huge undertaking, this proposed forum to address all the conflicts plaguing this corner of the world. "It's a paradox," Bruce Riedel of the Brookings Institution in Washington says, "but they all need to be part of the group so that they all stay out of Iraq." Such a group would also prevent the US from losing still more influence. 
 The proposal, one of the core recommendations made by the Iraq Study Group, is a controversial one, and it has encountered varied responses from within the Middle East. Syria, for its part, is reacting with enthusiasm to the project. The regime of Bashar Assad sees itself as a possible winner in this diplomatic offensive. Indeed, that is what Baker had been hoping. Since he met with Syrian Foreign Minister Walid Muallim in New York in September, he has been convinced that a bit of clever diplomacy could move Syria away from the Iranian embrace. The precondition is that Damascus cease delivering weapons to Hamas and Hezbollah and stop pressuring the Lebanese government in Beirut. In return, Israel would withdraw from the Golan Heights, which it has occupied since 1967, allowing Assad to claim a clear victory. 
 Israel, not surprisingly, is less than enthusiastic: The study group's declaration that "The United States cannot achieve its goals in the Middle East unless it deals directly with the Arab-Israeli conflict and regional instability" has been a conviction of Baker's since the 1990s. Israeli diplomats, for their part, say that strategy has repeatedly failed to bear fruit. "I do not expect a change of American policy towards Israel," Prime Minister Ehud Olmert said in an interview with DER SPIEGEL published on Monday. 
 But Washington nevertheless does seem interested in investing more energy. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice intends to travel to the region more often. British Prime Minister Tony Blair, for his part, has announced that he soon will take off for talks in Jerusalem and Ramallah. 
 Iran -- which has become a powerful actor in Iraq and the region -- apparently remains unmoved. American intelligence sources suggest that Teheran has been stepping up its involvement in the Iraqi violence with many of the weapons confiscated in Iraq come from Iranian munitions manufacturers. The Iran-controlled Hezbollah, US intelligence alleges, has likewise trained at least a thousand fighters in the Shiite Mahdi militia. 
 No promises for Iran 
 In Teheran, interest in a stable Iraq is limited. The weaker Baghdad is -- so goes the calculus -- the more Iraq is subject to the influence of Iran and the better it is for the Islamic Republic. Unlike the case of Syria, the US has little to offer Iran by way of incentives: Teheran wants a free hand in its nuclear program, and a clear timetable for withdrawal of US troops from Iraq. Bush will not -- indeed cannot -- deliver either. 
 On the contrary: Even the thought of the US one day negotiating with Teheran causes panic among America's partners in the Arab world. Egypt, Jordan, Saudi-Arabia and the Gulf States, the protective powers of the Iraqi Sunnis, would consider it betrayal if a weakened Bush-government aligned with Iran as the new regional power. Even the Turks, who for months have been following a regional policy which could have been scripted by the Baker-Hamilton commission, would be offended by such a US policy shift. 
 After a decades-long ice age between Ankara and Damascus, the relationship now is better than ever. Just last week, Premier Recep Tayyip Erdogan, met Assad in Damascus to urge Syrian restraint in the Lebanon crisis. He had just come from a visit with Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinedjad. The three countries are linked by a concern that a failed Iraq could breathe new life into the project of an independent Kurdistan. 
 Meanwhile, Arab diplomats in Washington are especially distrustful of a White House working group under the directorship of Deputy National Security Advisor Jack D. Crouch. The group is discussing a strategy, called the "80 Percent Solution," which takes the civil war in Iraq as a given and concludes that Shiites and Kurds (which together compose about 80 percent of the entire population) will be the winners. Should a new Iraq policy emerge from this group, the result would be an even more radical change of course than that proposed by the "Iraq Study Group." 
 The US deliberations about a change in course in Iraq come just as US Ambassador in Baghdad Zalmay Khalilzad ends his duties there. Khalilzad -- who is being considered as a replacement for John Bolton as America's UN Ambassador -- had long pleaded for the inclusion of the Sunnis in the political process, in the hopes that this would defuse the terrorist core of Sunni resistance. 
 His plan, like so many others of America in Iraq, failed. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); AL-QAEDA (86%); TERRORISM (86%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (86%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (76%); MURDER (70%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (67%); RELIGION (65%); PRIME MINISTERS (62%); FOREIGN POLICY (62%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2006



257 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: Obama, Visiting New Hampshire, Offers Flavor of a Campaign That Might Be

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: MANCHESTER, N.H., Dec. 10 

 BODY:
Senator Barack Obama came to New Hampshire for the first time in his life on Sunday, selling a message of hope while proclaiming himself wary of the wave of hype that surrounded his visit. 
 His visit gave Democrats in two sold-out halls a chance to inspect the man who has emerged as their party's strongest alternative to Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton as a presidential contender.
''It is flattering to get a lot of attention, although I must say it is baffling,'' Mr. Obama said here late Sunday afternoon. 
 ''I think to some degree I've become a shorthand or symbol or stand-in for a spirit that the last election in New Hampshire represented,'' he said, referring to the losses of two incumbent congressmen here in November. ''It's a spirit that says we are looking for something different -- we want something new.''
 What New Hampshire saw was a first-term senator from Illinois who offered a strong condemnation of the way politics have been conducted in Washington and who positioned himself as someone who could strongly appeal to the more liberal Democrats who tend to dominate primaries. In two speeches and a news conference, Mr. Obama called for universal health care -- the issue with which Mrs. Clinton, the New York Democrat, was once closely identified -- a battle on global warming and a timed redeployment of troops from Iraq.
 But most of all, Mr. Obama -- tieless and grinning broadly as he encountered the kind of reception typically afforded a movie star -- talked about what he decried as a toxically partisan atmosphere in Washington, clearly signaling a central theme of a presidential campaign by this newcomer to the national political stage.
 ''We've come to be consumed by a 24-hour, slash-and-burn, negative ad, bickering, small-minded politics that doesn't move us forward,'' he said in Portsmouth, emphasizing that both parties were at fault. ''Sometimes one side is up and the other side is down. But there's no sense that they are coming together in a common-sense, practical, nonideological way to solve the problems that we face.''
 Mr. Obama, 45, said he had not decided if he would actually run for president, saying he was running it ''through the traps.'' But his appearance here -- two years before the 2008 presidential election, in the state with the nation's first primary -- was nothing short of a spectacle.
 His two public events -- a book signing in Portsmouth and a victory rally for the New Hampshire Democratic Party here -- sold out days ago. A total of 2,500 people turned out to see him, including 1,500 who paid $25 each to attend the rally.
 ''We originally scheduled the Rolling Stones, but we canceled them when we figured out that Senator Obama would sell more tickets,'' Gov. John Lynch said.
 In Portsmouth, he walked into the room to an explosion of camera flashes and a prolonged standing ovation. After his speech, hundreds of people waited more than an hour for Mr. Obama to sign a copy of his latest book, ''The Audacity of Hope.'' And 150 members of the news media received credentials to cover his visit, as Mr. Obama realized when he loped before a wall of reporters and cameras for a news conference. 
 ''Hey everybody, my name is Barack Obama,'' he said. ''And it must be a slow news day.''
 Turning serious, he said: ''I will say this: I am suspicious of hype. The fact that I've become, that my 15 minutes of fame has extended a little longer than 15 minutes, is somewhat surprising to me.''
 Mr. Obama said he believed he had become a symbol of the voters' desire for new faces and a new tone in Washington. ''Whether it's me or someone else, what is most important -- and over the long-term most newsworthy -- is that desire on the part of the voters.''
 Whatever the reason, Democrats long acquainted with New Hampshire politics were stunned to walk into a ballroom at the Center of New Hampshire here and see signs proclaiming the event sold out. ''I've never seen anything like this before this early,'' said Mike Ballantine, a computer programmer from Nashua, as across the room Mr. Obama was surrounded by more than 100 people, many holding up his book and hoping for an autograph. ''I mean it's amazing. Really amazing.''
 And the reality of Mr. Obama -- as opposed to what people had read or seen in weeks of extraordinarily favorable coverage -- struck a chord with some. ''I was very impressed with the fact that he wants to bring people together,'' said Betsy Shultis, a former state representative. ''I was very taken with him.''
 Elizabeth Fairchild, 37, of Rye, N.H., said: ''I thought he was fantastic. He exceeded my expectations.''
 But other Democrats said they thought that someone with Mr. Obama's experience had little chance of winning a national election.
 ''I've looked through his book, and he barely touches issues,'' said Robert Padian, 59, an unemployed database administrator. ''I think he's a serious candidate, but I don't think he has great potential. No track record, and there are too many guys ahead of him in line.''
 Mr. Obama told reporters that he expected questions about his experience and qualifications. If he did run, he said, ''at the end of the process people will know me pretty well, and they'll have a pretty good sense of whether I am qualified or not.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator Barack Obama of Illinois spoke to Democrats yesterday in Manchester, N.H., where he was enthusiastically greeted with requests to autograph his recent book. (Photographs by Robert Spencer for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (88%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (79%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (64%); GLOBAL WARMING (64%) Presidential Election of 2008; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2008

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%) Adam Nagourney; Barack (Sen) Obama; Hillary Rodham (Sen) Clinton

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (73%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (96%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%) New Hampshire

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2006



258 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 11, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1628 words

HEADLINE: Squeezing Money From the Music

BYLINE: By JEFF LEEDS

 BODY:
''Konvicted,'' a new CD from Akon, promised to be one of the year's big sellers when it appeared in record stores last month. Buoyed by two of the hottest singles in the country, Akon, a silky-voiced R&B singer, even had the most-viewed page among major label acts on MySpace.com.
 Sure enough, the album opened big, but in a way that reflected the tenuous transitional state of the record business. ''Konvicted'' sold more than 283,000 copies in its first week -- enough to start at No. 2 on the Billboard chart. On top of that were the album's two singles, which at digital music services like iTunes together sold more than 244,000 copies that week. And a week later, snippets of the same songs captured two of the top three spots on a new chart tracking sales of ring tones, selling 269,000 of them combined.
 As a recording that has sold modestly, but in an array of forms, Akon's music illustrates the new definition of a hit in pop music -- instead of racking up sales of half a million CD's or more in the first week, it arrives with solid if less impressive sales, but with several revenue streams. 
 It is an example of the business model that the retrenching music industry is embracing as sales of the CD, its mainstay product for two decades, slowly decay.
 As a result, the big record companies, whose fortunes are still overwhelmingly tied to CD sales, are taking a far more expansive view of how to carve out pieces of the music economy, which by some estimates runs as high as $75 billion, including recording sales, music publishing, concert ticket and merchandise sales and other sources of revenue. 
 Lately, the major labels have in effect tried to move into the talent management business by demanding that new artists seeking record contracts give their label a cut of concert earnings or T-shirt and merchandise revenue -- areas that had once been outside the labels' bailiwick. 
 ''They're all starting to ask for the same things,'' said Theo Sedlmayr, an entertainment lawyer based in New York who represents acts like 50 Cent.
 There has also been a scramble to squeeze revenue from other unconventional sources, including amateur videos posted to YouTube that incorporate copyrighted songs. Universal Music threatened to withhold its huge music catalog from Microsoft's new digital music service unless it received a royalty of more than $1 on each sale of the technology giant's Zune portable music player.
 The labels are hoping that these moves will help put the industry back on track after a slide in overall sales in five of the last six years. But amid the holiday shopping season, which typically accounts for a third or more of the industry's annual sales, many are not sure whether to be cheered or disenchanted by the new order of business.
 With some holiday sales still to be made and tabulated, album sales are down almost 5 percent this year, according to Nielsen SoundScan data. Sales at digital music services like iTunes continue to rise, but the pace of the increase has slowed compared with last year.
 Still, if every 10 individual tracks sold online are counted as albums, overall recorded music sales are off only about 0.7 percent this year. While that is far from last year's 4 percent drop, it represents a decline from early summer, when overall sales were running ahead of last year.
 All that indicates how sales of downloaded individual songs are eroding the underpinnings of the CD and remixing the industry's economics. More and more, music companies are looking toward sales of bite-size units -- individual songs typically sell for 99 cents -- instead of full albums that may cost $15 at record shops. Barring a late surge in CD sales, more digital tracks than CD's will be sold in the United States for the first time this year. 
 Sales of digital singles and ring tones now represent ''more than a Band-Aid,'' said Steve Rifkind, president of the SRC record label, which released Akon's album through a partnership with Universal, a Vivendi company that is the industry's largest. But ''it's not going to offset people taking music'' through illicit file-sharing online or burning CD's for friends, he said.
 CD sales are still the single biggest source of revenue, and the picture there is mixed. The EMI Group of Britain, third largest of the four major record corporations, said in reporting its half-year results in November that recorded-music sales declined more than 5 percent, though a drop in CD sales and net prices had been ''slightly'' offset by digital revenue. The Warner Music Group, the No. 4 company, said that over all, recorded music sales for the fiscal year rose almost 3 percent, to $3 billion, and that digital revenue had more than offset the drop from CD's. 
 Yet digital song sales are not fueling a recovery as quickly as some thought -- in fact, sales have been sputtering. After rising 150 percent last year, sales of digital downloads have increased less than half as much this year.
 Some executives suggest that early adopters of iPods and similar devices may have dabbled with paid downloads enough to drive sales initially, but now tend to fill them with music from their existing CD collections or copy from friends rather that stock up on new song purchases. 
 Still, investors appear to be valuing the big music companies more than they did in the first years of the slide. Doug Morris, Universal Music's chairman, said ''the big picture of digital music trumps the fears of piracy -- that's why the companies are becoming more valuable.'' 
 Analysts, though, note that shifting toward a mostly digital -- and potentially more profitable -- business remains very tough. Richard Greenfield, who tracks music sales at Pali Research, projects the industry to be flat over all for the next two years. 
 This decline has been spurred by a series of factors, like illicit file-sharing online, CD burning, high prices and competition from products like DVD's and video games. Many retailers and music executives also attribute the industry's sluggishness to a lack of high-wattage talent. 
 The industry has ''a lot of bands that people care about for five minutes and then move on,'' said Joe Nardone Jr., owner of the Gallery of Sound chain, with 10 stores in northeastern Pennsylvania.
 Consumer fickleness has become evident on the Billboard charts, where the old blockbuster album appears to be a dying breed. More songs have come and gone from the No. 1 place on the magazine's national album sales chart this year than in any other year since the industry began computerized tracking of sales in 1991. Analysts say that reflects the lackluster staying power even among songs in demand.
 Most recently, ''Kingdom Come,'' a hotly anticipated CD from the briefly retired rap superstar Jay-Z, sold a healthy 680,000 copies in its first week -- then slid 79 percent last week, its second week on the charts. In recent weeks, acts including Diddy, Danity Kane and Ludacris briefly held sway at No. 1 before plummeting. In July, Johnny Cash reached the top place for the first time in 37 years, with a posthumous CD. It sold just 88,000 copies, the lowest total for a No. 1 debut in SoundScan history.
 But as the sales of albums drop, the major labels are still adopting strategies to squeeze more revenue though that may mean settling for $2.50 ring tones instead of CD's priced at six times that. Indeed, acts with towering singles regularly generate more money from downloads or ring tone sales than from their comparatively slow-selling CDs these days -- as the rapper Jibbs did with ''Chain Hang Low.''
 Mr. Rifkind, the SRC executive, said, ''I find myself, when I'm signing a record deal now, asking, 'Can this sell as a ring tone?' ''
 But ring tones, which have been projected to generate $600 million in nationwide sales this year, are only part of the puzzle. Many executives are now betting that even more money can be generated with a wider range of individual products tied to the same recording, especially in digitally advanced markets. In Asia, where sales of music to mobile phones outpace CD sales in some places, labels may offer more than 400 different items in connection with a specific album, including ring-back tones -- snippets of music that play to callers while they wait for their call to go through -- or ''color call'' tones, background songs that play while someone talks on the phone. 
 To show the promise of digital sales for individual albums, Warner Music executives provided cost-analysis data from a successful hip-hop record released in the last 12 months. The information was disclosed on condition that the performer not be identified in The New York Times. 
 According to the data, sales of the CD accounted for roughly 74 percent of domestic revenue the company took in from the project, or roughly $17 million. But sales of an array of digital products added almost $6 million -- about two-thirds of that came from ring tones of hit singles. The figure also included roughly $330,000 from mobile phone games related to the performer and $94,000 in sales of cellphone ''wallpaper,'' or screen backgrounds.
 Yet the industry as a whole still remains uncertain -- and in the meantime must try to promote digital sales at the same time it seeks to preserve the CD and brick-and-mortar retail shops. 
 Mr. Nardone, for one, said the industry must consider lowering CD prices to allow retailers to compete with Apple's industry-leading iTunes service, where full-length digital albums typically sell for $9.99. That is less than his wholesale cost for CD's. Sales at his chain are running about 9 percent behind last year, he said. 
 ''Everybody's still hoping for the best,'' Mr. Nardone said. ''But the best ain't what it used to be.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: (Illustration by The New York Times)(pg. C1)
A lineup of stars, from left, the rapper Jay-Z at the American Music Awards last month, the R&B singer Akon at a basketball game in Boston, and a screen image of Brian Wilson from a Johnny Cash video. (Photo by Kevork Djansezian/Associated Press)
(Photo by Brian Snyder/Reuters)
 A customer searching for compact discs in a brick-and-mortar record store, a business that is increasingly becoming a vanishing institution. (Photo by Spencer Platt/Getty Images)(pg. C5)Chart: ''Even With Digital . . .''Music sales are lower than in recent years.Graph tracks Albums sold annually in the U.S. since 1997.Digital music figures include albums plus individual digital songs, with 10 tracks counted as one album.(pg. C5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC INDUSTRY (92%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); RECORD REVENUES (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); MUSIC STORES (89%); JAZZ & BLUES (78%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (78%); POP & ROCK (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); MUSIC PUBLISHING (74%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (74%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (74%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%); LAWYERS (50%) Music; Compact Discs; Sales; Recordings and Downloads (Audio); Computers and the Internet; T-Shirts (Apparel); Telephones and Telecommunications; Industry Profiles

COMPANY: MYSPACE INC (72%); MICROSOFT CORP (61%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (72%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (72%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (61%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (61%)

PERSON: 50 CENT (79%); JAY-Z (56%) Jeff Leeds

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2006



259 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 364 words

HEADLINE: Consumption Gap

 BODY:
Conservative economists often argue that wage stagnation and income inequality are not as big a threat to Americans' standard of living as they've been made out to be. In their view, how much one buys -- rather than how much one makes -- is a better measure of economic well-being. 
 In a recent article in The National Review, researchers at the American Enterprise Institute asserted just that, saying that when you look at how much the middle class is consuming, they're ''even doing better than the upper crust.''
Why make a fuss over other grim economic statistics if everyone manages to keep buying things?
 Here's why. The assertion -- that the middle class has out-consumed the ''upper crust'' during the Bush years -- is false, the result of rosy assumptions that turned out to be wrong. 
 Researchers at two other think tanks, the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities and the Economic Policy Institute, reworked the figures, including newly available spending data for 2005. There is no dispute among the various researchers over the new findings. Over all, consumption is growing. But the growth is unbalanced, consistent with the wide disparity in wages and income that has characterized the Bush years. 
 Consumer spending by low-income households is way down since 2001. Over the same period, spending by high-income Americans has been robust, supported, in part, by generous tax cuts. In 2005, the top 20 percent of households made 39 percent of all consumer expenditures, the highest share since the government started keeping track in 1984.
 The information on middle-income households is mixed, with some data showing a decline in their spending during the Bush era and some showing an increase. But there is no question that spending by the middle class has been weaker in the current economic expansion than in previous recoveries. 
 It would be nice if by some magic Americans could spend their way out of today's economic woes. But the gathering evidence shows that growing income inequality has fostered consumption inequality as well. It's time for policy makers to acknowledge that such inequality is an economic and social ill -- and to start finding cures. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); LIVING STANDARDS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); STATISTICS (74%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%) United States Economy; Editorials; Income

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (57%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (56%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2006



260 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1390 words

HEADLINE: Objectivity Of a Rating Questioned

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

 BODY:
The three words ''uncertain regulatory environment'' would not seem that unusual in a public utility rate case.
 But when S. Bradley Van Cleve, a lawyer for the 34 biggest industrial customers of Portland General Electric, read testimony that an Oregon utility executive gave in late October, his suspicions were aroused. They were the same three words used in a report in September by Standard & Poor's, Portland G.E.'s credit rating agency, on the utility's financial health.
Mr. Van Cleve sought a subpoena for all the correspondence between Standard & Poor's and the utility for the previous 21 months. Those newly disclosed documents open a rare window into the internal workings of the corporate credit rating business. As such, the documents raise questions about the independence and integrity of the rating services, whose reports are relied upon by millions of investors in choosing stocks and bonds. 
 The documents show that Standard & Poor's solicited comment from the utility on a draft report and then made at least 48 changes that the utility sought before releasing its report on Sept. 25. Those changes included adding the words ''uncertain regulatory environment'' and a second crucial phrase supporting Portland G.E.'s request to shift all fuel-cost risks off its shareholders and onto customers. The utility then used the report as independent corroboration of its request to raise rates.
 Officials at both S.& P., a unit of McGraw-Hill, and the utility said they did nothing wrong, and the credit agency said all the changes were made in light of new facts. ''This was entirely routine,'' said Chris Atkins, chief spokesman for S.& P.
 The biggest credit rating services -- S.& P. and Moody's Investors Service as well as Fitch Ratings -- have been roundly criticized since they failed to publicly report the declining fortunes of Enron and WorldCom until it was too late. Congress, European securities regulators, investor advocates and even some rival credit ratings agencies questioned the independence and integrity of the credit rating system, in part because since the early 1970s the services have been paid by the very companies whose creditworthiness they evaluate. 
 One Senate staff report noted that credit ratings ''have taken on great significance in the market with investors trusting'' the reports because investors assume that they are ''careful, unbiased and accurate.''
 Congress passed laws in 2002, 2005 and in October directing the Securities and Exchange Commission to get tough on the ratings agencies. An S.E.C. spokesman, John Heine, said the commission was still studying the issues and had not released new rules yet.
 The Oregon documents suggest that little has changed since the collapse of Enron five years ago.
 ''I thought I knew a lot about these guys, but this opportunity to edit I did not know about,'' said Lawrence J. White, an economics professor at New York University who has studied the rating agencies. ''Certainly we ought to know about it.'' 
 He said the Oregon case might prompt moves for change. 
 ''Everyone knows that the companies issuing bonds pay for the privilege to put out their best story and so, is there a difference between pitching and editing?'' Professor White asked. ''It seems like a slippery slope.''
 In the Oregon case, first reported by Nigel Jaquiss of Willamette Week, the changes made by S.& P. cast increased doubt on the financial strength of Portland G.E., bolstering its case to raise rates, increase its profit margin and shift all fuel-price risks onto customers. The wording describing the utility's financial health was changed from ''somewhat weakened'' to ''weakened financial condition'' and the description of the issue of fuel costs was changed from ''important to ''critically important.''
 Most of the changes in the report are revealed in the e-mail exchanges between Leo Carillo, a Standard & Poor's analyst in San Francisco, and Kristin Stathis, the utility's assistant treasurer. But the e-mail messages also show that other changes resulted from telephone conversations.
 Mr. Carrillo did not respond to messages requesting comment. Portland G.E. said it would not allow interviews with its executives about these issues. 
 The utility cited the report as independent corroboration of its request to raise rates by 9 percent and to shift all fuel-cost risks off shareholders. Portland G.E. is an independent company, but it was owned by Enron from 1997 until last April. 
 Normally investors who rely on these reports never get any hint of what revisions are sought by companies whose finances are being evaluated. The rare glimpse into the shaping of the S.& P. report came about only because the final version became evidence in a regulatory proceeding where lawyers had discovery rights.
 S.& P. said that there was nothing unusual about the revisions, which it said were made in light of new facts and in accord with the standards of the International Organization of Securities Commissions. 
 S.& P. acknowledged Friday that it met privately with each of the three Oregon Public Utility commissioners on Aug. 3, when the rate increase was pending. Two state lawyers sat in on the sessions, two of which lasted an hour each, but lawyers opposing the rate increase said Friday that they had been unaware of the meetings.
 S.& P., in a statement, said the meetings were proper because ''there was no discussion about the rate case'' and it was interested only in ''a greater understanding of the regulatory environment.''
 Spokesmen for the utility commissions in New York, Connecticut, New Jersey, Virginia and Florida said Friday that they did not have such meetings or could not recall any and several said they would consider such meetings improper when a rate case was pending.
 Jason Eisdorfer, a lawyer with the Oregon Citizens Utility Board, a consumer group, said any discussion about the regulatory environment was inherently about the rate case.
 Mr. Eisdorfer also said the release of the correspondence between Standard & Poor's and the utility ''was eye-popping to us.'' He added, ''We had no idea anything like this was going on, and we wonder how widespread it is.'' 
 Mr. Eisdorfer said he disagreed with Standard & Poor's assertion that most of the changes were factual, contending that they ''seem to be an attempt to influence a commission decision.'' ''This was meddling in the rate-making process,'' he added.
 In documents released last week, the staff of the Oregon Public Utility Commission determined that S.& P.'s Sept. 25 report was so compromised that ''it is impossible to conclude that S.& P. conducted a timely independent inquiry.'' A decision on the rate increase is expected early next year. 
 Gail Brewer, a Portland G.E. spokeswoman, said the utility ''did not manipulate evidence'' and that ''we stand behind everything we have filed'' in the rate case as ''appropriate and accurate.''
 In a filing with the commission, the utility said that Industrial Customers of Northwest Utilities -- the group represented by Mr. Van Cleve that includes Intel, Boeing and Oregon Steel Mills -- had manufactured a controversy.
 Sean J. Egan, a managing director of Egan-Jones Proxy Services, a rating agency that is paid by investor groups rather than the companies it evaluates, said the documents illustrate a fundamental problem with allowing companies that issue stock and bonds to pay for evaluations by credit reporting agencies. 
 ''Allowing substantial changes in the credit analysis that are not based on yourmisunderstanding of the business is crossing the line,'' Mr. Egan said, and ''is unethical and in our view illegal.''
 Egan-Jones has been lobbying to be treated by the S.E.C. on an equal footing as a credit rating agency. 
 Both Moody's Investor Services and Fitch Ratings, said they, like S.& P., typically show advance copies of reports to client companies to check facts. The two agencies said they did not alter their opinions unless there were factual errors. Moody's said there were often many versions of proposed reports as it discussed them with client companies. 
 Fitch, by far the smallest of the three, has a more rigid standard on changes. Its code of conduct states that a company being rated ''may not propose any drafting or editorial changes to the commentary.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: ''Uncertain regulatory environment'' was added to the final version of a credit agency rating report, top. (pg. C13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); UTILITY RATES (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BONDS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); SUBPOENAS (77%); ETHICS (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%) Ethics; Ratings and Rating Systems; Credit

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (92%); PORTLAND GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (90%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (65%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (53%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (52%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Portland General Electric; Standard & Poor's Corp; Portland General Electric; Portland General Electric

TICKER: POR (NYSE) (90%); VZC (LSE) (52%); VZ (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (90%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (90%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (53%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (52%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (52%)

PERSON: Leo Carillo; Kristin Stathis; David Cay Johnston

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (90%) OREGON, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2006



261 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: Buoyed by Mergers, Wall Street Extends Its Advance

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Wall Street extended its advance yesterday as investors digested new takeover developments and placed bets ahead of the Federal Reserve's decision on interest rates.
 A series of acquisition announcements reassured investors that corporations still see the economy as robust enough to strike deals. About $45.4 billion worth of acquisitions were announced by Standard & Poor's 500-stock companies last week, setting up this year to be the best for mergers and acquisitions since 2000.
Driving the Dow Jones industrials was American International Group, which agreed to buy the United States port operations of DP World, which is controlled by the government of Dubai. A hedge fund, SAC Capital Advisors, bought a stake in the mining company Phelps Dodge and said it would oppose the company's planned takeover by Freeport-McMoRan Copper and Gold. 
 Speculation about additional deals also helped the market. The medical device maker Biomet and the travel reservation company Sabre Holdings rose on reports they might be acquisition targets.
 Light volume yesterday indicated that investors were a bit more cautious as they adjusted their positions before the Fed's meeting today. The central bank raised rates 17 consecutive times starting in June 2004, but has left them unchanged at its last three meetings.
 The Dow rose 20.99 points, or 0.17 percent, to 12,328.48. 
 Broader stock indicators also advanced. The S.& P. 500 rose 3.20, or 0.23 percent, to 1,413.04, and the Nasdaq composite index was up 5.50, or 0.23 percent, at 2,442.86. The Russell 2000 index of smaller companies was up 0.51, or 0.06 percent, at 793.07. The Dow is up 15 percent for 2006, the Nasdaq 10.7 percent and the S.& P. 500 13.2 percent. 
 The dollar was mixed against other major currencies, while gold prices moved higher. The price of light crude oil fell 81 cents, to $61.22, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
 Stocks bounced around in morning trading, but the volatility may not have been entirely because of investors guessing which direction the Fed might take.
 ''What's happening is that as the market creeps toward a year high you see some investors exiting their positions,'' said Brian Williamson, an equity trader at Boston Company Asset Management. 
 Phelps Dodge shares fell 80 cents, to $122.87, after SAC Capital Partners made a bid for the Phoenix-based mining company. Last month, Freeport-McMoRan said it planned to buy Phelps Dodge.
 A.I.G., the big insurance company. rose 65 cents, to $71, after the United Arab Emirates sold its United States port operations to the company. Terms of the deal were not disclosed.
 Biomet rose $1.64, or 4.1 percent, to $41.54 on a report that Smith & Nephew, based in Britain, might bid $11 billion to acquire the medical device maker. There was also speculation that a competing offer might be made by Johnson & Johnson, whose shares shed 25 cents, to $65.70.
 Sabre, which operates the Travelocity Web site, rose $2.11, to $30.43, on reports it has been in talks with private equity firms about a possible buyout.
 Harrah's Entertainment rose 15 cents, to $79.74, on a report that the board of the company, which operates casinos, would meet tomorrow to consider several buyout offers. 
 The benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 7/32, to 10027/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.52 percent, from 4.54 percent. 
 Following are the results of yesterday's auction of three-month and six-month Treasury bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price
3-Mo. Bills: 98.786
6-Mo. Bills: 97.540

High Rate
3-Mo. Bills: 4.800
6-Mo. Bills: 4.865

Investment Rate
3-Mo. Bills: 4.926
6-Mo. Bills: 5.057

Low Rate
3-Mo. Bills: 4.765
6-Mo. Bills: 4.830

Median Rate
3-Mo. Bills: 4.780
6-Mo. Bills: 4.850

Total applied for
3-Mo. Bills: $53,139,225
6-Mo. Bills: $48,241,570

Accepted
3-Mo. Bills: $25,358,559
6-Mo. Bills: $22,752,670

Noncompetitive
3-Mo. Bills: $1,834,178
6-Mo. Bills: $1,740,805

Both issues are dated December 14, 2006. The threemonth bills mature on March 15, 2007 and the six-month bills mature on June 14, 2007.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph: ''3-Month Treasury Bills'' shows average discounted rate of 3-month treasury bills in percent at weekly auction from Sept. to Nov. (Source by The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MERGERS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (88%); COPPER MINING (88%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (77%); METALS MARKETS (74%); BASE METALS MARKETS (74%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); MINES & MINING (74%); COMMODITIES TRADING (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); CURRENCIES (71%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (70%); MEDICAL DEVICES (68%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (62%); HEDGE FUNDS (55%) 

COMPANY: FREEPORT-MCMORAN COPPER & GOLD INC (84%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (71%); DP WORLD LTD (57%); SABRE HOLDINGS CORP (56%); SAC CAPITAL ADVISORS LP (56%); BIOMET INC (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (52%); BOSTON CO ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (51%)

TICKER: FCX (NYSE) (84%); AIG (NYSE) (71%); 8685 (TSE) (71%); DPW (LSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331410 NONFERROUS METAL (EXCEPT ALUMINUM) SMELTING & REFINING (84%); NAICS213114 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR METAL MINING (84%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (84%); NAICS212222 SILVER ORE MINING (84%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (84%); SIC3341 SECONDARY SMELTING & REFINING OF NONFERROUS METALS (84%); SIC3331 PRIMARY SMELTING & REFINING OF COPPER (84%); SIC1081 METAL MINING SERVICES (84%); SIC1044 SILVER ORES (84%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (84%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (84%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%); NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (57%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4225 GENERAL WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (57%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (56%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (56%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (78%); ARIZONA, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2006



262 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: E.P.A. Revises Its Formula To Calculate Auto Mileage

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 11 

 BODY:
The Environmental Protection Agency rewrote one of the great fictions of American life on Monday by changing the formula for calculating miles-per-gallon numbers on the window stickers of new cars, to take account of higher speeds, more aggressive driving, more air-conditioning use and other factors not in the old system.
 The rules cover 2008 models, some of which will be on sale next month. It does not change the actual mileage, only the advice to consumers. Congress ordered the change 18 months ago because of widespread dissatisfaction with the accuracy of the old numbers. 
The system was last adjusted in 1984, when the E.P.A. cut the city values by 10 percent and the highway values by 22 percent. This one cuts the estimate of highway mileage another 8 percent, on average, and city mileage up to another 25 percent beyond the 1984 cut. Generally, the new formula narrows the gap between small cars and bigger vehicles, with small-car fuel economy estimates falling by more than the estimates for sport utility vehicles and other larger vehicles. 
 Hybrid vehicles will take some of the biggest hits, according to the agency, because the new standards include use of heaters and air-conditioners. Most gas-electric hybrids shut down their engines at low speeds, and run on electric batteries, but if the vehicle occupants have turned on the air-conditioner or heater, the engine may not shut down. 
 At Consumers Union, the nonprofit group that publishes Consumer Reports, Ann Wright, a senior policy analyst, said the new stickers would move the government estimates closer to reality. Consumer Reports does road tests on vehicles and its mileage results are generally much lower than the E.P.A.'s. 
 At the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, a trade group, officials also praised the new standard and said it would cut fuel economy estimates by 8 to 10 percent on average. The alliance had fought to make sure that the formula was used only on the sticker, and not on the Corporate Average Fuel Economy standard, the one that manufacturers must meet or pay a penalty.
 At the Bluewater Network, an environmental group that petitioned the E.P.A. in 2002 to recalculate the numbers, Russell Long, the executive director, said he had been told that the agency was also working on a new sticker for ''flexfuel'' vehicles, which can run on ethanol mixtures as high as 85 percent, known as E85. Those get about 30 percent fewer miles a gallon of E85 than on gasoline. 
 When the E.P.A. began estimating mileage in the 1970s, the test covered speeds up to 60 miles an hour, and it expected that when drivers wanted to go faster, they increased their speeds by 3.3 miles per hour each second. But about 28 percent of driving is done above 60 miles per hour, the agency said, and actual acceleration rates are often 10 or 12 miles per hour each second. 
 Earlier this year when it proposed the new standard, the E.P.A. said its test ''omitted many critical driving modes.'' 
 The fuel economy rating system is an afterthought to treadmill tests done by the E.P.A. to measure pollutants that cause smog and acid rain. 
 The redesigned sticker puts the annual estimated fuel cost in big type in the center of the label, and locates the vehicle with an arrow on a horizontal bar, to show its position relative to competitors, as is done with refrigerators and air-conditioners. 
 For most of 2007, both stickers, and both formulas, will be in use, the new ones on the cars designated as 2008 models, and the old ones on the 2007 models.
 Despite the changes, the EPA's label retains a phrase that has become a cliche: ''Actual mileage will vary.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (89%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (89%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (77%); HYBRID VEHICLES (77%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (77%); CONSUMER LAW (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ETHANOL (72%); ALCOHOLS (67%); EXECUTIVES (61%) 

ORGANIZATION: Environmental Protection Agency

PERSON: Matthew L Wald

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2006



263 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 93 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Europe: Switzerland: Chairman To Retire From ABB

BYLINE: DOW JONES/AP

 BODY:
ABB, the electrical engineering company, said its chairman, Jurgen Dormann, left, who oversaw the company's recovery from near bankruptcy to become one of the fastest-growing companies in the sector, will retire in May. ABB, which is based in Zurich, said it had started the search for a successor for Mr. Dormann, who will turn 67 in January. Mr. Dormann, who joined the company's board in 1998, was appointed to the post of chairman in 2001 when ABB started to feel the effects of a cooling economy and faced thousands of asbestos lawsuits in the United States. 

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (88%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (88%); APPOINTMENTS (88%); BOARD CHANGES (88%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (88%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (86%); ASBESTOS (82%) 

COMPANY: ABB LTD (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Abb Ag

TICKER: ABJA (FRA) (91%); ABJ (FRA) (91%); ABBN (SWX) (91%); ABB (STO) (91%); ABB (NYSE) (91%); ABB (NSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (91%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (91%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS333613 MECHANICAL POWER TRANSMISSION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (91%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (91%)

PERSON: Jurgen Dormann

GEOGRAPHIC: ZURICH (87%) EUROPE (90%); SWITZERLAND (87%); UNITED STATES (65%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2006



264 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 365 words

HEADLINE: Wholesale Inventories Up As Sales Decline Continues

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Inventories at United States wholesalers piled up at a faster pace in October as sales posted their first back-to-back declines in more than three years.
 Stockpiles rose 0.8 percent, after a 0.7 percent increase in September, the Commerce Department said yesterday. Sales at wholesalers fell 0.5 percent after a 1.5 percent drop in September, the first consecutive decreases since April and May of 2003. 
The ratio of inventories to sales was the highest since June 2005, suggesting wholesalers will pare orders to avoid having more unsold goods accumulate in warehouses. A slower pace to the buildup of inventory will probably weigh on an economy already struggling with a housing slump, economists said.
 The annual rate of economic growth fell to 2.2 percent in the third quarter, the slowest this year, led by the biggest drop in residential construction in 15 years.
 In a Bloomberg News survey from Dec. 1 through Friday, the median forecast of 80 economists was for growth to slow to an annual pace of 2 percent this quarter. The forecast was down from a 2.5 percent pace predicted a month ago.
 ''Inventories are piling up more than expected, and this raises the risk that businesses have experienced a sudden downdraft in sales and orders,'' said Christopher S. Rupkey, senior financial economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ in New York. ''If this trend keeps up, it could spell production cutbacks and perhaps even layoffs.''
 Economists had forecast inventories would rise 0.6 percent, the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The Commerce Department used a new sample and methodology, as well as new seasonal adjustment factors, to calculate the latest figures and revise data for the previous two months.
 Wholesalers account for about a quarter of all business inventories. The Commerce Department reported last week that factory inventories, which account for about a third of all stockpiles, rose 0.4 percent in October. 
 A 5.1 percent drop in the value of petroleum sales in October contributed to the decline in sales over all. The average price of a barrel of crude oil traded on the New York Mercantile Exchange fell to $59.41 in October, from $63.90 in September.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVENTORIES (91%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); WHOLESALERS (90%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); STATISTICS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (70%); LAYOFFS (69%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (69%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (66%); COMMODITIES TRADING (66%); ENERGY MARKETS (66%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (65%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (61%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (60%) 

COMPANY: BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ LTD (67%); BLOOMBERG LP (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%) Commerce Department

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (67%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (67%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (67%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2006



265 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; ON BASEBALL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: For Pettitte, Home Is Where the Money Is

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
Rich Gossage signed with the Yankees as a free agent 29 years ago, and his answer to a question at a news conference remains one of the more honest, more candid responses any player has ever uttered.
 Why did you sign with the Yankees? Gossage was asked.
''Because my agent told me to,'' he said. 
 If only players could be so forthright today. When Mike Hampton left the Mets six years ago and signed a long-term, lucrative contract with the Colorado Rockies, he said he chose the Rockies in part because of the schools in the Denver suburbs.
 The $121 million? He didn't mention it. 
 It's never the money. No one ever seems to sign with a team because it offers the most money. Players seek the best deal, the most money they can get, so why can't they acknowledge it once they sign? They should be thrilled that they succeeded in their quest. Instead, they think it will make them sound crass to talk about the money. 
 Three years ago, Andy Pettitte left the Yankees as a free agent after nine playoff-filled seasons and went to Houston, where he lives. The Yankees had blundered, treating Pettitte too cavalierly before deciding too late that maybe they did want him to stay.
 Spotting a possible fissure, the Astros leapt at the chance to snare Pettitte and signed him to a three-year, $31.5 million contract. Eventually, the Yankees offered him $39 million for three years, but only the first two years were guaranteed. 
 In any case, Pettitte wanted significantly more money to stay in New York. The Yankees weren't going to give it to him, and by then, it didn't matter. Pettitte had committed to play for the Astros, deciding it was important to play at home.
 Three years later, home apparently doesn't mean quite as much. The Yankees offered $16 million with a player option for a second year at $16 million. Pettitte would have presumably stayed with the Astros if they had raised their $12 million offer to $14 million and had given him the same player option for a second season. But the Astros didn't accept the proposal, and Pettitte is returning to the Yankees.
 What happened to home? It seemed to get lost among the dollar signs, although Randy Hendricks, Pettitte's agent, rejected that suggestion over the weekend.
 Why was playing at home so important to Pettitte three years ago, I asked Hendricks in an e-mail message this weekend, if he was willing to sacrifice it for an extra $2 million in 2007 after he had earned more than $30 million the past three years?
 Whenever economics and geography clash, I think of Ron Shapiro. He is a veteran agent who has often acted unlike most other agents. He thinks about his clients' emotional comfort as well as their financial health. Kirby Puckett and Cal Ripken are the two players who stand out in my mind.
 ''We had to go into the free-agent market, but Kirby wanted to remain in Minnesota,'' Shapiro said Sunday. ''We did a brief tour, went to Philadelphia and Boston, a few others. We were offered magnitudes of money more than Minnesota offered. We didn't even counter any of the offers.'' 
 The Red Sox' offer, Shapiro said, was $1 million a year more than the Twins' offer. That was at a time when $1 million a year still meant something. Puckett took the Twins' offer.
 Ripken didn't even try free agency, Shapiro said. He stayed in Baltimore for $32 million. 
 ''We conjectured that as a free agent his number might have gone to $40 million,'' Shapiro said. 
 With Pettitte, Hendricks responded in an e-mail message Sunday, ''it is not family versus money, as your question suggests.
 ''Both are important variables. However, three years ago, the Yankees were relatively passive in their pursuit of Andy and the Astros were aggressive. Andy and Laura planned to have more children, and their oldest children were younger. So their family planning factored heavily, but was not totally dispositive.
 ''Today, the family is complete. Laura and the two oldest boys are very comfortable with Dad going back to N.Y.C. The commitment is only for six months plus the playoffs, once you factor in that Andy will be in Florida during spring training for either team. So the brevity of the commitment is a key factor.''
 Pettitte, Hendricks wrote, was torn between the Yankees and the Astros, adding, ''In the final analysis, I think Andy felt a lot more wanted by the Astros three years ago and a lot more wanted by the Yankees this year.''
 In addition, he wrote, when the Astros sought to acquire Jon Garland from the Chicago White Sox last week, in effect to replace Pettitte, ''that moved Andy from leaning towards Houston, despite their offer, to the Yankees.''
 In a subsequent e-mail message Sunday, Hendricks added that Pettitte would have his family live with him in New York during the season and would deal with the problem of having to take his children out of school in Texas. 
 ''They seem to be at peace with their decision,'' Hendricks wrote, meaning the decision to sign with the Yankees.
 Furthermore, Hendricks said, Pettitte told him Saturday: ''I love Houston and a lot of my teammates, and I will always cheer for my friends here and the Astros. But it is time to go help the Yankees win another championship.''
 The day that Pettitte agreed to help the Yankees win another championship, his father said money did not spur his son's decision. But despite that statement, and despite Hendricks's explanation Sunday, one thought remains: If Hendricks was making proposals to the Astros to try to get them to raise their offer closer to the Yankees' offer, and since Pettitte said yes to the Yankees when the Astros would not go to $14 million from $12 million, how is it not about money?


GRAPHIC: Photos: Andy Pettitte with his family after being welcomed to the Astros in 2003. Pettitte and Roger Clemens, far left, were teammates with the Astros and the Yankees. (Photo by Brett Coomer/Getty Images)
 (Photo by Charlie Neibergall/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%) Baseball

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%); COLORADO ROCKIES (83%); HOUSTON ASTROS (82%) New York Yankees

PERSON: Murray Chass; Andy Pettitte

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2006



266 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1793 words

HEADLINE: In New Twist on Tuition Game, Popularity Rises With the Price

BYLINE: By JONATHAN D. GLATER and ALAN FINDER; Jonathan D. Glater reported from Collegeville, Pa., and Alan Finder from New York.

DATELINE: COLLEGEVILLE, Pa. 

 BODY:
John Strassburger, the president of Ursinus College, a small liberal arts institution here in the eastern Pennsylvania countryside, vividly remembers the day that the chairman of the board of trustees told him the college was losing applicants because of its tuition. 
 It was too low.
So early in 2000 the board voted to raise tuition and fees 17.6 percent, to $23,460 (and to include a laptop for every incoming student to help soften the blow). Then it waited to see what would happen.
 Ursinus received nearly 200 more applications than the year before. Within four years the size of the freshman class had risen 35 percent, to 454 students. Applicants had apparently concluded that if the college cost more, it must be better.
 ''It's bizarre and it's embarrassing, but it's probably true,'' Dr. Strassburger said. 
 Ursinus also did something more: it raised student aid by nearly 20 percent, to just under $12.9 million, meaning that a majority of its students paid less than half price.
 Ursinus is not unique. With the race for rankings and choice students shaping college pricing, the University of Notre Dame, Bryn Mawr College, Rice University, the University of Richmond and Hendrix College, in Conway, Ark., are just a few that have sharply increased tuition to match colleges they consider their rivals, while also providing more financial assistance.
 The recognition that families associate price with quality, and that a tuition rise, accompanied by discounts, can lure more applicants and revenue, has helped produce an economy in academe something like that in the health care system, with prices rising faster than inflation but with many consumers paying less than full price. 
 Average tuition at private, nonprofit four-year colleges -- the price leaders -- rose 81 percent from 1993 to 2004 , more than double the inflation rate, according to the College Board, while campus-based financial aid rose 135 percent. 
 The average cost of tuition, fees, room and board at those colleges is now $30,367. Many charge much more; at George Washington University, the sum is more than $49,000. 
 But aid is now so extensive that more than 73 percent of undergraduates attending private four-year institutions received it in the school year that ended in 2004, not even counting loans. 
 ''We can cushion the sticker shock,'' said Amy Gutmann, president of the University of Pennsylvania, which distributes aid on the basis of financial need. ''We focus on both middle-income and low-income families.'' 
 So net prices vary widely on a given campus. On some, as many as 90 percent of students receive support, primarily from the college itself or the federal government. 
 And financial need is not the only basis for it. Many colleges, competing for the students with high grades and standardized test scores that help a college rise in rankings guides, offer merit aid ranging from a few thousand dollars to a full scholarship.
 But officials of private colleges and universities say they fear that unless other steps are taken, the middle and upper middle class could ultimately be squeezed out.
 ''Eventually, if we're going to keep raising tuition at rates much more than the increase in family incomes, then something has to be done to make the places more accessible to the middle class,'' said Ronald G. Ehrenberg, director of the Cornell Higher Education Research Institute.
 As it is, some students may not even apply to private colleges, scared away from the start by tuition and unaware of the available discounts. After all, tuition and fees at public colleges and universities -- though growing recently at a faster pace than those at private institutions -- remain vastly lower, at an average of $5,836, the College Board says.
 It can be argued that everyone studying at a private liberal arts college is getting a discount. At institution after institution, officials say they offer an education costing tens of thousands of dollars more than even the college's ''sticker price.''
 Take Swarthmore, the elite college half an hour's drive from Ursinus. With an annual budget of $106 million to educate just under 1,500 undergraduates, Swarthmore spends about $73,690 a student. But its tuition, room, board and fees in the last academic year were little more than $41,000. 
 ''The half of our student body whose families are paying the full sticker price are paying $41,000 for something that costs $73,000,'' said Suzanne P. Welsh, the treasurer. ''So they're getting a great discount.'' 
 The other students receive a bigger subsidy: on average, aid totaling more than $28,500, most of it from the college itself. (Swarthmore limits its aid to students with financial need, but that can mean those from families earning $150,000 a year if, for instance, there are circumstances like having multiple children in college.)
 What makes it all work is Swarthmore's $1.3 billion endowment, which throws off enough income to cover 43 percent of the operating budget.
 The biggest expenditure at liberal arts colleges is for salaries and benefits. With competition for big-name professors becoming more intense, faculty salaries have increased. So has the pay of college and university presidents, more than 100 of whom now receive at least $500,000 a year.
 Then there are the amenities sought by students: coffee bars, lavish new dormitories, state-of-the-art science laboratories and fitness centers. 
 ''You're trying to create the best educational experience for your students, and that costs money,'' said Tom Tritton, president of Haverford College. ''I sometimes say to parents, 'I can make it cheaper if you want.' '' 
 Still, none of this explains why colleges like Swarthmore and Ursinus -- with different student-faculty ratios, endowments and reputations -- end up with tuition and fees only a few hundred dollars apart, or less. Or why Harvard's tuition and fees, at $33,709, are virtually the same as theirs.
 One big reason is that institutions of higher learning watch one another. 
 In November, the finance committee of Swarthmore's board of managers gathered at a Manhattan law firm and pored over a chart of tuition, room and board at more than 30 prestigious colleges and universities. They were pleased to see that Swarthmore was charging somewhat less than most of its competitors.
 That kind of scrutiny led Bryn Mawr to a contrary sentiment, causing the college to raise tuition and fees this year by about 9 percent, their biggest jump in several years. Bryn Mawr officials say they made the decision after their research showed that the college charged less than its rivals and awarded more aid. The officials concluded that raising tuition would not deter applicants, because prospective students already assumed that Bryn Mawr cost the same as comparable colleges. 
 ''The question was, Does that make sense?'' said John Griffith, Bryn Mawr's treasurer and chief financial officer. ''Have we benefited at all from being the low price point? And the answer was no.''
 Some of the nation's bigger institutions have also found an incentive to raise prices. As part of an effort to improve its academic offerings and transcend its renown for football, the University of Notre Dame has raised tuition and fees by an inflation-adjusted 27 percent since 1999, to $32,900. In setting tuition, Notre Dame watches 20 other colleges and universities, including the University of Chicago, Emory and Vanderbilt.
 ''We're setting it by our competitors,'' said the Rev. John I. Jenkins, the institution's president.
 But Notre Dame's financial aid has increased even more over the same period, with undergraduate scholarships up 107 percent after adjustment for inflation. This year the university is distributing $68 million.
 Facing stiff competition, Hendrix College, a small liberal arts institution in Conway, Ark., decided two years ago to bolster its academic offerings, promising students at least three hands-on experiences outside the classroom, including research, internships and service projects. It also raised tuition and fees 29 percent, to $21,636. Most of the increase went back to students as aid.
 As a result, 409 students enrolled in the freshman class this year, a 37 percent increase.
 ''What worked was the buzz,'' said J. Timothy Cloyd, the Hendrix president. ''Students saw that they were going to get an experience that had value, and the price positioning conveyed to them the value of the experience.''
 Other colleges have tried the opposite. Muskingum College in New Concord, Ohio, cut tuition and fees drastically in 1996, to $10,285 from $14,240. 
 ''We believed that if we lowered tuition, we would open access to the middle class'' and ''that we would continue to serve the higher socioeconomic-background students by becoming a best-buy institution,'' said Anne C. Steele, Muskingum's president. 
 Revenue increased, with enrollment of more students who could pay full price. Muskingum has also grown, to 1,600 undergraduates from about 1,000.
 Yet the same strategy proved disastrous for North Carolina Wesleyan College. Ten years ago that college cut tuition and fees by 22 percent, to $7,150. But it attracted fewer wealthy applicants and more poor ones, who needed more aid even as the revenue generated from tuition declined.
 ''It didn't work out the way it had been hoped,'' said Ian David Campbell Newbould, the college's president. ''People don't want cheap.''
 But they do apparently want a deal, or at least the perception of one. Lucie Lapovsky, a consultant who was once president of Mercy College in New York, conducted a study asking students to choose between a college charging $20,000 and offering no aid, and one charging $30,000 and offering a $10,000 scholarship. Students chose the pricier option.
 ''Americans seem to like college on sale,'' Dr. Lapovsky said. 
 Many administrators say that without raising prices, they could not maintain or expand economic diversity among the student body. In other words, making college more expensive for some enables less well off students to go. 
 But Brian Zucker, president of the Human Capital Research Corporation, a consulting firm that works with colleges, is suspicious of that argument, particularly given the growth of merit aid. He points out that many middle-class students borrow tens of thousands of dollars to attend liberal arts colleges and that at some, they may be helping defray the cost of a merit scholarship to a wealthier applicant. 
 ''It's not a given that the subsidy is going in any predetermined direction,'' Mr. Zucker said. ''We don't know.''

 TOMORROW: Students, recent graduates, college presidents and others talk about whether they think a private college education is worth its cost.


GRAPHIC: Photos: At Ursinus College, above, officials determined that tuition was too low to draw enough students. So they raised it, and applications surged. At right, students at Swarthmore, where tuition and other costs in the last academic year surpassed $41,000 -- a bargain, administrators say. (Photographs by Shea Roggio for The New York Times)(pg. A28)Chart: ''Discounted Education''Tuition at four-year private colleges and universities has been rising faster than income for decades. But many students do not pay the stated tuition, or sticker price.Graph tracks tuition and fees as a percentage of median household income since 1980. Both of the following are tracked:AVERAGE STATED PRICENET PRICE*: Full price minus scholarships and tax breaks* Data before 1996-97 not available.(Sources by College Board
 Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. A28)Chart: ''Increasingly Expensive, but Similarly Priced''When setting prices, colleges and universities often watch one another closely. Below, tuition and fees at four institutions, after adjusting for inflation.Harvard1976-77: $14,7241986-87: $22,2951996-97: $28,7252006-7: $33,709Swarthmore1976-77: $13,6461986-87: $20,7841996-97: $$27,6142006-7: $33,232Notre Dame1976-77: $11,5991986-87: $15,7941996-97: $24,6712006-7: $32,900Ursinus College1976-77: $9,9651986-87: $13,4601996-97: $21,5102006-7: $33,350(pg. A28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); TUITION FEES (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); INFLATION (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); POOR POPULATION (74%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (70%); FAMILY (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (68%) Colleges and Universities; Tuition ; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Teachers and School Employees; Colleges and Universities; Colleges and Universities

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); RICE UNIVERSITY (55%); UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (55%); UNIVERSITY OF RICHMOND (55%)

PERSON: Jonathan D Glater; Alan Finder

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2006



267 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1724 words

HEADLINE: Protectors, Too, Gather Profits From ID Theft

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
Melody Millett was shocked when her car loan company asked her if she was the wife of Abundio Perez, who had applied for 26 credit cards, financed several cars and taken out a home mortgage using a Social Security number belonging to her actual husband. 
 Beyond her shock, Mrs. Millett was angry. Five months earlier, the Milletts had subscribed to a $79.99-a-year service from Equifax, a big financial data warehouse, that promised to monitor any access to her credit records. But it never reported the credit activity that might have signaled that they were victims of identity theft.
''I feel like the whole thing is a sham,'' said Mrs. Millett, a 37-year-old information-technology manager from Overland Park, Kan. ''You feel completely violated because here are the people who know the industry. They hold all the data.'' The services, she contends, are oversold.
 It is not just criminals who are profiting from identity theft; financial institutions are making money, too. Fear of identity theft has helped give rise to a nearly billion-dollar business in credit-monitoring services sold by the major credit bureaus -- companies like Equifax, Experian and TransUnion -- as well as direct marketers and banks. 
 Javelin Strategy and Research, which analyzes the credit-monitoring market, says more than 12 million Americans are now subscribers. The services alert them when lenders have requested their credit files, usually an indication a credit application has been made in their name. 
 Credit monitoring has quickly gained traction with consumers through aggressive advertising that often promotes its value in protecting against identity theft. But its abilities are far more limited than is commonly perceived. 
 In the meantime, measures that could stem fraud from identity theft -- like legislation empowering consumers to block access to their credit records, making it impossible to extend new credit -- have faced stiff resistance from industry groups. 
 ''Identity theft has essentially become a business -- not just for bad guys but for good guys, too,'' said Robert Gellman, a privacy consultant in Washington. ''A lot of the people that are involved in profiting legally from identity theft are direct participants in the whole credit system that doesn't have the protections in place to prevent identity theft in the first place.''
 Some criticism has been aimed at banks, which tolerate a certain amount of fraud as a cost of doing business. But the biggest beneficiaries from identity theft have been the three credit bureaus. 
 Banks and other lenders have long bought information like a person's payment history or debt load to assess a loan's risk. But credit monitoring turned the system on its head and helped create a new, consumer-focused financial data industry. 
 In addition to selling files to lenders in bulk, the bureaus now market largely the same records to individuals, including entries that reflect applications for credit, new accounts or balance changes. While the data is sold to a big financial institution for 20 cents to $1 a report, according to analysts and industry executives, it can be repackaged and sold to consumers in the form of credit monitoring for $3 to $16 a month.
 Persuading customers to sign up can be costly. But today, Wall Street analysts estimate credit monitoring alone to be a $900 million category, growing 20 percent a year or more. 
 ''It's a pretty big market considering that 10 years ago it didn't exist,'' said J. Bradford Eichler, a consumer data company analyst at Stephens. 

Peace of Mind, at a Price
 Representatives of Equifax, Experian and TransUnion, whose consumer affiliates are being sued by the Milletts, would not comment on the couple's specific contentions because of the continuing litigation. But they say credit monitoring is a valuable tool. 
 ''Our products give consumers an early warning system so they can limit the damage and take care of the problem right away,'' said John Danaher, president of TransUnion's online consumer services arm.
 And indeed, many consumers speak glowingly of their experiences with credit monitoring. Wendy Barrington, a 36-year-old Houston woman, recalled the annoyance a friend faced for months after her financial information was stolen. 
 ''I am not about to risk something I have worked so hard on,'' said Ms. Barrington, who pays about $15 a month for TransUnion's credit-monitoring service. ''All it takes is one person stealing your information and you are in a world of hurt.''
 Still, some consumer advocates caution that people may be overpaying for that peace of mind.
 For one thing, Americans can essentially create their own credit-monitoring service by taking advantage of a federal law that guarantees access to one free credit report a year from each of the three bureaus. And thanks to so-called zero liability policies, the cost of fraud is generally absorbed by the credit card companies, merchants and banks. 
 At the same time, credit monitoring may fail to detect that a credit request was even made. For example, a fraud artist may use someone else's personal identification information -- like a Social Security number -- but take out a loan in his or her own name. The data mismatch can cause the bureau's computer systems to route the loan request to a separate file so that a credit-monitoring service never picks it up. 
 That is what Melody and Steven Millett, the Kansas couple, say happened to them. 
 In late January 2003, Mrs. Millett found something was wrong when a Ford Motor Credit computer system refused to let her set up an online account to pay off an auto loan. When she called the lender, Mrs. Millett said, she was told that an account had already been set up with Mr. Millett's Social Security number but a different name: Abundio Perez.
 She later learned of at least 26 cases in which Mr. Millett's personal information had been used in credit applications by Mr. Perez since 1989, according to a lawsuit filed by the Milletts against the credit bureaus, data providers and several creditors in June 2004 in federal court in Kansas City, Kan. 
 The previous August, Mrs. Millett had bought a credit-monitoring subscription from Equifax. Soon after the Ford Motor Credit incident, she also signed up for credit monitoring with Experian and TransUnion. 
 At least one credit application using Mr. Millett's Social Security number came after the Milletts obtained their credit-monitoring subscriptions, according to their lawyer, Joyce Yeager. But not once, Mrs. Millett said, did the couple receive notice of unusual access to their credit records or the misuse of Mr. Millett's data. Quite the contrary, the bureaus sent them a succession of reassuring e-mail messages suggesting that their information was safe and offering congratulations. 
 In their legal claims, which have been separated into several class-action lawsuits, the Milletts say that the bureaus' monitoring services do not work as advertised. 
 ''The core identifier is your Social Security number,'' Mrs. Millett said in an interview. ''You use it for work, for taxes. You would think that identifier would be covered by someone advertising they protect you from identity theft. To think that they are not is just flabbergasting.''
 Donald Girard, an Experian spokesman, acknowledged that his company's credit-monitoring products could not detect cases in which a credit applicant used someone else's Social Security number but his or her own name because those records were stored separately. He added, however, that in such cases consumers are ''not harmed'' financially. 

Protection vs. Prevention
 Initially, the credit bureaus sold monitoring as a way for consumers to understand and manage their credit scores before taking out big loans. But since a wave of data breaches in 2004 heightened consumer fears, a security message appears to have moved toward center stage. 
 ''It is advertised as monitoring for identity-theft protection,'' said Michael R. Stanfield, chief executive of Intersections, a direct-marketing company that offers credit monitoring through big banks and card companies. But he said consumers hear protection ''and don't understand if it is prevention or detection.''
 ''What is needed in the marketplace are products that are going to help you protect your information, monitor it when it is in the process of getting used in a financial fraud, and catch those financial frauds when they are about to occur,'' he added. 
 Privacy advocates have suggested providing more fraud-prevention tools to consumers by allowing them to freeze access to credit records if they think they have been identity-theft victims -- or as a precaution. 
 Beginning with California in 2003, such laws have passed in 26 states, including New York last month. But of roughly 148 million credit-eligible customers in those states, Experian estimates 30,000 have elected to freeze their files. 
 Financial and retailing lobbying groups have generally opposed such legislation at the state and federal levels since it could hinder a retailer in issuing a store-branded credit card -- or a bank in extending a loan -- to a legitimate customer, who must first unfreeze the credit file. It can also restrict the bureaus from selling consumer credit files.
 The big credit bureaus, after initially opposing tougher legislation, are taking a wait-and-see approach. ''It may be that we evolve to that at some point,'' said Maxine Sweet, Experian's vice president for consumer education. ''We have to make sure that we are not interfering with what is a very important part of the whole consumer credit economy.''
 Such a freeze might not have helped the Milletts, since the problematic files were kept under another name. Mrs. Millett is still using a credit-monitoring service, but she would not recommend it to a friend. 
 ''I still have credit monitoring because of the simple fact that it is the best tool available at this time,'' she said. ''It is not ideal, it is broken, and it is not as advertised.''

Articles in this series are examining the causes and the impact of identify theft. Previous articles and related multimedia content: nytimes.com/idtheft.
 The Federal Trade Commission and the Identity Theft Resource Center have materials for victims: consumer.gov/idtheft and idtheftcenter.org.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Melody Millett found that the Social Security number of her husband, Steven, was being used to apply for financing under another name. (Photo by Ed Zurga for The New York Times)(pg. C10)Chart: ''Credit Check''Fueled by fears of identity theft, the business of credit reports sold to consumers has been steadily increasing.Graph tracks revenue from consumer credit reporting and monitoring services sold to consumers since 2003. (Direct to consumers and resold through direct marketers are differentiated.)(Source by Stephens)(pg. C10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (92%); IDENTITY THEFT (92%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (90%); DIRECT MARKETING (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); IDENTITY SECURITY (77%); LITIGATION (73%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (71%); ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT SERVICES (71%); DATA WAREHOUSING (71%); CRIME PREVENTION (70%); CONSUMER LAW (69%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (69%) Identity Fraud; Consumer Protection; Credit; Suits and Litigation; Identity Fraud

COMPANY: EQUIFAX INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Equifax Inc; Experian Inc; Transunion

TICKER: EFX (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (91%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (91%)

PERSON: Eric Dash

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2006



268 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; HONOLULU JOURNAL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 900 words

HEADLINE: The Aloha State Is Now Less Welcoming to Smokers

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

DATELINE: HONOLULU, Dec. 10 

 BODY:
The Irish supergroup U2 was in town, some of the world's best surfers were ripping waves off the North Shore and the Honolulu Marathon had pretty much every hotel room in Honolulu booked up. But at Captain Zack's, a friendly dive bar here in the International Marketplace, the major topic for regulars this weekend involved ashtrays and alleyways.
 In mid-November, Hawaii enacted one of the strictest antismoking laws in the country, outlawing smoking in bars, restaurants and most hotel rooms, as well as forbidding it within 20 feet of those establishments' doorways, windows or ventilation intakes. For those at Captain Zack's -- which is partly open-air and sits on a small courtyard -- that means smokers have to walk about 100 feet down a service alley, past garbage bins and into a street not even visible from the bar to have a smoke. 
All of which leaves Jill Moratto miffed.
 ''We have to hide out like criminals,'' said Ms. Moratto, who works in -- no kidding -- organ recovery. ''I mean, I've smoked all over the world, but here I'm hiding out behind the Dumpster.'' 
 Even more than upsetting locals, the question in Hawaii is how the new law will affect the lives of sun-and fun-seeking tourists, who pour more than $11 billion a year into the economy. In particular, some bartenders and business owners here are worried about upsetting a vital segment of the Hawaiian marketplace: the Japanese, who account for nearly one in five tourist dollars spent and are known to like to smoke. Japan is one of the world's largest importers and consumers of cigarettes, according to the World Health Organization, with nearly half of all Japanese men smoking in 2003, though that number has been declining for decades.
 The importance -- and ubiquity -- of the Japanese is evident on the beaches of Waikiki, where many signs are printed in English and Japanese and where Japanese buskers earn change singing Japanese love songs. Several major Japanese tour agencies have permanent offices in hotels along the beach, and some shops even accept yen.
 But in recent weeks, dozens of new Japanese-language signs have been posted, including one at the Hyatt Waikiki identifying the hotel's new ''designated smoking area'' as a walkway wedged between a convenience store and a bank of loud air conditioners. Other hotels have posted notices warning guests that they can be penalized for breaking the new law; at the Waikiki Sunset, just off the beach, those caught smoking in rooms -- or letting other people smoke in their rooms -- are threatened with a $425 ''smoke elimination fee.''
 Marsha Wienert, the state's tourism liaison, said the tourism department started a campaign earlier this year to educate Japanese tourists about the changes in state law, working with travel agents and marketing groups in Japan to get the word out. 
 ''Japanese visitors to Hawaii spend more per person per day than any other market segments, about $255 per day per person,'' Ms. Wienert said. ''And we are definitely conscious that they do like to smoke.'' 
 Hiroyuki Fujimoto, a 29-year-old baker from Osaka, said he had gotten the message about the new law from friends before he booked his honeymoon here. ''It's really hard to smoke here,'' said Mr. Fujimoto, who was smoking in front of the Hyatt late Friday night while his new wife stayed upstairs. ''In Japan, it's still something people do everywhere, like walking.''
 State health officials said the new law, which passed easily earlier this year, was following a national trend. According to the American Nonsmokers' Rights Foundation, an antismoking group in Berkeley, Calif., more than 2,300 municipalities and nearly three dozen states have laws that limit where people can smoke. 
 In Hawaii, all of the islands already had restrictions on smoking in restaurants. ''I think that we felt that tobacco-free areas are a social norm,'' said Janice Okubo, the communications director for the Hawaii Department of Health. ''It's become an accepted practice.''
 But Hawaii is not the only place where people are upset about new smoking restrictions.
 Last week, a judge in Nevada blocked putting into effect in the Las Vegas area a recent ballot measure that would ban smoking in many public places, including indoor restaurants and any bar with a food-handling license. The restraining order was prompted by a lawsuit from a group of business owners who thought the ban was unconstitutional and could hurt their bottom line.
 Ms. Wienert of the Hawaii tourism agency said the new law had not brought complaints from Japanese tour agencies or a loss of business, but added that her department was ''watching it carefully to see if there's any decrease because of that.''
 Warren Shaw, a bartender at Zack's, said he did not like the law for other reasons.
 ''I spend all my time now running smokers out of the bathroom and chasing them around the corner,'' said Mr. Shaw, who said he used to smoke behind the bar. ''I understand the nonsmokers' position, but good Lord, we can't find a place for people to smoke outdoors?''
 He agreed that it was too soon to say whether the ban would hurt business -- Japanese or otherwise -- though he had initially lost some regulars after the new law was enacted. ''I literally had people just going home because they couldn't smoke,'' Mr. Shaw said. ''But now they're coming back. I guess they're tired of being inside.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jill Moratto and friends smoking in a garage near their favorite bar, Captain Zack's. A new law in Hawaii outlaws smoking in bars, restaurants and most hotel rooms. (Photographs by Jim Wilson/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMOKING (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); BEACHES (89%); DRINKING PLACES (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (76%); SMOKING BANS (76%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (76%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (76%); STREET ART (73%); TOURISM (71%); CONVENIENCE STORES (69%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (64%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (64%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (62%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (62%); MUSIC (60%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (60%) Smoking and Tobacco; Law and Legislation; Fines (Penalties); Bars; Restaurants; Hotels and Motels; Travel and Vacations; Smoking and Tobacco

PERSON: Jesse Mckinley

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (94%) HAWAII, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (79%) Hawaii; Japan

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2006



269 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: Medicare, in a Different Tack, Moves to Link Doctors' Payments to Performance

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 11 

 BODY:
After years of trying to rein in the runaway cost of the Medicare program, Congress has decided to use a carrot instead of a stick to change doctors' behavior.
 Doctors had been fearing a pay cut under Medicare, the health care program for 43 million elderly and disabled, but Congress instead has offered doctors a small bonus with big strings attached. To get the money, doctors will have to report how often they provide quality care, as defined by the government.
Lawmakers approved the change as one of their final acts before adjourning early Saturday morning, and proponents said it would improve the quality of medical care.
 But the plan immediately raised concerns among some doctors and lawmakers who specialize in health issues. They said they worried that it could be a step toward cookbook medicine and could erode the professional autonomy of doctors. 
 Doctors had been facing a 5 percent cut in Medicare payments in 2007. Congress deferred the cut, freezing doctors' payment rates instead. 
 Now, doctors can qualify for a 1.5 percent bonus in the second half of 2007 if they report data on the quality of their care, using measures specified by the government. For example, doctors could be asked to report how often they prescribe a particular drug after a heart attack or how well they control blood pressure in patients with diabetes.
 With these statistics, Medicare officials say, they will , in the near future, be able to reward doctors who follow clinical guidelines and perhaps penalize those who flout such standards without justification. 
 For several years, Medicare officials have advocated a pay-for-performance system, noting wide regional variations in the practices of hospitals and medical specialists. The idea was supported by the Bush administration and by Senators Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, the chairman of the Finance Committee, and Max Baucus, the Montana Democrat who will be chairman next year.
 ''Medicare now pays the same amount regardless of quality,'' Mr. Grassley said. Indeed, he said, Medicare ''rewards poor quality,'' paying doctors to treat complications caused by their own mistakes.
 But some influential Democrats, and even some administration officials and Republicans who support the general idea of pay-for-performance, expressed concern with federal agencies setting benchmarks for care. 
 ''This is a very significant step,'' Catherine G. Cohen, vice president of the American Academy of Ophthalmology, said Monday. ''It's the first time Medicare has ever paid individual doctors a differential for reporting quality measures. It could impose a significant new burden on doctors' offices.''
 The legislation has created strange bedfellows. 
 Some doctors, health policy experts and politicians, including liberals like Representative Henry A. Waxman and conservatives like Robert E. Moffit, director of health policy studies at the Heritage Foundation, are apprehensive. Beyond broader questions about whether the government can accurately measure the quality of care, they are concerned about the feasibility of developing standards for hundreds of thousands of doctors within six months. The quality reporting system begins on July 1.
 In an interview, Mr. Waxman, a California Democrat who has been working on health policy for more than three decades, said: ''I am very skeptical of pay-for-performance. I'm not sure we can measure quality and performance that well.''
 Representative Pete Stark of California, who will become chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health in January, said, ''The entire concept of pay-for-performance is offensive.'' Doctors, Mr. Stark said, are supposed to provide ''quality care'' and should not be paid extra for doing so.
 Moreover, he said, federal officials ''do not have the capability, the understanding, the knowledge or the training'' to set standards for the quality of care.
 Representative Charlie Norwood, Republican of Georgia, led efforts to enact a ''patients' bill of rights,'' saying insurance companies should not tell doctors how to practice medicine. He objects just as much to government efforts to define quality.
 ''When government bureaucrats determine what good medicine is, instead of patients and doctors, I get very suspicious,'' said Mr. Norwood, a dentist.
 The administration says Medicare should not simply pay for more services, but should reward doctors for efficiency and high-quality care.
 Representative Nancy L. Johnson, Republican of Connecticut, also championed the idea of pay-for-performance. But in an interview, Mrs. Johnson said she was disappointed that Congress had not gone further to ensure that doctors would develop the criteria for measuring quality. ''Bureaucrats must never be allowed to dictate medical practice,'' she said. 
 This concern is shared by some administration officials. In a recent speech to the American Medical Association, Dr. Scott Gottlieb, deputy commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, said he worried about intrusions into the practice of medicine by federal agencies, including his own.
 The original Medicare law, passed in 1965, said, ''Nothing in this title shall be construed to authorize any federal officer or employee to exercise any supervision or control over the practice of medicine.''
 Mr. Moffit of the Heritage Foundation said the new initiative was ''a backdoor attempt to repeal'' this guarantee.
 ''It's pay for compliance, not pay for performance,'' Mr. Moffit said. ''Doctors will be financially pressured to comply with government guidelines and standards. The integrity and independence of the medical profession could be compromised.'' 
 Dr. Stephen C. Albrecht, a family doctor in Olympia, Wash., said Monday: ''Medicare has a good idea here, but has not put much money behind it. The 1.5 percent bonus does not justify the extra effort required to do the quality reporting that the government wants.''
 Some doctors, like anesthesiologists and thoracic surgeons, have been eager to develop their own quality measures. 
 Over the last 17 years, the Society of Thoracic Surgeons has collected demographic and clinical data on three million patients. Doctors say they have used the data to improve the quality of care.
 Dr. Frederick L. Grover, president of the Society of Thoracic Surgeons, said, ''We have provided feedback to doctors, comparing their performance with state and national benchmarks, and in this way we have significantly reduced mortality and complications.''
 When possible, Medicare officials are supposed to use ''quality measures'' that have been endorsed by the private sector.
 Despite the move toward pay-for-performance, Medicare payments to doctors are unlikely to keep pace with inflation. Congress postponed for one year a cut in fees but did not change the Medicare law's formula for computing payments to doctors. They face an even bigger cut next year, in the range of 5 percent to 10 percent, ensuring that Congress will have to revisit the issue.
 Representative Stark said, ''Doctors and others who like pay-for-performance have to remember that it's a zero-sum game.'' As a result, he said, most doctors will have to accept lower fees if Medicare is to pay bonuses to the best performers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (94%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); QUALITY CONTROL (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HEALTH CARE (77%); CONSERVATISM (75%); LIBERALISM (75%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (72%); OPHTHALMOLOGY (72%); APPROVALS (70%); HEART DISEASE (65%); DIABETES (65%) Medicine and Health; Bonuses; Law and Legislation; Medicare; Doctors; Medicine and Health

PERSON: CHUCK GRASSLEY (58%); HENRY WAXMAN (58%); MAX BAUCUS (58%) Robert Pear

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2006



270 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-14

Iraqis in Talks on Coalition To Break Cleric's Influence
Following discussions with the Bush administration, several of Iraq's major political parties are in talks to form a coalition whose aim is to break the powerful influence of the radical Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr within the government, senior Iraqi officials say. A1

Somalia Flood Cripples Nation 

A deluge has arrived, plunging Somalia's breadbasket underwater, creating the conditions for an extended famine and taking the region's woes to a whole new level. Experts say this has been the worst flood season in East Africa in 50 years. A6

3 Children of Fatah Aide Slain
Gunmen sprayed a car with bullets in Gaza City, killing three young brothers, ages 3 to 9, who were the sons of a senior Palestinian security officer for Fatah. A14

4 More Connected to Poisoning
Four people in Germany who had contact with a business associate of a former Russian agent who died after ingesting polonium 210 were hospitalized, on suspicion they had been contaminated by the same radioactive substance. A10

Iran's 'Debate' on Holocaust
Iran held a gathering that included Holocaust deniers, discredited scholars and white supremacists from around the world under the guise of a conference to ''debate'' the Nazi slaughter of six million Jews. A3

Students disrupted a speech by President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran at a major university, setting fire to photographs and throwing firecrackers. It was the first major public protest against him since he took office. A3

NATIONAL A16-29

Gay and Seeking a Place Among Evangelicals
Gay evangelicals come from a tradition whose leaders have led the fight against acceptance of homosexuals. They seem to have few paths carved out for them: they can leave religion behind; they can turn to liberal congregations that often differ from the tradition they grew up in; or they can enter programs to try to change their behavior, even their sexual orientation. A1

Congress Decides on Medicare
Doctors had been fearing a pay cut under Medicare, but Congress has offered them a small bonus with big strings attached. To get the money, doctors will have to report how often they provide quality care, as defined by the government. A27

Kucinich Joins '08 Hopefuls
During a chat in his office last week, Representative Dennis Kucinich, Democrat of Ohio, said he plans to run for president again in 2008. A22

Muslim Charity Sues U.S.
In a new challenge to the United States government over its shuttering of several American Muslim charities it has accused of aiding terrorism, the largest such group filed a lawsuit seeking dismissal of many of the charges. A24

EDUCATION

Raising Tuition to Compete
As the race for rankings and choice students has shaped college pricing, colleges, including the University of Notre Dame and the University of Richmond, sharply bumped up tuition to match competitors. They also gave out more in financial assistance. A1

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

City Fails to Collect Millions in Water Bills
New York City has failed to collect on millions of dollars in overdue water bills because its records are so riddled with factual errors and outdated information that pursuing deadbeats and delinquents has become virtually impossible. A1

Big Protest in New Jersey
At least six New Jersey school districts closed for the day, and as many as 10,000 teachers and state employees gathered on the steps of the State House to protest an attempt to overhaul their pension plans. B1

Rap Lyrics as Confession
The police say that when they arrested Ronell Wilson in the murder of two undercover detectives on Staten Island, they found handwritten rap lyrics in his pocket bragging about a killing. Now, at Mr. Wilson's trial, prosecutors argue that the lyrics amount to a confession. B1

Neediest Cases B6

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

Profiting From Identity Theft
The fear of identity theft has given rise to a nearly billion-dollar business in credit-monitoring services, but their abilities are far more limited than what is commonly perceived. A1

U.S. Rebukes China on Piracy
In a 100-page report to Congress, the Bush administration accused Chinese leaders of failing to meet commitments to open the nation's economy and crack down on piracy of goods. C1

Business Digest C2

OBITUARIES B7

Mario Llerena
A Cuban intellectual who was an early representative of Fidel Castro in the United States, he was 93. B7

EDITORIAL A30-31

Editorials: Reckless with food safety; consumption gap; royalty ripoff; fighting drug fakes.

Columns: Thomas B. Edsall, Nicholas D. Kristof.

Crossword E8
TV Listings E11
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLOCAUST (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MEDICARE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (88%); AL FATAH (88%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); FLOODS & FLOODING (76%); SHOOTINGS (74%); CHILDREN (74%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); TUITION FEES (71%); JEWS & JUDAISM (71%); CHARITIES (70%); TERRORISM (69%); POISONINGS (69%); GAYS & LESBIANS (68%); MUSLIM AMERICANS (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (65%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); LITIGATION (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: MOQTADA AL-SADR (58%); DENNIS KUCINICH (57%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOMALIA (94%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ISRAEL (79%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); GERMANY (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2006



271 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: A Bitter Legacy of Division Survives Pinochet

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: SANTIAGO, Chile, Dec. 11 

 BODY:
On Chilean television Sunday afternoon, supporters of Gen. Augusto Pinochet were pummeling demonstrators celebrating the death of the former dictator. ''Look at that,'' complained the manager of a car rental agency in the southern town of Pucon. ''Even now that he's dead, Pinochet continues to perturb this country.''
 Chile seemed calmer on Monday, with the general's few remaining admirers filing by his coffin at the military academy here and the rest of the country going about its normal workday activities. But the timing of his death has not only brought back to the surface many of the divisions he created but has also left a host of troubling legal and political questions unresolved. 
 Victims of the general's human rights abuses, for instance, expressed frustration that he had died ''without paying his enormous debt to justice'' or even standing trial, in the words of Lorena Pizarro, director of the Relatives of the Detained and Disappeared Group. 
 Questions were also raised about what would happen now to the numerous criminal cases opened against him and his subalterns.
 ''The big question is whether this will give an impetus to those prosecutions or have the reverse effect,'' said Sebastian Brett, the Chile representative of Human Rights Watch Americas. ''Some might be tempted to ask, 'The old boy's gone, so what's the point of going on?' But I wonder if some of the military officers who have basically held to a pact of silence will begin to talk as a way of cutting their losses now that Pinochet's rather terrifying influence will have gone.''
 Human rights advocates want those cases to proceed, if only to undermine the more extravagant claims of the general's apologists and make the historical record clear. 
 Outside the military academy this morning, for instance, Ivan Moreira, a right-wing congressman, was arguing to all who would listen that General Pinochet was not a brutal executioner but ''a great statesman and liberator, the man who saved Chile from Marxism and avoided a war.''
 Most of the murder, kidnapping and torture accusations against the general also involve other officials and so will not lapse. In addition, his wife and some of his five children were indicted along with him on fraud or tax evasion charges stemming from the disclosure by the United States Senate in 2004 that he had clandestinely accumulated an illicit fortune, now estimated at $28 million, in bank accounts abroad.
 General Pinochet ceased to be an important player in Chilean politics even before then, as a result of his detention in Britain in 1998 for human rights abuses. But politics here have continued to revolve around him and his legacy, and his demise promises to affect the country's two major political alliances.
 As one of the great villains of modern history, he has been a boon to the coalition of Socialists and Christian Democrats that has been in power since his dictatorship ended in 1990. The parties were often at odds before he subjected them to the unifying traumas of murder, torture and exile, and some differences between them on social issues and economic policies have recently intensified.
 ''It is going to be a huge challenge for the coalition to find common ground and build a platform for future elections,'' said Patricio Navia, a professor of political science at Diego Portales University here and at New York University. 
 ''They came together to oppose Pinochet and lead the restoration of democracy,'' Professor Navia said, ''and now that Pinochet is gone, the fear that old Chilean politics and old divisions may return should not be discarded.''
 For the two main rightist opposition parties, in contrast, General Pinochet's death comes as a relief and an opportunity. They have been stained by their close association with him and his dictatorship, their efforts to reach out to moderate voters blunted and their democratic credentials repeatedly questioned as a result of their reluctance to criticize his human rights abuses.
 They have already begun distancing themselves from those links, as evidenced by the Pinochet family's complaints that certain party leaders failed to visit the general in his last days. But once his funeral is over and the year-end holidays and Southern Hemisphere summer vacation push the news aside, the right will be free to accelerate the process of selective disengagement.
 ''With Pinochet's disappearance, that political weight will now drop off,'' said Juan Bustos, a Socialist member of Congress who is the sponsor of a bill to undo the Pinochet-era amnesty law that has prevented prosecution of human rights offenders. ''So there is a certain advantage for them in all of this.''
 The former dictator's death has also forced President Michelle Bachelet into a delicate political minuet. The president is not only a Socialist and a physician like Salvador Allende, whom General Pinochet overthrew with Washington's support on Sept. 11, 1973, but is also a former exile and political prisoner and the daughter of a general who died in prison after being tortured.
 Because of her past, Ms. Bachelet, also a former defense minister, has to be careful not to take actions that seem vindictive or spiteful. She has decided that General Pinochet will not have the official funeral normally accorded a former head of state and has not decreed a period of official mourning, but has allowed the Chilean flag to fly at half-staff at military installations and authorized her defense minister to attend the funeral. One of the general's sons, Marco Antonio, asked in a radio interview that the government not send a representative.
 In what was interpreted as a sign of her difficulty, Ms. Bachelet wore a black dress to work on Monday but said nothing specific about General Pinochet's passing. That silence encouraged directly opposing interpretations: either that she was discreetly seeking to avoid offending his partisans or that she was expressing sympathy for the thousands of victims of his brutal rule.
 ''It must be difficult for the president to separate her subjective response to the figure of Pinochet from her duties as head of state,'' said Carlos Pena Gonzalez, a prominent lawyer and author. ''Her life is intimately tied to Pinochet's, but her role requires her to maintain her composure and neither mourn nor celebrate, to repress and moderate her feelings and thus seize the opportunity to relaunch the project of the governing alliance.''

CORRECTION-DATE: December 14, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A news analysis article on Tuesday about the death of Gen. Augusto Pinochet, the former Chilean dictator, misstated the name of the organization of a human rights expert who commented that it was unclear how General Pinochet's death would affect prosecutions of his subordinates. It is the Human Rights Watch -- not Human Rights Watch Americas. The article also mistakenly included an accent on the given name of the rights expert. He is Sebastian Brett, not Sebastian.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (88%); MURDER (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TORTURE (78%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (76%); TAX FRAUD (76%); INDICTMENTS (73%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (69%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (68%); HISTORY (62%) Freedom and Human Rights; Political Prisoners; Flags, Emblems and Insignia ; Deaths (Obituaries)

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (55%)

PERSON: Larry Rohter; Augusto (Gen) Pinochet; Michelle (Pres) Bachelet

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTIAGO, CHILE (79%) CHILE (95%); UNITED STATES (79%) Chile; Chile

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2006



272 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1463 words

HEADLINE: Muslim Charity Sues Treasury Dept. and Seeks Dismissal of Charges of Terrorism

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Dec. 11 

 BODY:
In a new challenge to Washington over its closing several American Muslim charities that it has accused of aiding terrorism, the largest such group sued on Monday seeking dismissal of many of the charges.
 Lawyers for the group, the Holy Land Foundation of Richardson, Tex., filed suit in Federal District Court in Dallas two weeks after a federal judge in California called into question a crucial provision in designating terrorist supporters. Since December 2001, the Treasury Department has designated Holy Land and five other Muslim charities in the United States as terrorist supporters, seizing millions of dollars in assets and halting their activities.
 No accused charity or any senior officer have been convicted on a charge of terrorism. Some charities have faced no criminal charges. 
 In a separate case against a Georgia man whom the prosecution identified as a fund-raiser for Holy Land, the defendant pleaded guilty this year to sending money to Hamas, the Islamist Palestinian political party that Washington first designated as a terrorist organization in 1995. 
 The foundation denies that the man had an official post. 
 The government has accused the foundation of having been the American fund-raising arm of Hamas. The charity and five officers are expected to go on trial in July on charges of financing a foreign terrorist organization, money laundering and tax fraud.
 In October, Ghassan Elashi, a founder and former chairman of the charity, was sentenced to more than six years in prison after he and four brothers were convicted of violating export laws by shipping computers to Syria and Libya, both once on the United States list of terrorism sponsors. Libya was removed this year. 
 Last year, Mr. Elashi and two brothers were convicted of helping a Hamas leader launder money. 
 The Treasury Department's repeated refusal to unfreeze charities' assets so they can be sent abroad has provoked alarm and frustration in the philanthropic world. 
 ''The question is not whether the individual nonprofits are guilty as organizations,'' said Kay Guinane of OMB Watch, a Washington group advocating government transparency. 
 ''The issue is whether there is a fair process to determine that and how to protect the charitable dollars so they are used for the intended purposes,'' Ms. Guinane said. ''What Treasury has done is treat charities the same way they treat the criminal process. It has really hurt the U.S. image in the places where the aid was expected and where people were depending on it.'' 
 Early last month, philanthropic groups from across the nation sent Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulsen Jr. a letter asking that he find a way to release the assets to their intended recipients. Mr. Paulsen has not responded, Ms. Guinane said. 
 A spokeswoman for the department, Molly Millerwise, said courts, citing national security, had repeatedly upheld the government's use of secret evidence to freeze assets of charitable organizations. 
 ''These institutions have been designated because they are financing terrorism,'' Ms. Millerwise said. ''We have to make sure that the money is kept in place and does not go to illicit ends.'' 
 Critics say the law prevents the airing of secret evidence in such cases. ''When Treasury says the courts have upheld its action, they are saying the courts found its action was not arbitrary and capricious,'' Ms. Guinane said. ''Not that the court made any kind of independent determination of the merits or factual accuracy.''
 A spokesman for the Justice Department, Bryan Sierra, said he could not comment on the Holy Land motion because it was too new. As a matter of procedure, Mr. Sierra said, prosecution does not automatically follow the designation of a charity as a terrorist organization. 
 ''Not every case is a criminal case,'' he said. ''It's a question of can you come up with enough evidence to prosecute based on a violation of the statutes of material support for terrorism.''
 Charitable giving is one of the five pillars of Islam, and the closing of Muslim charities has become a major source of American Muslims' distrust of the federal government. 
 Many American Muslims accuse the government of, at best, acting out of fear and ignorance to tamp contributions. At worst, they say the Bush administration focuses on Arab and Muslim groups critical of United States policy in the Middle East, particularly charities that aid poor Palestinians in the territories occupied by Israel. 
 ''That was a valve that does not put the Palestinian population under pressure,'' Hatem Bazian, a professor of Near Eastern studies at the University of California, Berkeley, said. ''If you starve them, they will take the deal the least acceptable to them.''
 The government says just Muslim charities have been designated because they are the ones that terrorist groups have penetrated. 
 ''The sad truth is that we have seen groups like Hamas and Al Qaeda infiltrate the charitable community, and specifically the Arab and Muslim charitable community,'' Ms. Millerwise said. ''When we do find evidence that any group is providing material or financial support, we have a responsibility to act against them and designate them and put the world on notice that this group is facilitating terrorists.'' 
 Holy Land was once the largest American Muslim charity, receiving more than $57 million in contributions, gifts and grants from 1992 to 2001, the indictment says. It seeks to have more than half the charges in the 42-count indictment dismissed, based on the ruling last month by Judge Audrey B. Collins in Federal District Court in Los Angeles. 
 Judge Collins said an executive order used to identify organizations and individuals as ''specially designated global terrorists'' violated the Constitution because it was too vague. Other districts are not bound by the ruling. Congress has largely ignored the question. 
 Lawyers for two other charities said they expected to file similar motions. Lawyers for two others said they were defunct, left bankrupt by challenging terrorism designations. 
 American Muslim organizations acknowledge that Islamic charities overseas funneled money and arms to support Al Qaeda and other terrorist groups. But they say guilt by association rather than hard evidence has become a judicial standard for them in the United States. 
 ''The government's claim of national security is a way to conceal government misconduct rather than state secrets,'' said Matthew J. Piers, the lawyer for the Benevolence International Foundation, a defunct charity that had been in Illinois. 
 Charity officials say the United States is shooting itself in the foot. Rather than spending millions on failed advertising to improve its image, the officials say, Washington should let the charities work where it is not welcome. 
 ''People are saying that this is not about this or that charity, it's about Islam,'' said Khalil Jassemm, who helped found Life for Relief and Development, a charity in Michigan. ''We could be a humanitarian bridge to the Muslim world, but nobody thinks about that.''


Global Relief Foundation
GROUP'S STATED MISSION: Provide economic, occupational and agricultural aid, with an emphasis on Bosnia and Chechnya.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT'S ACCUSATIONS: Providing financial and other assistance to individuals associated with Al Qaeda. The government says the foundation has stocked and promoted tapes and books glorifying jihad.
STATUS OF AGENCY AND REACTION: No criminal charges filed.
The group's lawyer has made repeated requests through the Freedom of Information Act to see what the charges against the group are based on, but he has yet to see any evidence. A key fund-raiser was jailed and ultimately deported on immigration charges.

Islamic American Relief Agency
GROUP'S STATED MISSION: Charitable work for orphans, disaster, famine relief and aid to refugees.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT'S ACCUSATIONS: Being an affiliate of a Sudanese charity of the same name that is suspected of supporting Al Qaeda.
STATUS OF AGENCY AND REACTION: No criminal charges filed.
The agency's lawyer says that the group has no connection with the Sudanese charity, other than the fact that the founder of the American organization copied the name.

KindHearts USA
GROUP'S STATED MISSION: Provide aid to the occupied territories and elsewhere in the Muslim world.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT'S ACCUSATIONS: Coordinating with Hamas leaders and contributing to organizations affiliated with Hamas.
STATUS OF AGENCY AND REACTION: No criminal charges filed.
Critics say that the Treasury Department's inquiry focuses on the group's ties with other suspected individuals and organizations, including the Holy Land Foundation, rather than action taken by the group.

(Sources by Treasury Department; O.M.B. Watch)

CORRECTION-DATE: December 13, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article and headline yesterday about a response by the Holy Land Foundation to federal charges that it aided terrorism misstated the legal action the organization took on Monday. It filed a motion to dismiss several charges against it; it did not sue the Treasury Department.

GRAPHIC: Chart: '' Islamic Charities Shut Down''Since the Sept. 11 attacks, the United States Treasury has frozen the assets of the following Muslim charities in the United States:Holy Land FoundationGROUP'S STATED MISSION: Aid for people displaced by man-made and natural disasters
primary focus was Palestinian refugees in Jordan, Lebanon and the occupied territories.TREASURY DEPARTMENT'S ACCUSATIONS: Being the funding arm of Hamas and providing ''millions of dollars of material and logistical support'' to Hamas.STATUS OF AGENCY AND REACTION: Trial scheduled for 2007.Lawyers for the group say the government has relied on faulty translations of Israeli documents. In two separate cases, a former chairman of the group was convicted of helping a Hamas leader launder money, and a Palestinian man in Georgia pleaded guilty to providing financial support to Hamas through Holy Land.Benevolence International FoundationGROUP'S STATED MISSION: Short- and long-term relief for people afflicted by wars
operated in Bosnia, Chechnya, Pakistan, China, Ingushetia, Russia and other nations.TREASURY DEPARTMENT'S ACCUSATIONS: Providing logistical support to Al Qaeda. The department linked Enaam Arnaout, the chief executive officer of the defunct charity, to Osama bin Laden and said he purchased weapons for terrorist training camps.STATUS OF AGENCY AND REACTION: Terrorism charges dropped.Mr. Arnaout pleaded guilty in 2003 to a lesser fraud charge, admitting that he used money that was supposed to be used for humanitarian purposes to buy items like combat boots for soldiers in Chechnya and Bosnia.Al Haramain Islamic FoundationGROUP'S STATED MISSION: Provide educational and financial support to impoverished Muslims
 one of its priorities is to promote Islam as practiced in Saudi Arabia.TREASURY DEPARTMENT'S ACCUSATIONS: Supporting Al Qaeda fighters in Chechnya. The indictment was largely based on the charge that one of the group's officers, Soliman H. al-Buthi, took $150,000 out of the United States in traveler's checks without declaring it.STATUS OF AGENCY AND REACTION: Terrorism charges dropped.The charges against Mr. Buthi, for taking money out of the country illegally, still stand. He is now in Saudi Arabia. Another man has been charged with concealing the movement of funds intended for Chechnya by claiming that the money was to purchase a prayer house in Springfield, Mo.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (95%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); LITIGATION (90%); HAMAS (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); MUSLIM AMERICANS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); PHILANTHROPY (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); MONEY LAUNDERING (78%); TAX FRAUD (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); LAWYERS (78%); CHARITABLE GIVING (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); RELIGION (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (77%); SENTENCING (77%); GUILTY PLEAS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (72%); TAX LAW (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (72%); JUDGES (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); PRISONS (70%); EXPORT TRADE (65%); EXPORT CONTROLS (50%) Terrorism; Assets, Frozen; Suits and Litigation; Islam; Philanthropy; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (94%); AL-QAEDA (84%) Holy Land Foundation; Treasury Department; Hamas

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (58%) Neil Macfarquhar

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SPRINGFIELD, MO, USA (59%) TEXAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); CHINA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); SYRIA (79%); JORDAN (79%); LEBANON (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2006



273 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 625 words

HEADLINE: Dubai Port Company Sells Its U.S. Holdings to A.I.G.

BYLINE: By HEATHER TIMMONS

DATELINE: LONDON, Dec. 11 

 BODY:
Dubai's giant port company, DP World, sold its United States holdings on Monday to the American International Group, bringing to an end a contentious deal that left a bitter taste for Middle East investors. 
 Under pressure from politicians, DP World is selling terminal operations in six ports, including New York-New Jersey and Philadelphia, cargo-handling businesses in 16 Eastern and Gulf of Mexico ports, and a passenger terminal in New York City to a unit of A.I.G., an insurance company with little experience in the port business.
The price was not disclosed, though DP World said it was ''fair.'' DP World executives said after they agreed to sell the assets in March that they expected to get about $750 million from the sale. Since then port deals have become increasingly popular for bank infrastructure funds, like that of Goldman Sachs, which headed a group that won control of AB Ports, a British company, in June. 
 The DP World sale is the final chapter in a politically charged deal that many financial advisers say helped drive Middle East petrodollars away from the United States and into developing market areas like Asia instead. 
 DP World, which is controlled by the Dubai government, acquired the United States ports in its $6.8 billion acquisition of Peninsular and Oriental Holdings, a British company, in February. The deal was quickly opposed by United States politicians from both parties, who claimed that Dubai's ownership of United States assets was a threat to security and that the deal was being rushed through without proper review. 
 Their objections were based in part on the fact that several of the Sept. 11, 2001, hijackers moved through the United Arab Emirates before coming to the United States and used its banking system. Supporters of the deal argued that Dubai was one of the United States' closest allies in the Middle East, and had a long history of allowing the United States military to use its ports. Foreign policy specialists worried that the opposition would cause a rift between Dubai and the United States. 
 DP World's chief executive, Mohammed Sharaf, said that the uproar over the deal had not done permanent damage to relations between the United States and Dubai. The two countries' leaders are ''much more responsible people'' than that, he said. 
 He acknowledged that because of the reception to the DP World deal, some Middle East investors were looking outside of the United States for places to put their money. ''As time passes, that will change,'' Mr. Sharaf said, unless United States authorities enact more protectionist measures against deals involving Middle East investors. 
 Senator Charles E. Schumer, the New York Democrat who led opposition to DP World's takeover of Peninsular and Oriental, said in a statement that Monday's sale represented ''an appropriate final chapter'' to the DP World deal and that he expected it to receive broad support in Washington. 
 ''The economic relationship between Dubai and America has not been hurt by this,'' Senator Schumer said in a telephone interview. He said the deal was ''mishandled from the get-go.'' 
 A.I.G.'s asset management unit, the AIG Global Investment Group, will take control of the port operations. The ports' current management, led by its chairman, Michael Seymour, will remain. AIG Global Investment's managing director, Christopher Lee, said that A.I.G. had ''identified the marine terminals sector as a key element in our infrastructure investment strategy.''
 Senator Schumer said that A.I.G.'s asset management unit might not have much port experience, but it ''has good experience running companies.'' 
 DP World is planning to grow in North America, South America, the Middle East and Europe, Mr. Sharaf said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Agents from the Homeland Security Department inspected a trailer in the Port of Miami last week. (Photo by Roberto Schmidt/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (78%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); HIJACKING (71%); PROTECTIONISM (61%) 

COMPANY: DP WORLD LTD (92%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (59%) Dp World; American International Group

TICKER: DPW (LSE) (92%); AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (92%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4225 GENERAL WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (92%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: MOHAMMED SHARAF (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (57%) Heather Timmons

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (72%) UNITED STATES (99%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (98%); MIDDLE EAST (95%); ASIA (79%) Dubai

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2006



274 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2250 words

HEADLINE: The Cost of an Overheated Planet

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
The iconic culprit in global warming is the coal-fired power plant. It burns the dirtiest, most carbon-laden of fuels, and its smokestacks belch millions of tons of carbon dioxide, the main global warming gas. 
 So it is something of a surprise that James E. Rogers, chief executive of Duke Energy, a coal-burning utility in the Midwest and the Southeast, has emerged as an unexpected advocate of federal regulation that would for the first time impose a cost for emitting carbon dioxide. But he has his reasons.
''Climate change is real, and we clearly believe we are on a route to mandatory controls on carbon dioxide,'' Mr. Rogers said. ''And we need to start now because the longer we wait, the more difficult and expensive this is going to be.'' 
 Global warming is not only an environmental hazard, but also a great challenge for economic policy. Without economic incentives, analysts say, the needed investments in industrial cleanup, innovative low-carbon technologies, fuel-efficient cars and other ways of reducing energy waste will not occur. 
 Mr. Rogers's stance is far from universal within the power industry, but it has surprising support, particularly from those, like him, who also produce electricity from carbon-free nuclear reactors.
 And despite the Bush administration's adamant opposition to any limits on fossil fuel emissions, the idea is beginning to pick up momentum in the American political arena as well. Already, California has adopted a policy aimed at reducing the state's contribution to global warming by 25 percent in the next 14 years.
 In Washington, several influential lawmakers, including Senator John McCain, a leading Republican contender for president in 2008, have introduced legislation intended to limit the nation's carbon dioxide output. 
 But how would those goals be achieved? Global warming can be seen as a classic ''market failure,'' and many economists, environmental experts and policy makers agree that the single largest cause of that failure is that in most of the world, there is no price placed on spewing carbon dioxide into the atmosphere.
 Yet it is increasingly clear that there is a considerable cost to carbon dioxide emissions, especially to future generations, as climate specialists warn of declines in farm output in poor tropical countries, fiercer hurricanes and coastal floods that could make many people refugees.

Price List for Polluting
 ''Setting a real price on carbon emissions is the single most important policy step to take,'' said Robert N. Stavins, director of the environmental economics program at Harvard University. ''Pricing is the way you get both the short-term gains through efficiency and the longer-term gains from investments in research and switching to cleaner fuels.''
 Some academics see an analogy between a global warming policy and the pursuit of national security in the cold war. In the late 1950s, American military spending reached as high as 10 percent of the gross domestic product and averaged about 4 percent, far higher than in any previous peacetime era. A Soviet nuclear attack was a danger but hardly a certainty, just as the predicted catastrophes from global warming are threats but not certainties.
 ''The issues are similar in that you pay now so things are less risky in the future -- it's an insurance policy,'' said Richard Cooper, a Harvard economist. ''And in the cold war, we taxed ourselves fairly highly to mitigate that threat.'' 
 What makes such a view more than a conceptual argument is that executives like Mr. Rogers, who is also chairman of the Edison Electric Institute, a utility trade group whose members provide 60 percent of the nation's electric power, are also pushing for a carbon dioxide-pricing policy to reduce the risk to their companies. 
 They say that only with some sort of federal policy in place -- which would probably take the form of a tax on carbon dioxide waste from any source, or a ''cap and trade'' regulatory system -- will it become clear what carbon cleanup or fuel-switching moves their companies may have to make, and on what sort of timetable.
 Investors in alternative energy projects also emphasize the need to set policy priorities.
 ''We need a policy framework for the long term,'' said Vinod Khosla, a leading environment-oriented venture capitalist. ''Fifteen years is the minimum horizon of stability that we need.''
 Beyond incentives for business, a national global warming policy should include increased federal spending on research on futuristic technologies to curb carbon emissions, advocates say.
 Combating global warming, they say, will require over-the-horizon breakthroughs involving safe nuclear energy, hydrogen power and advanced carbon sequestration -- or technologies that have not yet been imagined.
 But even today, there are sizable opportunities, by insisting on more efficient energy use, that are not being seized, according to the McKinsey Global Institute. In a new report, the institute, a business-oriented research group that is part of McKinsey & Company consultants, estimated that the yearly growth in worldwide energy demand could be cut by more than half through 2020 -- to an annual rate of 0.6 percent from a forecast 2.2 percent, using current technology alone.
 Available steps that would yield a more productive, and efficient, use of energy include compact fluorescent lighting, improved insulation on new buildings, reduced standby power requirements and an accelerated push for appliance-efficiency standards.
 All these moves, McKinsey said, would save money for consumers and businesses. ''We were really surprised by these huge straightforward opportunities that are not being taken,'' said Diana Farrell, the McKinsey Global Institute's director. ''In some senses, there is a big market failure.''
 Energy efficiency can help slow the pace at which the risk from global warming risk increases, but it cannot reverse the trend alone. In the very long term, environmental experts say, the world's economy needs a technological transformation, from deriving 90 percent of its energy from fossil fuels today to being largely free of emissions from fossil fuels by 2100, through cleanup steps or alternative energy sources.

Science and Uncertainty
 Given all the uncertainties, the scientists and economists who design and run simulations of global warming policy acknowledge that their work is at best a tool for thinking about climate change issues. 
 Still, they tend to agree that over the next 50 years, the cost of slowing and eventually reversing carbon emissions growth will be 1 to 2 percent of global economic output. They assume the focus over those years will be mainly on efficiency and cleaning up electricity generation. 
 In later years, their cost projections become more varied, ranging from 1 percent to as high as 16 percent of global output, depending on assumptions about how difficult it will be to wean the world's vehicle fleet from fossil fuels, and to make other technological leaps.
 ''Going past 2050, the cleverness really has to kick in,'' said John M. Reilly, an economist at the M.I.T. Joint Program on the Science and Policy of Global Change.
 A global warming policy would be shaped first by science and social values, before economics. A sensible goal, according to many environmental specialists, is to try to avert a doubling or more of atmospheric concentrations of carbon dioxide in this century.
 ''This is not something that goes on inside a computer, but a grand political calculation,'' said Stephen H. Schneider, a climate expert at Stanford University. 
 Yet even in realms of social policy, where uncertainty is high, there is an implicit calculation of costs and benefits. In the case of global warming, the cost of society's insurance policy may well be worth it, measured in the damage averted.
 But it will not be cheap. Take the experts' consensus estimate that curbing carbon dioxide emissions over the next 50 years will, on average, cost about 1 percent of global economic activity annually.
 It seems a modest figure. Yet in today's terms, 1 percent of the United States economy is more than $120 billion a year, or $400 a person.
 Put another way, $120 billion is about equal to the Bush administration's tax cuts in 2001; it is also roughly the amount spent on the Iraq and Afghanistan wars this year. 
 ''There's no easy way around the fact that if global warming is a serious risk, there will be serious costs,'' said W. David Montgomery, an economist at Charles River Associates, a consulting group.
 A price on carbon dioxide emissions, most economists agree, would be the most efficient way to combat global warming. And the price, they say, should start small to give industries time to adapt, then ratchet up over the years to encourage long-term investments in energy saving, carbon cleanup and new technology. 
 The two methods of pricing carbon are to charge a tax on each ton of carbon dioxide emitted into the air, or to place a cap on total emissions and then let polluters trade permits to emit a ton of carbon dioxide.
 Economists like William D. Nordhaus of Yale and Mr. Cooper of Harvard advocate a tax as the clearest price signal to the energy marketplace, and less susceptible to political tampering and market manipulation than a cap-and-trade system. It could also be used to raise revenue to offset other taxes.
 In a recent paper, Mr. Cooper suggested an initial tax around $14 a ton of carbon dioxide emitted, which he calculated would translate roughly into a 100 percent tax on coal and add 12 cents to each gallon of gasoline. Such a tax would raise as much as $80 billion a year in the United States.
 ''There's nothing sacred about the number,'' he said, ''but you need to get a significant price into the system to create the incentive for people to go out and look for solutions.''

A Quota or a Tax?
Economically, a cap-and-trade system has the same goal as a tax, putting a price on carbon dioxide emissions, but goes about it differently. A limit would be placed on overall emissions, with polluters allocated permits. Then, companies able to go below their emission targets would be allowed to sell their unused ''permits to pollute'' to companies that could not.
 A cap-and-trade system also has some political advantages. It can deflect the anger over higher costs and enable governments to use their allocations to essentially buy political support, since permits are the equivalent of cash. Big polluters, who will have to invest most to clean up, could be granted extra allowances in the early years of the program to subsidize their investments.
 In the United States, caps and trading have a record of success in combating acid rain, which is caused by sulfur dioxide emissions from fossil fuel power plants.
 ''People said it was a crazy idea, too complicated and too regulatory,'' said Richard L. Schmalensee, an M.I.T. economist who was an economic adviser to the first President Bush when the sulfur emissions program was designed. ''But the lesson learned was that a cap-and-trade system can work.''
 The global warming legislative proposals before Congress -- including one sponsored by Senator McCain and Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut, and another by Senator Jeff Bingaman of New Mexico -- envision cap-and-trade systems.
 But the challenge of controlling carbon emissions is far greater than sulfur. Carbon dioxide is a pervasive byproduct of the economy, and the polluters are many and varied. Once emitted, carbon dioxide is vexingly long-lived in the environment.
 The early struggles of the European Union's carbon emission trading system, set up last year, point to the administrative and political difficulties. The European governments, responding to lobbying by domestic businesses, handed out permits that exceeded the emissions that most companies were already putting into the air. When that became clear in April, the market price of carbon dioxide emissions fell by half. 
 Senator Barbara Boxer of California, who will soon take the chair of the Senate environment committee, has pledged to push Congress to impose a price on carbon dioxide emissions, as the Europeans have done.
 Yet without coordinated international action, even if the United States -- the largest source of carbon emissions -- reined them in, this would have only limited effect on global warming. China is on track to surpass the United States as the leading emitter of carbon dioxide by 2009, according to a recent report by the International Energy Agency.
 ''Unless China and India are brought in, it won't matter much what the developed world does,'' said Scott Barrett, a professor of environmental economics at the School of Advanced International Studies of Johns Hopkins University.
 But developing nations like China and India, energy specialists say, would certainly avoid joining any international effort on global warming without an emphatic move by the United States.
 ''Every year we delay, we contribute to another year of delay in China, India and elsewhere,'' said Jason S. Grumet, executive director of the National Commission on Energy Policy, a bipartisan group of energy experts. ''The ecological and economic imperative is to start now.''

The Energy Challenge
 Articles in this series are examining the ways in which the world is, and is not, moving toward a more energy-efficient, environmentally benign future. Previous articles are at nytimes.com/energychallenge.


GRAPHIC: Photo: James E. Rogers, chief executive of Duke Energy and chairman of a leading utility trade group, at an electrical substation in Charlotte, N.C. (Photo by Chris Keane for The New York Times)(pg. C5)Chart: ''Carbon's Possible Future''M.I.T. computer simulations of global energy use show two of many possibilities for 2100. In one, carbon dioxide levels reach 875 parts per million
 in the other, taxes on carbon help restrict emissions to 526, which is nearly double the pre-industrial level.2000-- Reference energy useAs a baseline, energy use at the turn of the century was nearly 90 percent dependent on fossil fuels. Carbon dioxide capture and storage methods were not in use. The atmospheric concentration of CO2 was 371 parts per million.GLOBAL ENERGY USE: 387 EXAJOULESNatural GasNuclearWind, solar and hydropowerOilCoal2100 No long-term climate policyUnder this simulation, the CO2 concentration rises to what many scientists consider a dangerous level of 875 parts per million. With oil prices expected to remain relatively high, fossil fuel dependence drops to 82 percent. Cars get 70 miles a gallon of gas, power plants become more efficient and renewable energy use increases.1,344 EXAJOULES2100 Global tax on all carbon dioxide emissionsUnder this more restrictive simulation, CO2 emissions are limited to 526 parts per million. Dependence on fossil fuels drops to 60 percent. Carbon capture and storage is common and emissions carry a substantial tax. Ethanol and other biofuels are widely used in cars and with fuel even more costly, energy conservation is a personal and societal priority.Note: An exajoule is roughly equivalent to a quadrillion British thermal units.(Source by John M.Reilly, Massachusetts Institute of Technology)(pg. C5)Graph: ''Hungry for Power''The United States and China, with their heavy energy demands, are the biggest producers of global warming gases.Energy use by country and region, in quadrillion British thermal unitsGraph tracks energy use by the following countries and regions:UNITED STATESMIDDLE EASTEUROPEINDIACHINA(Source by McKinsey Global Institute)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBAL WARMING (92%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); BIOFUELS (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); WEATHER (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); AGRICULTURAL OUTPUT (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (73%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); COLD WAR (70%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (65%); REFUGEES (61%); COASTAL AREAS (50%) Weather; Surveys and Series; Carbon Dioxide; Global Warming; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Weather; Law and Legislation; Weather

COMPANY: DUKE ENERGY CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (59%) Duke Energy Corp

TICKER: DUK (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: JAMES E ROGERS (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (76%) Steve Lohr; James E Rogers; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Mccain

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%) California; United States

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2006



275 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:

PROFITING FROM ID THEFT -- Fear of identity theft has helped give rise to a nearly billion-dollar business in credit monitoring services sold by the major credit bureaus, direct marketers and banks. Some say the services are oversold. [Page A1.] 


SUPPORT FOR EMISSIONS CONTROLS -- James E. Rogers, chief executive of Duke Energy, a coal-burning utility in the Midwest and the Southeast, has emerged as an unexpected advocate of federal regulation that would for the first time impose a cost for emitting carbon dioxide. The stance by Mr. Rogers, above, is far from universal in the power industry, but it has surprising support, particularly from those who, like him, also produce electricity from carbon-free nuclear reactors. [C1.]

A QUESTION OF OBJECTIVITY -- Newly disclosed documents relating to a public utility rate case brought by customers of Portland General Electric open a rare window into the internal workings of the corporate credit rating business, raising questions about the independence and integrity of rating services whose reports are relied upon by millions of investors in choosing stocks and bonds. [C1.]

RULES TRIP UP ARMS MAKERS -- Arms makers who export to the United States are in a squeeze because of a complex set of rules that govern who can work on military projects for the United States government. [C1.]

CHINA PRESSED ON PIRACY -- In a rebuke to China on the eve of a high-level visit by American officials, the Bush administration formally accused Chinese leaders of failing to meet commitments to open the nation's economy and crack down on piracy of foreign goods. [C1.]

MEDICARE PAY, WITH INCENTIVES -- Doctors who had been fearing a pay cut under Medicare instead got a small bonus from Congress, with strings attached. To get the money, doctors will have to report how often they provide quality care, as defined by the government. [A27.]

A BAN ON BILLBOARDS -- Come the new year, Sao Paulo, a city of 11 million, plans to prohibit outdoor advertising like billboards. [A4.]

WATER BILLS UNCOLLECTABLE -- For years, New York City has failed to collect on millions of dollars in overdue water bills because its records are so riddled with factual errors and outdated information that pursuing deadbeats and delinquents has become virtually impossible. [A1.]

FUND OFFERS RIVAL BOARD SLATE -- A hedge fund run by Richard C. Breeden, a former chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission, said that it would nominate a slate of directors to oppose incumbents at its largest holding, the restaurant chain Applebee's International. [C4.]

E.P.A. REVISES MILEAGE MATH -- The Environmental Protection Agency is changing the formula for calculating miles-per-gallon numbers on the window stickers of new cars, to take account of higher speeds, more aggressive driving, more air-conditioning use and other factors. [C4.]

DP WORLD SELLS U.S. HOLDINGS -- Dubai's giant port company, DP World, sold off its United States holdings to the American International Group, bringing to an end a contentious deal that left a bitter taste for Middle East investors. [C4.]

RETIREMENT OF AN AD MAGNATE -- An era in advertising will end Dec. 31 when Edward H. Meyer -- known as the Rupert Murdoch or Sumner Redstone of Madison Avenue -- plans to do something that neither media mogul has done: retire. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C6.]

SHAKE-UP AT CITIGROUP -- Citigroup investors got the management shakeup they had been waiting for, as Robert Druskin, the head of its corporate and investment bank, was named chief operating officer, filling a role that has been vacant since Robert B. Willumstad left in July 2005. Market Place. [C1.]

SHARES ADVANCE ON DEALS -- Wall Street extended its advance as investors digested new takeover developments and placed bets ahead of the Federal Reserve's decision on interest rates. [C10.]

ONLINE

ADVERTISING SPOTLIGHT Stuart Elliott, a Times columnist, reports on advertising trends in a podcast every Tuesday. You can subscribe at nytimes.com/podcasts.

Business Briefing
Articles on these developments are at nytimes.com/business.

TEXAS INSTRUMENTS, the maker of semiconductors for mobile phones, cut its forecast for fourth-quarter sales and profit because of lower revenue from handsets. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

JEFFREY K. SKILLING, the former Enron chief executive sentenced to 24 years in prison for his role in the fraud that destroyed the company, won a last-minute delay of his sentence, which was to begin today. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE, maker of the Grand Theft Auto video games, said that it improperly dated stock options for as long as nine years. Also, the board of Sunrise Senior Living, operator of homes for the elderly, appointed a committee to review its stock options practices and stock sales by directors and executives. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

THE FORMER CHIEF FINANCIAL officer of U.S. Foodservice, Michael J. Resnick, was sentenced to three years' probation after pleading guilty to manipulating entries in U.S. Foodservice's books to help the food distribution unit meet quarterly profit targets. The company is a unit of the Dutch retailer, Ahold. (REUTERS)

PILOTS AT COMAIR, a subsidiary of Delta Air Lines, overwhelmingly gave their union leaders authorization to call a strike if they deem it necessary in the continuing dispute over contract concessions. (AP)

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph: ''Citigroup Per share''Last Monday: $50.00Yesterday: $52.88

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMS TRADE (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); IDENTITY THEFT (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); UTILITY RATES (89%); MEDICARE (89%); DIRECT MARKETING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (89%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); EMISSIONS (77%); BONDS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (77%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (76%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); SECURITIES LAW (76%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (72%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (63%); HEDGE FUNDS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PORTLAND GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%); DUKE ENERGY CORP (57%)

TICKER: POR (NYSE) (57%); DUK (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (57%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (57%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (57%)

PERSON: JAMES E ROGERS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%) MIDWEST USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2006



276 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 12, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: Before Visit To China, A Rebuke

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: BEIJING, Tuesday, Dec. 12 

 BODY:
In a rebuke to China on the eve of a high-level visit by American officials, the Bush administration formally accused Chinese leaders on Monday of failing to meet commitments to open the nation's economy and crack down on piracy of foreign goods.
 The criticism came in a 100-page report to Congress by Susan C. Schwab, the United States trade representative. The report, issued in Washington, was required by American law on the fifth anniversary of China's joining the World Trade Organization. 
While praising China for making progress in some areas, the report said that the country's efforts in other crucial areas had recently stalled, despite repeated promises from Beijing. It cited continued limits by China on sales of financial services by foreign banks, including credit cards, and limits on some sales of farm goods.
 It also accused China of engaging in counterfeiting or piracy of software, videos, pharmaceuticals and other goods, sometimes with open encouragement of Chinese officials, and of failing to stiffen punishments on those engaging in these practices.
 The report said that ''some Chinese government agencies and officials have not yet fully embraced the key W.T.O. principles of market access, nondiscrimination, national treatment and transparency.'' 
 China announced Monday that it would begin to take formal steps to allow foreign banks to offer some retail banking services, like credit cards, and to buy shares in domestic banks. But the announcement came too late to affect the report's overall conclusion that the Chinese have fallen short in meeting their trade promises.
 Much of the report echoed criticisms of China's trade and economic practices long heard from Bush administration officials and even more loudly in Congress. But the report was likely to roil the atmosphere this week as Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. engages in a high-level effort to get China to cooperate on these issues.
 Mr. Paulson is due to arrive Wednesday in Beijing with a team of six Cabinet members and Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, for what is billed as a ''strategic economic dialogue'' to bring about cooperation with China and convince Congress not to pass anti-Chinese protectionist measures.
 Trade officials maintained that Congress required that the report be issued when it approved China's accession to the trade organization in 2000, and that it was not timed to coincide with the Paulson mission. A senior trade official said he did not think the report would disrupt Mr. Paulson's efforts. 
 ''I think the message in this report is consistent with our messages previously,'' he said, adding that its contents would not surprise the Chinese or adversely affect the talks later this week.
 But at the Treasury Department, officials were holding back a separate Congressionally mandated report that was also due at this time and that is expected to fault China for its failure to allow its currency to float in open markets. The delay in the release of that report appeared intended to improve the atmosphere for Mr. Paulson's trip. 
 Besides Mr. Paulson, Mr. Bernanke and Ms. Schwab, the American delegation will include Commerce Secretary Carlos M. Gutierrez, Energy Secretary Samuel W. Bodman, Health and Human Services Secretary Michael O. Leavitt, Labor Secretary Elaine L. Chao and Stephen L. Johnson, head of the Environmental Protection Agency.
 As for what the Bush administration intended to do to get China to correct its practices -- whether, specifically, the United States would commence specific legal actions under the World Trade Organization -- the report said the United States would ''continue to seek cooperative and pragmatic resolutions through bilateral dialogue with China.'' 
 If dialogue fails, however, the United States ''will not hesitate to exercise its W.T.O. rights'' to settle disputes ''as it would with any other mature trading partner,'' it said. American officials indicated that such a step would be a last resort and was not likely to happen while the ''strategic economic dialogue'' was under way.
 The Bush administration has, however, filed for relief with the trade organization for some items, including automobile parts. The United States charges that the Chinese have kept foreign auto parts out of their markets.
 In addition, the United States has charged that China is deliberately overproducing highly subsidized steel to employ vast numbers of workers emigrating from the countryside. That has led to ''dumping'' of inexpensive steel in American markets, the United States contends, damaging the steel industry.
 In a speech earlier this fall, Ms. Schwab made clear that ''if we are not able to succeed using dialogue'' in resolving trade disputes with China, ''then we can and we must and we will resort to dispute resolution'' under the World Trade Organization as the United States did in the auto parts issue.
 ''We have this continuum of options,'' Ms. Schwab said in a speech to the National Committee on U.S.-China Relations, a private group that sponsored the first visit of Chinese ping-pong players in 1972. ''We will, as the Chinese do, quite frankly, take that tool which is most likely to resolve the problem,'' Ms. Schwab added.
 The report by Ms. Schwab's office on Monday said the Bush administration would continue to use ''a dual-track approach.'' 
 ''The administration remains committed to working cooperatively and pragmatically with China,'' the document said. ''When bilateral dialogue is not successful, however, the administration will not hesitate to employ the full range of enforcement tools available as a result of China's accession to the W.T.O., whether it be the dispute settlement procedures at the W.T.O. or the strict enforcement of U.S. trade laws to ensure that U.S. interests are not harmed by unfair trade practices.''
 The report cited myriad cases in which it said China had fallen short on its commitments. Trade officials said China had actually ''backslided'' and ''stalled'' in its efforts in recent months.
 For example, it said that China had promised to open its banking sector to allow foreign banks to provide credit cards and bank accounts in Chinese currency to customers in China. Recently, China issued regulations intended to end discrimination against foreign banks in these services, but American officials say they fall short of that goal. 
 As for pirated goods, the report said that a substantial percentage of counterfeit or pirated goods seized by United States Customs officials were of Chinese origin. In the past, trade officials have said these included designer labels and high-technology goods.
 The report also said that foreign companies found it harder to distribute wholesale and retail petroleum and petroleum products in China than domestic companies.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A report by Susan Schwab, the United States trade representative, also criticized China for not halting counterfeiting and piracy. (Photo by Jay Mallin/Bloomberg News)(pg. C11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); COUNTERFEITING (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); SOFTWARE PIRACY (77%); TRENDS (77%); PROTECTIONISM (77%); DIVESTITURES (74%); RETAIL BANKING (69%); ANNIVERSARIES (56%) United States International Relations; Economic Conditions and Trends; Counterfeit Merchandise; International Trade and World Market; Banks and Banking; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Credit and Money Cards; Agriculture; Computers and the Internet; Computer Software; Recordings and Downloads (Video); Drugs (Pharmaceuticals)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (83%) World Trade Organization

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (79%); BEN BERNANKE (58%) George W (Pres) Bush; Susan C Schwab; Henry M Jr (Sec) Paulson; Steven R Weisman

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%) China; China; China

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2006



277 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: Learning To Keep Learning

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
I recently attended an Asia Society education seminar in Beijing, during which we heard Chinese educators talk about their ''new national strategy.'' It's to make China an ''innovation country'' -- with enough indigenous output to advance China ''into the rank of innovation-oriented countries by 2020,'' as Shang Yong, China's vice minister of science and technology, put it.
 I listened to this with mixed emotions. Part of me said: ''Gosh, wouldn't it be nice to have a government that was so focused on innovation -- instead of one that is basically anti-science.'' My other emotion was skepticism. Oh, you know the line: Great Britain dominated the 19th century, America dominated the 20th and now China is going to dominate the 21st. It's game over. 
Sorry, but I am not ready to cede the 21st century to China yet.
 No question, China has been able to command an impressive effort to end illiteracy, greatly increasing its number of high school grads and new universities. But I still believe it is very hard to produce a culture of innovation in a country that censors Google -- which for me is a proxy for curtailing people's ability to imagine and try anything they want. You can command K-12 education. But you can't command innovation. Rigor and competence, without freedom, will take China only so far. China will have to find a way to loosen up, without losing control, if it wants to be a truly innovative nation.
 But while China can't thrive without changing a lot more, neither can we. Ask yourself this: If the Iraq war had not dominated our politics, what would our last election have been about? It would have been about this question: Why should any employer anywhere in the world pay Americans to do highly skilled work -- if other people, just as well educated, are available in less developed countries for half our wages?
 If we can't answer this question, in an age when more and more routine work can be digitized, automated or offshored, including white-collar work, ''it is hard to see how, over time, we are going to be able to maintain our standard of living,'' says Marc Tucker, who heads the National Center on Education and the Economy.
 There is only one right answer to that question: In a globally integrated economy, our workers will get paid a premium only if they or their firms offer a uniquely innovative product or service, which demands a skilled and creative labor force to conceive, design, market and manufacture -- and a labor force that is constantly able to keep learning. We can't go on lagging other major economies in every math/science/reading test and every ranking of Internet penetration and think that we're going to field a work force able to command premium wages. Freedom, without rigor and competence, will take us only so far.
 Tomorrow, Mr. Tucker's organization is coming out with a report titled ''Tough Choices or Tough Times,'' which proposes a radical overhaul of the U.S. education system, with one goal in mind: producing more workers -- from the U.P.S. driver to the software engineer -- who can think creatively. 
 ''One thing we know about creativity is that it typically occurs when people who have mastered two or more quite different fields use the framework in one to think afresh about the other,'' said Mr. Tucker. Thus, his report focuses on ''how to make that kind of thinking integral to every level of education.'' 
 That means, he adds, revamping an education system designed in the 1900s for people to do ''routine work,'' and refocusing it on producing people who can imagine things that have never been available before, who can create ingenious marketing and sales campaigns, write books, build furniture, make movies and design software ''that will capture people's imaginations and become indispensable for millions.''
 That can't be done without higher levels of reading, writing, speaking, math, science, literature and the arts. We have no choice, argues Mr. Tucker, because we have entered an era in which ''comfort with ideas and abstractions is the passport to a good job, in which creativity and innovation are the key to the good life'' and in which the constant ability to learn how to learn will be the only security you have.
 Economics is not like war. It can be win-win. We, China, India and Europe can all flourish. But the ones who flourish most will be those who develop the best broad-based education system, to have the most people doing and designing the most things we can't even imagine today. China still has to make some very big changes to get there -- but so do we. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (90%); LABOR FORCE (87%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (72%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (72%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); CENSORSHIP (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%) Education and Schools; Computers and the Internet; Censorship; United States Economy; Colleges and Universities; United States Economy; Science and Technology; Mathematics; Reading and Writing Skills; Education and Schools

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (57%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%) Thomas L Friedman

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); IRAQ (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2006



278 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: Castles in the Sand

BYLINE: By Robert S. Young and Orrin H. Pilkey. 
Robert S. Young is the director of the Program for the Study of Developed Shorelines at Western Carolina University. Orrin H. Pilkey is a professor of earth sciences at Duke.

 BODY:
AT this year's meeting of the Geological Society of America, which took place in Philadelphia in October, representatives of the United States Army Corps of Engineers presented proposals to re-engineer the Mississippi Gulf Coast. Some 200 coastal and marine scientists attended the meeting; most of them were stunned by the scope, expense and sheer wastefulness of the projects the corps is considering. 
 The corps' proposals include a large seawall to protect parts of Bay St. Louis on the coast along with storm surge gates, similar to those that the British use on the Thames, to close off local bays. One particularly awe-inspiring proposal calls for reconfiguring the Mississippi Gulf Islands to approximate their circa 1969, pre-Hurricane Camille length and width, while adding sufficient sand to the islands to achieve elevations of roughly 20 feet. These barrier islands are part of the Gulf Islands National Seashore and include designated wilderness areas. The proposed project would dump an estimated 50 million cubic yards of sand on the national seashore solely to protect redevelopment of the mainland coast.
At the very least, these proposals would cost billions of dollars to realize, aside from the environmental damage that would ensue. Yet as the corps acknowledged at the Geological Society meeting, its proposed ''coastal improvements'' would not provide protection from the kind of Category 4 and 5 hurricanes that have destroyed coastal Mississippi twice in the past 37 years. So what, exactly, is the point?
 The corps' failure to devise a rational redevelopment plan points to the futility of trying to maintain coastal development in such an unstable place. A realistic appraisal would conclude that the long-term outlook for coastal development there is bleak. Yet the corps, urged on by developers, seems determined to wage a quixotic fight. 
 This is particularly galling in light of a recent report issued by the British government under the leadership of Sir Nicholas Stern, who is widely viewed as a pragmatist. The Stern report concluded that it will probably cost global economies more to ignore climate change than to take steps to address it. It seems we are about to learn this lesson in coastal Mississippi. Rather than use a creative, flexible approach to redevelopment on a vulnerable, changing coast, the corps is commanding nature to behave itself.
 The clear consensus among coastal scientists at the Geological Society meeting was that the corps' ambitious plans for Mississippi will fail -- either all at once in a major hurricane or gradually through shoreline erosion and other long-term changes. It is an effort in futility.
 Pragmatism, fiscal and otherwise, dictates that we cannot afford to continue the cycle of development and destruction. The vulnerability of our nation's shores will only increase over the next decades as global climate change leads to rising sea levels, increased coastal erosion and stronger hurricanes of greater duration.
 The time has come to step back from this extraordinarily hazardous shoreline, perhaps to replace the blocks of destroyed buildings with rows of protective dunes in a seashore park. We should not rebuild on the shoreline of vulnerable areas like the Mississippi Gulf Coast. We certainly shouldn't be doing it with federal dollars or destroying a National Seashore in order to provide a false sense of security for redevelopment.
 If the corps follows through on its proposals, the United States will once again miss an opportunity to respond sensibly to the threat of global warming.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Elliott Golden)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (91%); ENGINEERING (91%); ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); ARMIES (90%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BEACHES (90%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (90%); WEATHER (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); EROSION (89%); MARINE BIOLOGY (77%); OCEANOGRAPHY (77%); NATURAL DISASTERS (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); WILDERNESS (53%) Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Camille (Storm); Katrina (Storm) ; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (84%); GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY OF AMERICA (84%); ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (59%) Army Corps of Engineers 

PERSON: Robert S Young; Orrin H Jr (Dr) Pilkey

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (94%); SOUTHEAST USA (93%); GULF OF MEXICO (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Gulf Coast (US); Louisiana; Mississippi River; Bay St Louis (Miss)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2006



279 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1379 words

HEADLINE: One War We Can Still Win

BYLINE: By Anthony H. Cordesman. 
Anthony H. Cordesman is a senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
NO one can return from visiting the front in Afghanistan without realizing there is a very real risk that the United States and NATO will lose their war with Al Qaeda, the Taliban and the other Islamist movements fighting the Afghan government. 
 Declassified intelligence made available during my recent trip there showed that major Al Qaeda, Taliban, Haqqani Network and Hezb-i-Islami sanctuaries exist in Pakistan, and that the areas they operate in within Afghanistan have increased fourfold over the last year.
Indeed, a great many unhappy trends have picked up speed lately: United States intelligence experts in Afghanistan report that suicide attacks rose from 18 in the first 11 months of 2005 to 116 in the first 11 months of 2006. Direct fire attacks went up from 1,347 to 3,824 during the same period, improvised explosive devices from 530 to 1,297 and other attacks from 269 to 479. The number of attacks on Afghan forces increased from 713 to 2,892, attacks on coalition forces from 919 to 2,496 and attacks on Afghan government officials are 2.5 times what they were. 
 Only the extensive use of American precision air power and intelligence assets has allowed the United States to win this year's battles in the east. In the south, Britain has been unable to prevent a major increase in the Taliban's presence. 
 The challenges in Afghanistan, however, are very different from those in Iraq. Popular support for the United States and NATO teams has been strong and can be rebuilt. The teams have created core programs for strengthening governance, the economy and the Afghan military and police forces, and with sufficient resources the programs can succeed. The present United States aid efforts are largely sound and well managed, and they can make immediate and effective use of more money. 
 The Islamist threat is weak, but it is growing in strength -- political as well as military. The Afghan government will take years to become effective, reduce corruption to acceptable levels and replace a narcotics-based economy. As one Afghan deputy minister put it to me during my trip: ''Now we are all corrupt. Until we change and serve the people, we will fail.''
 No matter what the outside world does, Afghans, the United States team and NATO representatives all agree that change will take time. The present central government is at least two or three years away from providing the presence and services Afghans desperately need. The United States' and NATO's focus on democracy and the political process in Kabul -- rather than on the quality of governance and on services -- has left many areas angry and open to hostile influence. Afghanistan is going to need large amounts of military and economic aid, much of it managed from the outside in ways that ensure it actually gets to Afghans, particularly in the areas where the threat is greatest. 
 This means the United States needs to make major increases in its economic aid, as do its NATO allies. These increases need to be made immediately if new projects and meaningful actions are to begin in the field by the end of winter, when the Islamists typically launch new offensives. 
 At least such programs are cheap by the standards of aid to Iraq. The projects needed are simple ones that Afghans can largely carry out themselves. People need roads and water, and to a lesser degree schools and medical services. They need emergency aid to meet local needs and win hearts and minds. 
 The maps of actual and proposed projects make it clear that while progress is real, it covers only a small part of the country. Even a short visit to some of the districts in the southeast, near the border with Pakistan, suggests that most areas have not seen any progress. Drought adds to the problem, much of the old irrigation system has collapsed, and roads are little more than paths. The central government cannot offer hope, and local officials and the police cannot compete with drug loans and income.
 The United States has grossly underfinanced such economic aid efforts and left far too much of the country without visible aid activity. State Department plans call for a $2.3 billion program, but unless at least $1.1 billion comes immediately, aid will lag far behind need next year. 
 Additionally, a generous five-year aid plan from both the United States and its NATO allies is needed for continuity and effectiveness. The United States is carrying far too much of the burden, and NATO allies, particularly France, Germany, Italy and Spain, are falling short: major aid increases are needed from each.
 And United States military forces are too small to do the job. Competing demands in Iraq have led to a military climate where American troops plan for what they can get, not what they need. The 10th Mountain Division, which is responsible for eastern Afghanistan, has asked for one more infantry brigade. This badly understates need, even if new Polish forces help in the east. The United States must be able to hold and build as well as win -- it needs at least two more infantry battalions, and increases in Special Forces. These increases are tiny by comparison with American forces in Iraq, but they can make all the difference. 
 The NATO allies must provide stronger and better-equipped forces that will join the fight and go where they are most needed. The British fight well but have only 50 to 75 percent of the forces they need. Canadians, Danes, Estonians, Dutch and Romanians are in the fight. The Poles lack adequate equipment but are willing to fight. France, Italy, Germany, Spain and Turkey are not allowed to fight because of political constraints and rules of engagement. Only French Special Forces have played any role in combat and they depart in January. NATO must exercise effective central command; it cannot win with politically constrained forces, and it must pressure the stand-aside countries to join the fight.
 Finally, the United States and NATO have repeated the same mistakes that were made in Iraq in developing effective Afghan Army and police forces, rushing unready forces into combat. The manning of key Afghan army battalions is sometimes below 25 percent and the police units are often unpaid. Corruption and pay problems are still endemic, equipment and facilities inadequate. Overall financing has been about 20 percent of the real-world requirement, and talks with Afghan and NATO officials made it brutally clear that the Germans wasted years trying to create a conventional police force rather than the mix of paramilitary and local police forces Afghanistan really needs.
 The good news is that there is a new realism in the United States and NATO effort. The planning, training and much of the necessary base has been built up during the last year. There are effective plans in place, along with the NATO and American staffs to help put them into effect. 
 The bad news is the same crippling lack of resources that affect every part of the United States and NATO efforts also affect the development of the Afghan Army and police. 
 It was obvious during a visit to one older Afghan Army battalion that it had less than a quarter of its authorized manpower, and only one man in five was expected to re-enlist. At one police unit, although policemen were supposed to be paid quarterly, they were sometimes not paid at all, leaving them no choice but to extort a living. (In one case, the officer in charge of pay didn't even fill out forms because he had been passed over for promotion because of his ethnicity.)
 The United States team has made an urgent request for $5.9 billion in extra money this fiscal year, which probably underestimates immediate need and in any event must be followed by an integrated long-term economic aid plan. There is no time for the administration and Congress to quibble or play budget games. And, once again, the NATO countries must make major increases in aid as well.
 In Iraq, the failure of the United States and the allies to honestly assess problems in the field, be realistic about needs, create effective long-term aid and force-development plans, and emphasize governance over services may well have brought defeat. The United States and its allies cannot afford to lose two wars. If they do not act now, they will.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (92%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (77%); TRENDS (76%); RELIGION (74%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (72%); POLITICS (72%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); ARMED FORCES (66%); CORRUPTION (61%); POLICE FORCES (58%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Islam

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); AL-QAEDA (93%) North Atlantic Treaty Organization; Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group); Taliban

PERSON: Anthony H Cordesman

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (97%); PAKISTAN (92%); IRAQ (79%) Afghanistan; Afghanistan

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2006



280 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:

TURNING HEDGE FUNDS INTO ART In the fast-shifting sands of New York's moneyed classes, the explosion of hedge fund wealth has created a new financial pecking order, with institutions like the Guggenheim, the Whitney Museum and Lincoln Center trying to lure hedge fund executives to their boards. [Page A1.] 


RECORD YEAR FOR GOLDMAN Goldman Sachs said it earned as much per share in 2006 as it had in the previous two years combined, both of which were record years. Profit was up 93 percent, marking results that were said to be the best ever by an American investment bank. But investors seemed to question whether the good times could continue, and the company's shares traded down 1.2 percent. Market Place. [C1.]

ELECTRICITY COSTS SOAR Electricity congestion charges, made necessary when utilities are forced to buy power from costlier plants nearby, will add about $8 billion -- about $40 a person -- to electricity costs on the Eastern grid in 2008, the Energy Department estimates. [A1.]

UNITED AND CONTINENTAL IN TALKS United Airlines and Continental Airlines have been holding talks on a potential merger, a combination that would create the biggest domestic airline, with a combined value of $9 billion, people involved in the negotiations said. [C1.]

CHANDLERS MAY BID FOR TRIBUNE The Chandler family, which long owned The Los Angeles Times, has begun holding talks with several private-equity firms about forming a consortium to bid on part of the Tribune Company, people briefed on the discussions said. [C1.]

RESTRAINTS PLACED ON INQUIRIES The Justice Department placed new restraints on federal prosecutors conducting corporate investigations, easing tactics adopted in the wake of the Enron collapse. [C1.]

CRACKDOWN IN ID THEFT In simultaneous dawn raids, federal immigration agents swept into six Swift & Company meatpacking plants in six states, rounding up hundreds of immigrant workers in what the agents described as a vast criminal investigation of identity theft. [A24.]

ANTIDEPRESSANTS AND SUICIDE Public health officials, psychiatrists, grieving parents, outraged former patients and other advocates will fill a hotel ballroom in Maryland, to argue the most bitterly divisive question in psychiatry: do the drugs that doctors prescribe to relieve depression make some people more likely to attempt suicide? [A30.]

SHARES RETREAT Wall Street finished slightly lower as investors grappled with an economic assessment by the Federal Reserve that warned yet again of inflation risks and reported a slowing in housing. [C12.]

SPITZER SUES UBS The New York attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, has sued UBS, contending that it defrauded thousands of brokerage clients out of tens of millions of dollars by putting them into fee-based accounts unsuited for clients who trade infrequently. [C8.]

PRICE-FIXING INQUIRY Antitrust authorities in South Korea, Japan and the United States have started an investigation into price-fixing accusations against Samsung Electronics and LG Philips LCD. [C11.]

VISIONS OF A FAIRY TALE December is the most popular month for engagements, wedding specialists say, and Williams-Sonoma, the kitchen retailer, wants to be in front of the newly engaged couples as soon as possible. The company has created an advertising campaign like a fairy tale, to run in bridal magazines that will hit newsstands this month. Advertising. [C5.]

TRADE DEFICIT SHRINKS The United States trade deficit shrank by the most in almost five years in October as the price of imported oil fell and faster growth abroad propelled exports to a record, the Commerce Department said. [C12.]

POLICE SEARCH AIRBUS OFFICE The French police searched the Paris headquarters of European Aeronautic Defense and Space and its French shareholder Lagardere in connection with an insider-trading investigation involving managers at EADS, the parent company of Airbus. [C12.]

ONLINE

Business Briefing
Articles on these developments are at nytimes.com/business.

DELL, THE COMPUTER MAKER, hired Steve Schuckenbrock, a former Electronic Data Systems executive, as head of global services to help expand one of the company's fastest-growing businesses. (REUTERS)

A FORMER POSTAL WORKER in New Jersey was sentenced to 33 months in prison for leaking grand jury information involving the drug maker Bristol-Myers Squibb to two Goldman Sachs employees. (REUTERS)

THE DANA CORPORATION, the auto parts maker, will close two plants in Canada and one in Missouri and Indiana, eliminating 440 jobs and moving some production to Mexico. (AP)

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks the daily closing price of Goldman Sachs shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); PRICE FIXING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (89%); CARTELS (88%); BUSINESS TORTS (86%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (86%); PSYCHIATRY (85%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (76%); MERGERS (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (74%); PRIVATE EQUITY (73%); AIRLINES (72%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (70%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); LITIGATION (69%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (66%); DEPRESSION (66%); SUICIDE (66%); SUITS & CLAIMS (66%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (64%); IMMIGRATION (63%); FOREIGN LABOR (63%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (63%); IDENTITY THEFT (63%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (50%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); LOS ANGELES TIMES (82%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (69%); SWIFT & CO (65%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (55%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (53%); SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO LTD (50%); LG DISPLAY CO LTD (50%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); UAL (NYSE) (69%); SMSN (LSE) (50%); 005930 (KSE) (50%); LPL (NYSE) (50%); 034220 (KSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (82%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (69%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (69%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (69%); SIC2013 SAUSAGES & OTHER PREPARED MEAT PRODUCTS (65%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334419 OTHER ELECTRONIC COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3679 ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS, NEC (50%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2006



281 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: Family With Big Stake Seeks Part of Tribune Co. 

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN and KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
The Chandler family, which long owned The Los Angeles Times, has begun holding talks with several private equity firms about forming a consortium to bid on part of the Tribune Company, people briefed on the discussions said yesterday. 
 The talks come six months after the Chandlers pressed to put the Tribune up for sale. The family, which became a large shareholder in Tribune when it sold Times Mirror to the company, has been critical of Tribune's management and its slumping stock price.
When the Chandlers first clashed with Tribune management, the family had no interest in buying the company, people involved in the talks said. 
 Now, frustrated with the muted interest that the auction of Tribune has so far generated, the Chandlers are exploring the idea of leading a private equity consortium as a way to either create value in a leveraged buyout of the assets or to possibly start a bidding war. 
 Practically no newspaper companies, with the exception of the Gannett Company, have expressed interest in Tribune, which in addition to The Los Angeles Times owns The Chicago Tribune, Newsday and other newspapers, as well as two dozen television stations and the Chicago Cubs. A few private equity firms have submitted bids that were much lower than anticipated. 
 The advantage the Chandler family would have in the auction is its status as the owner of 20 percent of the Tribune Company. A deal could be structured with the Chandlers owning 51 percent of a Tribune unit and private equity firms the rest. For example, Tribune could decide to spin off its television unit and sell its newspaper unit to a Chandler-led group on a tax-advantaged basis. Such a consortium would not have to pay the enormous tax bill that an outside bidder would be faced with, an issue that has scared off some would-be suitors. And such a buyout structure, loaded with debt, would allow family members to cash out of Tribune to a degree, the people briefed on the discussions said.
 The Chandler family's first preference remains for the company to be sold in its entirety to an outside buyer, these people said.
 Among Tribune's early suitors were a group including Providence Equity Partners, Madison Dearborn Partners and Apollo Management. Other firms, the Texas Pacific Group, the Carlyle Group and Bain Capital, are considering whether to bid in the next round either separately or possibly together.
 The tax considerations have been central to the family's discussions about its Tribune stake. 
 In an article this year, The Los Angeles Times described the family this way: ''The Chandlers have a long history of antipathy toward taxes, as do many people in their rarefied tax bracket. They also are known for structuring deals that give them maximum income.''
 ''When they have sold assets, such as the cable systems and TV stations that Times Mirror sold in the 1990s, they have pushed for aggressive tax advantages that have been challenged by other shareholders,'' the article said.
 Of course, the Chandlers' interest could also be part of a plan to help create a competitive dynamic for Tribune. If its involvement helps propel a higher rival bid, the family would benefit, too.
 Despite the Chandlers' role in building The Los Angeles Times, the family's interest in Tribune appears to be motivated strictly by economics, unlike that of the billionaire investors Eli Broad, Ron Burkle or David Geffen who have expressed interest in acquiring Tribune or some of its individual papers with plans to act as a benefactor.
 A spokesman for the Chandler family declined to comment.
 Shares of Tribune, which rose as high as $34 in September on hopes of a deal, have since retreated. The shares rose 14 cents, to close at $32.49 yesterday. 
 The Chandlers are descendants of the famous family, led by Gen. Harrison Gray Otis and his son-in-law, Harry Chandler, that exercised political and financial control over Southern California in the first half of the 20th century. They included the late Otis Chandler, a member of the fourth generation, who, as publisher of The Los Angeles Times from 1960 to 1980, expanded that paper's ambition and reach. He also alienated more conservative members of his family, which today is a diffused clan of about 170 people. 
 In June, the Chandler family said publicly that the company's financial performance was dismal and its strategic direction muddled, and it called on the company's board to consider a breakup. 
 In September, the company's board voted to explore ways of creating additional value for shareholders and also made a deal with the Chandlers, increasing their stake in the company to 20 percent, from 15 percent.
 The family now has three representatives on the Tribune board: Jeffrey Chandler, one of California's largest avocado growers; Roger Goodan, his cousin; and William Stinehart Jr., a family lawyer. 
 They are advised by Thomas Unterman, a lawyer and venture capitalist, who has worked for the family for years and has engineered a series of complex deals, most of them designed to help minimize taxes.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Tribune Company's assets include The Los Angeles Times, once owned by the Chandler family, a big holder of Tribune shares. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVATE EQUITY (92%); TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (87%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); FAMILY (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TAX LAW (63%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (56%) Newspapers; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Newspapers

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (95%); GANNETT CO INC (83%); MADISON DEARBORN PARTNERS LLC (58%); PROVIDENCE EQUITY PARTNERS INC (58%); TPG CAPITAL LP (58%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (58%); APOLLO ADVISORS LP (56%); APOLLO GLOBAL MANAGEMENT LLC (52%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO CUBS (55%) Los Angeles Times; Tribune Co; Gannett Co

TICKER: GCI (NYSE) (83%); APO (NYSE) (52%); CG (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (95%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (58%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (58%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (56%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (52%)

PERSON: Chandler Family; Andrew Ross Sorkin; Katharine Q Seelye

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (70%) ILLINOIS, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2006



282 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 269 words

HEADLINE: Text of the Fed's Statement on Interest Rates 

 BODY:
Following is the text of a statement released by the Federal Reserve yesterday after the Fed's monetary policy panel, the Federal Open Market Committee, decided to leave interest rates unchanged.
 
 The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to keep its target for the federal funds rate at 5.25 percent.
Economic growth has slowed over the course of the year, partly reflecting a substantial cooling of the housing market. Although recent indicators have been mixed, the economy seems likely to expand at a moderate pace on balance over coming quarters.
 Readings on core inflation have been elevated, and the high level of resource utilization has the potential to sustain inflation pressures. However, inflation pressures seem likely to moderate over time, reflecting reduced impetus from energy prices, contained inflation expectations, and the cumulative effects of monetary policy actions and other factors restraining aggregate demand.
 Nonetheless, the committee judges that some inflation risks remain. The extent and timing of any additional firming that may be needed to address these risks will depend on the evolution of the outlook for both inflation and economic growth, as implied by incoming information.
 Voting for the F.O.M.C. monetary policy action were: Ben S. Bernanke, chairman; Timothy F. Geithner, vice chairman; Susan S. Bies; Donald L. Kohn; Randall S. Kroszner; Frederic S. Mishkin; Sandra Pianalto; William Poole; Kevin M. Warsh; and Janet L. Yellen. Voting against was Jeffrey M. Lacker, who preferred an increase of 25 basis points in the federal funds rate target at this meeting.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONETARY POLICY (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); INFLATION (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (73%) United States Economy; Interest Rates; Credit

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (93%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%); KEVIN WARSH (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2006



283 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: The Fed Leaves Short-Term Rates Alone

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 12 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve left short-term interest rates untouched on Tuesday for the fourth consecutive time, warning that inflation remained a concern in a statement that offered little encouragement to those on Wall Street hoping the Fed will cut rates early next year.
 With only minor changes, the statement echoed the same message that central bankers have sounded since August, adding a nod to the deeper plunge in the housing market and other scattered signs of weakness in the economy that have emerged since its last meeting, in late October. 
But the thrust of the statement -- that the risk of higher inflation is still the biggest threat to the economy -- was unchanged.
 The decision by the 11 voting members of the Fed's policy committee to leave its benchmark interest rate at 5.25 percent was not unanimous. Jeffrey M. Lacker, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, who has dissented each time since the central bank stopped raising rates in August, voted for a quarter-point increase.
 Stocks recovered some of their losses from earlier in the day after the decision was announced around 2:15 p.m., but still closed slightly lower for the day.
 The price of 10-year Treasury notes rose while the yield fell, a sign that bond investors see the Fed as being successful in keeping inflation under control. Actions by traders in the Fed funds market suggest that investors think the Fed could cut rates in the next few months.
 But many economists said that the Fed is more likely to remain in a holding pattern unless it sees evidence that the economy weakens far more than it has so far. When it voted in August to pause a two-year campaign of raising rates, the Fed took a gamble that a slowing economy would eventually subdue inflation. Since then, prices have come down somewhat, but still not enough to put central bankers at ease. 
 ''They're likely to be nervously on hold for a long time to come,'' said Ethan S. Harris, chief United States economist with Lehman Brothers.
 But other analysts argue that the slowing economy could still emerge as the issue that the Fed needs to watch most closely. The possibility that growth could cool more sharply than expected has led some economists to speculate that a rate cut could come as soon as next spring.
 The Fed acknowledged as much in its statement yesterday, noting that ''recent indicators have been mixed,'' and added the word ''substantial'' to describe the slowdown in housing. 
 Still, most economists agreed that the Fed would need to see a big swing in crucial indicators like consumer prices and spending, and that a rate cut is not coming anytime soon.
 ''At the moment they're not really under any pressure,'' said Jan Hatzius, chief United States economist with Goldman Sachs. ''It just doesn't seem like there's anything forcing their hand in the direction of changing the bias away from inflation.''
 Inflation remains at a level that the Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said recently was ''uncomfortably high.'' While lower gasoline prices have taken pressure off of prices over all, a tight labor market and rising wages threaten to keep inflation at the high end of the Fed's 1 to 2 percent comfort zone.
 Though the Labor Department said last week that the national unemployment rate rose slightly in November, to 4.5 percent, from a five-year low of 4.4 percent in October, payrolls outside the farming sector grew by a somewhat-better-than-expected 132,000 jobs, a sign that the demand for workers remains steady. 
 ''There's certainly nothing on the unemployment front that gets them more relaxed about inflationary pressures,'' said Dean Maki, chief United States economist with Barclays Capital.
 Some economists, though, warned that the Fed was exaggerating the threat from inflation, and in doing so was taking a risk that it would squelch growth too much.
 ''The Fed is perhaps excessively concerned with inflation,'' said Kevin A. Hassett, director of economic policy studies at the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative policy group. ''The data are soft enough that there's beginning to be pressure on the Fed to ease. If the Fed stubbornly refuses to ease, then the data may get more negative than anyone wants.''
 The economy has already slowed in recent months, to an annual growth rate of 2.2 percent in the third quarter and 2.6 percent in the second, compared with a robust 5.6 percent rate in the first three months of the year. Most economists expect the modest pace to continue in the final three months of the year as well.
 Some economists suggested the stronger language the Fed used to describe the deterioration in housing was meant to give it some room to transition into a softer statement after its next meeting on Jan. 31. 
 ''That would set the stage for the first of a series of funds rate cuts,'' Stuart Hoffman, chief economist with PNC Financial, wrote in a research report. Mr. Hoffman said that he expected a rate cut to occur in the second half of next year.


GRAPHIC: Photo: A television at the New York Stock Exchange yesterday provided news of the Fed's announcement. (Photo by Adam Rountree/Bloomberg News)Chart: ''Federal Funds Rate''Graph tracks Federal Funds Rate and inflation since 2000.(Sources by Federal Reserve
 Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); INFLATION (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BONDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%) United States Economy; Credit; Interest Rates; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF RICHMOND (69%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) Federal Reserve System

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (69%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (69%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: Jeremy W Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2006



284 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Square Feet; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: Using Redevelopment To Tell a Story 

BYLINE: By LISA CHAMBERLAIN

DATELINE: DURHAM, N.C. 

 BODY:
In the historic downtown district, where many midrise buildings sit empty, there is a story that this city wants to tell, which for now can be found only in a single plaque on Parrish Street that reads Black Wall Street. 
 In the early 1900s, when Durham was firmly segregated, some of the most prosperous black-owned businesses thrived on Parrish Street, including financial and insurance companies. Meanwhile, parallel to Parrish is Main Street, where white-owned businesses once thrived.
But now that both streets are in need of revitalization -- having lost commercial tenants over the decades, especially as the tobacco industry declined -- a new kind of collaboration is taking shape. In an effort to turn a painful past into an opportunity, the city and private developers are working in tandem to use history as a teaching experience while also rebuilding a once-vibrant commercial district. 
 Two developers, Carl Webb and Michael Lemanski, recently formed a partnership that will redevelop 20 buildings, or 600,000 square feet, as well as a vacant lot that was once the site of a Woolworth's where lunch counter sit-ins took place, attracting the support of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. in 1960. 
 For its part, the city has been organizing business owners and volunteers to build a ''museum without walls'' in honor of Parrish Street, once home to Mechanics and Farmers Bank, the North Carolina Mutual Life Insurance Company, and Mutual Community Savings Bank, all three of them still in operation. This year, the city began a $12 million program to improve the area's infrastructure, including rerouting streets and upgrading lighting and sidewalks. The infrastructure improvements are being done in anticipation of the private development, but also for Black Wall Street, a two-block heritage site along Parrish Street with signs, plaques, benches, artifacts, and other public art along the sidewalk and in small parks. 
 ''We didn't want to sequester history inside a building, but put it out on the street where people will encounter it,'' said Nathan Garrett, chairman of the Parrish Street advocacy group, which is made up of residents and business owners. ''This is about the future as much as it is the past,'' said Mr. Garrett, who once worked on Parrish Street as North Carolina's first African-American certified public accountant.
 Trying to create a heritage site while also bringing Durham's commercial district into the 21st century has been a slow process.
 Despite years of effort on the part of the city, it was not until Mr. Webb and Mr. Lemanski teamed up that downtown revitalization gained momentum. 
 ''I was involved in the Parrish Street project with the city,'' said Mr. Webb, a co-founder of Webb Patterson, one of the largest minority-owned public relations and marketing firms in North Carolina. ''But it was too slow, there wasn't much creative thinking going on, and frankly, there wasn't much diversity being represented on the development side. If you want a diverse product when you're done, then you have to start with it. I just thought, this isn't going to happen until we have some skin in the game.'' 
 So Mr. Webb bought the Woolworth site, a cornerstone of the redevelopment plan being pushed by the city. He was then approached by Mr. Lemanski, managing partner of Greenfire Development, who had been assembling a number of historic structures that were badly in need of repair. 
 ''They've been talking about redeveloping these buildings for 25 years,'' Mr. Lemanski said. ''But we realized, you could fix up one building on every block and not have much of an impact. So we began acquiring properties, some of which were around the Woolworth site, and we decided it was in everyone's interest if we combined forces.'' 
 Mr. Webb left Webb Patterson and joined Greenfire as a partner. On the Woolworth site (the unremarkable low-rise building was torn down in 2003), the developers will erect a 17-story tower with 150,000 square feet of commercial space. In addition to retail space, the ground floor will be home to a small museum that will anchor Black Wall Street.
 Directly across the street is the SunTrust Tower, a 17-story Art Deco building completed in 1937, which the developers also bought. It will be converted into apartments and condos. Meanwhile, the restoration of historic midrise buildings is under way up and down both Parrish and Main Streets, although little in the way of new commercial activity has taken place. 
 ''We're going to keep ground-floor retail spaces off the market until the residential is built up more,'' Mr. Lemanski said. ''We're going to market the entire area at once. The worst thing is if people trickle in, businesses fail, and people trickle back out.'' 
 ''We're investing over the long run,'' Mr. Webb added, ''so we don't mind waiting until more pieces of the puzzle are in place.'' 
 One major piece of the puzzle is reconnecting downtown with a historic black neighborhood called Hayti (pronounced HAY-tye), which had been cut off by a freeway built in the 1960s. Although the freeway is going to stay put, a major new mixed-used development was approved this month by the Durham City Council to replace a failed strip mall that sits in the shadow of the freeway.
 Andrew Rothschild, a native of Manhattan, gave up practicing medicine when he moved with his wife to Durham six years ago and founded Scientific Properties. He had completed several adaptive reuse projects on the periphery of downtown, including a biotech lab building, when he began looking at the Hayti shopping center. The 10-acre site currently has 70,000 square feet of retail space but only a handful of businesses remain open.
 In its place, Mr. Rothschild plans to build Heritage Square, a $130 million six-block, multistory district that will reconnect underneath the freeway the streets between downtown and Hayti, where many people who worked on Parrish Street once lived. 
 ''I've approached the city about extending Black Wall Street all the way here as a kind of heritage trail,'' Mr. Rothschild said. ''If we really want to be urban and make Durham interesting, we have to broaden the vision and start talking about the surrounding area, not just downtown.''
 In addition to 750,000 new square feet of residential, commercial and retail space, Mr. Rothschild's plans include a space for Piedmont blues musicians to perform, as well as an outdoor basketball court surrounded by tiered audience seating. 
 There has been some tension because the shopping center is being demolished by a white-owned development company, stirring memories of urban renewal. But generally, Mr. Rothschild's plans have been hailed as a much-needed boost to the neighborhood. He enlisted the help of the North Carolina Institute of Minority Economic Development to recruit minority-owned businesses and conduct business development workshops.
 ''Instead of affirmative action, we're about competitive action,'' said Farad Ali, vice president of the institute. ''This is just good economic development strategy.'' 
 Meanwhile, the Parrish Street project is still a work in progress, said Alan DeLisle, assistant city manager for economic and workforce development.
 ''Durham was a national player in the civil rights movement because of the strength of the African-American community, its spirit of entrepreneurship,'' he said. ''They put their own banks and savings companies together to serve the workers in tobacco factories. We've uncovered this incredibly fascinating story that we're in the process of telling.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Parrish Street is on the left
 Main on the right. Carl Webb, left, and Michael Lemanski where Woolworth's once stood. (Photographs by Karen Tam for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINORITY BUSINESSES (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (89%); HISTORIC SITES (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); INSURANCE (71%); LIFE INSURANCE (71%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (70%); INFRASTRUCTURE (66%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (62%) 

COMPANY: NORTH CAROLINA MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO (66%); M&F BANCORP INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (58%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (58%)

PERSON: Carl Webb; Michael Lemanski; Lisa Chamberlain

GEOGRAPHIC: DURHAM, NC, USA (90%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Durham (Nc)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2006



285 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: Beyond Mandalay, the Road to Isolation and Xenophobia 

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:

The River of Lost Footsteps
Histories of Burma
By Thant Myint-U
Illustrated. 361 pages. Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $25.

 Burma has the dubious distinction of playing host to the world's longest-running civil war -- it began with independence in 1948 and still goes on -- and its most durable military dictatorship. If not for North Korea, Burma might also claim top honors in two other categories, most isolated and most xenophobic, but it could still win the prize for most misunderstood.
 Geographically remote, politically retrograde, economically backward, Burma, today called Myanmar, struggles on, burdened by one of the largest armies on the planet and desperate for help. In ''The River of Lost Footsteps,'' Thant Myint-U offers at least a little understanding, ''an introduction to a country whose current problems are increasingly known but whose colorful and vibrant history is almost entirely forgotten.'' 
 Mr. Thant looks at Burma from an unusual vantage point. His maternal grandfather, U Thant, who served as secretary general of the United Nations in the 1960s, belonged to the first generation of Burmese nationalists who assumed control of the government after the British left in 1948. 
 Throughout the author's childhood, spent in New York, notable figures from the Burmese anticolonial movement and the military government of General Ne Win paid visits to the family residence. ''The River of Lost Footsteps'' is therefore, in its later chapters, a kind of family history, made even more personal in the years after 1988, when the author became involved in the fledgling Burmese democracy movement 
 Part history, part memoir, part polemic, with a little travelogue thrown in, ''The River of Lost Footsteps'' begins at the beginning of all the troubles: the overthrow of the last royal dynasty in 1885, and the absorption of Burma into British-ruled India. Typically, Burma never even counted as a principal actor in the unfolding dream of empire. It was a sideshow, an afterthought, destined by geography to be a footnote to India or China. 
 Burma's junior status would be a recurrent theme to the present day. ''To the extent that it was thought about at all, it had the image of an exotic and dreamy backwater, a gentle Buddhist country, lost in time and quietly isolated, hardly the sort of location for a foreign policy crisis,'' Mr. Thant writes. He refers to the international response to the democracy movement of 1988, but the quotation could be applied to Burmese events at any time over the last several centuries. 
 The Burmese, of course, have always seen things differently. Mr. Thant, after setting the stage for the takeover by the British, tries to put the Burmese point of view back into the picture by retelling their history, in the hope that it might explain their present predicament. Mr. Thant, who wrote his doctoral dissertation at Cambridge on 19th-century Burmese history, does not tell the back story well. 
 His narrative is choppy and often hard to follow. It feels dutiful and never really regains momentum until the British re-enter, but several important points do come across. The Burmese, who conquered all of present-day Laos and Thailand in the 16th century, regarded themselves as a great conquering race and their military as a source of national pride.
 It was Burmese military hubris that led to the first war between Burma and Britain, from 1824 to 1826, a disaster for the Burmese. National pride made the Raj period doubly humiliating. It was bad enough to endure the slights and the snubs, especially for the educated class that revered British culture and the British political system, but to be nothing more than a minor Indian province was truly upsetting.
 U Thant, first Burmese member of the Left Book Club, fervent admirer of the Labor politician Sir Stafford Cripps, makes an ideal symbol for his grandson's sensitive reading of the Raj period. An elite that might have furthered British aims was systematically alienated and insulted. 
 The British, generalizing from their experience with the Gurkhas of Nepal, recruited their army from the mountainous tribal regions. The Burmese, mighty warriors in their own mind, were dismissed as insufficiently martial -- childlike and lazy, in fact. ''It was a policy choice that rankled deeply in the Burmese imagination, eating away at their sense of pride and turning the idea of a Burmese army into a central element of the nationalist dream,'' Mr. Thant writes. 
 The closer he draws to the present, the more spirited Mr. Thant becomes. He has an understated, British sense of humor (Ne Win is introduced as ''playboy, tyrant, numerologist and onetime post office clerk'') and a subversive attraction to strange details that might not necessarily advance his story but most certainly ornament it. 
 He gives the ingredients for the house cocktail served at the Pegu Club in Rangoon and notes that Rudyard Kipling never got anywhere near Mandalay. One would love to hear more about the mysterious, if irrelevant, Olive Yang, described by Mr. Thant as a ''bisexual warlady'' who developed a tough reputation while still at convent school, where she was rumored to carry a revolver in her handbag. Mr. Thant needs to release his inner Paul Theroux more often.
 Burmese independence came, of course, as an afterthought to India's -- yet another insult dealt by history. Almost nothing has gone right since. Civil war, the military takeover of the government and a ruinous attempt to create a unique brand of Burmese socialism have brought Burma to its knees. 
 Mr. Thant eloquently and mournfully recites the dismal history of the last half century and, in analyzing the country's nascent democracy movement, holds out only the slimmest of hopes for a better future. It will not come through economic and diplomatic sanctions, of that he is convinced. Trade and more engagement, especially more tourism, might let in badly needed light and air. But trying to topple the regime by isolating it would, he argues, be disastrous. 
 ''Much more than any part of Burmese society,'' he writes, ''the army will weather another 40 years of isolation just fine.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Thant Myint-U (Photo by Nancy Crampton) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); WRITERS (87%); ARMIES (78%); CIVIL WAR (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); AWARDS & PRIZES (76%); FAMILY (75%); LITERATURE (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); RELIGION (50%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: William Grimes; Thant Myint-U

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) MYANMAR (95%); INDIA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2006



286 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining, Dining Out/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2117 words

HEADLINE: The Old-Fashioned Secret Of Holiday Treats? Sugar Cane

BYLINE: By JULIA MOSKIN and KIM SEVERSON

DATELINE: ABBEVILLE, La. 

 BODY:
HERE in sugar cane country, cooks don't always reach for the sugar bowl to add a little sweetness to a dish. Janice Bourgeois Macomber, who insists that even people she has just met call her Aunt Boo, adds a spoonful of amber-colored cane syrup to cut the acid in her court bouillion, a tomato sauce that she uses to simmer redfish. And for a quick dessert, she sloshes syrup over thickly buttered white bread, then folds it over to make what kids here call a ''diaper sandwich.'' 
 ''I always have two things in my icebox,'' she said. ''Beer and cane syrup.''
Cane syrup, a caramelized, concentrated version of pure cane juice, is one of the basic flavors of southern Louisiana, where about half the sugar cane in the United States is grown (Florida, Texas and Hawaii make up the rest). 
 Around here, cane syrup is drizzled on hot buttered biscuits and over crisped mountains of boudin rouge, a cayenne-reddened blood sausage. Its deep, buttery taste is best savored in the Acadian classic gateau de sirop, a simple, old-fashioned cake flavored with nothing but cane syrup.
 But for bakers everywhere, especially during the season of fruitcake and gingerbread, the distinct spicy, earthy flavor of unrefined cane -- the taste of cane syrup, brown sugar and molasses -- is irreplaceable. The classic recipes date back to a time before white sugar was found in every cupboard. We may pull out the ginger, nutmeg and cloves when baking for the holidays, but the truth is that the old-fashioned flavor (and toasty colors) of treats like spice cookies and plum pudding is really the flavor of unrefined sugar cane.
 A quick sugar primer: Cane syrup, molasses and brown sugar all start with the juice squeezed from sugar cane stalks. To make sugar, the juice is spun in a centrifuge; pale amber crystals rise to the top, becoming sugar; the brown solids sink to the bottom, becoming molasses. 
 To make cane syrup, the raw cane juice is boiled to evaporate the liquids and stabilize the sugars; the result is sweeter than molasses, with a rich caramel flavor.
 Cane syrup, molasses and brown sugars are all ancestors of today's granulated white sugar, which is engineered to add simple sweetness and nothing else. Brown sugars now come in a range of flavors: Demerara, turbinado and raw sugars are like the ''first pressing'' of the sugar: they are first to rise to the top during processing and have the lightest molasses flavor. Muscovado, a loamy, crumbly dark brown sugar, has the most. Most commercial brown sugars are not naturally brown from cane solids, but are a late-stage mixture of refined white sugar and molasses. 
 Some of these sugars are interchangeable in baking. Raw and turbinado sugar can be substituted cup-for-cup for granulated sugar as long as a darker color and denser texture are acceptable (they work in spice cookies, but not in layer cakes). Demerara sugar cannot be substituted in batters or doughs; it works best as a decorative sugar or for the top of a creme brulee. Light brown sugar is equivalent to a mixture that is half dark brown (or muscovado) and half white (or raw) sugars.
 When baking with these darker sweeteners, you reclaim the satisfyingly complex flavors of the past.
 ''Like with caramel, there's a bitter edge to that flavor that balances out sweetness'' says David Guas, the pastry chef at Acadiana restaurant in Washington, who was born and raised in Louisiana. 
 Sugar cane has been a key crop here since the 18th century, and syrup-making an aromatic wintertime ritual, once requiring little more than a mule for pressing and a kettle for boiling. 
 At LeJeune Bakery in Jeanerette, cane syrup has been the essential flavor in the big tender rectangles of spicy gingerbread called ''stage planks'' since the bakery opened in 1884. These days, that means buying from the Steen family in Abbeville, one of the country's last remaining producers of unrefined cane syrup. (Others include Layfield Farms in South Carolina, and Carson Ann Syrup and Todd's Farms in Alabama.)
 ''Around here, we're the last syrup mill standing,'' Debi Steen said, escorting visitors through a weedy lot surrounded by emptying industrial buildings and rusting equipment. 
 Modern times, and technology, have changed everything for the Steen's operation. All the cane once came right from the surrounding fields, and processing had to begin as soon as the cane was cut, to prevent the sugar from crystallizing or fermenting.
 ''We'd wait for the cane to freeze to stabilize it, then boil it in open kettles right in the field,'' said Charley Steen. ''Sugar cane isn't something you can transport 300 miles after harvest.'' 
 But Steen's no longer uses its own sugar cane as the raw material for syrup and molasses. ''It's the law of economics,'' Mr. Steen said. The Steens still grow 3,000 acres of cane, but the market for refined sugar is more profitable than the one for syrup: the Steen cane goes to the refinery rather than into the syrup kettle. Instead, they buy cane juice by the tanker truck from nearby mills, or from as far away as Central America. 
 The American market for cane sugar has been shrinking steadily since the 1950s, under pressure from cheaper refined alternatives like beet sugar and corn syrup, and especially from synthetic sweeteners like sucralose, which is sold as Splenda. There are only a dozen sugar mills left in Louisiana.
 But recently, cane sugar has shown surprising signs of life as the sweetener for discerning palates: boutique soft drink lines, like Dry and GuS, use liquid cane sugar instead of high-fructose corn syrup. ''Cane is definitely a truer, cleaner sweet than corn'' said Ronald Fiorina the chief executive of Boylan Bottling Company, a soda maker in Haledon, N.J., which makes Cane Cola. Coca-Cola made in Mexico, sweetened with sugar, has a cultish following; its fans also hoard ''Kosher for Passover'' Coke each spring, produced without corn syrup for observant Jews who avoid corn (and other grains) during the holiday.
 We take sugar for granted as a supermarket staple, but the quest for it is one of the great dark epics of food history. New Orleans was a hub for the notorious ''triangle trade'' that connected Africa, the Caribbean and Europe through traffic in molasses, rum and slaves; in 1830, the city had the largest sugar refinery in the world. Staggering fortunes, fueled by slave labor, were made in the sugar plantations that covered this part of the bayou in the 19th century.
 Cane still dominates the region at this time of year. A cotton-candy smell hovers over fields of tall, leafy sugar cane, as farmers burn leaves off the stalks before harvest. This year has been dry and the crop surprisingly good, considering that in 2005 Hurricane Rita saturated the cane fields not only with salt water but with ''shrimp boats and butane tanks,'' according to Mrs. Steen.
 The layers of flavors in unrefined cane sugar and syrup reflect the ground in which the cane is grown and the style in which it is crafted, said Gretchen Goehrend, whose Seattle company, India Tree, imports intensely aromatic cane sugars from Mauritius, an island in the Indian Ocean.
 ''They come from the trace minerals in the soil that the cane grows in, and the tradewinds that blow on the islands,'' she said. ''Salt, volcanic ash, even mold -- they all play a part.'' 
 Mr. Steen agrees. ''I can taste the difference between my syrup when it's made from cane grown on the dark lands where it's all river sediment and up here on the sandy lands of the Teche'' he said, referring to the meandering Bayou Teche (pronounced tesh) out of which the local cane fields are carved.
 ''I come from sugar on both sides,'' said Peter Patout, an antiques dealer who lives in New Orleans; his ancestor Simeon Patout established the Enterprise Mill in nearby Patoutville in 1832. The mill is still running, although most of the raw sugar it produces now goes straight to the refinery. ''Mama wouldn't have raw sugar or cane syrup in the house when I was growing up,'' he said. ''This was the 1940s and 1950s, and white sugar and Aunt Jemima were what Good Housekeeping said to use,'' he said. 
 Today, Mr. Patout gets raw sugar sent to him directly from the mill; its flavor is clear and bright, without the burn and aftertaste of refined white sugar. The taste difference is comparable to that between iodized salt and sea salt. 
 Charley Steen said that he tastes a bitterness in refined sugar that is smoothed by the cane solids in raw sugar. 
 ''For lack of a better word,'' he said, ''the cane flavor just butters it out.''

CANE SYRUP CAKE
(Gateau de Sirop)
Adapted from ''The Top 100 Cajun Recipes of All Time,'' by Trent Angers (Acadian House Publishing, 1994)
Time: One hour 20 minutes

1 stick (4 ounces) butter, slightly softened at room temperature, more for buttering pan
2 cups flour, more for pan
1/2 cup sugar
2 cups cane syrup, preferably Steen's (see note), more for serving
2 eggs
1 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon baking soda
1/2 cup buttermilk
2 teaspoons vanilla extract, optional
1/2 cup coarsely chopped toasted pecans, for serving
Whipped cream, for serving.

1. Heat oven to 350 degrees. Thickly butter and flour a tube pan, large loaf pan or 13-by-9-inch baking pan. In a mixer, cream butter and sugar together until fluffy. Mix in syrup and eggs.
2. In a bowl, combine flour, salt and baking soda. Add half of this mixture and half the buttermilk to syrup mixture and mix. Repeat, then mix in vanilla, if using.
3. Pour batter into prepared pan and bake 45 to 60 minutes, until springy to the touch. Cool in pan on rack. Serve in slices or squares, with a dollop of whipped cream, a sprinkling of chopped nuts and a drizzle of cane syrup on top.
Yield: 10 to 12 servings.
Note: Steen's syrup is available at www.steensyrup.com.

LOUISIANA GINGERBREAD (STAGE PLANKS OR MULE BELLIES)
Adapted from ''Louisiana Cookery,'' by Mary Land (University Press of Mississippi, 2005)
Time: 30 minutes

Butter for pan and parchment paper
1 cup molasses
1/2 cup shortening, preferably trans fat-free
1 tablespoon ground ginger
1/2cup dark brown sugar, like muscovado
1 teaspoon baking soda
1 cup buttermilk
3 cups flour, more as needed.

1. Heat oven to 400 degrees. Butter a rimmed sheet pan and line it with buttered parchment paper. In a small pan, melt molasses, shortening and ginger together over low heat. Transfer to mixer and mix at medium speed until well blended and slightly cooled, about 3 minutes. Mix in sugar.
2. Dissolve baking soda in a tablespoon of hot water and mix into molasses mixture. Working in alternating batches and mixing well after each addition, mix in buttermilk and flour; batter should be quite stiff, not runny. Add more flour a tablespoon at a time, if needed.
3. Spread batter evenly in prepared pan. Bake in lower third of oven 10 to 12 minutes, until risen and firm. Cool in pan on rack. Cut into rectangles or use cookie cutters to make shapes.
Yield: About 12 servings.
Note: If cutting shapes, bake gingerbread at least one day before cutting. Let cool completely, then remove from pan and wrap in foil for storage. Muscovado sugar is available at www.amazon.com.

CANE SYRUP POPCORN BALLS
Adapted from ''Who's Your Mama, Are You Catholic, and Can You Make a Roux?,'' by Marcelle Bienvenue (Acadian House Publishing, 1996)
Time: 30 minutes

1 cup sugar
11/3 cups cane syrup, preferably Steen's (see note)2 tablespoons white vinegar
1 teaspoon salt
3 to 4 quarts popped corn, preferably not microwave popcorn, lightly salted (see note)
3/4 cup roasted salted peanuts (optional)
2 tablespoons butter, more for hands
1/4 teaspoon baking soda.

1. In a saucepan fitted with a candy thermometer, melt sugar, syrup, 2/3 cup water, vinegar and salt over medium heat. Cook, stirring occasionally, until mixture reaches 260 degrees, 5 to 10 minutes. Watch carefully so mixture does not boil over.
2. In a very large bowl, combine popcorn and peanuts, if using. Cover a work surface with waxed or parchment paper. When syrup mixture is ready, turn off heat and stir in butter and baking soda; it will foam up.
3. Pour about 2/3 of syrup over popcorn and set remainder over very low heat. Mix popcorn well with wooden spoon. Working quickly, butter hands and form mixture into balls, setting them on prepared surface to cool; this is best done by more than one person, so syrup does not have time to harden. If mixture seems dry or isn't holding together, stir in remaining syrup.
4. Cool and serve, or wrap individually in waxed paper and store in an airtight container.
Yield: About 3 dozen balls.
Note: Microwave popcorn will become spongy as it cools, making the popcorn balls slightly less crunchy. Steen's syrup is available at www.steensyrup.com.


GRAPHIC: Photos: AMERICA'S HERITAGE SWEETS -- From left, raw sugar, Demerara, cane syrup and chocolate-brown muscovado. About half the sugar grown in the United States comes from southern Louisiana. (Photo by Kate Sears for The New York Times)(pg. F1)
SURVIVOR -- Steen's syrup mill in Abbeville, La., is one of only a handful left in the United States.
SOUTHERN CLASSICS -- From the sugar cane fields in southern Louisiana, top, come some very good things: gingerbread made with molasses and muscovado sugar, above left
a simple cane syrup cake, above right, and popcorn balls made with cane syrup, bottom. (Photographs by Kate Sears for The New York Times
 top and center below, Cheryl Gerber for The New York Times)(pg. F6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COOKING & ENTERTAINING (90%); SUGAR FARMING (78%) Cooking and Cookbooks; Syrups

PERSON: Julia Moskin; Kim Severson

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2006



287 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 963 words

HEADLINE: With Focus Off Onions, E. Coli Hunt Continues

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARTIN; Nicole Cotroneo, Bruce Lambert and Jonathan Miller contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Nearly two weeks ago, on Nov. 30, Taco Bell officials learned that several customers had become sick with a virulent strain of E. coli after eating at one of the chain's restaurants in New Jersey.
 By the following Monday, Dec. 4, it became clear that the outbreak was spreading beyond that restaurant, in South Plainfield in central New Jersey, and Taco Bell issued its first public statement, saying it had closed nine restaurants in New Jersey and New York.
Two days later, Taco Bell appeared to have a major break: Preliminary tests by a private laboratory showed that green onions were the probable culprit, and it ordered them out of all 5,800 restaurants nationwide. Now, almost a week after saying they had zeroed in on a possible cause of the outbreak, investigators say that those early indications appear to be wrong and that they may never learn the cause with certainty. 
 More sophisticated testing of the green onion samples -- the required next step -- actually found no traces of E. coli O157:H7. Although additional testing continues, the authorities now say the source of the E. coli outbreak could be any number of ingredients used by Taco Bell, but probably not onions.
 ''Of these ingredients, those consumed raw are of particular interest,'' the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said in a news release yesterday. 
 At this point, although the cause of the illness is not known, health officials agree that Taco Bell is the source of the outbreak.
 Such twists in an investigation, which can confuse the public, are not unusual when trying to track down the cause of food-borne illnesses, a search that can be complicated by discarded evidence, gaps in victims' memories and false positive tests.
 In October, a few weeks after an E. coli outbreak from spinach killed three and sickened more than 200, a California grower recalled 8,500 cartons of green leaf lettuce after the bacterium was found in the irrigation water. Yet further testing revealed that it was not the same strain that was responsible for the three deaths.
 ''You see a lot of action being taken when there is legitimate uncertainty,'' said Michael R. Taylor, a former head of the Department of Agriculture's food safety agency and a deputy commissioner at the Food and Drug Administration.
 He said companies were inclined to respond quickly to such crises -- even before the testing was completed, in some cases -- because of intensive news coverage and the potential economic losses.
 ''It makes the situation look herky-jerky,'' said Mr. Taylor, who is now a professor of epidemiology and preventive medicine at the University of Maryland medical school. 
 By yesterday evening, there were at least 466 confirmed or suspected cases of E. coli linked to Taco Bell. The vast majority of the cases were in New York State, with 369; followed by New Jersey, 80; Pennsylvania, 11; Delaware, 5; and South Carolina, 1.
 Taco Bell officials say they acted promptly to make sure there was no chance that green onions, the potential source of the outbreak, were eaten by anyone else. Since then, company officials say they have taken steps to allay consumer concerns.
 Stores where victims ate have been sanitized and restocked, and the company that supplied produce to Taco Bell in the Northeast, Ready Pac, has been replaced.
 ''We believe we have addressed the uncertainty by the steps we have taken,'' said a spokesman for Taco Bell, Rob Poetsch.
 Yet as the company looks ahead, investigators have to turn to other leads. 
 Michael P. Doyle, the director of the Center for Food Safety at the University of Georgia, and other experts described the initial rapid-screening tests that pointed to the green onions this way:
 A sample of green onions is placed in a culture and left for several hours. If the virulent strain of E. coli O157:H7 is present, it will multiply. The test relies on antibodies to detect the presence of the bacterium. One is simply a control to show that the test is working, and the second indicates the presence of E. coli. A false positive result can occur because certain bacteria react to the antibodies the same way E. coli does.
 If the initial test is positive, more sophisticated chemical and antibody testing taking about two and a half days is done to confirm the results.
 Both the state and the federal governments said yesterday that they were continuing to test samples taken from Taco Bell to try to find traces of E. coli.
 So far, none of the samples have tested positive in the more sophisticated tests, except for chopped white onions from the Taco Bell in Deer Park on Long Island that were erroneously labeled green onions. That strain of E. coli was not the one that caused the outbreak. 
 While testing for a potential source continues, investigators said they were pursuing less sophisticated methods of tracing the outbreak. Investigators are asking victims what they ate at Taco Bell, and when possible are asking the same questions of companions who did not get sick.
 ''If you do enough of those, you begin to identify the ingredients that are associated with illness,'' said Dr. David Acheson, the chief medical officer for the Food and Drug Administration's Center for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition. ''Certain things drop out. The pool gets smaller and smaller.'' 
 As the search continued, the prevailing attitude among a trickle of customers at a Taco Bell in the Newport Center Mall in Jersey City seemed to be: We've heard the news, and we don't care.
 ''It didn't really bother me,'' said Randy McLain, a data processing consultant from Norman, Okla., who was the lone customer at lunchtime. ''I figure it's all safe, and they've taken care of it,'' he said. 
 ''Do you notice there's no one else here but me?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: E COLI (93%); BACTERIA (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); COLIFORM BACTERIA (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); FOOD BORNE ILLNESS (89%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (86%); FOOD SAFETY (78%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (78%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (75%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (70%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (68%); PRODUCT SAFETY (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); IRRIGATION (50%) Food Contamination and Poisoning; E Coli (Bacteria); Restaurants; Tests and Testing

COMPANY: TACO BELL CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (54%) Taco Bell

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (90%)

PERSON: Andrew Martin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2006



288 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1714 words

HEADLINE: Weighing the Costs in Public vs. Private Colleges

BYLINE: By JONATHAN D. GLATER

 BODY:
As parents and students cope with the ever-rising cost of higher education, many debate whether attending private institutions -- which charge far more than public universities -- is worth the expense. Is the quality of the education better? Will students have more access to their professors? Will those professors be more distinguished? Do students make important contacts that pay off later in life? Are any such advantages worth going deeply into debt?
 Tuition and room and board at private four-year colleges now add up to more than $30,000 a year on average, and rose by 81 percent, more than double the inflation rate, between 1993 and 2004.
 Financial aid provided by private institutions, even to the upper middle class, has grown more than tuition -- by 135 percent over the same period -- and some universities provide substantial assistance to low-income students. Still, the dollar amounts are hard for most applicants to ignore. 
 Selection of a college, public or private, often turns on more than just money, of course. As Stephen Joel Trachtenberg, the president of George Washington University, put it, ''Picking a college is like falling in love.''
 Still, students, parents, college officials and high school guidance counselors have strong opinions about the value of a private education. Below is a sampling of views.

PEYTON RANDOLPH HELM
President, Muhlenberg College
 There are certain things that most public colleges and universities cannot offer, said Mr. Helm, explaining why he thinks a private education, even at a small institution like Muhlenberg, in Allentown, Pa., is worth the cost. 
 ''What private liberal arts colleges provide is very high quality and high sticker price,'' Mr. Helm said, adding that ''the sticker price is not necessarily the cost and it's not necessarily the value'' because of financial aid.
 Mr. Helm stressed nonfinancial benefits, too. ''The better, the more prestigious the institution, the more you have small classes and you have direct interaction with your professors,'' he said. 
 Many private institutions have large classes, but Mr. Helm described a classics course he teaches with just 10 students. 
 ''Some of them have been brilliant from Day 1, and there's one of them whom I could barely get to open his mouth who came out with something brilliant'' in the last days of the term, Mr. Helm said.
 ''If I had a class of 150 people, or 500 people, or 800 people, that isn't going to happen,'' he said. 
 Students may more easily get into courses they want at private colleges, Mr. Helm said. ''If you're not going to graduate in four years because you're not going to get the courses,'' then a public education may not be the best choice.

STEPHANIE A. BALBACH
Student, Indiana State University
 Ms. Balbach, 18, a freshman, said she got a good deal at Indiana State, in Terre Haute, thanks to a pair of scholarships covering most of her costs. She does not think she is missing anything by choosing a public institution.
 Even though her parents had saved to help pay for Ms. Balbach's college education, she said, money was an issue. She considered three colleges, two public and one private, none too far from her hometown, Evansville. Indiana State offered the best deal. ''Right off the bat they said, 'Here are three scholarships that you would fit the criteria for,' '' she said.
 When she visited the university, she was even more impressed. ''I immediately met the undergraduate dean, I met the director of the department I was interested in,'' Ms. Balbach recalled. She added that although the university had more than 8,600 undergraduates, she felt she would not be a faceless number. 
 Her scholarships cover $12,396 for tuition, room and board; Ms. Balbach has paid a few hundred dollars for books and other expenses. She plans to major in insurance and risk management.
 ''This whole agenda that was lined up for me, when I saw that, I thought, 'Wow,' '' she said.

JENNY RUSSELL
2004 graduate, University of Redlands
 Ms. Russell, 24, loved her time at Redlands, a private university in Southern California with just under 2,500 undergraduates in its liberal arts college. But she said the expense was not worth it; this year tuition, room and board was $36,000.
 Even with money from scholarships and other financial aid, she graduated with about $50,000 in debt to accompany her major in creative writing. Coping with the debt has been hard.
 ''I've been a cocktail waitress, a bartender, I worked at a grocery store, I did market research, I sold tickets for the Phoenix Symphony orchestra, and one tragic day I sold vacuum cleaners door to door,'' said Ms. Russell, who now lives in Tempe, Ariz., and works as a telemarketer, selling advertisements for a telephone directory.
 Ms. Russell, whose father works in construction and whose mother is a hotel reservations clerk, said she had first planned to attend San Francisco State University. But money would have been a problem at the public institution, too. 
 ''At a lot of the state schools, there are a lot of problems with housing,'' Ms. Russell said. ''If your parents are making $21,000 a year, combined, you're not going to be able to afford an apartment nearby.''

JIM CONROY
High school counselor, New Trier High School
 Before anyone can figure out whether private education is worth the price, students and their parents need to know what the real price is, said Mr. Conroy, chairman of post-high school counseling at New Trier, in Winnetka, Ill. That means ignore the stated tuition. 
 ''Don't close the door yet until you see what kind of financial aid the school can offer,'' Mr. Conroy said. Even when the tuition appears out of reach, applying -- and waiting to see what aid may appear -- is worthwhile, he said. ''Colleges offer many types of financial support,'' he said, adding that at some institutions, ''60 to 65 percent of the kids are on some form of financial aid.''
 But in the end, Mr. Conroy said, students and their parents must still decide what is the best deal for them. ''Each one of these families is making a value decision,'' Mr. Conroy said. ''Families have said to me, we will pay for that school, we will not pay for that school. We will extend ourselves and sacrifice if he gets into -- and you can name them, Harvard, Yale, Princeton -- but we are not sacrificing for the next tier.''

F. KING ALEXANDER
President, California State University, Long Beach
 Anyone asking Mr. Alexander whether a private college education is worth its price gets an unequivocal answer.
 ''The answer is no,'' Mr. Alexander said, adding that high price does not mean high quality. ''A lot of schools, particularly up in New York and New England, they want everybody to believe that.'' He described what he called the Chivas Regal effect in which, he said, ''the bottle looks great, but what's inside doesn't taste better.''
 There may be benefits to students at the most elite colleges, Mr. Alexander said, including those in the Ivy League, where classmates who end up working in important and influential places can help one another later in life. But he added that most private colleges probably cannot achieve the same ''network effects'' and still charge several times the tuition of most public colleges.
 Plenty of people who are now rich and powerful went to public colleges and universities, Mr. Alexander said. ''Steven Spielberg went to Cal State Long Beach,'' he said. ''He's doing all right.''

CAROLE K. BELLEW
Parent
 Ms. Bellew is helping Luke, one of her two sons, attend Bryant University, a private institution in Smithfield, R.I., with 3,200 undergraduates. Tuition, room and board for his first year come to about $35,000, Ms. Bellew said, but her son received a merit scholarship that covers about $15,000. Other scholarships, including one from Cambridge, Mass., where Ms. Bellew lives, have brought the total amount due this year down to about $10,000. Luke has borrowed as much as he can on his own from the federal government, taking out Perkins and Stafford loans.
 Ms. Bellew said she had hoped her son would apply to a public university, but he did not. After comparing what Bryant and the University of Massachusetts would cost, she concluded that with the aid, the two institutions were only about $5,000 apart.
 ''To me, it's worth another $5,000 to give him the support I think he needs,'' she said, adding that her son had learning disabilities and that she preferred him not to be one of nearly 20,000 undergraduates at the University of Massachusetts.
 Ms. Bellew looked into private loans, but found she did not qualify, because until she changed jobs recently, she earned too little money.
 ''When you're 60 years old and you're financing a kid's college, it's a little bit scary,'' Ms. Bellew said. The money she is drawing on, she continued, ''is basically my retirement.''

JUSTIN R. ERICKSON
Student, Grinnell College
 Mr. Erickson knew he wanted to go to Grinnell, in Iowa, from the start, and so far at least, he is sure it is worth it.
 ''When I visited, I loved it,'' Mr. Erickson said. 
 His parents were worried about the money, he said, and warned him he would have to borrow. His younger sister will soon be ready for college and will need help to cover her costs, too.
 He looked at the University of Wisconsin-Madison and applied there and to the University of Minnesota. But when he applied to Grinnell, he asked to be considered for early decision, pledging that, if accepted, he would enroll. 
 ''I think it's worth it,'' he said, citing the small classes and the ''small-town feel'' of the campus. 
 He said he was unafraid of working hard to make attending the college possible. ''I've had a paper route since I was 12,'' Mr. Erickson said. Last summer he had two jobs, working more than 12 hours a day sometimes, to build up his college savings. He and his family have to come up with about $20,000 a year, after federal student loans and a $15,000 scholarship, to cover nearly $37,000 for tuition, fees, and room and board at Grinnell.
 ''The first semester, we've been able to cover, and we're hoping next semester as well, but we're not sure,'' Mr. Erickson said. ''It depends on how much my parents will be able to contribute. It will be interesting to see what happens down the road.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The president of California State University, Long Beach, F. King Alexander, said students receive quality education at public colleges and universities. When asked whether a private college education is worth the price, he says no, contending that high price does not mean high quality. (Photo by J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times)
 Justin R. Erickson, a student at Grinnell College in Iowa, had considered attending public universities. Even though he had two jobs last summer to help cover his expenses at the private college, ''I think it's worth it,'' he said, citing the small classes and the ''small-town feel'' of the campus. (Photo by Mark Kegans for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (96%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (92%); TUITION FEES (90%); STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (73%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (73%); INFLATION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (68%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (68%) Colleges and Universities; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Tuition ; Private and Sectarian Schools

ORGANIZATION: GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (82%) George Washington University

PERSON: Jonathan D Glater; Stephen Joel Trachtenberg

GEOGRAPHIC: ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (54%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2006



289 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1528 words

HEADLINE: GRID LIMITATIONS INCREASE PRICES FOR ELECTRICITY 

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

DATELINE: CHAMBERSBURG, Pa. 

 BODY:
It is a tiny, flickering signal of an expensive problem looming for tens of millions of Americans: The cost of electricity for households in this southern Pennsylvania town soared this year by 31 percent, or an average of $24 a month.
 Like the nation's highways and bridges, the network of transmission lines has not been maintained and expanded enough to meet growing demand, the United States Department of Energy says. In areas where there are not enough lines to transmit electricity from the most efficient generating stations, utilities must find other sources. Sometimes they have to buy from costlier power plants nearby, like drivers forced by highway bottlenecks onto slower side roads.
The problem already affects about 40 million people from metropolitan New York to Virginia as well as 18 million in Southern California. Similar but smaller price increases will hit New England, the San Francisco Bay Area and the Seattle-Portland and Phoenix-Tucson corridors until new transmission lines are built.
 These higher costs, known as congestion charges, added $5.7 million to the cost of electricity in Chambersburg this year, which the borough has paid from a reserve fund rather than apply them directly to utility bills. 
 Over all, the Energy Department estimates, congestion charges in 2008 will add $8 billion or so -- about $40 a person -- to electricity costs on the Eastern grid, which serves almost 200 million people east of the Rockies except for Texas. The department did not make an estimate for the Western grids.
 These congestion charges would raise electricity prices by about a nickel on the dollar if they were spread evenly, but in fact some customers pay far more and others pay nothing.
 Sometimes there is disagreement on how to measure congestion charges. The Energy Department estimates these charges for New York residents in the New York City area at almost $90 each last year, while the operators of the electricity network for the state say the cost was about $8. The extra charges could continue for years, because building new transmission lines can take at least a decade. 
 The congested transmission network has frustrated the many who supported the opening of the electricity industry to competition a decade ago, hoping that prices would fall. Under the old system, regulated monopolies made and delivered power in their own area, with only small sales outside. The new system is intended to encourage a competitive business in which power is distributed over vast regional networks. 
 But for electric prices to fall, the network must be able to move power from the lowest-cost plants to where it is needed, utility industry experts said.
 ''Fully competitive markets and the tremendous added value that could be provided to customers have been stalled'' by a transmission network that is too small and was not designed for competitive markets, three executives of National Grid, an electricity distribution company, wrote last year in The Electricity Journal.
 The North American Electric Reliability Council, which works to improve the network, echoed the comments of many industry leaders in declaring that ''a robust, reliable transmission system is needed to develop a competitive market'' that can save customers money.
 Investment in the network has been falling for three decades. For each dollar spent on the network in the 1970s, spending, adjusted for inflation, is only 75 cents today. Independent power producers say transmission would attract more investment if profits were not regulated, while municipal power agencies and other critics of making electricity a competitive business assert that inadequate investment in new lines is inevitable because it increases profits for power plant owners.
 The Energy Policy Act signed by President Bush last year seeks to speed construction of transmission lines by preventing state and local officials from blocking lines, or even influencing where they are built. 
 A federal proposal to invoke these restrictions for a proposed high-voltage line through the Allegheny Mountains in Virginia has generated hundreds of complaints. Business owners, local officials and refugees from big cities said it would be irresponsible to mar their mountain vistas and small towns with a row of 17-story steel skeletons supporting the lines. 
 Protests are also expected against proposed transmission lines from two nuclear plants in Arizona to Southern California and against a 1,000-mile line that Arizona Public Service plans so it would be able to cool Phoenix with electricity from wind farms and coal-fired plants in Wyoming. 
 Most transmission lines are owned by utilities, but operational control has been turned over to independent organizations from Maine south to Virginia and west to the Dakotas and Texas, plus California. In other areas, utilities control the lines, and independent power producers have complained that the utilities favor their own plants even if their electricity is more expensive.
 When congestion charges force electric customers to pay more, many owners of power plants profit. They do so because, in many states, every power plant gets the same price as the highest bid accepted from any plant chosen to supply power. As utilities turn to less efficient, more expensive plants, the price paid to every other electricity producer rises. 
 The high-cost plants that must be fired up when there is a bottleneck operate for more hours than they would if the network were designed for the competitive market. In some cases, expensive plants built just to meet peak demand, as on hot summer days, now run 40 percent of the year, Energy Department reports show.
 Most of these plants generate electricity from modified jet engines that burn natural gas, which is more expensive than electricity from coal or nuclear plants. But congestion has become so chronic that some century-old and very inefficient steam turbines must also be operated to avoid blackouts.
 Another important sign of worsening congestion is a sharp increase in requests by network operators to prevent overloads that could disrupt transmission on the PJM Interconnection, the network serving 51 million people from New Jersey to Illinois. There were 2,397 such requests last year, up from just 50 in 2004.
 Most electric customers have no way of knowing how much their bills have risen because of this problem. While the big industrial customers get detailed price information, smaller customers are largely in the dark. Congestion charges generally are not broken out as a separate item on their bills. 
 Indeed, hardly anyone here even knows that electric bills have soared, because the borough government has so far covered the costs from a reserve fund, now almost empty. 
 The average household in Chambersburg pays $78 a month for electricity.
 Audrey A. Zibelman, chief operating officer of the PJM electricity network, to which Chambersburg belongs, said the town's congestion charges should end in 2008 when Allegheny Power completes an upgrade of a transformer station that serves Chambersburg.
 Just who pays more for congestion and who does not has become a burning question in places like Chambersburg. The method the networks use to determine prices for each customer is so complicated that hardly anyone understands it. 
 Indeed, the town spent about $1 million this year just on lawyers and consultants to try to ensure that it got a fair deal.
 ''The more rules, the more complicated it gets, the more we have to make sure we aren't missing something in the overwhelming amount of documents from PJM that costs us a lot of money,'' said Richard E. Hamsher, the electricity superintendent for Chambersburg.
 The town and other municipal utilities joined the PJM network, which serves 13 states, early in this decade. They complained about the congestion charges to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, arguing that they had contracted for access to power and that their own demands for power had not grown much. 
 PJM said the problem arose because of its expansion to more Midwestern states. Charges in the newly expanded network were allocated in a different way, hurting towns like Chambersburg. 
 Ms. Zibelman of the PJM network said the Chambersburg complaint was based on the faulty assumption that what the town pays should be based only on prices from the power plant in West Virginia from which it buys power. ''You are not using a piece of the system, you are using the entire system,'' she said, sharing in both its savings and its costs.
 The commission dismissed the complaint on Nov. 22. It decided that PJM had applied the rules properly but also said the distribution network should discuss with its members whether to revise its rules. 
 Mr. Hamsher is not pleased. ''Our customers lose,'' he said, ''and the people east of here who buy electricity got the benefit at our expense.''

Power Play
 Articles in this series are examining the decade-long effort to overhaul the nation's electricity system. Later articles will look at successes and failures in the move toward a competitive market. Previous articles are at nytimes.com/business.


GRAPHIC: Photos: High-power transmission lines over homes in Chambersburg, Pa. (Photo by Kalim A. Bhatti for The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 Richard E. Hamser is the electricity superintendent for Chambersburg, Pa., at the substation providing power to the borough. (Photograph by Kalim A. Bhatti for The New York Times)(pg. C4)Chart/Map: ''Congestion on the Electric Highways''Transmission lines have not been maintained and expanded to keep up with the growing demand for electricity, leading to congestion on many lines. This limits the ability of utilities to buy power from the lowest cost producers.Maps of New York and surrounding areas show Congested lines, PJM Interconnection regional power network and Transmission lines.Higher costs in Chambersburg, Pa.Costs have increased since the area became part of the PJM Interconnection. Power demand from the East Coast has caused congestion on the Monongahela line, which is Chambersburg's link to power plants to the west.(Erin Aigner/The New York Times)(Source by POWERmap, powermap.platts.com)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (89%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); UTILITY RATES (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); POWER FAILURES (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (76%); CITIES (72%); MONOPOLIZATION (60%) Electric Light and Power; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Surveys and Series; Public Utilities; Law and Legislation; Electric Light and Power; Electric Light and Power

COMPANY: NATIONAL GRID PLC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY (83%) Energy Department

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (58%); NG (LSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (58%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (58%)

PERSON: David Cay Johnston

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (92%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (90%); NORTHWEST USA (79%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) United States; California; New York City Metropolitan Area; Northeastern States (US); New England States (US); San Francisco (Calif); Pacific Northwestern States (US); Seattle (Wash); Portland (Ore); Phoenix (Ariz); Arizona; Tucson (Ariz); Chambersburg (Pa); Pennsylvania

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2006



290 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 921 words

HEADLINE: Plan for Tracking Animals Meets Farmers' Resistance 

BYLINE: By THEO EMERY

DATELINE: LANCASTER, Tenn., Dec. 8 

 BODY:
A federal effort to quickly pinpoint and contain outbreaks of disease among livestock is coming under attack on farms, in Internet chat rooms and at livestock markets, ranches and feed shops across the nation.
 Although the effort, the National Animal Identification System, intended to trace a sick animal to the property it came from within 48 hours, is still in early, voluntary stages, the United States Department of Agriculture has had to retreat from a proposal to make it mandatory. Officials now say that further participation will result from financial incentives and market pressure.
''This is admittedly a very emotional issue with many folks,'' said Bruce I. Knight, the under secretary for marketing and regulatory programs at the Agriculture Department. ''It's one that really asks for a lot of patience and resolve.'' 
 Mr. Knight admits his agency has made mistakes in establishing the tracking system, which began to be rolled out in 2005. The rule-making process was not transparent enough, he said, which only raised the mistrust of farmers. He said he had been meeting with groups across the country to explain the program better. 
 Among other things, criticism has centered on the system's cost, its potential for government invasion of privacy, perceived biblical prohibitions against its technology and the question of who would benefit.
 Darrin Drake, whose family has farmed for at least 10 generations, said he did not need the government to keep track of the hundreds of cattle, goats, sheep and other livestock that roamed Peaceful Pastures, the farm here in mid-Tennessee that he and his wife bought in 1997. 
 ''To me, this is my backyard,'' said Mr. Drake, who is 40. ''Now, if you started going into town and getting into people's backyards, they'd get a little irritated. It just happens that my backyard's a little bigger than most people's.''
 Mary-Louise Zanoni, a lawyer in upstate New York and the executive director of Farm for Life, an advocacy group for small farms, calls the effort a ''scam'' that will squeeze out small farmers.
 ''The only reason for an animal identification system,'' Ms. Zanoni said, ''is to serve the economic interests of large meat packers and people who are going to sell the technology that will be indispensable in the system.'' 
 To participate, farmers register their ''premises,'' large or small, with the state, which passes their information on to the Agriculture Department. Registration is free. Of about 1.4 million premises nationwide, almost a quarter have been registered and assigned a seven-digit ID code, Mr. Knight said.
 The next phase calls for animals to be assigned 15-digit numbers and given tags, either individually or, in the case of animals that are sold in lots, like pigs and poultry, collectively, according to the agency's user guide for the system. Electronic tags are expected to cost $2 to $3 each, and it is likely that scanners will be used to read them, tracking the path from barnyard to slaughterhouse. 
 Amish farmers, who do not believe in using technology, also frown on tagging. ''We would be conscientiously opposed and have religious convictions against the identification system,'' one Amish farmer from Wisconsin wrote to Ms. Zanoni. 
 Industry groups have long sought an effective national tracking system.
 The push intensified in late 2001 after an outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease in Europe and as fears of agroterrorism attacks on the United States food supply grew after Sept. 11. Additional pressure came with the first case of mad cow disease in the United States in 2003 and the ban on American meat by dozens of countries, said Robert Fourdraine, chairman of the ID committee for the National Institute for Animal Agriculture, an industry group.
 Debate over whether the program would be compulsory proved so intense that the entire effort stalled. The only way to get it moving again was to put to rest fears about a mandate, Mr. Knight said. 
 But some animal tracking supporters argue that a voluntary system will not work. Emmit Rawls, a professor of agricultural economics at the University of Tennessee, said one diseased animal that had not been tagged and therefore could not be tracked could have enormous consequences.
 But Mr. Knight said that while full participation seemed unlikely, a voluntary system would be effective. 
 Not all farmers oppose the program. Kenneth P. Garrett, 73, who has a herd of about 75 beef cattle in Cannon County, Tenn., said fear of change was driving the opposition. ''I don't see any problem with it,'' Mr. Garrett said. ''I don't see how it could do anything but good in the long run.''
 But the program has led to alarm and confusion. In Tennessee, some farmers were angered to learn they must be enrolled in the program to qualify for state grants. Others discovered that if they had participated in other disease eradication programs, they were assigned premise numbers and registration cards. 
 Virginia Youmans, who has sheep and other livestock on a 53-acre family farm in Lynnville, received a bar-coded premise ID card in the mail.
 The program ''goes against everything that we believe in about privacy and private property,'' Ms. Youmans said. She said that their philosophical objections and the program's expense would probably keep her and her husband from turning the farm into the business they had dreamed of.
 ''We want to stay here and we want to keep it in farming,'' she said. ''If we have to go through all that, then we probably won't.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Some of the animals that Mr. Drake would have to start tracking with 15-digit numbers if the government makes its system mandatory.
 ''This is my backyard,'' Darrin Drake said. ''Now, if you started going into town and getting into people's backyards, they'd get a little irritated.'' (Photographs by Josh Anderson for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ANIMALS (90%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (90%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (90%); MEAT & LIVESTOCK MARKETS (78%); LAMB & SHEEP MARKETS (78%); FAMILY FARMS (78%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (77%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (73%); CHAT ROOMS (73%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (71%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (58%) 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (90%) Agriculture Department

PERSON: Bruce I (Under Sec) Knight; Darrin Drake; Theo Emery

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) Tennessee

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2006



291 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; ABUJA JOURNAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1144 words

HEADLINE: In a Dream City, a Nightmare for the Common Man

BYLINE: By LYDIA POLGREEN

DATELINE: ABUJA, Nigeria 

 BODY:
The license plates here supposedly say it all: Abuja is ''the Center of Unity.'' 
 A massive mosque, golden dome glinting amid four minarets, sits on one side of town, representing Nigeria's population of 65 million Muslims. An equally vast nondenominational church, with copper-plated flying buttresses soaring skyward, sits less than a mile away, representing a roughly equal number of Christians.
Each of Nigeria's 36 states, representing the hundreds of dialects and ethnic groups in this fractious nation, has its own office tower here, every one trying to outdo the rest in plush fittings. 
 But these days the deepest cleavage in Nigerian society yawns wider here than it does almost anywhere else -- the chasm between the tiny, rich and powerful elite and the vast, impoverished majority of the nation's 130 million people. 
 ''They don't want to see the common man, the poor man,'' said Comrade Daniel, a motorcycle taxi driver, standing in the rubble of his neighborhood. He lost first his home and then his livelihood to a recent campaign to rid this stately capital of the blemishes of poverty. ''They only care for themselves,'' he said. 
 Mr. Daniel and others who live on the unruly edge of this tidy city in the mossy hills of central Nigeria say that Abuja has declared war on its poorest citizens. 
 In the interest of cultivating an image as a world-class city, comparable to London, Paris, New York or Hong Kong, the government has been razing unauthorized and unsightly slums, clearing out street hawkers and banishing popular and cheap motorcycle taxis, all in the name of spiffing up the city. 
 Abuja is a planned city, originally designed by a group of American firms in the 1970s. It was meant to present an orderly gloss on Nigeria's vibrant but chaotic reputation. No place represents that image more fully than Lagos, the former capital, with its legendary go-slows, or traffic jams, jumbles of shacks next to office towers and streets overflowing with garbage and sewage. 
 Abuja, by contrast, was to have none of those problems. 
 The orderly master plan would ensure that Abuja would be a tranquil oasis in the center of a cacophonous, polyglot nation. 
 Even its location would bring harmony -- it was built in the middle of the country, roughly equidistant from the Yoruba heartland in the southwest, Ibo strongholds in the east and the largely Hausa north. 
 It would reflect the boundless potential of this economic and political giant -- Nigeria is Africa's top oil exporter and its most populous nation. 
 But the city's master plan was ignored for years by corrupt officials who allowed illegal neighborhoods to blossom, unauthorized street markets to spread and torpedo-like motorcycle taxis, called okada, often driven by illiterate young men, to choke the streets. 
 Much of that expansion was sanctioned -- or at least overlooked -- by the rulers of the day, and deeds were obtained by many of those who have lost their homes in the recent cleanup. Mr. Daniel, the motorcycle taxi driver, had a deed to his land, having paid about $160 for a small plot. 
 In 2003, a new minister was appointed to run the capital, and he declared his intention to hew strictly to the old master plan. Many political leaders cheered the decision, fretting that Abuja, built at enormous expense as an antidote to Lagos, was headed to the same chaotic fate. 
 But the declaration effectively rendered much of the daily life of millions of people illegal. As with most Africans, Nigerians deal mostly in the informal economy, the vast, unregulated, untaxed network that emerges, through the inexorable logic of the marketplace, to fill vital needs left unmet by government and the formal economy. 
 And so while some buildings belonging to wealthy businesses and individuals were destroyed, the primary victims have been people like Mr. Daniel, 31. 
 He migrated to Abuja a decade ago from the impoverished northern state of Kaduna, drawn by the glittering wealth. He found work as a security guard, but lost it when the company lost its contract. 
 Unable to find salaried work, he bought a Chinese-made motorcycle and started working as a motorcycle taxi driver, picking up nickel and dime fares around the capital. 
 On most weekdays he could pull in $20, not bad in a country where 60 percent of people are in poverty. He built a house off a dirt road carved, illegally, along the manicured highway leading to the airport, and saw such a bright future here that he invited his younger sister, Vashti, to live with him and try her luck. 
 Vashti arrived with a diploma in business and management from a technical college, but months of searching yielded no work, so she bought a cellphone and sells calls to people too poor to buy a phone. Still, business is way down because most of her customers' homes have been destroyed. 
 ''I came here in search of greener pastures,'' Ms. Daniel said. ''But up to this day I have not found them.''
 Abuja's vast interstate cloverleafs, nestled in the moss-covered rock monoliths, would not look out of place in an American suburb, but only the lucky few can afford cars. 
 The streets are often empty, crowded only occasionally by cordons of luxury sedans and sport utility vehicles, the entourages of government ministers. 
 For visitors, black London cabs cruise the topiary-lined boulevards. Their fares run about $8, far beyond the reach of most Nigerians.
 The master plan's housing estates unfurl with the orderliness of a planned subdivision: town houses and apartments for the well heeled, tract homes and villas for the even better heeled. But there is little provision for the army of civil servants, whose low wages place the graceful homes of Abuja out of reach. 
 As for the maids, drivers, security guards and laborers without whom this city would cease to function -- people like Mr. Daniel and his sister -- there is no place for them at all. Many have moved farther still, commuting for hours from neighboring states to escape the bulldozers. 
 The government has said it plans to help resettle those displaced by the demolition, estimated to be in the tens of thousands, but those who have lost their homes say no one has offered them any compensation or a new place to live. And so they are left with the bitter knowledge that their capital has no place for them. 
 With their home reduced to rubble, Vashti and Comrade Daniel have moved into the back room of a cousin's house. The house they lost was not some tin shack, but a proper house of bricks and mortar. Mr. Daniel's income has been slashed by two-thirds by the ban on okada, and he does not know how he will rebuild. 
 ''They say they want to make Abuja like London, but London wasn't built in a day,'' he said. ''Once upon a time they had poor people in London, but they developed themselves. We just want that chance.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: In the Galadimawa section of Abuja, only wreckage remains of what once were homes for the working class, leveled under a return to a long-ignored master plan that was aimed at making the capital a tranquil oasis in the center of cacophonous, polyglot Nigeria. (Photo by Michael Kamber for The New York Times)Map of Nigeria shows the location of Abuja.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); ETHNIC GROUPS (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); SLUM DWELLINGS (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); MOTORCYCLES (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); CITIES (72%); OFFICE PROPERTY (70%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (64%); TRENDS (63%); CORRUPTION (60%); ETHNICITY (56%) Geographic Profiles; Social Conditions and Trends

PERSON: Lydia Polgreen

GEOGRAPHIC: LAGOS, NIGERIA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (69%); PARIS, FRANCE (54%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) NIGERIA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); FRANCE (54%) Nigeria; Abujia (Nigeria)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2006



292 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: U.S. General Says Jobs and Services May Curb Iraq Violence

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Dec. 12 

 BODY:
The general in day-to-day command of United States troops in Iraq made an impassioned appeal on Tuesday for more time and money to make the American enterprise here work. He suggested that he did not favor a surge in American troop numbers, but rather a new effort to weaken the insurgency by creating jobs for what he called Iraq's ''angry young men.'' 
 The appeal came from Lt. Gen. Peter W. Chiarelli, who on Thursday will end a yearlong tour as operational commander of the 140,000 United States troops, the second highest-ranking American officer in Iraq. His remarks broke the careful reticence senior American officers here have maintained since a report last week by the Iraq Study Group recommended that all American combat brigades be withdrawn by the first quarter of 2008.
 General Chiarelli, said by other senior officers to be among the candidates to succeed Gen. George W. Casey Jr., the top United States commander in Iraq, early next year, gave a cagey endorsement to the study group's deadline. But he emphasized the risks involved if the drawdown goes ahead before Iraq's own armed forces have established their role as ''the primary armed force'' in Iraq, capable of fending off insurgent threats to the government. 
 ''Is that something I think that's possible?'' he said, when asked about the 2008 deadline at a news conference marking the end of his tour. ''Yeah, I think it's possible. I think that anything's possible here. I think that if certain things were to fall in place here very rapidly, that you could see the level of violence go down very, very rapidly.''
 But his other remarks reflected what appeared to be a broad feeling among American commanders that a 15-month countdown might be too fast. The study group report proposed that after that period, American forces be limited mostly to rapid-reaction and special operations teams, along with as many as 20,000 American advisers with Iraqi forces. 
 Those American forces should concentrate on fighting forces linked to Al Qaeda and acting as a guarantor-of-last-resort for the Iraqi government, the study group said. 
 ''It's going to take however long it's going to take,'' General Chiarelli said. ''And I can't tell you whether there's time. But I don't like any of the alternatives I've seen. I just don't like them. 
 ''I happen to believe that this is the most important conflict that we've been involved in in the last 50 years. And I think it's absolutely essential that we give the Iraqis an opportunity to do exactly what they want to do, and that's to form their democratic government here in Iraq. And no matter what we say back home, it's going to take time.''
 The general's remarks took on added significance because of the expected recasting of the military command that could take place after the new defense secretary, Robert M. Gates, is sworn in next week, and visits Baghdad for talks with field commanders. 
 General Casey, who is 58, has been the overall commander for two and a half years, and is expected to leave before the summer, possibly sooner. In addition to General Chiarelli, two other three-star officers, Lt. Gen. David H. Petraeus and Lt. Gen. Martin E. Dempsey, are also said to be in line to succeed him in what is now a four-star post here. 
 Like General Chiarelli, the others have served as division commanders in Iraq, then returned for second tours, both as commanders of the multibillion-dollar program to train Iraq's new forces. General Petraeus now heads the army's Combined Arms Center at Fort Leavenworth, Kan. General Dempsey is the head of the training program in Baghdad. 
 Because the Iraq study group's report and other studies have urged a new emphasis on training and equipping the Iraqi forces, and deploying more American troops in Iraqi units, some senior officers believe General Petraeus or General Dempsey may be preferred when Mr. Gates recommends a new Iraq commander to President Bush.
 General Chiarelli's strengths appear to rest heavily on his reputation as the most outspoken proponent of a counterinsurgency strategy that gives equal or greater weight to social and economic actions aimed at undermining the enemy as it does to force of arms. In Iraq, the military has taken to calling these two strands of strategy kinetic, meaning the use of lethal force, and nonkinetic, meaning efforts to rebuild Iraq's decrepit infrastructure and create jobs.
 General Chiarelli, a 56-year-old Seattle native, has become the best-known advocate of nonkinetic policies among senior army commanders. He has written articles about it, and has pressed his views ardently during his current tour, as well as on his previous 12-month stint, ending in early 2005, as commander of the First Cavalry Division. 
 After Christmas, he will take up a new post in Washington as an assistant to Gen. John P. Abizaid, head of the United States Central Command, working on developing the military capabilities of friendly countries in the Middle East and Central Asia. His successor as operational commander here, Lt. Gen. Raymond T. Odierno, previously led the Fourth Infantry Division in Iraq, whose units drew criticism for what some military analysts have described as having heavy-handed dealings with Iraqi civilians under his command.
 General Chiarelli responded impatiently when asked whether time had run out for his strategy of balancing the use of force with other ''lines of action'' that would attack the root causes of the violence. Those other approaches, he said, would include pump-priming investments in Iraqi factories and other businesses that would create jobs, as well as in agriculture; renewed pressure on the Iraqi government to promote ''reconciliation'' between warring Shiite and Sunni groups; and fresh efforts to build trust between the American forces and Iraqis.
 In his remarks Tuesday and in an interview last week, Gen. Chiarelli spoke with disappointment about the failure to spend more money on programs to create jobs, to deliver better services to Iraqi homes, and to revive Iraqi industry and agriculture. He said that more than $10 billion of the $18.4 billion Congress approved for Iraqi reconstruction had gone to building Iraq's new forces and to restoring its oil industry. 
 ''Not a penny,'' he said, had gone to agriculture, although Iraq, with enough fertile land to be the food basket of the Middle East, provides only 25 percent of its own food needs.
 In the interview, he alluded to critics, including other senior officers, who have accused him of being unrealistic about the underlying causes of Iraq's violence. 
 ''There are a lot of people who say, 'If we just go down and kill and capture them everything will be O.K.' -- sure there are people who feel that way,'' he said. ''And I'm not saying that every insurgent is going to take a job making 55-gallon drums. But my point is, do you try and reintegrate them into society, or do you just believe that everybody around here wants to have a gun and wants to go out every day playing Russian roulette on whether or not they're going to be killed by the coalition?''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Lt. Gen. Peter W. Chiarelli, the operational commander of American troops in Iraq, in Baghdad yesterday. (Photo by Johan Spanner/Polaris, for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (91%); IRAQ WAR (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); AL-QAEDA (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); JOB CREATION (71%); TERRORISM (70%); RANKINGS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2006



293 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Corrections; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 68 words

 BODY:
The Economix column in Business Day last Wednesday, about the shortcomings of official statistics on house prices, incorrectly described the rules of a real estate auction in Naples, Fla. The rules allowed the owners to reject the highest bid; to this point, some bids have been accepted, some have been rejected. A more complete discussion of this error can be found with today's Economix column on Page C14. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE AUCTIONS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); STATISTICS (88%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (88%); HOME PRICES (85%) Housing; Correction Stories; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Auctions

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPLES, FL, USA (87%) FLORIDA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) Naples (Fla)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2006



294 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; BASEBALL: ROUNDUP; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: Braves Drop Marcus Giles in Cost-Cutting Move

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
The Atlanta Braves cut ties to second baseman Marcus Giles yesterday, deciding they could no longer afford him under their budget.
 The Braves pushed hard to trade Giles, their leadoff hitter last season, during the winter meetings but could not work out a deal. So they declined to tender him a contract for 2007.
General Manager John Schuerholz said he could not risk going to arbitration with Giles, who made $3.85 million in 2006 and most likely would have commanded more than $5 million for next season. 
 ''It's not an easy decision when you're talking about somebody who's been a key guy for our team over the years and grew up in our organization,'' Schuerholz said. ''But it's a fact of the matter with the economics of this business. As salaries continue to rise, we've got to use our assets the best way we can to put our most balanced team together.''
 The 28-year-old Giles made the All-Star team in 2003, his first full season as a starter. He wound up batting .316 with 21 home runs and 69 runs batted in, all career highs. But Giles was plagued by injuries and was clearly uncomfortable when the Braves moved him into the leadoff spot last season. He slumped to .262 with 11 homers, 60 R.B.I. and 10 stolen bases.
 Giles can negotiate with any team, but it is clear that San Diego would be his first choice. His older brother, outfielder Brian Giles, plays for their hometown Padres.

ASTROS ACQUIRE JENNINGS -- The Astros acquired Jason Jennings yesterday from Colorado to replace Andy Pettitte in their starting rotation. Five days after a potential trade with the Chicago White Sox for Jon Garland came apart, Houston acquired Jennings and pitcher Miguel Asencio from the Rockies for outfielder Willy Taveras and pitchers Taylor Buchholz and Jason Hirsh, who all would have been sent to the White Sox.
 Jennings, who was born in Dallas, was 9-13 with a 3.78 earned run average last season. He will make $5.5 million in 2007 and is eligible to become a free agent after next season. He is Colorado's career leader in victories with 58 and shutouts with 3.
 Jennings will be Houston's No. 2 starter behind Roy Oswalt. They will be joined in the rotation by Wandy Rodriguez and the free-agent pickup Woody Williams. The Astros are unsure whether Roger Clemens will return for a fourth season with his hometown team.
 Taveras batted .278 with a home run and 30 R.B.I. last season. He had a 30-game hitting streak that ended Aug. 29. Buchholz, whose medical reports may have caused the White Sox to back off a trade, was 6-10 with a 5.89 E.R.A. in 19 starts and three relief appearances. Hirsh, a 24-year-old prospect who is highly rated, made his major league debut last season and was 3-4 with a 6.04 E.R.A. in nine starts. (AP)

KAPLER RETIRES -- Red Sox outfielder Gabe Kapler retired yesterday after nine major league seasons to start a managerial career with the team's Class A farm team in Greenville, S.C., a move he hopes will lead to a big-league job. Kapler, 31, will take over the Drive of the South Atlantic League. He was a backup for the latter part of his career and finished with a .270 batting average with 64 homers and 302 R.B.I. Last season, he batted .254 with 2 homers and 12 R.B.I. in 72 games. (AP)

GAGNE AND RANGERS IN ACCORD -- Reliever Eric Gagne and the Texas Rangers reached a preliminary agreement yesterday on a one-year contract worth about $6 million. The agreement was confirmed by a person with knowledge of the negotiations who was granted anonymity because no announcement had been made. The deal would allow Gagne to earn about $5 million more in performance bonuses.
 The Rangers did complete a one-year, $6 million contract for center fielder Kenny Lofton, a six-time All-Star. Texas also met with the free-agent pitcher Mark Mulder. (AP)


GRAPHIC: Photo: Marcus Giles had his best season in 2003, when he batted .316 with 21 home runs and 69 runs batted in. (Photo by John Dunn for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); BUDGETS (90%); ATHLETES (86%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (71%) Baseball

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTA BRAVES (94%) Atlanta Braves

PERSON: Marcus Giles

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (88%); DALLAS, TX, USA (53%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%) GEORGIA, USA (88%); TEXAS, USA (53%); ILLINOIS, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2006



295 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET PLACE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: Visions of Bonus Heaven In Goldman Sachs Profit

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON; John Holusha contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Money is not supposed to grow on trees. Unless you happen to work at Goldman Sachs. 
 The investment bank reported earnings yesterday that left jaws agape on Wall Street. Quarterly profits soared 93 percent. The bank earned nearly as much per share in 2006 as it had in the last two years combined, both of which were also record years. Immediately after the results were released, they were labeled the best ever by an American investment bank.
The figures were certainly good news to the scores of Goldman bankers and traders who will find out, starting today, what their bonuses will be. Chances are good they will be impressive: the bank is paying $16.5 billion in compensation this year, or roughly $623,418 for every employee.
 Wealth on Wall Street is not distributed evenly, of course. Rainmakers in investment banking can expect to see $20 million to $25 million each while traders who booked big profits will take home a chunk of those profits, up to $50 million apiece, according to senior executives at leading Wall Street banks. 
 ''Anyone at the bonus line at Goldman Sachs died and went to bonus heaven,'' said Michael Holland, chairman of Holland & Company, a New York-based investment firm. ''It doesn't get any better than this.''
 The bonuses at Goldman, the leading merger adviser in the industry, and elsewhere on Wall Street (Lehman Brothers and Bear Stearns report earnings later this week, and their earnings are expected to be robust as well) are expected to give the New York area's economy a substantial boost, particularly in sales of high-end residential real estate, luxury cars and other pricey goods. 
 ''When these guys learn what their bonuses are, we are among the first people they call,'' said Pamela Liebman, the chief executive of the Corcoran Group, a residential brokerage. ''They call their mothers, and then their real estate brokers.'' 
 Investment banking earnings are often proxies for the health of the American and global economy. And conditions have been ripe for Goldman and its competitors to mint money. 
 Stock markets have been on a tear for months, while credit markets -- far bigger than the equity markets -- have continued to be robust. Credit derivatives continue to grow at a geometric pace, with $27 trillion outstanding. Opportunities abound to invest in companies, trade securities or advise clients in markets around the world, including China, Russia and the Middle East. 
 Private equity firms continue to buy increasingly large companies -- witness the Blackstone Group's $36 billion acquisition of Equity Office Properties Trust, the nation's largest office-building owner and manager, a deal Goldman advised on. And hedge funds, which account for 40 to 80 percent of trading in certain markets, represent significant profit-making potential for Wall Street -- and, of course, for Wall Street's persistent leader.
 For the year, Goldman produced record revenue of $37.7 billion and a record profit of $9.5 billion, or $19.69 a share.
 In the fourth quarter, the bank earned $3.15 billion, or $6.59 a share, on revenue of $9.41 billion. Investment banking revenue climbed 42 percent, to $1.3 billion, and trading and principal investments rose 57 percent, to $6.6 billion.
 Even David Viniar, Goldman Sach's cautious chief financial officer, sounded vaguely optimistic.
 ''Our economists' view is that we will continue to have good economic growth, somewhat slower in the U.S., somewhat better in Europe and very good in Asia,'' Mr. Viniar said. And ''our business tends to be tied to economic growth more than anything else.'' 
 Fueling Mr. Viniar's optimism is the breadth of Goldman's business as well as the number of deals the bank has in the pipeline, the so-called backlog. That pipeline is more robust than it has been at any point since 2000, Mr. Viniar said.
 Like many universal and investment banks, Goldman Sachs has transformed its business to capitalize on sea changes in the capital markets, particularly new opportunities in far-flung markets and a shift from issuing and trading plain-vanilla stocks and bonds to building and trading complex derivative products. That shift is apparent in the makeup of Goldman's revenue. 
 In 1997, investment banking and trading and principal investments produced roughly the same revenue ($2.6 billion and $2.9 billion, respectively), for total net revenue of $7.4 billion.
 In 2006, investment banking earned $5.6 billion while trading and principal investments produced $25.6 billion -- almost 70 percent of the total $37.7 billion in net revenue.
 Goldman derives significant profits from acting as an investor, deploying the firm's capital to buy and sell companies. In the second quarter, the bank spent $2.6 billion for a 5 percent stake in the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, China's largest state-owned bank ($1.6 billion came from Goldman Sachs's private equity funds and the remainder was financed off Goldman's balance sheet). When the giant Chinese bank went public in October in the largest initial public offering ever, Goldman's stake soared in value. For the fourth quarter, Goldman earned $949 million in profits from the investment. 
 It made another half a billion dollars on the sale of the Accordia Golf Company, a portfolio of Japanese golf courses that Goldman began to acquire in 2001.
 Investors seemed to question whether the good times could continue. Goldman's stock traded down $2.52, or 1.2 percent, to $200. ''The stock being down almost shows they are victims of their own success,'' said Jeffrey Harte, a securities industry analyst at Sandler O'Neill. ''Ninety-seven percent year-on-year earnings growth is spectacular,'' referring to earnings per share.
 Goldman's returns do not come without significant risk. Banks use ''value at risk'' to calibrate how much money they could potentially lose in particular trading strategies over a set period of time. Goldman's average value at risk soared 33 percent in the fourth quarter, to $106 million this year from $80 million at the end of November 2005. For the year, value at risk totaled $101 million, compared with $70 million in 2005. 
 And yet Goldman's size seems to insulate it from downturns in some of its businesses. For example, the firm has aggressively developed internal hedge funds for wealthy investors, which generate high fees for Goldman. The bank's flagship hedge fund, Global Alpha, is down more than 11 percent from a year, a drastic change from 2005 when the fund returned more than 40 percent after fees. The impact of the fund's poor performance will be booked in January, but fees from smaller accounts that match the strategies of Global Alpha were down 78 percent in the fourth quarter, to $23 million. 
 Mr. Viniar acknowledged that the fund's returns would adversely impact first quarter earnings but expressed optimism about the growth of the hedge fund industry. 
 ''The hedge fund asset class is a growing asset class,'' he said. ''It is one that is sensible. It is one that a lot of people with money to invest are interested in. It will continue to grow at a reasonable pace moving forward.'' 
 His unusual optimism did not completely outweigh his characteristic caution, however. Asked about the quality of deals in the backlog, Mr. Viniar was quick to point out, ''Conditions in the capital markets can change quickly and no backlog is ever guaranteed.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Goldman Sachs reported a 93 percent leap in fourth-quarter profit yesterday. The results were called the best ever by an American investment bank. (Photo by Cary Conover for The New York Times)Chart: ''Year of Magical Profit''Rewards for Goldman Sachs and its employees soared in 2006.Graph tracks Goldman's revenue and total employee compensation since 2000.Fiscal years ended November(Sources by company reports
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (78%); BONDS (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MERGERS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); PRIVATE EQUITY (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); OFFICE PROPERTY (68%); LUXURY GOODS (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) Company Reports ; Bonuses; Stocks and Bonds; Records and Achievements

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (90%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (58%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Goldman Sachs Group; Goldman Sachs Group

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); BX (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%)

PERSON: Jenny Anderson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2006



296 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIX; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1277 words

HEADLINE: What Money Doesn't Buy In Health Care

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
In a packed hearing room at the Food and Drug Administration last week, a panel of cardiac experts met to consider what was obviously an important question: Has one of the most popular treatments for heart disease in fact been killing some of the patients it is meant to help?
 Three years ago, doctors began using a new device called a drug-coated stent -- a tiny metal tube -- to keep blocked heart arteries open. It cost a lot more than an uncoated stent, but because it seemed to be far more effective, it quickly began to dominate the stent market. Last year, Johnson & Johnson and Boston Scientific together sold more than one million drug-coated stents. They have become a primary treatment for this country's No. 1 cause of death.
 In recent months, though, researchers found a disturbing pattern. People with a drug-coated stent seemed unusually vulnerable to blood clots in later years. The new stents solved one problem, but they may have created another. So the F.D.A. summoned its cardiology advisers to review the evidence. 
 After listening to testimony, they concluded that for healthier patients with simple forms of heart disease, the benefits of drug-coated stents appeared to outweigh the risks. The picture was less clear for people with diabetes, multiple blocked arteries or other complications. In the end, the panel concluded that doctors and patients needed to be aware of the risks and that researchers should continue collecting data. The entire affair -- from the invention of the new stent to the willingness to reconsider it -- was in many ways an impressive display of American medicine. 
 Yet it was also a nearly perfect example of what's wrong with our health care system.
 See, there was an elephant in the hearing room last week that went almost entirely ignored. One study after another has found that whether or not a stent is coated, angioplasty -- the process of opening up an artery before a stent is inserted -- and stenting do not actually reduce the risk of heart attack or extend life span for most patients. 
 ''There's a much more liberal use of angioplasty and stenting than there needs to be,'' Dr. Eric J. Topol, a member of the panel, told me last week.
 Dr. Calvin L. Weisberger, the top cardiologist at Kaiser Permanente, said, ''A large pool of angioplasties and bypass surgeries are being done without scientific evidence.''
 The problem is that there's nobody whose job it is to say no. The F.D.A. steps in when there are safety concerns. But no federal agency or medical group takes action when an expensive form of treatment becomes far more common than it needs to be -- which is a big reason that health care spending is rising so rapidly.
 Angioplasty dates back to the 1970s, and stents became a part of the process in the 1990s. Doctors have assumed, sensibly enough, that blocked arteries caused heart attacks by preventing blood from reaching the heart. Opening those arteries would keep the blood flowing.
 But when researchers tried to prove the theory, they kept coming up empty. The reason seems to be that heart attacks aren't generally caused by a big buildup of plaque that blocks an artery. They occur instead when a small piece of plaque bursts, causing a cascade that can suddenly clog an open artery. The best way to reduce the risk of that is through cholesterol-lowering drugs, diet and exercise, rather than by opening up a couple of clogged arteries.
 Yet stent use keeps growing. ''Cardiologists just believe that if you open up a blockage, you're going to help someone,'' said Dr. Judith S. Hochman, director of the cardiovascular clinical research center at New York University. ''And they make money from these procedures.''
 Ah, yes -- money. Medicare typically pays $12,000 to $15,000 for a coated stent procedure, according to Thomas Gunderson of Piper Jaffray. Angioplasty and stenting have accounted for almost 10 percent of the increase in the nation's health care spending since the mid-1990s, Jonathan S. Skinner, a Dartmouth economist, estimates.
 As I've written before, we sometimes worry too much about medical spending. An affluent society should devote an ever-growing share of its resources to health care. And stents can be a wonderful thing. They greatly benefit people if implanted during a heart attack or soon after, research has found, by getting blood moving again. They can also reduce chest pain in heart disease patients who have angina, which is no small thing.
 But that still leaves a large number of patients -- those without symptoms and those who had a heart attack several days earlier -- receiving a stent for little reason. Dr. Topol said he thought these cases could add up to 20 percent of all procedures. 
 Dr. David D. Waters, a cardiologist at the University of California, San Francisco, said one study found the angioplasty rate to be twice as high among a group of American patients as it was among a group of Canadians. But the Americans didn't have better survival rates and had only somewhat less angina. 
 Economic incentives for doctors (including their paychecks and their fear of lawsuits) to choose the most aggressive treatment certainly play a big role. At Kaiser, where doctors tend to be paid a set salary regardless of which procedures they do, angioplasty rates are lower. 
 But we patients deserve some of the blame, too. We've come to believe that aggressive treatment somehow offers us the best chance to stay healthy, even when the evidence says otherwise. ''This is a society that demands that everything that can conceivably be tested or done or fixed should be,'' Dr. Hochman said. ''Other cultures are not like that.''
 That's why fixing the health care system is going to be difficult. To save real money, reform can't simply be about taking profits away from doctors or insurers. It will also have to involve an acknowledgment that, sometimes, Medicare or an insurance policy should nudge people away from the latest, greatest treatment.
 I don't mean to suggest that decisions about stenting are easy. No two patients are the same, and it's possible that future research will help in understanding who benefits from a stent and who doesn't. For now, though, maybe one way to spend less money on heart care is to stop thinking about the money.
 We know there is a large group of patients who do not seem to be helped by angioplasty. We also know that while the procedure is usually safe, complications from it still probably kill a few thousand Americans every year. 
 As Dr. Weisberger says he tells his patients: ''There's risk. You don't want to do this for nothing.'' 

Correction
 I made two mistakes last week when describing a real estate auction in Naples, Fla. First, I used the word ''bidders'' to describe the roughly 500 people at the auction. Not all of them placed a bid, though, so ''audience members'' would have been a better description.
 Second, I described the houses at the auction as having been sold. But the auction rules gave the homeowners the right to reject the winning bids and hold onto their properties. The owner and bank lenders haven't made final decisions on the four properties mentioned in the column and the graphic, according to Paul Drake, who helped run the auction.
 If the bids are rejected, it will make the auction an excellent microcosm of the real estate market right now. From California to the Northeast, many sellers are refusing to accept the offers they have received -- which are, by definition, the current market values of the homes -- and the number of home sales has plummeted. That's the main reasonthe official statistics on house prices are so misleading.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by MedSystems, via Bloomberg News)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (91%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (90%); DRUG DELIVERY SYSTEMS (90%); MEDICAL DEVICES (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); HEART DISEASE (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (90%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (90%); CARDIOLOGY (89%); EVIDENCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); DIABETES (72%); SCIENCE NEWS (69%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (69%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (68%) Heart; Angioplasty (Surgical Procedure); Stents; Research; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Health Insurance and Managed Care; Heart

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (70%); KAISER PERMANENTE (62%); BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (93%) Food and Drug Administration

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (70%); BSX (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (70%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (62%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (62%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (56%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (56%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (56%)

PERSON: David Leonhardt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2006



297 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 388 words

HEADLINE: Of Prices and Paychecks

 BODY:
As chairman of the Federal Reserve, Ben Bernanke is the nation's top inflation cop. When he expresses alarm -- as he has done of late over rising labor costs -- his concern drives policy, as it apparently did yesterday when the Fed's interest rate committee decided to hold rates steady in a bid to dampen inflationary pressures. 
 But of all the reasons Mr. Bernanke might have for fretting about inflation, rising wages should not be one of them. For starters, wage growth is slowing, not rising. True, wages were up three cents an hour last month. But researchers at the Economic Policy Institute who measured wages over three-month periods found that hourly wages slowed from a 4.7 percent annual growth rate for June through August to 3.1 percent for September through November. Working Americans have more to spend lately, but that's not because of any big acceleration in pay; rather, it's because prices have eased, mainly for energy.
Taking a broader view, the job market is -- unfortunately -- the last place one would look for signs of overheating in the Bush-era economy. Of the four economic expansions in modern times that have lasted at least five years, the current one has the worst job creation record by far. This year, job growth has averaged just enough to absorb the new job seekers entering the labor force each month.
 Which leads us back to Mr. Bernanke. Where does his fear about inflationary wage pressures come from? Perhaps the importance of establishing his inflation-fighting credentials is causing him to react strongly to any perceived threats. For instance, if workers took advantage of lower gas prices to spend freely elsewhere, inflation could conceivably break out. But there is not much evidence of that so far. 
 Or maybe Mr. Bernanke is worried that pay raises in relatively strong job fields -- like engineering, law and health care -- will soon be passed on to consumers. Betting that companies will compel consumers, rather than shareholders, to foot the bill for higher salaries could prove to be a safe wager. 
 Another good bet at this point is, sadly, that the economy will continue to downshift in 2007, removing any upward wage pressures that may exist. An economy that has not been good for jobs and wages during its strong growth phase is not likely to become so as it weakens. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (93%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INFLATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); JOB CREATION (74%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (67%) United States Economy; Editorials; Credit; Labor; Wages and Salaries; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Interest Rates

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (57%) Federal Reserve Board

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%) Ben S (Chmn) Bernanke

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2006



298 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: Spitzer Sues UBS Over Its Fee-Based Brokerage Accounts

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON

 BODY:
The New York attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, has sued UBS, one of the world's largest private wealth managers, contending that it defrauded thousands of brokerage clients out of tens of millions of dollars by putting them into fee-based accounts unsuited for clients who trade infrequently. 
 Mr. Spitzer's office accused UBS of encouraging brokers to shift customers away from traditional accounts, where clients pay on a per-trade basis, into InsightOne accounts, fee-based accounts in which charges are based on the assets being managed for the customer.
The attorney general's complaint suggested that UBS promised clients that InsightOne accounts came with personalized advice, a promise that never materialized. ''UBS never intended to provide -- and in the end failed to provide -- InsightOne clients with a true advice-based account,'' the complaint says. It adds that the bank created incentives for brokers to move clients into the program and did not set guidelines to exclude unsuitable applicants. 
 A statement issued by a spokesman, Mark Arena, said: ''UBS categorically denies that the program was part of a scheme to disadvantage clients, and intends to defend itself vigorously in this matter.'' 
 Fee-based accounts have flourished as a way to avoid churning, the process by which brokers encourage clients to trade often to generate higher commissions. UBS started InsightOne in 1999. After the technology bubble burst in 2000, and day trading screeched to a halt, fee-based accounts became more popular. 
 In 2005, American investors had more than $268 billion in fee-based accounts. At UBS, InsightOne accounts made up about 3.5 percent of the firm's brokerage accounts in the United States, UBS said. 
 Clients generally choose an account based on the amount of trading they do. For customers who are active in the market, fee-based accounts can make more sense. For those who do not trade a lot, fee-based accounts can lead to higher commission charges.
 According to Mr. Spitzer's complaint, UBS charged a 91-year-old woman more than $35,000 for two trades over two years -- $33,000 more than she would have paid in a commission-based account. According to the complaint, one broker wrote a supervisor in August 2004: ''[N]ow we have to trade heavy or light to stay within guidelines to keep InSight alive How wrong is that? You are not looking at the best interests of the client.'' 
 UBS said the program had operated in its clients' best interests. ''While InsightOne is not a discount program, since the program's inception in 1999 UBS clients have saved hundreds of millions of dollars, in aggregate, over what they would have paid in full commissions,'' the statement said.
 In November 2003, NASD warned its broker-dealer members not to move clients into fee-based accounts without ''reasonable grounds for believing that a fee-based program is appropriate for that particular customer'' and suggested that advisers take into account service provided, projected cost to the customer, alternative fee structures available and the customer's fee-structure preferences.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); COMMISSION PAY (78%); LITIGATION (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%) 

ORGANIZATION: Ubs Ag

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (92%) Eliot (Atty Gen) Spitzer; Jenny Anderson

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2006



299 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 334 words

HEADLINE: Cost-Cutting Will Continue, H.P. Chief Says

BYLINE: By DAMON DARLIN

 BODY:
The chairman and chief executive of Hewlett-Packard, Mark V. Hurd, assured analysts and investors yesterday in Manhattan that he planned to continue cutting costs but did not foresee making major acquisitions to maintain growth. 
 ''We are a company that is transforming,'' Mr. Hurd said. ''We are not a company that is transformed.''
H.P. said that net income could grow 11 percent in its current fiscal year, ending Oct. 31, and as much as 18 percent in fiscal 2008. 
 Executives also forecast that revenue could continue to grow at a rate of 6 percent a year over the next two years, the same pace as 2006. Revenue in 2008 could reach $102.8 billion, compared with $91.7 billion in fiscal 2006. 
 Net income grew 47 percent in 2006 on a comparable per share basis. ''I would not get too overexcited by 2006, nor would I want to understate what the company accomplished in 2006,'' Mr. Hurd said at the analysts' meeting.
 ''I do believe that market trends are playing to our strengths,'' he said. The company has been helped by the shift to notebook PCs from desktop models, to more energy-efficient blade servers for data centers and the boom in digital photography.
 The company forecast reflected a confidence in the overall economy in the next two years, as well as continued confidence in spending on information technology by businesses and consumers. Several analysts said that the company's forecasts tend to be conservative so as not to surprise investors.
 Some analysts have said that the company will have difficulty improving its earnings and profit margins once it completes a major reorganization, which includes layoffs of about 15,000 employees and changes to its retirement programs. 
 Saying that the company still has ''significant opportunities to improve,'' Mr. Hurd cited plans to dispose of real estate as one way it intended to cut costs. 
 He said the company eliminated three layers of management in the last two years, but that it will continue to hire more sales representatives.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); TRENDS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (73%); SALES FORCE (60%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (51%); NETWORK SERVERS (51%) 

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Hewlett-Packard Co 

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: MARK HURD (90%) Mark V Hurd; Damon Darlin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2006



300 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: Executives Urge Action to Cut Dependence on Foreign Oil 

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 12 

 BODY:
More than a dozen prominent business executives and retired military officers, including the chairman of FedEx and a former commandant of the Marine Corps, are lobbying Congress and the White House to undertake a comprehensive campaign to reduce reliance on imported oil.
 The group, which includes top executives from the chemical, trucking and airline industries, wants much tougher fuel economy standards, not only on cars and sport utility vehicles, but also on heavy trucks, which some of the companies use. They want increased drilling offshore and within the United States, a much harder push for ethanol and other biofuels, and other changes that would permanently reduce the importance of oil as a strategic commodity and an economic force. 
While the group, called the Energy Security Leadership Council, has embraced no startling new ideas, it hopes that evidence of broad support from business and military leaders will add the weight needed to get its proposals adopted.
 Energy policy is in ''almost perfect gridlock,'' Frederick W. Smith, the founder and chief executive of FedEx, who is co-chairman of the group, said in a telephone interview. ''It's the height of folly for the U.S. to continue on this course, lest we have some major economic or national security problem. Something has to get done.'' 
 The group plans to release a details on Wednesday, to start a television and print ad campaign and to begin meeting with Congressional leaders and White House officials.
 The other co-chairman is Gen. P. X. Kelley, a retired commandant of the Marines. Also on board are top executives of Dow Chemical, Waste Management and Southwest Airlines; a former Navy secretary; and the Air Force chief of staff. 
 Among the proposals is a 4 percent annual increase in fuel economy covering vehicles up to 10,000 pounds, substantially larger than those now covered by the corporate average fuel economy, or CAFE, standard. 
 It would allow delays in improvements if 4 percent was ''technically infeasible, unsafe or not cost-effective for a given year.'' Although the current standard for light trucks has a similar escape clause, the Transportation Department has nonetheless required only small improvements in fuel economy.
 Mr. Smith noted that American energy consumption was successfully reduced after the Arab oil embargo of 1973-74, although some of the steps taken then cannot be repeated, like large-scale substitution of natural gas for oil and replacing or converting most oil-fueled electric power plants to other fuels. 
 The report also recommends recruiting other countries that rely on imported oil to help defend oil operations around the world. 
 But it rejected the concept of energy independence in favor of a goal of reducing the amount of oil per unit of economic output. There is broad consensus that the country should rely less on imports -- President Bush, in his last State of the Union speech, said that America was ''addicted to oil'' -- but Congress has taken no steps toward that goal. 
 Even before the unveiling of the plan, the organizers have lined up generalized support, if not specific endorsement, from elected officials.
 Representative Steny H. Hoyer, the Maryland Democrat who will be the House majority leader in the new Congress, said, ''When prominent C.E.O.s and military leaders get together to advocate an issue as important as energy security, people listen.'' 
 Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, the Connecticut Democrat who won re-election this fall as an independent, said the panel's composition had made him ''sit up and take notice.'' 
 Senator Richard G. Lugar, Republican of Indiana, said he welcomed the report. ''Our nation is becoming increasingly dependent on energy resources that are concentrated in places that are either hostile to American interests or vulnerable to political upheaval and terrorism,'' he said. ''I commend the council for speaking candidly about these dangers.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Frederick W. Smith, the founder and chief executive of FedEx, is part of a group that wants much tougher fuel economy standards for vehicles. (Photo by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (92%); LOBBYING (91%); EXECUTIVES (91%); BIOFUELS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); NAVIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); SPECIAL FREIGHT TRUCKING (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); CHEMICALS (77%); CHEMICALS MFG (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (77%); ALCOHOLS (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (77%); BIOMASS (76%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (76%); ETHANOL (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (76%); POWER PLANTS (74%); AIR FORCES (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (72%); AIRLINES (71%); CONSUMPTION (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); PRINT ADVERTISING (50%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; International Trade and World Market; Lobbying and Lobbyists; Automobiles; Utility Vehicles and Other Light Trucks; Trucks and Trucking; Ethanol; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Fuel Efficiency

COMPANY: DOW CHEMICAL CO (58%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Fedex Corp; Energy Security Leadership Council

TICKER: DOW (SWX) (58%); DOW (NYSE) (58%); DOW (LSE) (58%); 4850 (TSE) (58%); LUV (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%)

PERSON: FREDERICK W SMITH (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%) Frederick W Smith; P X (Gen) Kelley; George W (Pres) Bush; Matthew L Wald

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2006



301 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 423 words

HEADLINE: Trade Deficit Shows Decline For October; Exports Jump 

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The United States trade deficit shrank by the most in almost five years in October as the price of imported oil fell and faster growth abroad propelled exports to a record, the Commerce Department said yesterday. 
 The gap narrowed 8.4 percent, to $58.9 billion, according to the report. The narrowing came even as the United States had a record shortfall with China, which is on course to surpass Mexico this year as the country's second-largest trading partner, behind Canada.
A weaker dollar and demand from Europe and Asia may stimulate exports and limit weakness in manufacturing, keeping the economy expanding as housing slumps. 
 At the same time, the widening deficit with China is adding to tensions between the nations, friction that the Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., will seek to ease in meetings in Beijing this week.
 ''We're seeing slow but steady growth in exports, and I expect to see that continue,'' said Chris Low, chief economist at FTN Financial in New York. ''The big standout in the report was the new peak in the deficit with China. It may be time for Paulson to turn up the volume in pressuring China.''
 Mr. Paulson, and Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, are among a group of officials going to China this week.
 Shipments to Germany, Japan, Central America, South America and members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries were higher. 
 Economists expected the trade deficit to narrow to $63 billion, from $64.3 billion in September. October's gap was the smallest since August 2005.
 Imports of goods and services fell 2.7 percent in October, the most since December 2001, to $182.5 billion. The deficit in petroleum products declined by $3.9 billion, to $18.8 billion, the smallest since June last year. 
 Consumer goods imports rose $238 million, to $38.3 billion, reflecting demand for medicines, toys and stereo equipment.
 Exports rose 0.2 percent, to $123.6 billion. The gain reflected increasing demand for computers, drilling equipment and medicines.
 ''We have strong growth abroad and that is good for exports,'' said Elisabeth Denison, an economist at Dresdner Kleinwort in New York. ''That should lead to a stabilization'' in the trade deficit next year, she said.
 The trade deficit with China rose to $24.4 billion, from $23 billion in September. Imports from China rose to $29.3 billion in October. United States exports to the country rose to $4.9 billion, from $4.6 billion. Year to date, total trade with China reached $281 billion, passing Mexico's $278.3 billion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (92%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); IMPORT PRICES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); US DOLLAR (73%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (61%) 

COMPANY: COMMERZBANK HOLDINGS (UK) LTD (63%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (54%) Commerce Department

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (63%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (63%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (63%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (77%); BEN BERNANKE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (72%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2006



302 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 110 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Queens: Mayor Seeks Plan For City's Population Growth 

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL; Compiled by John Sullivan

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced an elaborate campaign yesterday to engage the public in devising an environmentally sound plan to address the city's growing population and aging infrastructure through 2030. Mr. Bloomberg made the announcement at the Queens Museum of Art accompanied by videos and images of himself in a plaid bathrobe making toast and drinking coffee to illustrate the many systems, like water and electricity, that the average New Yorker taps into daily. Mr. Bloomberg said the city would seek ideas to meet 10 main goals, including housing for almost a million people, more mass transit and the cleanup of contaminated land. DIANE CARDWELL 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POPULATION SIZE (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (84%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (82%); SOIL CONTAMINATION (82%) Area Planning and Renewal; Population

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%) Diane Cardwell; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2006



303 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: Rescue Plan For Hospital In Hoboken

BYLINE: By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

DATELINE: HOBOKEN, N.J., Dec. 11 

 BODY:
Over the last two decades, this city has transcended its blue-collar roots and become a cosmopolitan outpost of renovated brownstones, luxury condominiums and fashionable shops. Yet prosperity has skipped over the city's only hospital -- and also New Jersey's oldest -- St. Mary Hospital, which has lost nearly $100 million in the last five years.
 Situated in an area that health care analysts say already has too many hospitals, St. Mary is usually unable to fill even half of its 328 beds and needs million of dollars in renovations. In the New Jersey Hospital Association's recent analysis of the finances of 55 troubled hospitals in the state, St. Mary was found to be in the worst shape.
But as New Jersey looks for ways to close as many as two dozen of its financially troubled hospitals, St. Mary, which was founded in 1863, has escaped that threat, at least temporarily. 
 When the owner, the Bon Secours Health Care System, a Maryland company run by an order of Roman Catholic nuns, announced this spring that it planned to close the hospital, city officials, including the mayor, David Roberts, state legislators and the governor's office pieced together an unusual plan to keep it afloat by having the city take it over and pumping in an infusion of public funds.
 To head this new venture, officials have proposed a former board chairman of the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, which is currently under federal supervision for defrauding Medicaid and squandering hundreds of millions of tax dollars in the past decade. The proposed leader, Harvey A. Holzberg, has never himself been accused of any wrongdoing at the state medical school. 
 Some critics contend the officials intervened because Hoboken is home to Gov. Jon S. Corzine, Senator Robert Menendez and the Senate majority leader, Bernard F. Kenny Jr. And Assemblywoman Joan M. Quigley of Hudson County, one of the hospital's administrators, sits on the powerful Budget and Appropriations Committee. 
 But supporters say a city takeover is a prudent solution because converting the hospital to a publicly run entity will make it eligible for tens of millions of dollars in additional state and federal funds. The plan also asks the City of Hoboken to guarantee $52 million in bonds to upgrade the hospital, a proposal that is awaiting review by the state's Local Finance Board and is scheduled for a vote by the City Council this month. 
 Although that figure would double Hoboken's current debt, Ms. Quigley said the risk to the city was limited. Even if the hospital were to fail, the land, which the Bon Secours nuns are selling to Hoboken for $1, is valued at more than $30 million.
 She and other hospital supporters say it is essential that St. Mary be saved because Hoboken is often clogged by traffic from the Holland Tunnel, and it can take city residents half an hour or more to drive to the Jersey City Medical Center, the next-closest emergency room.
 ''This community needs a hospital,'' Ms. Quigley said. ''And when no one else was willing to meet that obligation, Mayor Roberts came up with an innovative way to do it.''
 But some Hoboken residents, concerned that the venture is an expensive gamble that could threaten the fiscal viability of the city, have called for less costly alternatives, like keeping the emergency care unit open but converting the rest of the hospital into clinics or housing for the elderly.
 Moreover, they say that St. Mary's $130 million annual budget is more than the city and school budget combined, and that if the city were one day forced to repay the bonds, Hoboken's already steep property taxes could shoot even higher.
 ''Public hospitals are failing all over the country and Hoboken has no experience running a hospital,'' said Tony Soares, a former City Council president. ''It's nice to try and save jobs and to have an emergency room still in the community. But I don't want to live in a bankrupt city.''
 Still, thousands of residents have rallied to save St. Mary, which provides 1,000 jobs, convenient health care and civic pride. Mayor Roberts says it is ''unimaginable'' that his bustling community would be without a hospital.
 Because of the city's status as a transportation hub just a PATH train stop from Manhattan, Mr. Roberts says the hospital has the potential to be a prestigious health care center and an economic powerhouse.
 ''This can be one of the premier health care facilities in the state,'' said Mr. Holzberg, the man chosen to lead the new hospital, and who helped lead a similar turnaround at Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital in New Brunswick.
 Mr. Holzberg said he planned to overhaul the emergency room at St. Mary, renovate the hospital to provide more semiprivate rooms, and improve the food to attract more patients. He has also proposed strengthening ties with teaching hospitals in the area -- a sentiment that made him propose changing the name to Hoboken University Hospital even though there is no Hoboken University.
 In a detailed business plan describing the aspirations for St. Mary, three pages are devoted to Mr. Holzberg's successes at Robert Wood Johnson, but there is no mention of his more recent experience at the troubled University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, where he was a board member from 1997 to 2003, serving as chairman for a year.
 He said it was unfair to hold him accountable for the financial mismanagement there. ''I was the on the board, not the C.E.O.,'' Mr. Holzberg said. ''And I was never accused of anything improper. Nothing.''
 But residents here who are skeptical of the proposal say it is also missing other important pieces of information. Among their concerns are these:
 How will Hoboken pay off the bonds if the hospital fails and the city's real estate market continues to soften?
 How will the city fill the hospital's budget gap if the anticipated federal aid does not materialize?
 Who will cover the high pension and severance costs if the hospital has to be closed, and how much will Mr. Holzberg be paid to manage the hospital?
 ''We're making this major long-term commitment, but there are so many unanswered questions,'' said Michael Lenz, Hoboken's former chief financial officer, who is opposed to the takeover.
 As the bailout plan for St. Mary inches forward, Wall Street bond analysts and other New Jersey communities where hospitals are endangered are watching closely. 
 Mr. Corzine signed a bill in June authorizing Hoboken and other cities to form authorities to run their own hospitals, after Ms. Quigley cast the deciding vote in favor of his controversial budget plan in the Assembly committee, though the two say those two issues were unrelated. Mr. Corzine also says his residency in Hoboken did not sway him and that he supports the city's takeover of St. Mary on its own merits. 
 Still, many critics of the plan say Mr. Corzine placed the future of the hospital above his call for fiscal prudence because he lives here.
 ''Why rush into this risky, expensive proposal?'' said Beth Mason, a Hoboken resident. ''Why not make it a model of fiscal responsibility? We should take the time to give the city a plan that's workable, that meets our community's need and that doesn't threaten to destroy our finances.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Assemblywoman Joan M. Quigley, an administrator of St. Mary Hospital in Hoboken, is one of the backers of a plan to save it. (Photo by Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOSPITALS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MEDICAID (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); CITIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (86%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); GOVERNORS (74%); APPROPRIATIONS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); DENTISTRY (71%); MAYORS (71%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (70%); MEDICARE FRAUD (69%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (67%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (64%); ETHICS (63%); POLITICAL PARTIES (62%); BONDS (60%); RELIGION (52%) Medicine and Health; Hospitals; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Medicine and Health; Frauds and Swindling; Ethics; Medicaid; Shutdowns (Institutional)

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MEDICINE & DENTISTRY OF NEW JERSEY (66%)

ORGANIZATION: St Mary Hospital (Hoboken, NJ); University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey; Bon Secours Health Systems

PERSON: DAVID A ROBERTS (84%); JON CORZINE (77%); BOB MENENDEZ (57%) David Kocieniewski; David Roberts; Joan M (Assemblywoman) Quigley; Jon S (Gov) Corzine; Harvey A Holzberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) Hoboken (NJ); New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2006



304 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1171 words

HEADLINE: White House to Delay Shift On Iraq Until Early in 2007 

BYLINE: By JIM RUTENBERG and DAVID E. SANGER; Reporting was contributed by Thom Shanker, David S. Cloud, Sheryl Gay Stolberg and Helene Cooper.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 12 

 BODY:
The White House said Tuesday that President Bush would delay presenting any new strategy for Iraq until early next year, as officials suggested that Mr. Bush's advisers were locked in internal debates on several fronts about how to proceed.
 The absence of an immediate new American plan for Iraq is adding to anxiety among Iraq's moderate neighbors, who identify with the country's minority Sunni Arab population, and has opened the way for new proposals from many quarters, in Iraq as well as in Washington, about the next steps. But several administration officials said Mr. Bush had concluded that the decisions about troops, political pressure and diplomacy were too complicated to rush in order to lay out a plan to the nation before Christmas.
The White House decision prompted criticism from Democratic Congressional leaders and from at least one Republican senator who said Mr. Bush was failing to show sufficient urgency about Iraq despite months of escalating violence there. 
 The Iraq Study Group's report last week portrayed the situation in Iraq as ''grave and deteriorating,'' and on Tuesday alone, 70 Iraqis were killed and more than 200 wounded in a truck-bomb attack in a central Baghdad square. [Page A20.] 
 Among the complicated debates under way within the administration is the question of whether the United States should dispatch more American troops to Baghdad as part of a short-term surge aimed at quashing such attacks. The idea of a surge has been raised repeatedly by Stephen J. Hadley, the national security adviser, but has prompted skepticism from commanders on the ground about its effectiveness.
 Gen. Peter Pace, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, is not expected to advocate a surge when he briefs Mr. Bush at the Pentagon on Wednesday. A White House official said Mr. Hadley was only keeping options open for the president and not necessarily advocating one over another.
 A central thrust of the discussions at all levels of the administration is how to pressure Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki to move faster to provide basic services and quell sectarian violence -- some of which stems from his powerful supporter, the radical Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr -- and whether to force him to meet certain benchmarks or face penalties and rewards, also to be determined. 
 The administration is also debating whether to back a Shiite government in the conflict with the Sunnis, or to seek a new strategy for national reconciliation between Sunni and Shiite factions that would be intended to expand the political base of Mr. Maliki, at Mr. Sadr's expense. 
 Some members of the administration, including some in Vice President Dick Cheney's office, have argued that the administration needs to provide clear support to a strong Shiite majority government, but the State Department, led by Condoleezza Rice, views that as a recipe for perpetual civil war. Ms. Rice has instead advocated a proposal intended to woo centrist Sunni leaders to Mr. Maliki's side, including provincial leaders. One senior administration official said reports of internal arguments on this issue were ''overblown'' because ''everyone believes in national reconciliation.''
 The internal administration discussions were described by officials from the Pentagon, the State Department, the White House and outside the administration who had been briefed on the deliberations. None of them were willing to be identified, but they represented various points of view in the debate.
 Mr. Bush consulted by videoconference on Tuesday morning with top American commanders in Baghdad, and the White House announced shortly afterward that the strategy would be made known later than previously announced. 
 In an interview, Senator Chuck Hagel, the Nebraska Republican who is often critical of the president's war policy, called the delay ''unpardonable'' and added: ''Every day that goes by, we are losing ground.'' Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic leader in the Senate, said in a statement, ''Waiting and delaying on Iraq serves no one's interests.''
 A senior administration official said Mr. Bush had decided over the last two days to prolong the deliberations based on a concern that a pre-Christmas announcement might quickly be overtaken by events. That happened to Mr. Bush in late 2005 after he used a series of speeches to unveil a ''Plan for Victory'' in Iraq.
 ''The president knows he's got only one shot at this speech,'' said a senior administration official involved in the debate. ''He didn't want to make half-way announcements.''
 Tony Snow, the White House press secretary, said the administration was continuing to ''whittle away at options'' and seeking more information from advisers, but already had a clear idea of the general outlines of his new approach. Mr. Bush also wanted to allow more time for Robert M. Gates, the incoming defense secretary, to weigh the military options he will ultimately have to carry out, the spokesman said. But Mr. Snow acknowledged that the debate continued.
 ''Look, there is one camp -- it is the camp that works for the president,'' Mr. Snow said. ''Now, people are going to have disagreements, and there may be some areas on which there are still going to be debates, but most have kind of been ironed out. I would not rule out the fact that there may be some discussion on some points.''
 Several officials said the administration was currently leaning away from a plan advocated by some in Mr. Cheney's office in which the United States would effectively choose sides and direct outsized support to Iraqi Shiites at the expense of the Sunnis. Some administration officials say the discussion about tilting toward Shiites may be intended in part to put pressure on Sunni leaders who might crack down on extremists within their ranks to pre-empt any such policy change.
 Ms. Rice has instead advocated propping up moderate Sunnis and encouraging them to support Mr. Maliki. As part of that approach, the United States would work with Sunni tribal leaders who have become disenchanted with the Sunni insurgency, a move long advocated by Saudi Arabia.
 Mr. Bush met Tuesday with the Iraqi vice president, Tariq al-Hashemi, an influential moderate Sunni who would presumably be part of the coalition supporting Mr. Maliki. That meeting was initially planned for next month but the White House said Mr. Hashemi had requested an earlier visit.
 American officials regard security in Baghdad as essential to political and economic stability, but there continues to be debate between those who support giving Iraqis the lead in combating sectarian violence and those who do not, and those who support a large surge of forces in Baghdad and those who do not. ''Some believe there needs to be a visible demonstration of our commitment,'' a senior administration official said. But another official who does not support a surge said ''the mission in Iraq requires strategic patience and the realization that it is going to take time to get it right.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Vice President Tariq al-Hashemi of Iraq, leaving a White House meeting yesterday with President Bush. (Photo by Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A14)
 Iraqis grieved over some of the bodies of 70 people killed yesterday by a truck bomb in central Baghdad. (Photo by Karim Kadim/Associated Press)(pg. A1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); CIVIL WAR (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Shiite Muslims; Sunni Muslims; Election Issues; Bombs and Explosives

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); NOURI AL-MALIKI (89%); DICK CHENEY (78%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (78%); MOQTADA AL-SADR (58%) George W (Pres) Bush; David E Sanger; Jim Rutenberg; Chuck (Sen) Hagel; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney; Condoleezza (Sec) Rice; Peter (Gen) Pace; Nuri Kamal Al- (Prime Min) Maliki; Tariq Al- (Vice Pres) Hashemi

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%) Iraq; Iraq; Baghdad (Iraq); Iraq

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2006



305 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 13, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; THE REACH OF WAR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: Saudis Give U.S. A Grim What If 

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER; Hassan M. Fattah contributed reporting from Dubai, United Arab Emirates.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 12 

 BODY:
Saudi Arabia has told the Bush administration that it might provide financial backing to Iraqi Sunnis in any war against Iraq's Shiites if the United States pulls its troops out of Iraq, according to American and Arab diplomats.
 King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia conveyed that message to Vice President Dick Cheney two weeks ago during Mr. Cheney's whirlwind visit to Riyadh, the officials said. During the visit, King Abdullah also expressed strong opposition to diplomatic talks between the United States and Iran, and pushed for Washington to encourage the resumption of peace talks between Israel and the Palestinians, senior Bush administration officials said. 
The Saudi warning reflects fears among America's Sunni Arab allies about Iran's rising influence in Iraq, coupled with Tehran's nuclear ambitions. King Abdullah II of Jordan has also expressed concern about rising Shiite influence, and about the prospect that the Shiite-dominated government would use Iraqi troops against the Sunni population.
 A senior Bush administration official said Tuesday that part of the administration's review of Iraq policy involved the question of how to harness a coalition of moderate Iraqi Sunnis with centrist Shiites to back the Iraqi government led by Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki. 
 The Saudis have argued strenuously against an American pullout from Iraq, citing fears that Iraq's minority Sunni Arab population would be massacred. Those fears, United States officials said, have become more pronounced as a growing chorus in Washington has advocated a draw-down of American troops in Iraq, coupled with diplomatic outreach to Iran, which is largely Shiite.
 ''It's a hypothetical situation, and we'd work hard to avoid such a structure,'' one Arab diplomat in Washington said. But, he added, ''If things become so bad in Iraq, like an ethnic cleansing, we will feel we are pulled into the war.''
 The Bush administration is also working on a way to form a coalition of Sunni Arab nations and a moderate Shiite government in Iraq, along with the United States and Europe, to stand against ''Iran, Syria and the terrorists,'' another senior administration official said Tuesday. 
 Until now Saudi officials have promised their counterparts in the United States that they would refrain from aiding Iraq's Sunni insurgency. But that pledge holds only as long as the United States remains in Iraq. 
 The Saudis have been wary of supporting Sunnis in Iraq because their insurgency there has been led by extremists of Al Qaeda, who are opposed to the kingdom's monarchy. But if Iraq's sectarian war worsened, the Saudis would line up with Sunni tribal leaders. 
 The Saudi ambassador to the United States, Prince Turki al-Faisal, who told his staff on Monday that he was resigning his post, recently fired Nawaf Obaid, a consultant who wrote an opinion piece in The Washington Post two weeks ago contending that ''one of the first consequences'' of an American pullout of Iraq would ''be massive Saudi intervention to stop Iranian-backed Shiite militias from butchering Iraqi Sunnis.''
 Mr. Obaid also suggested that Saudi Arabia could cut world oil prices in half by raising its production, a move that he said ''would be devastating to Iran, which is facing economic difficulties even without today's high oil prices.'' The Saudi government disavowed Mr. Obaid's column, and Prince Turki canceled his contract.
 But Arab diplomats said Tuesday that Mr. Obaid's column reflected the view of the Saudi government, which has made clear its opposition to an American pullout from Iraq. 
 In a speech in Philadelphia last week, Prince Turki reiterated the Saudi position against an American withdrawal from Iraq. ''Just picking up and leaving is going to create a huge vacuum,'' he told the World Affairs Council. ''The U.S. must underline its support for the Maliki government because there is no other game in town.''
 Prince Turki said Saudi Arabia did not want Iraq to fracture along ethnic or religious lines. On Monday a group of prominent Saudi clerics called on Sunni Muslims around the world to mobilize against Shiites in Iraq. The statement called the ''murder, torture and displacement of Sunnis'' an ''outrage.'' 
 The resignation of Prince Turki, a former Saudi intelligence chief and a son of the late King Faisal, was supposed to be formally announced Monday, officials said, but that had not happened by late Tuesday. 
 ''They're keeping us very puzzled,'' a Saudi official said. Prince Turki's resignation was first reported Monday in The Washington Post.
 If Prince Turki does depart, he will leave after 15 months on the job, in contrast to the 22 years that his predecessor, Prince Bandar bin Sultan, spent as ambassador in Washington. 
 In Riyadh, there was a sense of disarray over Prince Turki's resignation that was difficult to hide. A former adviser to the royal family said that Prince Turki had submitted his resignation several months ago but that it was refused. Rumors had circulated ever since that Prince Turki intended to resign, as talk of a possible government shake-up grew. 
 Prince Saud al-Faisal, Saudi Arabia's foreign minister and Prince Turki's brother, has been in poor health for some time. He is described as eager to resign, with his wife's health failing, too, just as the United States has been prodding Saudi Arabia to take a more active role in Iraq and with Iran. 
 The former adviser said Prince Turki's resignation came amid a growing rivalry between the ambassador and Prince Bandar, who is now Saudi Arabia's national security adviser. Prince Bandar, well known in Washington for his access to the White House, has vied to become the next foreign minister. 
 ''This is a very high-level problem; this is about Turki, the king and Bandar,'' said the former adviser to the royal family. ''Let's say the men don't have a lot of professional admiration for each other.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (93%); RELIGION (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); TERRORISM (87%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (87%); AL-QAEDA (84%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (79%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); PEACE PROCESS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); ETHNIC GROUPS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (62%); RESIGNATIONS (61%); DISMISSALS (61%) United States International Relations; United States Armament and Defense; Sunni Muslims; Shiite Muslims; Palestinians; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (59%) Al Qaeda (Terrorist Group)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (50%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (88%); DICK CHENEY (79%); ABDULLAH BIN ABDUL AZIZ (79%) Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney; George W (Pres) Bush; Abdullah (King); Turki Al-Faisal (Prince); Nawaf Obaid; Helene Cooper

GEOGRAPHIC: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (89%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (57%) SAUDI ARABIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ISRAEL (92%); EUROPE (79%); JORDAN (79%); SYRIA (79%); IRAN (57%) Iraq; Saudi Arabia; Iraq; Iran; Israel

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2006



306 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: The Sidney Awards

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Though I'm sure they'd do a fine job, I have not asked James Baker and Lee Hamilton to select the winners of the annual Sidney Awards. Instead, I've selected the honorees -- who have written the best magazine essays of the year -- myself. 
 The first goes to Nicholas Eberstadt, who continues to show how frequently-cited statistics can disguise reality. In ''The Mismeasure of Poverty'' in Policy Review, Eberstadt notes that the percentage of Americans living under the poverty rate has been stagnant for 30 years, suggesting that antipoverty efforts have failed, and that life has not improved for the nation's poor. 
 The problem, Eberstadt continues, is that there are anomalies in the official statistics. Why does the poverty rate tend to go up as unemployment falls? Why hasn't it budged while the amounts of money the government spends on the poor have more than doubled in constant dollars?
 Eberstadt goes back and looks at how the poverty rate is calculated, and finds that it is based on idiosyncratic assumptions about how the economy and family budgets worked in 1965. He then observes two realities that are masked by our current statistics, one heartening, one disheartening. The first is that people living under the poverty line are materially much better off than they were three decades ago. They live in much bigger homes. Three-quarters own at least one motor vehicle. They spend roughly twice as much as they report as income, and not because they are going into debt. (Net worths have not declined.) In general, poor people today live at about the same standard of living as middle-class people did in the 1960s. 
 On the other hand, they live with great insecurity. In fact, relatively few people live permanently in poverty. But nearly a third of the U.S. population dips into poverty from time to time. Building on the work of Jacob Hacker, Eberstadt paints a picture of great volatility at the bottom end of the income scale -- a different image from the one portrayed by the immobile statistics, with radically different policy implications.
 The second Sidney goes to Matthew Crawford, who left his job at a think tank and went to work repairing motorcycles. In ''Shop Class as Soulcraft'' in The New Atlantis, he notices that ''There was more thinking going on in the bike shop than in the think tank.'' 
 His essay is not one of those prose poems about the virtue of working with your hands. It's about the kind of thinking craftsmen do. He points out that computers are terrible at origami because there are certain mental maneuvers that cannot be calculated but can only be absorbed through experience and passed along as lore. Why, Crawford asks, is this sort of thinking, which is imparted in shop class, being chased out of schools? Why are so many students steered toward lives in a cubicle? 
 One subtle pleasure of Crawford's essay is the way he describes the invisible struggle for agency -- the way managers take decision-making authority away from workers, the way parents take decision-making authority away from kids, the way educators close off options without any debate. 
 The third Sidney goes to Calvin Trillin, whose description in The New Yorker of his late wife, Alice, is impossible to summarize but is full of beautiful moments and memorable insights. 
 ''Do you feel more comfortable with attractive women because you don't have to worry about being resented?'' Trillin asked Alice when they were young. ''She looked at me as if I'd intruded on something that was meant to be private.'' 
 Later, he writes, ''When it came to trying to decide which theories of child-rearing were highly beneficial and which were absolutely ruinous to the future of your child -- a subject of considerable discussion among some parents we knew -- we agreed on a simple notion: your children are either the center of your life or they're not, and the rest is commentary.''
 At one point, Alice was working at a camp for children with genetic disorders. She wondered how one child, L., could be so cheerful, even though she neither grew nor could digest food. Then she saw a letter from L.'s mother: ''If God had given us all of the children in the world to choose from, L., we would only have chosen you.'' Alice pulled aside Trillin: ''Quick. Read this. It's the secret of life.''
 Links to these essays are available with the online version of this column. A bigger slew of Sidney winners will be revealed Sunday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (91%); POOR POPULATION (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POVERTY RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); POPULATION SIZE (76%); STATISTICS (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); BUDGETS (73%); WRITERS (72%); LIVING STANDARDS (71%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (64%) Writing and Writers

PERSON: David Brooks; Nicholas Eberstadt; Matthew Crawford; Calvin Trillin; Sidney (1902-1989) Hook

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2006



307 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 254 words

HEADLINE: Safety Rules for Trucks

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''As Trucking Rules Are Eased, a Debate on Safety Intensifies'' (''Loosening the Rules'' series, front page, Dec. 3): 
We take strong exception to your fundamental premise that trucking rules have been eased. The safety rules governing trucking were toughened and strengthened under the Bush administration, as they have been under Republicans and Democrats alike since economic deregulation in 1980. 
 Tougher rules issued by the administration since 2000 include those requiring the loss of a commercial driver's license for serious driving violations occurring in a passenger car during off-duty time; the requirement that all new carriers pass a safety audit by the government within the first 18 months of operation; new safety permit rules for carriers hauling hazardous materials; new training requirements for drivers of longer combination vehicles; and more stringent rules for securing loads on trucks.
 Most recently, the American Trucking Association filed a petition with the Department of Transportation to require that all new manufactured trucks be equipped with tamper-proof equipment that would govern the speed of a truck to 68 miles per hour.
 According to Department of Transportation statistics, the large truck fatality rate is at a record low, having declined 11 percent on the Bush administration's watch, and hour-of-service rules have been strengthened for the first time since 1939.

Bill Graves
President and Chief Executive
American Trucking Association
Alexandria, Va., Dec. 8, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRUCK SAFETY (90%); TRUCK DRIVERS (90%); TRANSPORTATION INDUSTRY LAW (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); HAZARDOUS MATERIALS REGULATION (73%); HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TRANSPORT (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); VEHICULAR OFFENSES (70%); DRIVERS LICENSES (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (70%); EXECUTIVES (64%); PETITIONS (53%) Trucks and Trucking; Accidents and Safety; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry

ORGANIZATION: American Trucking Assn

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush; Bill (American Trucking Assn) Graves

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2006



308 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 669 words

HEADLINE: I.B.M. and Universities Plan Collaboration

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
I.B.M. and seven universities have agreed to embark on a series of collaborative software research projects and to make the results of the work in fields like privacy, security and medical decision-making freely available.
 The initiative, which I.B.M. is expected to announce today, is a break with the usual pattern of corporate-sponsored research at universities that typically involves lengthy negotiations over intellectual property rights.
The projects are also evidence that American companies and universities are searching for ways to work together more easily and less hampered by legal wrangling about who holds the patents to research. Those negotiations, according to specialists, can take a year or more -- slowing the pace of innovation and prompting companies to team with researchers in foreign countries. 
 The projects announced today are being done under the guidelines of the Open Collaborative Research program, which began last year with several universities and four technology companies, Hewlett-Packard, Intel and Cisco, as well as I.B.M.
 ''Universities have made life increasingly difficult to do research with them because of all the contractual issues around intellectual property,'' said Stuart Feldman, vice president for computer science at I.B.M.'s research laboratories. ''We would like the universities to open up again.''
 The current problem, research experts say, is that well-intentioned policies meant to encourage universities to make their research available for commercial uses have swung too far. The shift began with the Bayh-Dole Act of 1980, which allowed universities to hold the patents on federally funded research and to license that intellectual property. Since then, universities have often viewed themselves as idea factories and, like many corporations, have sought to cash in on their intellectual property.
 But there is a sense at both universities and corporations that the pendulum has swung too far, and adopting less-restrictive intellectual property policies may benefit both sides.
 ''Universities in the United States want to protect their intellectual property but more and more see the importance of collaboration,'' Elisa Bertino, a computer scientist at Purdue University, said.
 Purdue and Carnegie Mellon University have agreed to work with I.B.M. researchers on a long-term project on privacy and security-policy management. The appeal, Ms. Bertino said, is that I.B.M. has a strong research team in security, and that working with a corporation ensures that university researchers get to work on real-world problems rather than academic theory.
 In addition to security and privacy, the joint projects will be in software quality, mathematical optimization software and clinical decision support software. Besides Purdue and Carnegie Mellon, the universities are the University of California, Berkeley; University of California, Davis; Columbia University; Georgia Institute of Technology; and Rutgers University.
 The projects are long-term efforts, intended to span years, and veer toward fundamental research to create building blocks of technology that will be used in products someday.
 While American and Western European companies are increasingly setting up research labs in fast-growing emerging nations like China and India, they still do most of their advanced research in labs in developed economies, often in collaboration with local universities, according to a report published last week in Science magazine.
 Nurturing that university-corporate collaboration will be an important ingredient in economic growth and national competitiveness, said Jerry Thursby, an economist at Emory University, and author with his wife, Marie C. Thursby, a professor at the Georgia Tech College of Management, of the research report in Science.
 ''This ability to strike reasonable deals for both the corporate and university sides is a big issue,'' Mr. Thursby said. ''Nobody has really solved this yet but a lot of people are working on it.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (90%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); PATENTS (89%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); DECISION SUPPORT SYSTEMS (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (77%); SOFTWARE TESTING & QUALITY ASSURANCE (73%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (50%) 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (56%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: International Business Machines Corp

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (56%); HPQ (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: Steve Lohr

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2006



309 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 586 words

HEADLINE: S. & P. 500 Climbs After Report of Strong Retail Sales

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index yesterday approached a six-year high as retailers rallied on the first sales increase since July and energy producers benefited from rising oil prices.
 Shares of Wal-Mart Stores gained after the government said retail sales rose 1 percent in November, an indication that household spending may offset declines in manufacturing and housing.
''The consumer is still able to lend reasonable support to the economy,'' said Timothy E. Woolston, who helps manage $2.3 billion at Boston Advisors. ''That will aid corporate profits and therefore stock prices.'' 
 Exxon Mobil contributed the most to the advance of the S.& P. as the price of crude oil increased for the first time in four days. Crude for January delivery rose 35 cents, to $61.37 a barrel in New York, after a government report showed the biggest decline in United States inventories since July.
 The S.& P. 500 added 1.65 points, or 0.1 percent, to 1,413.21, leaving it near its highest point since November 2000. The Dow Jones industrial average increased 1.92 points, to 12,317.50. The Nasdaq composite index gained 0.81 point, to 2,432.41.
 The retail sales data helped shore up confidence that consumer spending would bolster an economy weighed down by a housing slump without fueling inflation.
 Wal-Mart added 42 cents, to $45.90. A rival, Target, increased 78 cents, to $58.50. 
 Retailers gained 0.6 percent for the second-biggest advance among two dozen industry groups in the S.& P.
 Exxon climbed $1.11, to $77.36, making up about two-fifths of the S.& P. 500's gain. A gauge of energy shares climbed 1.1 percent, the biggest gain among 10 industry groups.
 Semiconductor shares dropped after Caris & Company downgraded Applied Materials, the chip-gear maker, and two other American manufacturers on a reduced outlook for spending on chips. Applied Materials dropped 29 cents, to $17.94.
 In a separate note, A. G. Edwards cut its recommendation on Micron Technology to sell from hold, on concern that prices for the company's dynamic random access memory, or DRAM, chips will fall. Shares of Micron fell 21 cents, to $13.70.
 The Amex Airline Index jumped 3 percent, its biggest rally since Nov. 15, on speculation of consolidation in the industry.
 United Airlines, a division of UAL, and Continental Airlines are discussing a merger to create a carrier that would eclipse American Airlines as the world's largest airline based on passenger traffic.
 Shares of UAL climbed $2.01, to $45.24. Continental Airlines gained $1.88, to $44.76. AMR, the parent of American Airlines, added 65 cents, to $32.65. 
 AirTran Holdings increased 50 cents, to $12.85, after the company made a hostile $290 million takeover bid for Midwest Air. Midwest rallied $2.02, to $11.10.
 Of the 16 homebuilders in S.& P. indexes, 13 climbed after the Mortgage Bankers Association said its index of applications to buy a home or refinance an existing loan increased 11.4 percent, to 721.2, a level not seen since October 2005.
 In the bond market, the 10-year Treasury note fell 24/32, to 10011/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.58 percent, from 4.49 percent on Tuesday. 
 Following are the results of yesterday's auction of 10-year Treasury notes:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
Price -- 100.348
High Yield -- 4.580
Low Yield -- 4.500
Median Yield -- 4.566
Total applied for -- $19,865,797
Accepted -- $8,000,078
Noncompetitive -- $12,887
Interest set at -- 4*

The 10-year notes mature Nov. 15, 2016.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); RETAIL SALES (91%); SALES FIGURES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); AIRLINES (88%); MEMORY CHIPS (85%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); MERGERS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (69%); MICROTECHNOLOGY (67%); COMPUTER CHIPS (67%); SEMICONDUCTORS (67%); HOLDING COMPANIES (67%); MEMORY TECHNOLOGY (65%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (64%) 

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (92%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (74%); WAL-MART STORES INC (73%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (56%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (56%); MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC (53%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (51%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (74%); WMT (NYSE) (73%); MU (NASDAQ) (53%); UAL (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (74%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (74%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (74%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (73%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (73%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (53%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (53%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (51%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2006



310 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: A County In California Allows Merrill To Come Back

BYLINE: By PETER EDMONSTON

 BODY:
After 12 years in the penalty box, Merrill Lynch is back in business in Orange County.
 The county, in Southern California, once accused Merrill of helping tip it into bankruptcy. This week, the county's board of supervisors voted to put the investment bank on its list of firms qualified to provide it with underwriting services.
 Merrill's inclusion, which the board of supervisors approved Tuesday by a 3-to-1 vote, is the latest milestone in Orange County's sometimes rocky reconciliation with one of Wall Street's largest investment banks. 
 Three years ago, the county board voted 3 to 2 to permit dealings with Merrill's trading desk. This week's measure clears the way for Merrill to compete with 22 other firms, including Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and J. P. Morgan Chase, for underwriting work as well. 
 ''Sometimes you've got to say the war is over,'' said John M. W. Moorlach, a county supervisor who voted in favor of adding Merrill to the list.
 A Merrill Lynch spokesman, Bill Halldin, said yesterday, ''We look forward to the opportunity to compete for more of the county's business.''
 Orange County, the nation's fifth-largest county by population, suffered a collapse in December 1994 and filed the largest municipal bankruptcy case in United States history. A county-run investment pool lost $1.6 billion after its bets on the direction of interest rates went bad.
 The next year, the county sued Merrill, contending that the firm sold it unsuitably risky securities and encouraged it to leverage those investments with borrowed funds. It sought $2 billion in damages.
 At the time, Merrill defended its dealings and said that Orange County's treasurer at the time, Robert L. Citron, was responsible for the ill-fated investment strategy. But in June 1998, Merrill chose to pay $400 million to settle the litigation.
 Though the suit was resolved, mistrust of Merrill persisted for years among some county supervisors.
 ''It's an emotional issue for the leadership of this county,'' Mr. Moorlach, the county supervisor, said.
 Rather than holding a grudge, the county is better served by promoting greater competition in the capital-raising process, he said. Putting Merrill in the pool of possible underwriters is one way to promote such competition, he added.
 Mr. Moorlach's support for Merrill is notable because he was one of the fiercest critics of Orange County's investment strategy in the months leading up to its bankruptcy. In 1994, during his unsuccessful campaign to unseat Mr. Citron as treasurer, he warned about the potential risks to the county's finances.
 Mr. Citron resigned shortly before the bankruptcy filing and was succeeded by Mr. Moorlach a few months later. Mr. Moorlach was elected as a county supervisor earlier this year.
 Thomas W. Wilson, the only supervisor to vote against adding Merrill to the list, suggested that many in Orange County were not ready to call a truce. The bankruptcy, and Merrill's role in it, caused lasting damage to the county's finances that it will continue to deal with for years, he said.
 ''Until the debts from the bankruptcy are satisfied, Merrill Lynch is going to stand out in a lot of people's minds around here,'' he said.
 Mr. Moorlach said Orange County continued to pay about $90 million each year for debts carried over from the bankruptcy. The debts should be completely paid off by the year 2016.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTY GOVERNMENT (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COUNTIES (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); APPROVALS (77%); DAMAGES (70%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (65%); LITIGATION (64%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (63%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Merrill Lynch & Co Inc

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%)

PERSON: Peter Edmonston

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) California; Orange County (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2006



311 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 296 words

HEADLINE: Rising Metal Prices Prompt Ban On Melting and Export of Coins

BYLINE: By MATTHEW HEALEY

 BODY:
The United States Mint, concerned that rising metal prices could lead to widespread recycling of pennies and nickels, has banned melting or exporting them.
 The Mint is also testing dozens of cheaper alternative metal compositions in the expectation that Congress will mandate a change when it meets in the new year. 
According to calculations by the Mint, the metal value of pennies, which are made of copper-coated zinc, is now more than one cent. The metal value of 5-cent coins, made from a copper-nickel blend, is up to 7 cents. Adding in the costs of manufacturing means the Mint now spends 1.73 cents for every penny and 8.74 cents for every nickel it makes.
 Until 1982, pennies were made of 95 percent copper. The commodity metal value of one of those coins, which still make up a large percentage of the pennies in circulation, is 2.13 cents, according to the Mint.
 If even 1 percent of the 150 billion pennies and 20 billion nickels in circulation were claimed for salvage, replacing them would cost taxpayers $43 million, the Mint estimates.
 In an interview yesterday, Edmund C. Moy, director of the Mint, said officials were aware of only a few people asking if it was legal to melt coins for their metal value. Without the ban, which takes effect tomorrow, it would be. 
 The new ban also forbids exporting pennies or nickels in any significant quantities. While the Mint is not concerned about tourists' pocket change or numismatic collections, it wants to block wholesale export of coins to countries where recycling them for their metal content could be economically viable. 
 Penalties for violating the ban can include a $10,000 fine and up to five years in jail. ''We want to make it clear to anyone considering this that it's not worth it,'' Mr. Moy said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COINS & COINAGE (92%); METALS MARKETS (90%); BASE METALS MARKETS (90%); COIN & STAMP COLLECTING (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); FINES & PENALTIES (68%) 

ORGANIZATION: US MINT (93%) United States Mint

PERSON: Matthew Healey

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2006



312 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: Bankers Report More Mortgages Being Paid Late or Not at All 

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
The number of people paying their mortgages late -- or not paying them at all -- picked up in recent months, a trend that is expected to continue well into next year. 
 The rise was sharpest among borrowers with troubled credit histories, and in particular, subprime borrowers who took out mortgages with interest rates that increase over the life of the loan.
The Mortgage Bankers Association said yesterday that a survey of more than 42 million mortgages found the rate of delinquencies rose to 4.7 percent from July through September, up from 4.4 percent in the second quarter, when the numbers were adjusted for seasonable variations.
 The rate had fallen for two consecutive quarters.
 Among subprime homeowners, designated as such because their questionable credit would otherwise disqualify them from obtaining a mortgage, delinquency rates were much higher. Subprime borrowers who had past-due payments rose to 12.6 percent, from 11.7 percent in the second quarter.
 Subprime borrowers who took out adjustable-rate mortgages, which typically start at artificially low rates that increase over the life of the loan, were the most likely of all those surveyed to be in default. Among subprime adjustable mortgages, 13.2 percent were delinquent in the third quarter, compared with 12.2 percent in the second quarter. 
 Subprime loans, which carry interest rates that run roughly three percentage points or more above the rates available to people with strong credit, have become the fastest-growing segment of the mortgage industry. And among subprime loans, adjustable mortgages have proliferated with the boom in the housing market.
 Looking ahead to next year, the mortgage association said it expected delinquencies and foreclosures to continue to rise. Doug Duncan, the association's chief economist, said he saw a ''modest increase'' over the next several quarters ''as the housing market bottoms.''
 As more adjustable mortgages reset next year at higher rates, the number of defaults is expected to climb. Mr. Duncan said that $1.1 trillion to $1.5 trillion worth of residential debt was eligible to reset next year, which could put pressure on mortgage holders who did not refinance. 
 Delinquencies were most common in the Upper Midwest, where the manufacturing slowdown has pushed unemployment up, and in the South, where the spillover effects from Hurricane Katrina continue. Mississippi had the highest overall delinquency rate, at 11.1 percent of all mortgages, more than twice the national average. It was followed by Louisiana at 9.5 percent and Michigan at 7.4 percent.
 Another statistic from the group showed that the number of mortgage applications last week rose to the highest level in more than a year. The mortgage association said that its index of applications to buy or refinance a home rose 11.4 percent from a week earlier.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE LOANS (91%); SUBPRIME LENDING (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TRENDS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); FORECLOSURE (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); HURRICANE KATRINA (60%) 

ORGANIZATION: Mortgage Bankers Assn

PERSON: Doug Duncan; Jeremy W Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (71%); LOUISIANA, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2006



313 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 529 words

HEADLINE: Agency Cuts Atlantic Yards Revenue Estimate

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

 BODY:
A state development corporation has drastically decreased its projections for the amount of sales and income tax revenue it expects from the proposed Atlantic Yards project near Downtown Brooklyn. 
 According to revised estimates prepared by the Empire State Development Corporation, which is sponsoring the $4 billion residential, commercial and arena project, it would generate $944 million in new revenue aside from what that the city and state have pledged in subsidies. 
That represents a drop of one-third, or nearly half a billion dollars, from the estimate the development agency released in July, which put new tax revenues at $1.4 billion. Under current plans, taxpayers would provide $453.5 million for the project, including a direct contribution of $200 million from the city and state, sales and mortgage recording tax exemptions, and bond financing.
 The drop in estimated tax revenue came after the project's overall size was cut by about 8 percent.
 The new estimate was issued on Friday, when the development agency's board voted to approve the mixed-use project, which would be built by Forest City Ratner Companies. Forest City is also the development partner in building a new Midtown headquarters for The New York Times Company. 
 The project still requires approval by the state's Public Authorities Control Board. Votes on that board are controlled equally by Gov. George E. Pataki, a Republican; Sheldon Silver, the Assembly speaker, a Democrat; and Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader, a Republican. 
 Mr. Silver and Governor-elect Eliot Spitzer, a fellow Democrat, have said they believe that the project's financing requires more scrutiny before it is approved. The issue is one of many on the negotiating table in Albany during Mr. Pataki's waning days in office, and he hopes to get the project approved before he leaves.
 The new estimate was included in a statement and other documents issued by the development agency on Friday, but the difference went unremarked in both the brief board meeting that preceded the approval vote and the news conference that Charles A. Gargano, the agency's chairman, held shortly afterward.
 Norman Oder, a journalist who has a blog devoted to the Atlantic Yards project, noticed the change later and wrote about it yesterday.
 A majority of the project's eight million square feet would be taken up by apartments. But officials at the development agency said that most of the half-billion-dollar revision reflected a cut in the amount of commercial space to be included in the project. Between the project plan issued in July and the one approved last week, that figure dropped from 606,000 square feet to 336,000. 
 Commercial square footage usually generates far more tax revenue than residential space because it creates more indirect economic activity, like well-paying jobs in business services and administrative support. And residential space produces less estimated revenue, in part because tenants' income taxes are counted where they work, not where they live.
 Under the new estimates, the project would produce about 5,000 new jobs statewide, down from nearly 7,400 in the plan issued in July.

CORRECTION-DATE: December 16, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about a reduction in a New York State agency's projected tax revenue from the proposed Atlantic Yards project in Brooklyn misstated the amount of the decrease at one point in some copies. It is $476 million, not $476,000.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); APPROVALS (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (87%); GOVERNORS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (78%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EXCISE TAX (73%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); BONDS (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); WRITERS (60%) Taxation; Sales and Excise Taxes

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (72%); NEW YORK TIMES CO (68%); RATNER COS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: Empire State Development Corp; Forest City Ratner

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (68%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (68%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (68%); SIC7231 BEAUTY SHOPS (68%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (69%) Nicholas Confessore; Eliot (Gov) Spitzer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City; Atlantic Yards (Brooklyn)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2006



314 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2141 words

HEADLINE: Small-Town Judge's Personal Justice Stirs Concern

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GLABERSON

DATELINE: KEESEVILLE, N.Y. 

 BODY:
Like many teenagers in this bleak old mill village near Lake Champlain, Michael C. Burrell had been in trouble before. But when an attempted assault case landed him at age 19 in the courtroom of the village justice, the experience was unlike anything he had faced before. 
 He said the justice, George J. Head, insisted that they meet each week outside court, in what people around here call his ''judge's probation'' program.
There is no such thing as judge's probation, and private sessions between a judge and a defendant facing jail violate rules of judicial conduct.
 But Justice Head seems to have stretched the rules in a number of ways. When he sentenced young men to regular probation, he sometimes drove them to their appointments. One young man was discovered driving the justice's car, and others say they met with the justice at his home. One said he even wound up moving in for eight months. 
 ''He's the judge,'' said Mr. Burrell, who said he met privately with Justice Head several times last year. ''He tells me to do something, I'm going to do it.'' 
 One of the bedrock principles of American law is that judges are supposed to be impartial toward the people who come before them. They are to be decision makers, not participants, in cases. They are not to befriend defendants, and are barred from meeting with them outside the presence of their lawyers or prosecutors, or outside court. At the very least, they are required to avoid any personal involvement that makes it appear they have taken sides. 
 But bedrock principles have a way of getting lost in New York's town and village courts, a sprawling world of more than 1,250 small courtrooms. Over the decades justices have illegally jailed people, threatened enemies, protected friends and made grievous legal errors, with little supervision or penalty. The law often counts for little, because three-quarters of the justices are not lawyers. Now the system is under scrutiny by state officials, who are holding hearings and taking steps to fix some of its most glaring flaws.
 What has played out in this remote village in northeastern New York provides one more startling look at what can happen when meager training mixes with plenty of unchecked power.
 ''Judge Head rules Keeseville, and God help you if you oppose him,'' said Diane Webster-Brady, the lawyer who handled Mr. Burrell's case.

'It Wasn't Professional'
 Justice Head, 72, a retired state trooper who has been a justice in the area for 15 years, declined repeated requests for an interview. But lawyers say he has told them over the years that he can supervise Keeseville's wayward youth better than county probation officers. 
 In interviews and documents, several young men -- some of them high school dropouts, adrift from their families, and some with serious police records -- said he seemed to offer relief from their poverty and troubled lives, providing shelter, food, the use of his car, or even tuition or lawyers' fees. 
 But most said they felt unsettled or threatened by the control the justice had over them, and by his unusual version of probation. They described regular meetings -- once a week or more -- at which the justice would check on their progress, with the suggestion that if they went along, they would be treated well, but that if they did not, there would be trouble. 
 Sometimes, they said, the meetings were in the house of the justice, who is long separated from his wife. Sometimes they were in the justice's small office off the village courtroom, where Mr. Burrell said he met with Justice Head last year. 
 ''It was me and him talking,'' said Mr. Burrell, who had run away from a substance abuse program where Justice Head sent him after several arrests in connection with attempted assault and other crimes. Mr. Burrell said the justice discussed his own background, and asked about his. 
 ''It wasn't professional,'' he said. ''I think he crossed the boundaries.''
 Other people noticed the unorthodox meetings, too. More than a dozen current or former prosecutors, lawyers and officials in the area said they were aware of the justice's out-of-court dealings with defendants, and many said they questioned the propriety of his actions. 
 In January, one prosecutor filed a motion to transfer a drunken-driving case out of the village court because the 20-year-old driver had been at the wheel of Justice Head's car, with its official license plates. After the arrest, the prosecutor wrote, the young man was ''picked up by the Honorable George Head from the police station.'' 
 Still, the lawyers and officials said they could not publicly challenge the justice because of his power here. One lawyer said he had reluctantly agreed to ''judge's probation'' for a client because it won him a better deal.
 The Clinton County probation director, David M. Marcoux, acknowledged he had heard that Justice Head accompanied some young defendants to their probation appointments. And when asked, he said that no other judge in the county did so. But he would not say any more about Justice Head or his special probation program.
 ''He's still a sitting judge in the county,'' Mr. Marcoux said, ''and it's nothing I feel I should make any comment on.''
 Yet people are being asked to speak up by the state agency that investigates misconduct by judges. In recent weeks, the Commission on Judicial Conduct has been hearing testimony about Justice Head from local officials and some of the young men. Commission officials would not discuss the status of their investigation. 
 Meanwhile, state judicial officials have begun a series of sweeping changes to the entire system of town and village courts, which are also known as justice courts. On Thursday, two committees of the State Assembly plan to hold a joint hearing into whether the courts should be overhauled even further.
 Several legal experts said in interviews that Justice Head's methods appeared to be the kind of conduct that made people question the system's fairness and professionalism. Judges in New York have been disciplined for inviting defendants to their homes, or meeting privately with parties in a legal case.
 Ann E. Pfeiffer, a former Rochester City Court judge who teaches at Syracuse Law School, said it was not proper for a judge to take on the role of a social worker, roommate, confidant or friend. ''A judge, particularly in a small town, should be as detached as he can be,'' she said.

A Hard Place to Grow Up
 Keeseville, with a population of 1,850, is certainly small, the kind of remote place where critics of the justice courts say it may be most difficult for state judiciary officials to monitor the justices. It has a few churches, not many jobs, the hulk of an old Grand Union on desolate Front Street and a changing cast of aimless teenagers who say they feel trapped in a place that seems forgotten. 
 The village, which has a reputation for drug crimes, bar fights and beatings, can be a hard place to grow up. One recent Sunday, two young men were hit by a car on Main Street about 3 a.m., and one was killed. Witnesses told the police that the driver, 28, was drunk. When the two men were hit, they were rolling around in the road, fighting. 
 Seven years ago, Mr. Head, a jowly, broad-shouldered man, was elected village justice, after eight years as a town justice in the area. He had attended college but did not graduate, according to a document he filed with court officials. He has no law degree; the only training that New York has given its justices for decades is six days of initial schooling and an annual refresher course.
 Keeseville's mayor, Mark J. Whitney, said Justice Head had ''performed well for us.'' 
 But Theodore Carter had a different impression. A high school dropout with a long arrest record, he ended up before Justice Head two years ago, when he was 18. He had tried to beat up another teenager, he said, and because he could not make bail, he spent 20 days in jail. 
 When he was released to attend Keeseville's regular afternoon court session, he said, Justice Head told him that to avoid more jail time, he would have to serve judge's probation and chop wood for the village.
 ''I didn't think it was any big thing,'' Mr. Carter said, ''until he told me I'd have to go meet with him.'' Justice Head set the location: his office in the old school building that Keeseville uses as a community center. ''He told me to meet him at 8:30 at night,'' Mr. Carter said.
 When he arrived, the rooms all around the office were empty. The halls were dark. ''Nobody was there except for the judge,'' Mr. Carter said. ''It made me feel uncomfortable.'' 
 Justice Head, he said, talked about himself and gave Mr. Carter his home phone number to call at any hour of the day or night. ''It was kind of awkward,'' Mr. Carter said.
 In later meetings, Mr. Carter said, he seemed to disappoint Justice Head because he did not reveal much about himself. Eventually, in a private session two months ago, he said, the justice adopted a harsh tone, taking three folders out of a drawer -- the records, Mr. Carter said, of three harassment charges against him that had not moved forward. 
 The justice, he said, seemed to hint that he could activate the cases. Asked what he made of that, Mr. Carter said, ''I think he means he's going to hold it over me.''

Visiting the Justice
 For another young man, the meetings started the same way: In court, Justice Head declared that he would see him weekly. But the location would be even more private.
 ''Judge Head,'' the man said, ''said he wanted to see me at his house the following day.'' 
 The young man, an unemployed laborer who is now 24, agreed to be interviewed for this article on the condition that his name not be used, saying he was embarrassed about receiving favored treatment from the justice.
 His years of interacting with Justice Head, he said, began when he was 18 and facing a petty larceny charge, having already served jail time for sexual abuse. They would meet, he said, at the justice's home or office, almost always alone. 
 ''At first he didn't want nobody knowing about it,'' the man said. But eventually, he said, people saw him at ''George's house'' or driving ''George's car.'' 
 Later, he said, Justice Head bought him a used car, and once paid for a lawyer when he was charged with a sex crime in another town.
 ''I just didn't want to go back to jail,'' the man said, explaining his dealings with the justice. ''When you are at the lowest you can be, who else do you want to befriend you than a judge?''
 Another young man, then 17, said the justice invited him home the night before he was to be sentenced to community service, according to notes of a 2005 statement he gave to a law enforcement official, who shared the notes with The New York Times. The man declined to be interviewed for this article, but he told the official that the justice tried to have him do work at the house as a form of community service.
 And one young defendant described a deal that went even further.
 ''We had a meeting,'' the man, Dennis C. Valentin, recalled in a recent interview. ''He was going to help me study, and he offered me the place to stay in his mansion.''
 Mr. Valentin, 25, said his life was in bad shape back then, in 2001. A high school dropout, 19 at the time, he had grown up in a broken, sometimes violent home, he said. He had been arrested after a drunken street brawl, but had run away at first instead of facing the charges. 
 He turned himself in to Justice Head, who he said got him talking about his ambitions: to get into the Army, or otherwise get out of Keeseville. ''It's just a rough little town,'' Mr. Valentin said.
 He jumped at the justice's offer. ''I pretty much went to stay with him,'' he said. The justice approved a plea deal: instead of jail, Mr. Valentin would get a conditional discharge that would free him if he stayed out of trouble for six months.
 Already living in the justice's house, Mr. Valentin said, were a 21-year-old man whom the justice sometimes drove to Alcoholics Anonymous meetings, and a man in his late 20s who also had gotten in trouble with the law. 
 That older man had lived in the house for years, and the justice had helped pay his parochial school tuition, Mr. Valentin said.
 Mr. Valentin said he stayed for eight months, with free room and board. ''He pretty much tried to get me on the right track,'' he said. 
 The effort apparently did not work. Two years later, Mr. Valentin was arrested again -- this time, he said, for statutory rape. He is now serving six years of probation, ordered by another judge.
 But he remains grateful for his time in Justice Head's home. 
 ''It was a nice place to be,'' he said. ''The judge is really smart. You can sit down and watch 'Jeopardy' on TV, and he is going to get practically every question.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Theodore Carter said he was uncomfortable with ''judge's probation'' assigned to him by Keeseville's justice. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
 Theodore Carter, left, appeared before the village justice of Keeseville after trying to beat someone up. He said he met with the judge in his office after hours in a dark and otherwise deserted community center. Right, a view down Front Street in Keeseville. (Photographs by James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. B8)Map of New York State highlighting Keeseville: Keeseville, in the northeastern part of the state, has about 1,850 people. (pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); JUDGES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (89%); PROBATION (89%); LAWYERS (89%); SENTENCING (77%); ETHICS (77%); JUDICIAL ETHICS (76%); LEGAL ETHICS (76%); JAIL SENTENCING (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (60%) Courts; Ethics; Judges; Rural Areas; Courts

PERSON: William Glaberson; George J (Judge) Head

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; Keeseville (NY)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2006



315 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: Uranium Is a Hot Commodity, And the Claims Have Soared

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 13 

 BODY:
A fourfold increase in the price of uranium in the past three years has led to a rush of new claims by uranium companies, according to a new survey by an environmental group that says it wants to inform the public of potentially harmful consequences.
 Mining claim data compiled by the Environmental Working Group, environmental research specialists based in Washington, along with raw data from the federal Bureau of Land Management, show that in Colorado, New Mexico, Utah and Wyoming total claims rose to about 18,000 in 2005 from just over 2,000 in 2001. 
In Arizona, a project manager for Quaterra Resources, a Canadian mining company, has filed 616 claims, many within a few miles of the Grand Canyon's north rim.
 ''There's a renaissance of people's attitudes toward nuclear energy as a viable green, clean, clean-air type of energy sources,'' said Paul Matysek, president of the Energy Metals Corporation, which is based in British Columbia. And, Mr. Matysek added, the increase in oil and natural-gas prices, though they have eased in recent months, has spurred a small boom in the price of the uranium.
 ''Three years ago it was $12 or $14'' a pound, he said. ''Today it's $65.50.'' 
 Mr. Matysek's company has signed a letter of intent to merge with High Plains Uranium Inc., a company that was formed in New Brunswick, Canada, less than two years ago. High Plains, with headquarters in Cheyenne, Wyo., has filed more than 2,250 claims.
 Celia Boddington, a spokeswoman for the Bureau of Land Management, said, ''What's driving this is primarily the demand for energy.'' 
 Environmental groups said that, whatever is driving it, the consequences could be severe.
 ''A modern economy has to have mining, but where and how the mining takes place should be decided by citizens, not mining-company pressure,'' Dusty Horwitt, an analyst with the Environmental Working Group, said in an e-mail message.
 Mr. Horwitt added, ''When people see that uranium mines are going to be located near or upstream from them, we think they will demand more say-so over where mining goes on public property.''
 The uranium claims are clustered in places like the Lisbon and Crystal Valleys in eastern Utah, near Moab; areas of Arizona north of the Grand Canyon; and the Colorado Plateau in Colorado. 
 But new mining claims of all kinds are scattered around the West, from the border areas where California meets Oregon to the entire state of Nevada, which is historically the state more associated with hard-rock mining than any other in the West.
 In Nevada, for instance, the environmental group's research found more than 166,000 new claims, covering more than 3.5 million acres of public land. 
 An academic expert and a mining company executive agreed that only a tiny fraction of all claims -- usually less than a tenth of 1 percent -- are ever mined. But the scars of open-pit mining are visible in many places on the Environmental Working Group's Web site, which combined its data with the Google's mapping software. 
 Still, said Mark Kuchta, an associate professor of mining engineering at the Colorado School of Mines, uranium mining in the future will have far less impact than the mines and the associated mills in the past. 
 ''The environmental laws have changed,'' Mr. Kuchta said. ''In order to build the mine, there's a plethora of permits'' needed. 
 He added, ''You can't just leave them on the surface and walk away the way you used to do.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Supply, Demand and Exploration''Uranium prices have soared over the past few years, with a corresponding rise in the number of claims staked for possible uranium mines in the West.Graph tracks price of a pound of uranium since 2001.Graph tracks new uranium claims (Wyoming, Utah, New Mexico and Colorado) from 2001 to 2005.(Source by Bureau of Land Management
 Metal Bulletin via Bloomberg)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); MINERAL LEASES (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); MINES & MINING (89%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); URANIUM MINING (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); NEW MINING PROJECTS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (75%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (73%); ENERGY DEMAND (73%); STONE MINING & QUARRYING (72%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (71%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (67%); MERGERS (65%) Uranium; Mines and Mining; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Electric Light and Power; Atomic Energy

COMPANY: URANIUM ONE INC (91%); CANADIAN MINING CO INC (71%); QUATERRA RESOURCES INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT (83%)

TICKER: UUU (TSX) (91%); UUU (JSE) (91%); QMM (NYSE MKT) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212291 URANIUM-RADIUM-VANADIUM ORE MINING (91%); SIC1094 URANIUM-RADIUM-VANADIUM ORES (91%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (71%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (71%); NAICS212399 ALL OTHER NONMETALLIC MINERAL MINING (71%); SIC1499 MISC. NONMETALLIC MINERALS EX. FUELS (71%)

PERSON: Felicity Barringer

GEOGRAPHIC: CHEYENNE, WY, USA (79%) COLORADO, USA (95%); WYOMING, USA (94%); NEW MEXICO, USA (94%); UTAH, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (92%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW BRUNSWICK, CANADA (57%) UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (93%) Utah; Arizona; New Mexico; Wyoming; Colorado

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2006



316 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; PRO FOOTBALL; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: The Game Was All Lamar Hunt Ever Needed 

 BODY:
Pro football wouldn't be what it is now without Lamar Hunt, its shy sculptor. He not only founded the American Football League in 1959, when the National Football League had only 12 teams, but he also negotiated the 1966 merger treaty that created America's sports spectacle, which he baptized.
 When the club owners were searching for a catchier name than the A.F.L.-N.F.L. Championship Game, he remembered the lively Super Ball that his daughter, Sharron, had bounced over the roof of their Dallas home. As the Kansas City Chiefs' owner, he suggested Super Bowl, which Commissioner Pete Rozelle didn't particularly like but finally accepted. 
 If not for Lamar Hunt, the N.F.L. might not have 32 prosperous teams and billion-dollar television deals.
 And with Hunt, 74, in a Dallas hospital with cancer and a collapsed lung, it's time for all those who enjoy pro football to remember, if not to realize, what this man has meant to the sport that transfixes the United States every Sunday. And to know what kind of a man he has been.
 He wisely used his wealth as the youngest son of the Texas oil magnate H. L. Hunt, but he never flaunted it.
 Until a hip problem convinced him to travel in private jets in recent years, he and his wife, Norma, and their family always flew in the economy section. He invariably wore a blue blazer and gray slacks that befit his boyish face. He spoke softly. He wrote thank-you notes. Where some sports club owners blustered and blundered, he blended.
 In the early '70s, some two dozen pro football reporters, awaiting the American Football Conference championship game in Miami, had gathered in the Orange Bowl press lounge to watch the earlier National Football Conference title game on television.
 Hunt, there as the A.F.C. president, arrived late. But without a word, he quickly crouched in order not to block anybody's view, sat on the carpet as a youngster would and stared at the TV screen for the rest of the game. Here was one of pro football's most distinguished executives, but he didn't ask for a seat or try to catch the eye of somebody with a seat. The game was all he needed.
 The game was all he ever needed.
 He played the game as a quarterback at the Hill School outside Philadelphia and as a scrub at Southern Methodist, while wondering why Dallas didn't have a pro football franchise. Actually, a 1952 Dallas team, the Texans, was 1-11 before the franchise moved to Baltimore as the Colts; their 1958 championship victory over the Giants inspired Hunt to try to buy the Chicago (now Arizona) Cardinals and move them to Dallas.
 Spurned by the Cardinals, he decided to organize the rival A.F.L. with two original allies, the oilman Bud Adams in Houston and Max Winter in Minnesota. He added the sportscaster Harry Wismer in New York, Ralph Wilson in Buffalo, Billy Sullivan in Boston, Barron Hilton in Los Angeles, and Bob Howsam in Denver. When Winter defected to the N.F.L., Oakland joined the A.F.L. with Wayne Valley as the owner.
 Although the A.F.L owners were known as the Foolish Club, the N.F.L. took them seriously enough to quietly offer Hunt a franchise, but he didn't abandon his other owners. The A.F.L. began play in 1960; after the 1962 season, Hunt moved his Dallas franchise to Kansas City.
 It took time and a lot of money down the drain, but by early 1966, the A.F.L. -- with a five-year ABC television contract and Joe Namath at quarterback for Sonny Werblin's Jets -- had succeeded in persuading the N.F.L. owners that a merger was best for both leagues.
 On April 4, 1966, at a Love Field parking lot in Dallas, Hunt met secretly with Tex Schramm, the Dallas Cowboys' president, and outlined a 24-team treaty with Pete Rozelle as commissioner, one championship game, a common draft and interleague preseason play in 1967, and a merger in 1970.
 Hunt's teams, with the Hall of Famers Len Dawson, Buck Buchanan, Willie Lanier, Bobby Bell, Jan Stenerud and Coach Hank Stram, were the only three-time A.F.L. champions.
 They represented the A.F.L. in Super Bowl I, losing to Vince Lombardi's Green Bay Packers, 35-10, but they won Super Bowl IV, 23-7, over the Vikings -- a sweet triumph for Hunt, who remembered how Minnesota had defected from the A.F.L.'s original band of brothers.
 ''I'll always think of it as the A.F.L. vs. the N.F.L.,'' he once said. ''We still keep track and always will.''
 He's not just a football guy. In forming World Championship Tennis in the late 1960s, he helped force open tennis tournaments between what were then a few touring pros and traveling shamateurs. He also helped to bankroll Major League Soccer's growth, but no matter what the sport, no matter what the situation, his demeanor never changed.
 The morning after John McEnroe was handed the winner's check at a W.C.T. event more than two decades ago, he had settled into his first-class seat on a jetliner when he looked up to see Lamar Hunt, in his blue blazer and gray slacks, walking past him. Walking to the economy section.


CORRECTION-DATE: December 23, 2006

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a Sports of The Times column yesterday about Lamar Hunt's contribution to professional football omitted the byline and the label. It was by Dave Anderson.
A Sports of The Times column on Dec. 14 about Lamar Hunt, the main founder of the American Football League, misstated the television network that had a contract to broadcast A.F.L. games in 1966, when the merger with the National Football League was planned. It was NBC, not ABC.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lamar Hunt, who helped shape professional football, at an N.F.L. owners' meeting in March. (Photo by D. J. Peters/Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMERICAN FOOTBALL (92%); SPORTS (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (88%); ATHLETES (78%) Football

COMPANY: AMERICA'S SPORTS VOICE INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); KANSAS CITY CHIEFS (57%)

PERSON: Dave Anderson; Lamar Hunt

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (94%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (72%) TEXAS, USA (94%); MISSOURI, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2006



317 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: In the Spotlight, Two Sides of London

BYLINE: By SARAH LYALL

DATELINE: LONDON, Dec. 13 

 BODY:
The idea for the movie came, in part, from a series of real-life break-ins. 
 While the writer and director Anthony Minghella was filming the Civil War epic ''Cold Mountain'' on location in Romania several years ago, his studio back home in north London, in the midst of being renovated, was repeatedly burglarized -- 13 times in two months. As dismaying as that was, it got Mr. Minghella pondering an old obsession: the clash of cultures between the rich and the poor, the privileged and the disaffected, that churns beneath the surface of contemporary London.
The result is ''Breaking and Entering,'' written and directed by Mr. Minghella and miles away from the period adaptations -- ''Cold Mountain,'' ''The English Patient'' and ''The Talented Mr. Ripley'' -- for which he has been known. The project is unusual in the sense that Hollywood these days favors dependable adaptations over riskier original scripts, but it is actually a return to form for Mr. Minghella, who also wrote the screenplay for the first film he directed, ''Truly, Madly, Deeply'' (1991). 
 ''Breaking and Entering'' is to open tomorrow for a brief run in Los Angeles, which will qualify it for awards consideration, before its wider release on Jan. 26. It stars Jude Law as Will Francis, a landscape architect whose offices, like Mr. Minghella's, are in the process of being renovated by day and burglarized by night. Juliette Binoche plays Amira, a Bosnian refugee whose 15-year-old son, Miro (Rafi Gavron), is one of the thieves; Robin Wright Penn plays Liv, Will's Swedish-American wife, who hides her powerful emotions under a chilly, remote surface. 
 The film depicts a different side of London to audiences used to the glittery, moneyed city of films like ''Notting Hill,'' ''Love Actually'' and ''Closer.'' The hard life of London's transient immigrant groups was explored to harrowing effect in ''Dirty Pretty Things'' (2002), Stephen Frears's film about workers in a west London hotel, but Mr. Minghella has focused more directly on how immigrants fit in, or don't, to the greater social fabric here. 
 ''London is particularly interesting insofar as we have a long and distinguished history of welcoming and encouraging migration and migrant workers, and the city depends on them to exist and function,'' Mr. Minghella said in a telephone interview from New York, where he was starting a round of publicity for ''Breaking and Entering.''
 ''But while we share the geographical space, we don't share much else,'' he continued. ''We're not particularly well integrated. One of the curiosities can be the differences rather than the similarities between people walking down the street, differences in expectation and privilege, in wealth and opportunity. It's not tension or aggression, but a kind of guarded indifference. We coexist rather than create communities.'' 
 Mr. Minghella's father, who runs an ice cream business on the Isle of Wight, immigrated to Britain from Italy; his mother's parents were Italian immigrants. ''They had a good experience,'' he said. ''My father comes from a very poor family, and for him England's been a land of opportunity and plenty and embrace. The vantage point I had was that England was a place of welcome.'' 
 But not for everyone. Immigration is one of the most emotive political issues in Britain, as the country struggles with the increase in economic migrants and refugees fleeing wars, famines and genocides in Europe and Africa. The immigrants come in waves, first from one country and then from another, taking jobs as cleaners, dishwashers, odd-job men, fast-food workers, and scraping together a living on the edge of society. Most end up in or around London, where the attitude toward new arrivals ranges from wary acceptance to outright hostility. 
 Often they are all but invisible to the people whose houses they clean and whose coffee they serve, said Timothy Bricknell, who produced the film along with Mr. Minghella and Sydney Pollack. ''It's a fact of life living in London that you are part of this mix of cultures and religions,'' he said in a telephone interview. ''Your taxi driver could be a Kenyan politician, and your cleaner a documentary filmmaker from Mozambique.'' And often they have endured unspeakable difficulties. 
 Ms. Binoche's character, Amira, ''represents a whole wave of immigrants into the country escaping from terrible horrors,'' Mr. Bricknell said. ''Most Londoners don't pay much attention, but one undeniably good thing about Will is that he doesn't underestimate her, but accepts her on her own terms.'' 
 The film examines what happens when the sheltered Will becomes drawn into Amira's unfamiliar world, centered on her claustrophobic apartment in an ugly housing project. The two have an affair, and Will, somewhat ineffectually, tries to help her while at the same time negotiating myriad problems at home, not least his wife's growing distance and the severe behavioral difficulties of his teenage stepdaughter. 
 Mr. Minghella deliberately set up a parallel between Will's wife and his mistress, both of whom have devoted themselves to their children, and between the respective children. But while Liv is frustratingly opaque, even chilly, Amira is passionate and outspoken. Will's struggle is in part a struggle between the two sides of his character. 
 ''These are two mothers who'd made enormous sacrifices for their children, who'd put their lives on hold for their children: one full of emotion and one full of hidden emotion,'' Mr. Minghella said. 
 But everything in the film loops back to the city itself, and to the rapidly changing neighborhood around King's Cross in north London, where much of the action takes place. Once one of London's seediest neighborhoods and still a late-night hangout for drug dealers and prostitutes, King's Cross is also a busy train station, the scene of an enormous redevelopment project that is supposed to transform it into a huge center of offices, business and housing, and the site of a planned Eurostar terminal linking London to Paris. 
 Will's office is here, in the center of all these changes. Even as he explores the seamier side of his own life -- in addition to his affair, he becomes friends with a local prostitute -- his company is working on the redevelopment of King's Cross, a plan that will change the neighborhood forever.
 For Mr. Minghella too the film helped marry the two sides of his life, and bring his work back to contemporary Britain, as he had in ''Truly, Madly, Deeply.'' 
 ''Part of the equation of my professional life had turned on this notion of, 'here is life and here is film,' '' he said. ''The concept I had was that I would point a camera out the back of my house and see what was going on.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Anthony Minghella tackles contemporary London in his new film, ''Breaking and Entering,'' which he wrote and directed. (Photo by M J Kim/Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); BURGLARY (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); REFUGEES (78%); WRITERS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (72%); IMMIGRATION (69%); MIGRANT WORKERS (65%); HOTEL STAFF (60%) Motion Pictures

PERSON: JULIETTE BINOCHE (58%) Sarah Lyall; Anthony Minghella; Jude Law; Juliette Binoche; Robin Wright Penn; Rafi Gavron

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) ROMANIA (88%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2006



318 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:

LOSING FAITH IN CHINA NEGOTIATOR -- American officials entering into trade negotiations with China are growing skeptical that Wu Yi, left, a vice premier of China and its highest-ranking female official, has the inclination and the clout to challenge the party apparatus that is tied to the sprawling state-owned export industries. [Page C1.] 


THE DOWNSIDE OF AIRLINE MERGERS -- The prospect of higher profits and the end of several years of financial misery has stimulated new merger talks among airlines. But misery may be a zero-sum game: passengers may have more crowded flights and higher fares to look forward to. [C1.]

ADVOCATING FOR DEREGULATION -- The Securities and Exchange Commission, responding to criticism that regulators had overreacted to years of major corporate scandals, issued a flurry of deregulatory orders and proposals intended to lower costs to public companies. [C1.]

H.P. BOARD CUTS TIE WITH LAWYER -- Hewlett-Packard's board has ended a crucial advisory relationship with Larry W. Sonsini, the powerful Silicon Valley lawyer, in the wake of the company's spying scandal. [C1.]

SCRUTINY OF DIAMOND TRADE -- Consumers are asking more questions about diamonds in the wake of a movie that denounces the practices of the diamond industry. [G1.]

SNOWSHOE MAKERS AIM FOR YOUTH -- The snowshoe industry, afraid that youngsters see their sport as an old person's alternative to snowboarding, has developed marketing campaigns aimed at children. [G10.]

PANEL CALLS FOR SUICIDE WARNING -- Strong warning labels on antidepressants about suicide risk should be extended to include not only children and adolescents but adults under 25, a federal advisory panel concluded. [A36.]

P.& G. GETS PROVOCATIVE -- Procter & Gamble, once known as much for its moral rectitude as its soaps and detergents, is pushing further into the brave world of new media with a provocative effort asserting that men can suffer from menstrual cramps. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C3.]

INQUIRY INTO BP TRADES -- BP, the oil giant, said that regulators were considering bringing civil charges against the company in connection with trading activities in the gasoline futures market four years ago. [C3.]

MERRILL LYNCH IS FORGIVEN -- The board of supervisors of Orange County in California, which once accused Merrill Lynch of helping tip it into bankruptcy, voted to put the investment bank on its list of firms qualified to provide it with underwriting services. [C3.]

QANTAS ACCEPTS OFFER -- Qantas Airways agreed to accept a sweetened buyout offer of 11.1 billion Australian dollars ($8.7 billion) from a consortium led by Macquarie Bank and the Texas Pacific Group. [C4.]

JETBLUE TO ADD LEGROOM -- JetBlue Airways, trying to improve its appeal to travelers and cut costs in one move, said that it planned to remove a row of seats from all 96 of its Airbus 320 planes, giving the front 11 rows 36 inches between seatbacks, instead of the current 32 inches. [C4.]

JUMP IN RETAIL SALES -- Retail sales jumped sharply in November as shoppers went on a spending spree that is likely to reinforce the Federal Reserve's view that the cooling housing market has not hurt the rest of the economy. [C6.]

S.& P. NEARS SIX-YEAR HIGH -- The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index approached a six-year high as retailers rallied on the first sales increase since July and energy producers benefited from rising oil prices. [C6.]

MORTGAGE PAYMENTS LAG -- The number of people paying their mortgages late -- or not paying them at all -- picked up in recent months, a trend that is expected to continue well into next year. [C6.]

I.B.M. TEAMS UP WITH UNIVERSITIES -- I.B.M. and seven universities have agreed to embark on a series of collaborative software research projects and to make the results of the work in fields like privacy, security and medical decision-making freely available. [C11.]

BROADCASTING FINE UPHELD -- The Supreme Administrative Court of Thailand upheld a decision against a local broadcaster, iTV, that appeared likely to force it to close. [C13.]

ONLINE

WINES OF THE TIMES -- Merlots from Washington State have a structure and earthiness that you rarely see in the typically plusher, softer California versions. An interactive report is at nytimes.com/multimedia.

DISCOVERY AT NIGHT -- In the first nighttime launching in more than four years, the shuttle began a mission of space station rewiring. A slide show of the launching is at nytimes.com/multimedia.

Business Briefing
Articles on these developments are at nytimes.com/business.

MONSTER WORLDWIDE, owner of the most used online job-listing service, reduced past earnings by $271.9 million to correct stock-based compensation costs, and disclosed more than $500,000 in improper payments to its founder. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)

THE BRITISH MAGAZINE publisher Emap announced that it would close the American edition of FHM magazine because of the difficult advertising market. (REUTERS)

THE FOUNDER of the ''Girls Gone Wild'' video empire was sentenced to community service and his company was fined $1.6 million for using drunken 17-year-olds in videos it filmed on Panama City Beach, Fla., during spring break. (AP)

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); AIRLINES (90%); DIAMOND MARKETS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (89%); MERGERS (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); SCANDALS (88%); CHILDREN (86%); GEMSTONE MARKETS (78%); FUTURES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); CONTENT RATINGS (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (74%); INVESTMENT BANKING (74%); SECURITIES LAW (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); YOUTH MARKET (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); PRODUCT LABELING (71%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (71%); CHILDREN'S MARKET (71%); SOAPS & DETERGENTS MFG (70%); TEEN SUICIDE (70%); ADOLESCENTS (70%); SUICIDE (69%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (64%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (64%); SOAPS & DETERGENTS (64%); SNOWBOARDING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (84%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (56%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (53%); MACQUARIE BANK LTD (51%); QANTAS AIRWAYS LTD (51%); TPG CAPITAL LP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF TEN (G10) (82%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%)

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (84%); HPQ (NYSE) (56%); PGP (PAR) (53%); PG (NYSE) (53%); MBL (ASX) (51%); QAN (ASX) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (53%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (53%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (51%); NAICS561520 TOUR OPERATORS (51%); SIC4725 TOUR OPERATORS (51%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (50%)

PERSON: WU YI (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (55%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2006



319 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1620 words

HEADLINE: In Beijing Talks, Issues of Will and Way

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: BEIJING, Thursday, Dec. 14 

 BODY:
When Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. proposed a strategic economic dialogue with China last summer, American officials were cheered by the choice for leader of the Chinese team: an aggressive troubleshooter with a reputation for tough but successful trade negotiations since the early 1990s.
 But in the last few months, American officials and specialists on China have said that Wu Yi, a vice prime minister and the country's highest-ranking female official, might not have the inclination, or the influence, to challenge the party apparatus that is tied to the sprawling state-owned export industries.
China appears to view the dialogue less as a vehicle for adjusting its policies than as a means to air its opinion that the United States should alter its economy to end an addiction to Chinese goods and loans that sustain gigantic American trade and budget deficits.
 ''I'm not expecting any miracles,'' said Yu Yongding, director of the Institute of World Economics and Politics at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences in Beijing. 
 ''This visit by Mr. Paulson will have some influence on Chinese political leaders, but China always prefers gradualism,'' he said.
 Mr. Yu, an Oxford-trained economist whose institute will be the location for a major speech on Friday by Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, said Ms. Wu was not seen in China as especially sympathetic to the main American demand in the talks -- that China stop manipulating its currency in order to expand exports.
 ''I have been arguing for a change in economic policy for years, but my voice is quite lonely,'' Mr. Yu said. He added that however understanding Ms. Wu might be, she and the Communist Party are largely beholden to China's export sector, which accounts for more than a third of the country's economy.
 The United States wants China to let its currency, the yuan, float in relation to the dollar. Most economists say this would cause it to rise in value, raising the cost of exports for American consumers and reducing the cost of imports into China. Congressional leaders and business executives say currency reform should be Mr. Paulson's priority.
 The American argument is that it is in China's interest for it to channel its surplus of investment capital not into export industries, but into improving the lives of Chinese citizens and promoting a service- and consumer-led economy that does not use as much energy to run and does not further degrade the environment.
 But a transition to that kind of economy could take years, maybe decades. Moreover, some economists argue that the fixation on the dollar-yuan relationship is a distraction from larger problems like the low savings rate in the United States and low consumption in China.
 In the meantime, the Chinese fear that letting the yuan float upwards could weaken China's export-driven economy. The textile industry alone supports 90 million workers but makes minuscule profit, Mr. Yu said, so a drop in sales could force millions out of work or require more subsidies to keep them employed.
 Mr. Paulson arrived here Wednesday with Commerce Secretary Carlos M. Gutierrez; Labor Secretary Elaine L. Chao; Health and Human Services Secretary Michael O. Leavitt; Energy Secretary Samuel W. Bodman; Susan C. Schwab, the United States trade representative; and Stephen L. Johnson, head of the Environmental Protection Agency.
 The meeting of the American and Chinese teams began Thursday morning in a cavernous room in the Great Hall of the People, where the two sides were arrayed in tiers on opposite sides of the room.
 Ms. Wu's opening remarks, according to a text provided by the Chinese government, declared that ''some American friends'' had ''much misunderstanding about the reality in China." She then offered a lengthy discussion of China's history going back 5,000 years and focusing on its maintaining a ''socialist market economy system'' with state-owned enterprises as a ''mainstay.''
 Aside from general promises to continue opening China's economy to outside investment and market forces and to protect the intellectual property rights of American makers of videos, software and other goods, there were no pledges to take further actions the United States wants.
 There were also no references to currency policies, except to say that China would ''bring into better play the basic role of the market'' in allocating resources. ''Reform and opening up are the most distinct characteristics of contemporary China,'' she declared.
 Mr. Paulson, in shorter opening remarks, also repeated familiar themes, declaring that China and the United States were responsible for half the world's recent economic growth and must produce ''tangible results'' from the dialogue started this week.
 For China, he said, that meant opening markets further, promoting domestic consumption and allowing currency values to fluctuate according to market forces.
 But although Congress is calling for quick action, Mr. Paulson said he understood that various reforms should be enacted ''over the next several years,'' suggesting that there were no quick fixes.
 ''As you know, there is resistance in both our countries to greater integration into the global economy,'' Mr. Paulson said. ''and there is also skepticism that this dialogue will accomplish anything of substance.'' He said he had ''no doubt'' that positive results could come out of the talks.
 Before Thursday's session, the two sides announced several trade deals, including sales of General Electric aircraft engines and fire trucks from the Oshkosh Truck Corporation, as well as the sale of a small Chinese retail chain to Home Depot.
 The goal is to discuss a range of issues as a way of coaxing the Chinese to move on America's economic priorities. Besides their demands on currency manipulation, American officials would like China to open its economy further to foreign investment and services and crack down on piracy of videos, software, pharmaceuticals and other items.
 A senior Bush administration official who knows Ms. Wu said it was not clear how much influence she would have in overcoming the problems, even though she had a record of advocating some modernization to make the Chinese economy less dependent on exports.
 ''She's an impressive interlocutor, very direct and very capable of getting things done,'' said the official, who said he could be more candid if not quoted by name. ''I don't think that's the concern. The concern will be frankly whether she and the other forces for change continue down the path of reform.''
 Ms. Wu, 66, short in stature and with a no-nonsense and occasionally blunt manner, is known even by the Chinese as the ''iron lady'' of bureaucratic politics. She toiled in her early years as an engineer in the petroleum industry and served as vice mayor of Beijing, tirelessly advocating foreign investment to create jobs. 
 She has been described for years as a ''rising star'' in the Communist Party, though she is due to retire next year. In past negotiations, such as the bargaining over China's entry into the World Trade Organization in 2000, she was seen more as an operations manager than a policy maker.
 Ms. Wu's predicted retirement parallels Mr. Paulson's expected tenure. He himself has only two more years in office. Yet both sides say their dialogue will take many years to yield results, producing a natural wariness of concessions upfront.
 The Chinese figure most likely to make the decisions on what reforms are possible is Prime Minister Wen Jiabao, to whom Ms. Wu reports. But Mr. Wen, who is in charge of foreign policy, is considered a cautious consensus-builder with an aversion to anything that could make China unstable.
 Ms. Wu is further handicapped, political experts say, by the sidelining of a top member of the Politburo, Huang Ju, who has been associated with past banking and currency reforms. Mr. Huang has been kept out of the talks by illness and his association with corruption scandals in Shanghai, where he was party chief.
 As a result of all these problems, American officials have for months tried to lower expectations. They also proclaim their interest in listening to China's agenda, though it will be at least as difficult for the United States to deliver what China wants as it is for China to meet the American agenda.
 For example, China wants the United States to raise its own savings rate and cut its budget deficit and reliance on consumer borrowing, which are blamed for the influx of Chinese goods and capital. Mr. Paulson cannot easily deliver on that even if he has a compliant Congress, which he will not.
 The Beijing government also charges that it could shift the trade imbalance and import more American goods if the Bush administration relaxed tight controls on high technology exports with sensitive military applications. The Bush administration has rejected that request.
 China also wants the United States to lift barriers to banks getting licenses in the United States and appears to be freezing efforts by American banks to set up offices in China in retaliation. But the Federal Reserve has effectively barred Chinese banks, claiming they have failed to meet Western standards on transparency.
 Finally, China would like to sell some of its estimated $700 billion in dollar-denominated reserves, earned after years of trade surpluses, and acquire American corporate assets.
 Most of all, China is hoping that this week's dialogue will enable it to educate Americans about China's economic problems, easing the pressure on it to act. But this desire comes just as the Bush administration says it needs Chinese action to ward off protectionist measures aimed at China in Congress.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Wu Yi and Henry Paulson at Thursday's meeting in Beijing. (Photo by Frederic J. Brown, pool/Getty Images)(pg. C1)
 Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson and Vice Prime Minister Wu Yi of China at the start of today's meeting in the Great Hall of the People. (Photo by Frederic J. Brown/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)(pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLITICS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); TRENDS (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (68%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (67%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); IMPORT PRICES (61%) Economic Conditions and Trends; United States International Relations; International Trade and World Market; Currency; United States Economy; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: Chinese Academy of Social Sciences

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (92%); WU YI (90%); BEN BERNANKE (58%) Wu Yi; Yu Yongding; Steven R Weisman; Henry M Jr (Sec) Paulson

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (91%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%) China; China

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2006



320 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: S.E.C. Eases Regulations On Business

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 13 

 BODY:
Responding to criticism that regulators had overreacted to years of major corporate scandals, the Securities and Exchange Commission on Wednesday issued a flurry of deregulatory orders and proposals intended to lower costs to public companies. It said the moves would not reduce investor protection. 
 In a daylong proceeding, the commission proposed a loose interpretation for smaller companies of an auditing provision of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 that has come under attack from many companies. 
 It also proposed a rule to make it easier for foreign companies to withdraw their securities from American markets. A number of companies have asked to withdraw, and officials said the current rules discouraged companies from listing on United States exchanges if they did not have the option of withdrawing later. 
 ''We hope these proposals, when combined, will make the U.S. markets more attractive and we will get more companies here,'' said John W. White, director of the commission's division of corporation finance.
 Among other noteworthy proposals the S.E.C. issued was one that would increase the financial qualifications for investors in hedge funds, to a net worth of $2.5 million from the current standard of $1 million. Officials said the proposal had the effect of adjusting the original rule for inflation, just as hedge funds are becoming more popular among some less wealthy people. The agency also proposed a new provision on fraud to protect hedge fund investors. 
 Some officials said the two proposals could blunt attempts to impose other tougher regulations or disclosure requirements on hedge funds. Six months ago, a federal appeals court said the commission exceeded its authority when it tried to force hedge fund managers to register with it.
 The S.E.C. also adopted a rule that would save corporations the expense of mailing financial reports and proxy statements by enabling them to communicate with the vast majority of their investors through the Internet. (Investors can continue to receive paper copies of proxies and other material through the mail if they request them.)
 And it proposed rules that would make it easier and less costly for banks to offer brokerage services.
 Taken together, the proposals and rules are expected to provide enormous savings for public companies and Wall Street investment houses. Senior officials at the commission said the proposals and rules would not reduce the regulatory protections already afforded to investors.
 The S.E.C.'s deregulatory push came a day after the Justice Department, in response to similar complaints, imposed new limits on federal prosecutors in white-collar corruption cases. Under those new guidelines, prosecutors in the field will now have to obtain permission from senior officials before trying to get companies that are under investigation to waive their attorney-client privilege. 
 In weighing whether to seek the indictment of a company, the prosecutors will also no longer be permitted to consider whether the company is paying the legal fees of an employee involved in the inquiry.
 In recent weeks, Bush administration officials and business groups have criticized some of the changes in corporate law, securities rules and criminal procedures that were enacted in the wake of accounting frauds five years ago at Enron, WorldCom and other highflying companies. 
 It remains to be seen whether the decisions by the commission and the Justice Department will take political pressure off Congress to go further, or whether the business groups that have been critical of the S.E.C. rules and the Justice Department's approach will be able to persuade lawmakers to retrench further.
 The commission's votes on all the measures Wednesday were unanimous, testimony to both the changed regulatory climate and the political skills of the agency's chairman, Christopher Cox, a former Republican member of Congress. He tailored the changes to avoid the divisiveness that had troubled the tenure of his predecessor.
 Mr. Cox said the unifying theme of the proposals and the new rules was to increase the competitiveness and transparency of companies and markets.
 ''If America's markets aren't competitive, investors lose,'' he said. ''If America's markets are not transparent and open, investors lose.''
 Like the decision at the Justice Department, the changes announced by the commission on Wednesday fell short of what some companies and groups had sought. In the case of the auditing rules, for instance, many businesses had sought an exemption from the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. That provision requires public companies to assess the controls they have put in place to ensure that their financial reports are reliable.
 Instead of a blanket exemption, officials said, the proposed guidance would give many small companies a powerful new tool in restricting their auditors from engaging in what the executives viewed as expensive and unnecessary audits of financial controls that had minimum impact on financial statements. A companion new auditing standard is to be proposed next week by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.
 Under the guidance proposed by the S.E.C., executives would evaluate the design of only those financial controls that might carry the risk of having a material impact on financial statements. Commission officials emphasized that the guidance is being drafted to be less onerous on smaller or less intricate companies.
 ''Companies of all sizes and complexities will be able to conduct their evaluations more effectively and efficiently by following the proposed guidance,'' Mr. Cox said. ''As smaller companies have less complex internal control systems than larger companies, this approach enables smaller companies, in particular, to scale and tailor their evaluation methods and procedures to fit their own facts and circumstances.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The S.E.C. chairman, Christopher Cox, was able to secure unanimous votes yesterday for new rules governing many companies and investors. (Photo by Jay Mallin/Bloomberg News)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); SCANDALS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (87%); DELISTINGS (78%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); BONDS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); ETHICS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (77%); PRIVILEGED COMMUNICATIONS (77%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); LITIGATION (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%); LAWYERS (65%); INDICTMENTS (64%); ATTORNEY CLIENT PRIVILEGE (50%); APPEALS (50%); APPEALS COURTS (50%) Corporations; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Law and Legislation; Accounting and Accountants; Stocks and Bonds; Foreign Investments; Hedge Funds; Frauds and Swindling; Ethics; Corporations; Securities and Commodities Violations; Company Reports; Computers and the Internet; Corporations

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (94%) Securities and Exchange Commission

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER COX (71%) Christopher (Chmn) Cox; Stephen Labaton

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2006



321 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: Deep Roots of Denial for Iran's True Believer 

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SLACKMAN; Mona el-Naggar contributed reporting from Cairo, and Nazila Fathi from Tehran.

DATELINE: CAIRO, Dec. 13 

 BODY:
Iran's so-called Holocaust conference this week was billed as a chance to force the West to reconsider the historical record and, thereby, the legitimacy of Israel. But why would the Iranians invite speakers with so little credibility in the West, including a former Ku Klux Klan grand wizard and disgraced European scholars?
 That question misses the point. Iran's president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, portrays participants like David Duke, the former Louisiana Klan leader, and Robert Faurisson of France, who has devoted his life to trying to prove that the Nazi gas chambers were a myth, as silenced truth-tellers whose stories expose Western leaders as the hypocrites he considers them to be. 
Just as Soviet leaders used to invite Americans who suffered racial or political discrimination to Moscow to embarrass Washington, Mr. Ahmadinejad seems to enjoy pointing out that countries like Germany, France and Austria claim to champion free debate yet have made Holocaust denial illegal. 
 He has also repeatedly tried to draw a moral equivalency between questioning the Holocaust and the decision in Europe last year to publish cartoons lampooning the Prophet Muhammad. It wins him favor at home and across the Arab world for standing up to the West and allows him to present himself as morally superior to the West. 
 But there is another important point. Mr. Ahmadinejad actually seems to believe that the volumes of documentation, testimony and living memory of the Nazi genocide are at best exaggerated and part of a Zionist conspiracy to falsify history so as to create the case for Israel. As a former member of the Revolutionary Guards, he was indoctrinated with such thinking, a political analyst in Tehran said, and as a radical student leader, he championed such a view.
 Now he has a platform to promote the theories -- and to try to position himself regionally as the reasonable man who is asking hard questions.
 The two-day meeting included no attempt to come to terms with the nature of the well-documented Nazi slaughter, offering only a platform to those pursuing the fantasy that it never happened. In addition, the organizers of the conference, a small circle around the president, have been building ties with neo-Nazi groups in Europe. 
 ''He is connected to people in Iran who trust his way of doing things and who seriously believe the Holocaust did not take place,'' said Martin Ebbing, a German journalist in Tehran who has closely followed the president. ''They seriously believe it.''
 Evidence of that came in a revealing interview last May with the German magazine Der Spiegel. The interviewer mostly wanted to discuss Iran's nuclear ambitions and the government's refusal to give up uranium enrichment, but the discussion kept returning to the Holocaust. At one point, the exasperated interviewer actually lectured the Iranian president on Germany's culpability.
 ''In our view, there is no doubt that the Germans -- unfortunately -- bear the guilt for the murder of six million,'' the interviewer said to Mr. Ahmadinejad.
 The president gave little ground, saying Germans should rid themselves of such guilt. ''I will only accept something as truth if I am actually convinced of it,'' he said.
 Across the Middle East, contempt for Jews and Zionism is widespread and utterly mainstream. Many say the Holocaust has been wildly exaggerated and used to justify the creation of the Jewish state in 1948 at the expense of Palestinians, a move viewed as yet another example of Western imperialism.
 Anti-Western rage fueled the 1979 Iranian revolution, and Mr. Ahmadinejad has tried to rekindle its energy by spreading Iran's influence beyond its borders. Battling Washington, chiding Arab leaders and claiming to promote the Palestinian cause have made him extremely popular on the streets from Cairo to Morocco.
 Such actions have also helped turn attention away from his inability so far to deliver on promises of economic populism, including a redistribution of wealth and greater social justice for the bulk of the country that is struggling to make ends meet. 
 The president's ideas do not resonate in all corners of Iran, though, and some political scientists there say they have embarrassed officials who, even if they agree, do not want to see a focus on Holocaust denial further isolate Iran from Europe.
 ''I raise two questions about this conference,'' said Ahmad Shirzad, a reformist politician and former legislator. ''First, how much does this solve the problems our people are faced with? And secondly, which one of our goals were realized? It looks like he wants to make news and do provocative things.''
 Others see an even more ambitious post-Iraq agenda reflected in Mr. Ahmadinejad's high profile on the issues of Jews, the Holocaust and Israel. 
 ''It is for public consumption in Arab countries,'' said Mustafa El-Labbad, editor of Sharqnameh, a magazine specializing in Iranian affairs and published in Cairo. ''It is specifically directed toward deepening the gap between the people and their regimes and toward embarrassing the rulers so that the regional power vacuum, especially after Iraq, can be filled by Iran.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLOCAUST (92%); GENOCIDE (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); HISTORY (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); WRITERS (75%); JOURNALISM (75%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (72%); TRENDS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); DISCRIMINATION (54%) Nazi Policies Toward Jews and Minorities; Palestinians; Economic Conditions and Trends; Nazi Policies Toward Jews and Minorities

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (79%) Michael Slackman; Mahmoud (Pres) Ahmadinejad

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (74%); CAIRO, EGYPT (55%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (98%); ISRAEL (94%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (90%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); IRAN (74%); AUSTRIA (57%); EGYPT (55%) Iran; Israel

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2006



322 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: Democrats to Decide Soon On New York Bid for '08

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL and PATRICK HEALY; Adam Nagourney contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Democratic officials moved into the final stage of deliberations yesterday about where to place their party's 2008 nominating convention, with New York officials saying they were increasingly confident that the party would turn to their city for its convention for the first time in 16 years.
 Party officials said the decision -- with New York competing against Denver -- would be made no later than Monday, and perhaps by the end of this week. 
The New York officials, speaking on the condition of anonymity for fear of jeopardizing the negotiations, said their prospects for winning the convention looked good, despite Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's reservations about his ability to raise roughly $85 million to cover the costs.
 Prominent New York Democrats, including Senator Charles E. Schumer and Governor-elect Eliot Spitzer, have been working to promote the bid within the Democratic National Committee.
 Officials working on the bid have contended that New York is better positioned than Denver to deliver the financing, hotel rooms, entertainment space, logistical support and labor union cooperation that are needed for a successful convention. All that the city lacks, the officials agree, is a voter base that has not already made up its mind.
 ''New York has every advantage except that we're a deep blue state,'' Mr. Schumer said in an interview yesterday.
 Denver has undertaken a polished effort to highlight its politically advantageous location in the Rocky Mountain West, now considered a swing area. Bid organizers have made a case to the Democratic leadership that the region, populated by disaffected Republicans and Democrats who are ripe for excitement, could decide the next presidency. The lobbying effort has drawn help from newly empowered Democrats like the incoming Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, and Senator-elect Jon Tester of Montana.
 Karen Finney, a spokeswoman for the Democratic National Committee, said, ''We are still in negotiations with both cities, and both are being considered equally.'' 
 Yet some Democrats in Washington with knowledge of the two bids said that Denver had offered fewer clear assurances than New York that it could raise the necessary money, a crucial factor for the party chairman, Howard Dean. These Democrats said that Mr. Dean was very high on the idea of Denver and its promise as fertile political ground, but that he might conclude that New York had the better bid on paper.
 One interesting wrinkle for New York -- and one that highlights the evolving power dynamics in the state -- is that it is not entirely clear who would command the fund-raising effort here.
 The mayor was a formidable fund-raiser for the Republican convention here in 2004. Yet administration officials expressed ''grave concerns'' in October that Mr. Bloomberg might be spread too thin to raise money for the city's share of convention costs, projected at $80 million to $100 million.
 Both Mr. Spitzer and Mr. Schumer strongly support holding the convention here, yet both have been hesitant to pledge that they will raise the money if Mr. Bloomberg decides he cannot, according to the officials familiar with the negotiations. 
 Mr. Spitzer is eager to focus on overhauling New York government and reviving the upstate economy in 2007 and 2008, and not on raising money in his first year as governor, the officials noted. That said, Mr. Spitzer would not mind having a national platform where he could trumpet his work in Albany, they said.
 Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton has also been an advocate for a convention in New York. Yet because she is a possible presidential candidate in 2008 --public opinion polls indicate that she would be the likely front-runner for the Democratic nomination, were she to run -- her team would need to spend the next 18 months raising money for her campaign, not for the convention.
 Nonetheless, others are poised to fill any fund-raising gaps. The former treasury secretary Robert E. Rubin and the business leader and philanthropist Jonathan M. Tisch are the co-chairmen of the bid's host committee, so they and their allies would probably undertake much of the fund-raising.
 In a break from years past, party officials are negotiating agreements with both contending cities before making a selection, in hopes of avoiding the kinds of problems seen in the past. In 2004, for instance, Boston struggled to raise all the money it had promised to the party.
 With many political analysts and elected officials arguing that the Democrats would be wise to take their convention to an area of the country where they might knock a few states over to their side of the fence, New York's chances at the beginning looked dim. But aides to Mr. Bloomberg put together an all-out pitch, with the mayor going to Chicago to court party leaders, taking along the ''Sopranos'' star Lorraine Bracco and offering the officials Big Apple martinis and manhattans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); FUNDRAISING (88%); POLITICS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); LOBBYING (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); GOVERNORS (70%); LABOR UNIONS (67%) Presidential Election of 2008; Conventions, National (US); Finances

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (56%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%); ELIOT SPITZER (59%); CHARLES SCHUMER (59%); HARRY REID (59%); JON TESTER (59%) Diane Cardwell; Patrick Healy; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); COLORADO, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City; Denver (Colo)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2006



323 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: Illegal Immigrants at Center Of New ID Theft Crackdown

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 13 

 BODY:
Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff on Wednesday announced a broad new plan to crack down on illegal immigrants who steal the identities of American citizens to get jobs. The strategy, he warned, would likely have economic consequences for the industries that rely heavily on illegal workers.
 The announcement came one day after homeland security agents swept into Swift & Company meatpacking plants in six states and arrested nearly 1,300 workers, almost 10 percent of the company's work force, in what Mr. Chertoff hailed as the largest workplace crackdown on illegal immigration. 
Of the 1,282 workers detained, 65 were charged with identity theft or other crimes, officials said. The rest face administrative charges for being in the United States illegally and will likely be deported. The company, which cooperated with the government, was not charged with any criminal or civil violations.
 Mr. Chertoff said illegal immigrants had assumed the stolen identities of hundreds of American citizens to get jobs at Swift & Company. And he warned that he intended to aggressively pursue document-theft rings and the illegal immigrant workers who use them, even though he acknowledged that ''when we remove the illegal workers, there's going to be some kind of a slowdown.''
 ''Obviously, when -- even unwittingly -- a business is significantly built on illegal labor, once we enforce the law, that's going to have a ripple effect,'' Mr. Chertoff said at a news conference in response to questions about the impact of the new strategy on businesses and the economy.
 ''It's going to be a deterrent to illegal workers,'' he said. ''It's going to cause them to say that, you know, this happened in Swift, it could easily happen somewhere else. In fact, I'm pretty much going to guarantee we're going to keep bringing these cases.''
 The news sent shudders through the nation's businesses because Swift & Company, the world's second largest processor of fresh beef and pork, had tried to weed out illegal workers and had relied on a federal program designed to help employers detect fake identity documents. Mr. Chertoff acknowledged that the program, known as Basic Pilot, is unable to detect authentic identity documents that have been stolen.
 In a statement, Swift & Company executives said the raids had forced the company to temporarily suspend operations on Tuesday in its plants in Texas, Colorado, Nebraska, Minnesota, Iowa and Utah. They said work resumed on Wednesday, but warned that production was expected to fall ''below normal levels in the short term.'' Union officials said that employee attendance dipped slightly on Wednesday because some immigrants were afraid to return to work.
 Homeland security officials emphasized that only the company's workers -- not the company -- had been charged with wrongdoing, though the investigation is continuing. They said Swift's situation demonstrated the need for a temporary worker program, such as the one advocated by President Bush, to ensure that companies have access to foreign workers. 
 Mr. Chertoff also urged Congress to pass legislation that would allow Social Security officials to pass along information about valid Social Security numbers being used in multiple workplaces, which then would allow the Basic Pilot program to capture such data and give it to employers.
 Homeland security officials also noted that Swift fired scores of workers it determined were illegal, without informing the government, which had notified the company of its investigation. Swift also unsuccessfully sought a court order to prevent federal officials from conducting raids. Both instances, officials suggested, raised questions about the company's willingness to cooperate with the government.
 But that did little to reassure jittery executives.
 ''This is any business's nightmare, whether you are in the meat industry or outside the meat industry,'' said Janet Riley, spokeswoman for the American Meat Institute.
 Randy Johnson, a vice president of the United States Chamber of Commerce, warned that the raids would lead companies to question the value of participating in the Basic Pilot program. And Laura Reiff of the Essential Worker Immigration Coalition, said she was deluged on Wednesday with calls from business owners upset by the Department of Homeland Security's actions.
 ''They're frightened; they're outraged,'' said Ms. Reiff, whose coalition represents hotels, restaurants, construction companies and other service industries. ''Companies have tried to work with them in good faith. For them to target a company that is using a program that they're trying to sell is disingenuous.''
 This week's sweep reflects the Bush administration's continuing efforts to demonstrate that it is determined to enforce the nation's long-neglected immigration laws, even as it works to revive legislation that would create a temporary worker program that would legalize most of the 12 million illegal immigrants believed to be in the United States.
 In 2002, immigration officials arrested or charged 25 people for criminal violation of immigration law. During fiscal year 2006, which ended on Sept. 30, that number surged to 716. Hundreds more were arrested and deported for living here illegally. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (95%); IDENTITY THEFT (91%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (79%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); REFUGEES (78%); DEPORTATION (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); MEATS (76%); LARCENY & THEFT (75%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); PORK (72%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%) Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Immigrants; Labor; Identity Fraud; Meat; Immigration and Refugees

COMPANY: SWIFT & CO (93%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (94%) Homeland Security Department; Swift & Co

INDUSTRY: SIC2013 SAUSAGES & OTHER PREPARED MEAT PRODUCTS (93%)

PERSON: MICHAEL CHERTOFF (91%) Michael (Sec) Chertoff; Rachel Swarns

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2006



324 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 14, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1451 words

HEADLINE: Big Consolidated Airline Inc. 

BYLINE: By JEFF BAILEY; Don Phillips contributed reporting.

 BODY:
AirTran Holdings is roughly a tenth the size of its main competitor, Delta Air Lines. So AirTran executives would seem unlikely cheerleaders of a potential merger that would make Delta 60 percent larger.
 But the recent $8.5 billion takeover offer for Delta by US Airways has found a fan in Joseph B. Leonard, chief executive at AirTran, which, like Delta, flies routes across the Southeast from its hub in Atlanta.
''I'm rooting for it,'' Mr. Leonard said yesterday in an interview, after announcing his own proposed takeover of Midwest Air, an airline based in Oak Creek, Ill., for $290 million.
 Mr. Leonard may relish his role as underdog but that is not why he hopes the carriers merge -- he just wants to see fewer jets in the sky. After all, US Airways' proposed takeover would reduce the two airlines' combined jet fleet about 10 percent. 
 That, in turn, would allow the merged Delta -- and AirTran -- to raise fares on many routes, significantly increasing profits.
 ''It doesn't take much,'' he said.
 The prospect of higher profits has stimulated a new round of merger talks in the industry, whose fortunes have started to improve after more than $30 billion in losses over the last five years. 
 Discussions about a possible deal between United Airlines and Continental Airlines came to light this week. And if one big merger goes through, other airlines will probably feel compelled to pair off as well or wind up at a competitive disadvantage because they have higher costs or smaller route networks.
 But less financial misery for airlines often means more bad news for their passengers -- since, in this business, misery tends to be a zero-sum game.
 Fewer planes would lead, certainly in the short term, to more-crowded flights and higher fares. 
 Airline mergers are already on the political radar screen. Concerned about rising fares and the potential for reduced air service to small communities, Representative James L. Oberstar, Democrat of Minnesota, the next chairman of the House Committee on Commerce and Transportation, said yesterday that the Justice Department should block any major airline merger.
 If it does not, Mr. Oberstar said, he would call hearings before his committee to consider action to block such mergers (three steps are necessary to approve an airline deal: the Transportation Department must determine that a merger is financially viable, the Federal Aviation Administration must approve a certificate of safety, and the Justice Department must determine that there are no antitrust issues).
 Mr. Oberstar said the public could be harmed only by the sort of large mergers contemplated by US Airways and by United and Continental, and that those in turn would lead to other mergers. 
 ''I don't think there's any benefit from mergers except for the benefit of stockholders and airline officials,'' Mr. Oberstar said. ''There is no benefit to the traveling public.''
 Mr. Oberstar's district is centered on Duluth, considerably north of the headquarters of Northwest Airlines, which are near Minneapolis-St. Paul, but he is sensitive to the desires of his home state's airline to remain independent. Northwest, which has lucrative Asian routes but is operating in bankruptcy, could be vulnerable to a takeover if Delta succumbs to US Airways.
 The industry's recent history serves to bolster Mr. Oberstar's argument. 
 The domestic airlines' fleet shrank about 12 percent from 2000 to 2005, the Transportation Department reported, to 3,938 big jets from 4,462. That, in combination with an improving economy, permitted airlines to raise fares about 15 percent over the last year.
 And the smaller fleet will continue to help prop up prices for an industry still heavily in debt and vulnerable to the next economic downturn. The Transportation Department does not expect the fleet to return to its year 2000 size until 2011, as most deliveries of jetliners are scheduled to occur outside the United States.
 Airlines have also cut costs and jobs to stay afloat. Big network carriers have cut their combined payrolls to 264,000 workers in September 2006 from about 420,000 in September 2001, a 37 percent cut, according to the Transportation Department. And many of those remaining workers are being paid about one third less.
 But whether consumers are always harmed by mergers is debatable. If a high-cost airline is acquired by another carrier, travelers may benefit. 
 A study conducted by Clifford Winston, an economist at the Brookings Institution, found that travelers would suffer, not surprisingly, if a number of airlines left the business. For example, in the year 2000, travelers would have lost $19.6 billion, attributable to higher air fares and less-frequent service, if Southwest Airlines did not exist. 
 But he also found that customers would have benefited over all that year, by about $3.6 billion, if US Airways had stopped operating, because its service probably would have been replaced by lower-fare airlines with more-frequent service.
 He also found that travelers would have benefited by $3.7 billion if American had left the business, and $2.4 billion if Continental had left. 
 It was an academic exercise, and one intended to measure the loss of only a single airline at a time, but one that shows that some airlines tend to reduce industry fares while others prop them up. 
 To be sure, a more recent study would lead to different results, because US Airways and other airlines have revamped in recent years. 
 ''It really matters who you lose and who comes in to take their place,'' Mr. Winston said. 
 Any price increases that airlines are able to push through as a result of mergers could also end up being relatively short term. Southwest, AirTran, JetBlue Airways and other low-cost airlines have collectively grown to about 35 percent of the industry from about 10 percent in 1990, said Daniel M. Kasper, a managing director at LECG, a consulting firm.
 And those carriers are growing as the bigger, established airlines shrink. If history is any guide, Southwest and the others can be counted on to start flying routes where US Airways or other network carriers reduce service.
 ''The market is perfectly capable of sorting these things out,'' Mr. Kasper said. 
 While some in the industry insist there is too much airline capacity, Mr. Kasper said the problem was that too much of the capacity remained in the hands of older network carriers. More cutbacks by these airlines would help hasten that shift, he added, increasing the number of seats available on low-cost airlines.
 Domestic air fares as of last year were roughly the same as in 1988, the Air Transport Association said, and when adjusted for inflation, fares have been falling steadily for decades as bigger and more-efficient airplanes reduced costs and spurred competition.
 More recently, consumers have kept fares from rising by using the Internet to shop. Consumers' ability to compare American Airlines' prices, say, with Southwest's has kept fares from rising faster this last year.
 In coming days, much of the industry will be waiting to see if US Airways is able to persuade Delta's unsecured creditors to help press its case. Those creditors, whose claims will convert into common stock that controls the company after Delta's exit from bankruptcy, can demand that Delta permit US Airways to inspect its books and otherwise research the proposed takeover.
 Delta's management opposes the deal and plans to file its stand-alone plan in bankruptcy court next week. Delta claims soared about 50 percent after the US Airways offer was made Nov. 15. Delta executives face pressure to present a plan that could justify something close to that higher value.
 Just as crucially, Delta management is expected to raise concerns about the US Airways proposal, especially its ability to pass muster with antitrust regulators. 
 ''We are skeptical,'' Ed Bastian, Delta's chief financial officer, said in an interview.
 Mr. Kasper, the consultant, said that regulators would try to determine whether any competition lost because of the merger would be replaced within two years. Delta and US Airways own the two New York shuttle operations to Boston and Washington, and presumably one of them would have to be sold. And US Airways said the two airlines dominate only a relatively small number of their combined markets. 
 Delta management's success at resisting US Airways ''could be the tipping point,'' that either spurs more deals or ends the industry merger talk, said the chief executive of another big airline, who asked not to be identified because his company could end up in merger negotiations, too. 
 ''There's a chance nothing will get done,'' he said.


CORRECTION-DATE: December 16, 2006

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article in Business Day on Thursday about possible consolidation within the airline industry misidentified the location of the headquarters of Midwest Airlines, which has received a takeover offer from AirTrans Holdings. It is Oak Creek, Wis. -- not Illinois. The article also misidentified the House committee that will be led in the next Congress by Representative James L Oberstar, Democrat of Minnesota, who said the Justice Department should block any major airline merger. It is the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure -- not on Commerce and Transportation.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Workers for Delta Air Lines gathered yesterday at the Georgia International Convention Center in Atlanta to protest an $8.5 billion bid by US Airways to buy Delta, which is operating under bankruptcy protection. (Photo by Chris Rank/Bloomberg News)(pg. C4)
(pg. C1)Chart: ''Airfares Have Fallen . . .''Chart tracks the price a passenger pays to fly, in 2005 dollars since 1980.. . . Thanks Mostly To a Few AirlinesNET BENEFIT TO CONSUMERSEstimate of how much consumers saved in 2000 because each airline was in business
figures in billions*Southwest -- +$19.6ATA -- +7.8United -- +7.2Delta -- +6.1AirTran -- +5.5JetBlue -- +5.5Northwest -- +1.0Continental -- -$2.4US Airways -- -3.6American -- -3.7*A positive number means the airline reduced consumer costs
a negative number means the airline increased consumer costs. The study ended in 2000, and one of the authors, Clifford Winston, notes that many airlines have restructured since then, changing their impact on how much consumers pay.(Sources by Air Transport Association
 ''Fares and Taxes Paid by Business Travelers,'' an economic study)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); MERGERS (91%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); CIVIL AVIATION (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (89%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); APPROVALS (78%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); AIR SERVICE (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (92%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (91%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (92%); DAL (NYSE) (92%); UAL (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%)

PERSON: J WAYNE LEONARD (76%); JIM OBERSTAR (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%) GEORGIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2006



325 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 888 words

HEADLINE: OPEC Sets Reduction In Output

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
The OPEC oil cartel said yesterday that it planned to reduce its output by nearly 2 percent in February, the group's second production cut in two months and its strongest indication yet that it would seek to keep oil prices above $60 a barrel next year. 
 Representatives from OPEC nations agreed to pare their production to 25.8 million barrels a day, from 26.3 million barrels, starting on Feb. 1. The group had already agreed to a 4 percent production cut in October to prop up prices. 
''I hope the market appreciates we are working so diligently to bring supply and demand in balance, to have inventories at a reasonable level so that we do not have gyrations,'' Ali al-Naimi, the Saudi oil minister, told reporters at the meeting in Abuja, Nigeria.
 The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries, which accounts for 40 percent of the world's oil exports, also said Angola would join the group next year, becoming its first new member since 1975.
 Angola, Africa's fastest-growing oil exporter, is a powerful addition to OPEC, which has 11 members. Foreign oil companies have invested heavily in Angola in recent years and expect its production to grow sharply in the coming decade. Angola pumps 1.4 million barrels a day, ranking it above Qatar and Indonesia within OPEC. 
 Some OPEC producers have expressed concern that shrinking demand next year might cause prices to fall if production were left unchecked. But with oil prices still hovering around $60 a barrel and commercial inventories down substantially over the last months, analysts were surprised by OPEC's decision. 
 ''This makes an incredibly tight market even tighter,'' said Edward Morse, the chief energy economist at Lehman Brothers in New York. ''It's a very aggressive, assertive move. Clearly, some OPEC members want to keep a $60 floor.''
 Oil futures on the New York Mercantile Exchange rose after the announcement by OPEC. Crude oil for January delivery rose $1.14, to $62.51 a barrel yesterday. Prices had lost more than $20 a barrel since hitting a record close of $77.03 this summer. That fall prompted OPEC to abandon its two-year- old policy of keeping its taps open to keep markets well supplied. 
 After touching a low for the year of $55 in November, prices have since rebounded, mostly as OPEC has curbed supplies.
 ''They are jawboning the market and trying to show they are being aggressive,'' said Roger Diwan, a managing director at PFC Energy, a consultant in Washington. ''The question is, Are they being too aggressive?'' 
 In a statement released at the end of the one-day meeting, OPEC said that ''market fundamentals clearly indicate that there is more than ample crude supply, high stock levels and increasing spare capacity.''
 Saudi Arabia, the main power broker within OPEC and the world's biggest oil exporter, has taken the lead in reducing its own output and is behind the cartel's recent shift to curb supplies. Though some critics have been skeptical about past compliance, the Saudi minister estimated that OPEC members have adhered to about 80 percent of the cuts agreed upon at the last emergency meeting, held in Doha, Qatar, on Oct. 19.
 But since OPEC does not publish production figures, there is very little reliable data for oil markets. Mr. Morse of Lehman estimates that OPEC countries have actually pared production by only 700,000 barrels a day, instead of 1.2 million barrels, since the October meeting. He expects OPEC will cut only another 300,000 barrels, starting in February, instead of 500,000 barrels as agreed to yesterday.
 According to the latest report from the International Energy Agency, OPEC production fell by 550,000 barrels a day in November, to 28.9 million. That figure includes the production of Iraq, which does not have an OPEC quota.
 Analysts at the energy agency, which represents consumers, have warned OPEC not to cut its production further as higher energy prices could erode economic growth. The agency trimmed its forecast for Chinese demand growth to 5.6 percent in 2006, from a previous estimate of 6.2 percent.
 OPEC said yesterday in a statement that it expected global oil demand to grow by 1.3 million barrels a day in 2007. But it expects new supplies from non-OPEC producers to grow by 1.8 million barrels a day. This would be the largest one-year rise in non-OPEC supplies since 1984, according to OPEC.
 In the lead-up to the meeting, Edmund Daukoru, Nigeria's oil minister and OPEC president for this year, said there was a general support for a production cut. The representatives of Algeria, Venezuela, Iran and Indonesia all agreed about a need to trim production. In recent weeks oil inventories held by consuming nations fell sharply. In the United States, the world's biggest market, oil product stocks have fallen by 54 million barrels since October, a drop of nearly a million barrels a day.
 Lawrence J. Goldstein, the president of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation in New York, said OPEC ministers should be careful how they manage the market in coming months. 
 He suggested that high energy costs could reduce consumption. 
 ''That's a trend OPEC and the Saudis should not be ignoring,'' he said, ''because at the end of the day they want to sell, and if you want to sell, you need a vibrant economy, particularly in the United States.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ali al-Naimi, oil minister of Saudi Arabia, at right, talks to members of the Saudi delegation yesterday at the OPEC meeting in Abuja, Nigeria. (Photo by Suzanne Plunkett/Bloomberg News)(pg. C10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); EXPORT TRADE (91%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (91%); CARTELS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (87%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); FUTURES (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); FUEL MARKETS (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (75%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Production; International Trade and World Market; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%) Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: Ali (Min) Al-Naimi; Jad Mouawad

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) NIGERIA (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); ANGOLA (94%); INDONESIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%) Angola

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2006



326 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: S.E.C. to Firms: Keep Money, Forget Rules 

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
It looked like a simple deal: Companies that wanted to raise money in the American capital market had to agree to comply with the market's rules. The promise remained binding as long as a substantial number of Americans owned the stock.
 But now, under pressure from foreign companies that do not want to be bound by such a bargain, the Securities and Exchange Commission is proposing rules that will let all but a handful of foreign companies abrogate the deal, even if there are tens of thousands of American owners. As long as the primary trading market for a stock is overseas, American shareholders can be ignored. 
The companies will be able to keep the money that was raised from the securities, but they will no longer have to comply with the rules. Thousands of companies will be eligible to deregister from the United States.
 If American investors don't like living without such protections, one commissioner, Annette L. Nazareth, said, they can ''vote with their feet'' and sell their shares. Now, there's investor protection.
 The move by the commission on Wednesday is the latest in a string of changes that have drastically reduced the scope of regulations in global financial markets. 
 The deregulation of foreign securities began in 1990, when the commission adopted a rule, No. 144A, that allowed the sale of securities in United States markets without complying with the nation's disclosure rules, as long as the securities were sold only to institutions and rich individuals. 
 The result has been that to the extent institutional money managers were willing to live with lesser disclosures, money can be raised in the United States without complying with disclosure rules. 
 There was a revival of foreign interest in American markets in the late 1990s. Companies focused their attention here, seeking to take advantage of the extraordinary valuations being given to technology businesses by American investors, including individual speculators who could not easily trade overseas or buy Rule 144A securities.
 In a series of papers, Craig Doidge of the University of Toronto and G. Andrew Karolyi and Rene M. Stulz, both of Ohio State University, have tried to calculate the value of a listing in the United States by comparing valuations of foreign companies that do not list in this country with those that do. They found a substantial advantage from 1997 through 2001, and from 2003 through 2005.
 Put simply, investors paid more if a company complied with American rules and promised to keep doing so.
 By far, the largest advantage came in 1999 when the technology bubble was at its peak. After the bubble burst and scandals emerged, the advantage withered in 2002.
 ''It seems reasonable to think 2002 was a troubled time,'' Mr. Stulz said in an interview, ''and people had questions about how governance was working.''
 After that, however, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act helped to restore confidence. The overall advantage now is smaller than it had been, but it remains significant. It is no doubt held down by the fact that companies whose bubbles burst are still listed in the United States.
 That is not, however, the way everyone sees the data. Luigi Zingales, a professor at the University of Chicago, sorted the numbers into two time periods: 1997-2001 and 2003-5, leaving out 2002. He says the smaller premium in the later years shows that investors are concerned about the costs of complying with Sarbanes-Oxley, which was enacted in 2002. 
 Mr. Zingales is a member of the Committee on Capital Markets Regulation, a group created with the blessing of Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. that has called for a reduction in American regulation, and his analysis forms an important part of the committee's report. 
 So there you have two explanations for one set of data. Mr. Zingales told me that his analysis still held, even if 1999 was excluded. He sees the bubble as a brief event, not something that clouded a several-year period. Mr. Stulz says that when he looks at the data, he finds it ''hard to believe'' that Mr. Zinglales's ''interpretation is reasonable.''
 The S.E.C.'s latest move threatens to make all such data useless anyway. The premium valuation for a listing in the United States ''will fall if it becomes easy for foreign firms to renege on that commitment by leaving the U.S.,'' Mr. Stulz said. ''It is important to remember that if firms could come and go as they please, there would be no premium.'' 
 As those companies do withdraw, and as more money flows into private equity, hedge funds and derivatives markets -- all largely unregulated -- there will be less effective regulatory oversight.
 When a hedge fund with a lot of derivatives collapses, or when fraud engulfs an overseas company that was allowed to stop complying with American rules despite having thousands of American investors, the public may ask whether that was a wise decision. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); US SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BONDS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%) Stocks and Bonds; Foreign Investments; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Stocks and Bonds

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (91%) Securities and Exchange Commission

PERSON: Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2006



327 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 322 words

HEADLINE: Prices of Imported Goods Rose in November

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
Prices of goods imported into the United States rose last month for the first time in three months because of an increase in the cost of natural gas purchases.
 Import prices rose 0.2 percent in November, after falling more than 2 percent in each of the two previous months, the Labor Department said yesterday. Excluding fuel, the index rose 0.1 percent. 
Separate figures from the Labor Department yesterday showed that initial jobless claims fell 20,000, to 304,000, last week, consistent with a healthy labor market. The four-week moving average, a less volatile measure, fell to 327,250, from 328,750.
 The absence of import price gains in other areas, coupled with the labor numbers, suggests that the Federal Reserve can continue to keep interest rates unchanged, economists said.
 The import price of natural gas soared 30.3 percent, the biggest increase since November 2004. 
 The figures are ''an energy story,'' said Drew Matus, senior economist at Lehman Brothers Holdings in New York. ''The consumer import prices were flat. We're not really importing inflation from overseas.''
 While job growth is slowing along with the economy, companies are still reluctant to let people go, and the unemployment rate is near a five-year low. Claims have been skewed the last three weeks by seasonal adjustments that cause wide fluctuations at this time of year, according to the Labor Department.
 The import price index is the first of three monthly price gauges the government releases. The Labor Department is scheduled to issue its consumer price report today and its producer price report on Dec. 19. Both measures are projected to rise, according to preliminary estimates by economists.
 Oil prices held steady last month after falling 23 percent from a closing high of $77.03 in July. The average price of a barrel of crude oil traded on the New York Mercantile Exchange edged up to $59.40 in November, from $59.14 in October.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMPORT TRADE (95%); IMPORT PRICES (94%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (79%); PRODUCER PRICES (79%); ENERGY MARKETS (79%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (79%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (77%); FUEL MARKETS (77%); BOND MARKETS (75%); HOLDING COMPANIES (72%); INTEREST RATES (69%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (63%) 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Labor Department (US)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2006



328 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; A Glut of Gas Guzzlers And a Shortage of Buyers; Rumors of Big Job Cuts; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1224 words

HEADLINE: At Chrysler Now, The Fast Track Runs Downhill

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD; Nick Bunkley contributed reporting from Windsor, Ontario.

DATELINE: DETROIT, Dec. 14 

 BODY:
Chrysler executives startled investors in late October when they acknowledged that the company had been building tens of thousands of cars on spec to keep its factories humming. Those cars were not included in the company's estimates of its backlog of unsold vehicles on dealer lots -- a figure that was already high by industry standards. 
 But Chrysler's chief executive, Thomas W. LaSorda, said Thursday on a company blog that Chrysler would continue to build cars that dealers had not ordered -- just fewer of them.
At the company's holiday party later, Mr. LaSorda declined to discuss why the company let the inventories build up. 
 ''Let's say we did, and we'll get out of it,'' he said. ''I took responsibility for the situation, and I'll get us out of it.''
 As for the turnaround plan that many in Detroit have been expecting from Chrysler, Mr. LaSorda said he would have more to say after the first of the year.
 And so Chrysler -- on a perpetual roller coaster ride in recent decades from financial crises to surging sales from hit products like the 300C sedan -- will probably have more bad news in coming months. 
 There has been plenty of bad news already, beyond the backlog of unsold cars. This year, Chrysler lost its No. 3 spot in the American market to Toyota, watched its once-envied profits evaporate, and faced a near rebellion from dealers who were angry at being saddled with an oversupply of mostly gas-thirsty vehicles that were out of step with consumers' demands for more fuel-efficient vehicles. 
 ''This year was one to forget for them,'' said Jesse Toprak, an industry analyst with Edmunds.com, which provides car-buying advice.
 Heads have already rolled. Chrysler's German-born marketing chief, Joe Eberhardt, the main target of dealers' ire, left last week to run a Mercedes dealership. 
 Mr. LaSorda could soon be leaving Chrysler, too, for a job at its parent, DaimlerChrysler, a senior company official said this week. But at the Thursday night party, Mr. LaSorda said in an interview: ''I'm not worried about my future. It's solid.''
 If Mr. LaSorda is promoted or leaves, that could clear the way for a Volkswagen executive, Wolfgang Bernhard, Chrysler's former president, to return in the top job -- an outcome that some industry analysts have said is likely if Mr. LaSorda vacates his current job.
 For now, though, Mr. LaSorda is racing to put together yet another turnaround plan, which Chrysler is expected to roll out in late January to stem losses that are expected to top $1.2 billion this year. 
 The plan, still being written, is expected to include plant closings, job cuts and reductions in spending -- actions that are intended to trim Chrysler's costs by $1,000 a vehicle.
 ''We have to study every part of the company,'' Mr. LaSorda said.
 Chrysler has pulled off turnarounds before with hit products -- besides the 300C, it has scored big hits through the years with its minivans, aggressive pickups built to resemble semis and the PT Cruiser.
 But those earlier comebacks occurred when Detroit companies were still in firm control of the American market. Chrysler must now battle Asian carmakers like Toyota that are in their strongest shape since they began selling cars here nearly five decades ago.
 This year, Chrysler lost market share that it picked up since it introduced the 300C two and a half years ago. Through November, it held just under 13 percent of the American market. At its peak, in the mid-1990s, Chrysler held nearly 17 percent.
 If Mr. LaSorda cannot fix Chrysler, it may find itself with not just a new leader, but potentially a new owner.
 DaimlerChrysler has acknowledged it cannot build a small car at a profit in North America, and is in talks with Chinese companies to build one that it can import. 
 Should Daimler officials run out of patience with Chrysler, analysts have said, a Chinese owner might be the logical option to take the company off Daimler's hands. 
 A top DaimlerChrysler executive fanned such speculation this summer when, in response to a question, he declined to rule out the possibility of selling off Chrysler. Soon after, the company said Chrysler would not be sold, but the question mark lingers, and analysts have said a Chinese buyer for Chrysler makes sense because such a deal would provide access to the American market.
 Not long ago, Chrysler was in good shape. It was the only Detroit carmaker to gain market share and increase sales in 2005, when it earned a $1.8 billion operating profit, compared with G.M.'s $10.6 billion loss.
 Its previous chief executive, Dieter Zetsche, who now runs DaimlerChrysler, declared numerous times that Chrysler's primary competition was not G.M. or Ford, but Asian auto companies, with their lean operating styles and loyal customers. 
 His successor, Mr. LaSorda, declared that 2006 would serve as a transition from traditional Detroit ways to an Asian approach, with flexible plants, little waste and open communication with its workers. 
 Instead, Chrysler fell back into a habit that had hurt the company badly in the 1970s: it built far more vehicles than its dealers could sell. 
 This summer, as many as 100,000 vehicles sat on lots around metropolitan Detroit, unaccounted for in Chrysler's so-called daily supply numbers, which had already raised analysts' eyebrows for being so high. Incentives have also soared: Chrysler is slicing as much as $10,000 off the $30,000 price of the Dodge Durango, a big S.U.V. whose sales have stalled.
 Profitable through the first half, Chrysler posted a $1.5 billion third-quarter loss and is expected to lose money for the year.
 Even so, Mr. LaSorda and other Chrysler executives insisted that the new models Chrysler had coming, 10 in all, would lift sales again. 
 That has not happened. Chrysler's newest vehicles are mainly sport utilities and crossovers, and none have captured the public's interest like the 300C, PT Cruiser or other hot models of the past.
 Now, said Mr. Toprak, ''They have to decide, do we want to be a company with 10 percent market share, or do we want to go with volume?'' 
 Chrysler workers, meanwhile, are wondering, yet again, what the future holds for them. Rumors are rampant at Chrysler's Windsor, Ontario, assembly plant, just across the river from Detroit, that hundreds of jobs are about to be cut as Chrysler installs automation technology to build its next-generation minivan, which goes into production next year.
 Chrysler officials maintain that fewer than 100 jobs will be eliminated at the factory, which is scheduled to shut for up to three months after the first of the year. 
 Still, it is the latest bad news for workers who agreed to wage cuts to keep the company afloat in 1979, and who have watched as other carmakers have closed factories in Windsor. 
 Jeff Poisson, who has worked at the Windsor assembly plant for more than 20 years, said the company's problems were partly a result of its merger with Daimler-Benz in 1998. ''When the Germans took over, this plant was making millions,'' he said.
 Other longtime workers are hearing the turnaround talk with trepidation.
 ''When it hits us, we'll feel it,'' said Dorothy Simic, who has worked on the Windsor plant's assembly line for 30 years.
 Still, Ms. Simic described herself as optimistic. 
 ''We've been through it before,'' she said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jeff Poisson, who has worked at the Windsor plant for over 20 years, said the problems were partly a result of the merger with Daimler-Benz. (Photo by Fabrizio Costantini for The New York Times)
Thomas W. LaSorda may soon leave Chrysler, an official asserts. (Photo by Claro Cortes IV/Reuters)(pg. C4)
(pg. C1)Chart: ''Buckle Up''Chrysler's profits have swung sharply in recent decades, moving from financial crises to surging sales.Graph tracks Chrysler's profits, in billions, since 1980.1998 -- CHRYSLER AND DAIMLER-BENZ MERGEData are Chrysler Corporation net profits through 1997
 Chrysler Group operating profits thereafter. 2006 figure is through September.(Source by DaimlerChrysler)(pg. C1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FACTORY ORDERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEW CAR DEALERS (79%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (79%); SEDANS (79%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); PLANT CLOSINGS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); COOKING & ENTERTAINING (75%); CLOSINGS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (69%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (51%) Automobiles; Company and Organization Profiles; Sales; Consumer Behavior; Ratings and Rating Systems; Automobiles

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%)

ORGANIZATION: Daimlerchrysler Ag; Toyota Motor Corp

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%)

PERSON: Nick Bunkley; Micheline Maynard; Thomas W Lasorda

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2006



329 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 2008 words

HEADLINE: Spare Times: Dec. 15 - Dec. 21

 BODY:

Around Town

Museums and Sites

HISTORIC RICHMOND TOWN, Staten Island Historical Society, 441 Clarke Avenue, Richmond Town. Tomorrow, 5 to 8:30 p.m., candlelight tours, with demonstrations of holiday customs from the 17th to the 19th centuries, including a Wassail reception, $27.50; members, $22. Reservations required: (718) 351-1611, Ext. 281. Through Dec. 31, ''Out of Fire and Valor: Staten Island War Memorials,'' photographs by Cal Snyder, a Marine Corps veteran. Hours: Wednesdays through Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. $5; 62+, $4; students and 5 to 17, $3.50; children under 5 and members, free; (718) 351-1611. 


MERCHANT'S HOUSE MUSEUM, 29 East Fourth Street, East Village. Sunday at 5:30 p.m., ''To All Wassail,'' a performance of 19th-century holiday songs and stories by the Bond Street Euterpean Singing Society. $10; children, $5; members, free. Through Jan. 8, ''Mid-19th-Century Christmas,'' with the museum decorated for the holidays. Hours: Thursdays through Mondays, noon to 5 p.m. $8; students and 65+, $5; members and under 12, free. (212) 777-1089.

MOUNT VERNON HOTEL MUSEUM AND GARDEN, 421 East 61st Street, Manhattan. Candlelight tours of the historic house, with music and refreshments. Tonight at 6:15 and 7:15. Also Sunday at 3:30 (special family tour) and 4:30 p.m. $15; members, $10; under 12, $6. (212) 838-6878.

MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK, Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street. Tomorrow at 2 p.m., a celebration of Christmas, Hanukkah, Kwanzaa and Three Kings Day, with music and storytelling by Yaffa Cultural Arts. Through Jan. 3, ''Willing to Be Lucky: Ambitious New Yorkers in the Pages of Look Magazine,'' a display of photographs from the 1940s and '50s; through Feb. 19, ''Black Style Now,'' an exhibition of hip-hop style and black fashion, featuring photographs, clothes and accessories. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Suggested admission: $9; 62+ and students, $5; under 12, free; families, $20; Sundays, 10 a.m. to noon, free. (212) 534-1672, mcny.org.

MUSEUM OF THE MOVING IMAGE, 36-01 35th Avenue, Astoria, Queens. Through Dec. 31, Jacques Rivette Retrospective. Tomorrow at 3 p.m., ''Merry-Go-Round'' (1983); at 6 p.m., ''Divertimento'' (1991) and ''Lumiere and Company'' (1995); Sunday at 2 p.m., ''Out 1: Spectre'' (1973); at 7 p.m., ''The Gang of Four'' (1989). Through April 15, ''Star Trek: 40 Years of Fandom,'' an exhibition that includes hundreds of figures, games, comic books and magazines as well as fan-produced films. Hours: Wednesdays and Thursdays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Fridays, noon to 8 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6:30 p.m.; and by appointment. Films and videos, unless noted, are free with admission: $10; 65+ and students, $7.50; 5 to 18, $5; free for members and children 4 and younger; free for everyone on Fridays from 4 to 8 p.m. Friday night screenings require admission. (718) 784-0077, movingimage.us.

Gardens

BROOKLYN BOTANIC GARDEN, 1000 Washington Avenue, Crown Heights. Tomorrow and Sunday at 1 p.m., seasonal highlight tours. Tuesdays through Fridays, 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. $5; students and 65+, $3; under 16, free; free for all Tuesdays and Saturdays from 10 a.m. to noon. (718) 623-7200.

NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN, Southern Boulevard and 200th Street, Bedford Park, the Bronx. Through Jan. 7, the annual Holiday Train Show. Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Parking, $10. Garden grounds admission: $6; 62+, $3; students, $2; 2 to 12, $1; under 2, free. Combination ticket, including all admissions and a tram tour: $18; 62+ and students, $16; 2 to 12, $5; under 2, free. Tram tours daily, every 30 minutes. Conservatory admission: $5; students and 62+, $4; 2 to 12, $3; under 2, free. Grounds admission free on Wednesdays, and 10 a.m. to noon on Saturdays. (718) 817-8700, nybg.org.

WAVE HILL, Independence Avenue and West 249th Street, Riverdale, the Bronx. Tomorrow and Sunday at 10 a.m., herbal tea-tasting. Also tomorrow and Sunday at 1 p.m., a family art project in making wrapping paper. Sunday at 2 p.m., Andy Gonzalez and His Latin Jazz Lab; $18; members, $15. Though Jan. 14, ''Celebrating Winter Through Nature,'' a holiday installation by 11 artists, with related performances, art projects and other activities. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. $4; students and 65+, $2; under 6, free; Tuesdays, free all day; Saturdays, free 9 a.m. to noon. (718) 549-3200.

Events

CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK GRADUATE CENTER, 365 Fifth Avenue, at 34th Street. Tonight at 7, a screening of ''Rainbow's End,'' a documentary about the lives of lesbians, gays, bisexual and transgendered people in Europe. Free. (212) 817-1955.

HOLIDAY GIFT SHOP EXPO, Park Avenue at 50th Street. Annual outdoor gift display sponsored by St. Bartholomew's Church. Daily, 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. through Dec. 24.

GRAND CENTRAL HOLIDAY GIFT FAIR, Grand Central Terminal. Mondays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Through Dec. 29.

WATSON ADVENTURES Tomorrow at 3 p.m., ''Museum of Natural Hysteria 2: The Naked and the Damned,'' a search for exotic and R-rated items at the American Museum of Natural History, Central Park West and 79th Street. $32. Reservations and meeting place: (877) 946-4868.

Annual Holiday Pottery Sale, Westside Y.M.C.A., 5 West 63rd Street, Manhattan. Today, 10 a.m. to 9 p.m.; tomorrow, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. (212) 875-6729.

'CHRISTMAS IN THE COLONIES,' Van Cortlandt House Museum, Van Cortlandt Park, Broadway at West 246th Street, the Bronx, with tours of the historic house, music and refreshments. Tomorrow and Sunday, 4 to 7 p.m. $10; students, $8; 8 to 12, $5. Call 311.

WINTER GARDEN, World Financial Center, 220 Vesey Street, Lower Manhattan. A cappella carols by the Accidentals. Tomorrow and Sunday at 1 p.m. and Wednesday at noon. Free. (212) 945-0505.

Kids Holiday Fest, Winter Garden, World Financial Center, 220 Vesey Street, Lower Manhattan. A celebration of Christmas, Hanukkah and Kwanzaa, with crafts and a visit with holiday characters. Tomorrow, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; free. (212) 945-0505.

SORRENTO CHEESE CHRISTMAS IN LITTLE ITALY, free holiday events. Tonight at 6, music and caroling at Most Precious Blood Church. Tomorrow at 2 p.m., a Christmas parade with floats, singing and a marching band, on Mulberry Street, between Canal and Houston Streets.

WREATH DISPLAY, Arsenal Gallery, Central Park, 830 Fifth Avenue, at 64th Street. Nontraditional wreaths made of various materials. Daily, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Through Dec. 29, except Christmas Day.

CANDLELIGHT TOURS, Wyckoff Farmhouse Museum, 5816 Clarendon Road, at Ralph Avenue, East Flatbush, Brooklyn. Traditional decorations in one of the city's oldest houses. Tomorrow at 4 p.m. $3. Reservations required: Call 311. Also, Sunday from 5 to 7 p.m. at the Bartow-Pell Mansion, 895 Shore Road, Pelham Bay Park, the Bronx; donation, $8. (718) 885-1461.

Spoken Word

'WHAT'S SO FUNNY ABOUT JEWS?,' 92nd Street Y, 1395 Lexington Avenue. Sunday at 8 p.m., a panel discussion on comedy and Jewish comics with the comediennes Judy Gold and Jackie Hoffman, and Thane Rosenbaum, a novelist and law professor. $20. (212) 415-5500.

'Architectural Principles in the Painting of Sean Scully,' Metropolitan Museum of Art. Sunday at 3 and 3:45 p.m., a lecture by Arthur Danto, a philosopher, author and art critic. Free with museum admission, $20; 65+ and students, $10. (212) 535-7710.

Walking Tours

OUTDOORS CLUB Tomorrow at 12:30 p.m., a five- to six-mile Brooklyn walk, from Prospect Heights to Williamsburg, ending with a meal at a Polish restaurant. Meeting place is outside the Eastern Parkway entrance to the Brooklyn Botanic Garden; (212) 348-5344, tomorrow from 8 to 9 a.m. $3.

URBAN TRAIL CONFERENCE Sunday at 11 a.m., a seven-mile Queens walk from Flushing Bay to the Queens Botanical Garden, meeting on the street level of the 111th Street stop for the No. 7 train; (212) 924-7486. $3.

MUNICIPAL ART SOCIETY Tomorrow at 2 p.m., ''Dvorak in Love: New York in the Time of Antonin Dvorak,'' a tour of Stuyvesant Square and Gramercy Park, two locations with ties to the composer when he lived here in the late 1800s, meeting on the northeast corner of Second Avenue and 17th Street. Sunday at 11 a.m., ''Downtown Brooklyn at Christmastime,'' covers the history of the borough's shopping and civic centers, meeting on the steps of Borough Hall, Court and Remsen Streets. $15; members, $12. (212) 935-3960.

CHRISTMAS IN NEW YORK Sunday at 2 p.m., a Midtown tour that focuses on the history and traditions of the holiday in the city, meeting on the northeast corner of Fifth Avenue and 59th Street. Sponsored by I'll Take Manhattan Tours. $15. (732) 270-5559.

NYC DISCOVERY TOURS Two tours tomorrow and Sunday: at 2 p.m., ''Origins of Christmas Traditions,'' focusing on Christmas in old New York; at 5:15 p.m., ''Historic Greenwich Village Taverns at Christmas.'' Fee for each, $14 (drinks additional on tavern tour). Meeting places and reservations: (212) 465-3331.

STREET SMARTS N.Y. Tomorrow at 6 p.m., ''Yuletide Elegance and Ale,'' visits three taverns in Greenwich Village, the Flatiron District and Gramercy Park area, meeting at the Washington Arch. Sunday at 2 p.m., ''A Village Christmas'' covers Christmas lore and customs, meeting at the Washington Arch. $10 (drinks not included on Sunday's tour.) (212) 969-8262.

How New YOrkers invented christmas Tomorrow at 10 a.m., Sunday at 11 a.m., a tour that recounts 19th-century Wall Street and its personalities, meeting on the northeast corner of Broadway and Wall Street. Sponsored by In Depth Walking Tours. $15. (917) 607-9019.

ADVENTURE ON A SHOESTRING Tomorrow at 2:30 p.m., ''Charming Chelsea,'' with stops at the walk past the Chelsea Hotel, the General Theological Seminary and the Chelsea Market, meeting on the northwest corner of 23rd Street and Seventh Avenue. $5. (212) 265-2663.

TRIBECA: THE NEWEST NEIGHBORHOOD IN TOWN Sunday at 2 p.m., sites include the American Thread Building and the Mercantile Exchange Building. Meets on the southeast corner of Canal Street and West Broadway. $10. Sponsored by Bernie's New York. (718) 655-1883.

IRISH NEW YORK Tomorrow at 1 p.m., covers the history of the Irish in Lower Manhattan, meeting in front of St. Paul's Chapel, Broadway between Vesey and Fulton Streets; $15; 63+, $12; students and New-York Historical Society members, $10. (212) 439-1090.

JEWISH GANGSTERS OF THE LOWER EAST SIDE Sunday at 10 a.m. Looks at the lives of notorious Jewish gangsters like Bugsy Siegel, Meyer Lansky and Arnold Rothstein, meeting in front of the Economy Candy Store, 108 Rivington Street, Lower East Side. $15. Sponsored by Dr. Phil: New York Talks and Walks. (888) 377-4455.

GRAND CENTRAL TERMINAL: CROSSROADS OF A MILLION PRIVATE LIVES Sunday at 1 p.m., sponsored by Joyce Gold History Tours of New York and meeting at the Whitney Museum of American Art, 42nd Street and Park Avenue. $15; 65+, $12; (212) 242-5762.

CENTRAL PARK CONSERVANCY Free weekend tours of Central Park. Tomorrow at 1 p.m., ''Views From the Past'' covers the early days of the park, meeting at the Dairy, midpark at 65th Street. Sunday at noon, ''Seneca Village'' focuses on one of the earliest communities of black American property owners, meeting at the southeast corner of Central Park West and 85th Street. Sunday at 1 p.m., ''Amble Through the Ramble,'' meeting at Belvedere Castle, midpark at 79th Street. centralparknyc.org.

METRO TOUR SERVICE Today and tomorrow at 2 p.m., visits Brooklyn Heights, Fort Greene and Clinton Hill, Brooklyn. Sunday at 3:15 p.m., a gospel tour. All meet in front of the Marriott Hotel, Adams and Tillary Streets, Downtown Brooklyn; $25; (718) 789-0430.

Recreation

NYRR HOT CHOCOLATE 10-MILE Tomorrow at 9:30 a.m., Central Park, on the 102nd Street Transverse; hot chocolate and bagels will be available after the race. Sponsored by the New York Road Runners. Advance registration fee: $25; $17 for members; $13 for 18 and younger and 62+. Race-day registration: $35, $25 and $15. (212) 860-4455; nyrrc.org.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (92%); HISTORY (90%); CALENDARS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); CHRISTMAS (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); FAMILY (74%); CHRISTIAN HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (72%); KWANZAA (72%); HANUKKAH (72%); RAP MUSIC (68%); HIP HOP CULTURE (68%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: STATEN ISLAND HISTORICAL SOCIETY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2006



330 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; PT1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 16865 words

HEADLINE: The Listings: Dec. 15 - Dec. 21

 BODY:
Selective listings by critics of The New York Times of new and noteworthy cultural events in the New York metropolitan region this week. * denotes a highly recommended film, concert, show or exhibition.

Theater

Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current shows, additional listings, show times and tickets: nytimes.com/theater. 


Previews and Openings

'BECOMING ADELE' Previews start today; opens on Wednesday. Eric Houston's solo comedy about the coming of age of a Brooklynite (1:40). Clurman Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, (212) 279-4200.

'EXTRAORDINARY DECEPTIONS: A MAGICAL HOLIDAY EXTRAVAGANZA' Starts performances on Tuesday. Get sawed in half at this holiday magic show (1:00). Lion Theater at Theater Row, 410 West 42nd Street, (212) 279-4100.

'THE SCENE' In previews; opens on Jan. 11. A buzz-maker at the Humana Festival, Theresa Rebeck's new play is about an out-of-work actor who doesn't solve his problems by having an affair. Tony Shalhoub (''Monk'') and Patricia Heaton (''Everybody Loves Raymond'') star (2:00). Second Stage Theater, 307 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 246-4422.

Broadway

'BUTLEY' In this uneasy revival of Simon Gray's portrait of a toxic English professor, directed by Nicholas Martin, Nathan Lane fires off witticisms as if they were silver bullets with ''Made in Britain'' engraved on them. A less-than-perfect marriage of a first-rate actor with a first-rate play (2:30). Booth Theater, 222 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Ben Brantley)

'A CHORUS LINE' If you want to know why this show was such a big deal when it opened 31 years ago, you need only experience the thrilling first five minutes of this revival. Otherwise, this archivally exact production, directed by Bob Avian, feels like a vintage car that has been taken out of the garage, polished up and sent on the road once again (2:00). Schoenfeld Theater, 236 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'THE COAST OF UTOPIA: VOYAGE' The exhilarating first installment of Tom Stoppard's trilogy about 19th-century Russian intellectuals dreaming of revolution, this production pulses with the dizzy, spring-green arrogance and anxiety of a new generation moving as fast as it can toward the future. Jack O'Brien directs a fresh, vigorous and immense cast, led by Billy Crudup and Ethan Hawke (2:45). Vivian Beaumont Theater, Lincoln Center, 150 West 65th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'COMPANY' Fire, beckoning and dangerous, flickers beneath the frost of John Doyle's elegant, unexpectedly stirring revival of Stephen Sondheim and George Furth's era-defining musical from 1970, starring a compellingly understated Raul Esparza. Like Mr. Doyle's ''Sweeney Todd,'' this production finds new clarity of feeling in Sondheim by melding the roles of performers and musicians (2:20). Barrymore Theater, 243 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'GREY GARDENS' Christine Ebersole is absolutely glorious as the middle-aged, time-warped debutante called Little Edie Beale in this uneven musical adaptation of the notorious 1975 documentary of the same title. She and the wonderful Mary Louise Wilson (as her bedridden mother), in the performances of their careers, make ''Grey Gardens'' an experience no passionate theatergoer should miss (2:40). Walter Kerr Theater, 219 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'THE LITTLE DOG LAUGHED' The comedy of manners, a form widely believed to be extinct in the American theater, has actually resurfaced on Broadway with all its vital signs intact in Douglas Carter Beane's breezy but trenchant satire about truth and illusion, Hollywood style. With the wonderful Julie White as the movie agent you hate to love (but just can't help it) (2:00). Cort Theater, 138 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'MARY POPPINS' This handsome, homily-packed, mechanically ingenious and rather tedious musical, adapted from the P. L. Travers stories and the 1964 Disney film, is ultimately less concerned with inexplicable magic than with practical psychology. Ashley Brown, who sings prettily as the family-mending nanny, looks like Joan Crawford trying to be nice and sounds like Dr. Phil. Directed by Richard Eyre and Matthew Bourne (2:30). New Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley)

'LES MISERABLES' This premature revival, a slightly scaled-down version of the well-groomed behemoth that closed only three years ago, appears to be functioning in a state of mild sedation. Appealingly sung and freshly orchestrated, this fast-moving adaptation of Victor Hugo's novel isn't sloppy or blurry. But its pulse rate stays well below normal (2:55). Broadhurst Theater, 235 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

* 'SPRING AWAKENING' Duncan Sheik and Steven Sater's bold adaptation of the Frank Wedekind play is the freshest and most exciting new musical Broadway has seen in some time. Set in 19th-century Germany but with a ravishing rock score, it exposes the splintered emotional lives of adolescents just discovering the joys and sorrows of sex. Performed with brio by a great cast, with supple direction by Michael Mayer and inventive choreography by Bill T. Jones (2:00). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Charles Isherwood)

'THE VERTICAL HOUR' David Hare's soggy consideration of the Anglo-American cultural divide stars Julianne Moore (representing the Americans) and Bill Nighy (leading the British), directed by Sam Mendes. The Yanks don't stand a chance. With his irresistibly mannered performance as a laconic doctor, Mr. Nighy mops the floor with Ms. Moore. Actually, he mops the floor with Mr. Hare's play (2:20). Music Box Theater, 239 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

Off Broadway

'THE AMERICAN PILOT' The fate of an injured American soldier hangs in the balance when his plane crashes in territory held by rebels fighting a regime backed by the United States. David Greig's play strives for the topical and the universal, but mostly gets hold of the generic (2:00). Manhattan Theater Club's City Center Stage II, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212. (Isherwood)

'ANNIE' Daddy Warbucks and some elating musical numbers are the real stars of this holiday-season extravaganza about the beauty, fashion and socioecomic makeover of an eternally optimistic little orphaned redhead (2:30). The Theater at Madison Square Garden, (212) 307-4100. (Anita Gates)

'THE BIG VOICE: GOD OR MERMAN?' Think of two gifted and smart gay men with years of life together deploying their considerable talents from the two pianos you happen to have in your living room. The result is a hilarious and very touching memoir of two decades of love and the funky glories of show business life (2:00). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Honor Moore)

'CARRIE' This deliberately cheesy comedy version of Stephen King's prom-night horror story has an absurdist attitude, on-target performances and puppets that bleed (1:40). Performance Space 122, 150 First Avenue, at Ninth Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101. (Gates)

*'THE CLEAN HOUSE' Sarah Ruhl's comedy about the painful but beautiful disorder of life has arrived in New York at last in a gorgeous production directed by Bill Rauch. Blair Brown and Jill Clayburgh delight as sisters with different views on the meaning of cleaning, and Vanessa Aspillaga is equally good as the depressed maid with little affection for her work but a deep conviction that a good joke can be a matter of life and death (2:15). Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater, Lincoln Center, 150 West 65th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'EVIL DEAD: THE MUSICAL' This likable horror comedy based on Sam Raimi's gory movies wants to be the next ''Rocky Horror Show.'' To that end, it offers deadpan lyrics, self-referential humor and geysers of stage blood (2:00) New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Gates)

'THE FANTASTICKS' A revival -- well, more like a resuscitation -- of the Little Musical That Wouldn't Die. This sweet-as-ever production of Tom Jones and Harvey Schmidt's commedia-dell'arte-style confection is most notable for Mr. Jones's touching performance (under the pseudonym Thomas Bruce) as the Old Actor, a role he created when the show opened in 1960. Mr. Jones also directs (2:05). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

* 'FORBIDDEN BROADWAY: SPECIAL VICTIMS UNIT' This production features the expected caricatures of ego-driven singing stars. But even more than usual, the show offers an acute list of grievances about the sickly state of the Broadway musical, where, as the lyrics have it, ''everything old is old again'' (1:45). 47th Street Theater, 304 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'GUTENBERG! THE MUSICAL' A very funny if not terribly original satire of musical theater features what must be the worst backers' audition of all time. The excellent duo Jeremy Shamos and Christopher Fitzgerald make the pitch (2:05). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, Manhattan, (212) 279-4200. (Jason Zinoman)

* 'HOME' Almost nothing happens in David Storey's ''Home'' -- except to those lucky enough to be in the audience, who are likely to find themselves profoundly touched by this portrait of four lost souls in a home for the mentally challenged or disturbed. The play hasn't been seen much since it was on Broadway in 1970, but the Actors Company Theater's production makes you wonder why. The performances by the four leads, Simon Jones, Larry Keith, Cynthia Harris and Cynthia Darlow, are simply exquisite. Samuel Beckett Theater, 410 West 42nd Street, Clinton; (212) 279-4200. (Neil Genzlinger)

'HOW TO SAVE THE WORLD AND FIND TRUE LOVE IN 90 MINUTES' This refreshing musical, born of the Fringe Festival, about a bookstore clerk, a slacker, a diplomat and a terrorist, has witty songs, wacky performances and an untethered sense of fun (1:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Gates)

'A JEW GROWS IN BROOKLYN' You don't have to be Jewish or Brooklynish to empathize with Jake Ehrenreich, but in terms of fully appreciating his essentially one-man show, it probably helps. Especially the Catskills jokes (2:05). 37 Arts, 450 West 37th Street, (212) 560-8912. (Gates)

* 'KAOS' Martha Clarke's clever compaction of a lengthy 1984 film of the same title, by the Taviani brothers, is based on short stories by Luigi Pirandello, set at the turn of the last century in his native Sicily. A beguiling if deadly serious blend of text, dance and music, adeptly performed and made more flavorful, if more exotic, by Ms. Clarke's decision to have the entire text spoken in Italian (1:30). New York Theater Workshop, 79 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 239-6200. (John Rockwell)

'MURDER MYSTERY BLUES' This musical adaptation of classic Woody Allen short stories comes off like a collection of loose parts (2:10). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, (212) 279-4200. (Zinoman)

'NO CHILD' Teachers will love Nilaja Sun's one-woman show about the challenges of teaching drama at Malcolm X High School (1:10). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, at Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 239-6200. (Gates)

'AN OAK TREE' Tim Crouch plays a hypnotist in this elusive puzzle of a play about grief and the power of suggestion (1:05). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, at Seventh Avenue, West Village, (212) 239-6200. (Zinoman)

'REGRETS ONLY' Old acquaintance comes under siege in Paul Rudnick's chiffon-thin comedy about the varieties of love and marriage. But no one who sees this latest offering from one of the funniest quipmeisters alive is going to doubt that Christine Baranski is a one-liner's best friend (2:00). City Center Stage I, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212. (Brantley)

'ROOM SERVICE' The Peccadillo Theater Company puts a charge into this old comedy from the 1930s, thanks to a brisk pace by the director, Dan Wackerman, and a dozen dandy performances. David Edwards is the would-be producer whose bills threaten to swamp his efforts to put a show on Broadway, and Fred Berman is particularly fine as his director (2:00). The SoHo Playhouse, 15 Vandam Street, South Village, (212) 691-1555. (Genzlinger)

* 'STRIKING 12' A minimalist musical about an odd but rewarding New Year's Eve in the life of a guy who hates New Year's Eve. Performed by the indie pop band Groovelily, it's fresh and funny, and features a standout pop score (1:30). Daryl Roth Theater, 101 East 15th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'SUDDENLY LAST SUMMER' As the luscious (and lobotomy-threatened) damsel in distress in Tennessee Williams's famously lurid melodrama, Carla Gugino gives a gutsy assurance to a production that otherwise lacks compelling confidence. Mark Brokaw directs a cast that includes Blythe Danner, in a fascinating but misconceived performance as a smothering mother from hell (1:30). Laura Pels Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300. (Brantley)

'THAT TIME OF YEAR' Who would have thought that fruitcake jokes could still be funny? But three singing fruitcakes are among the daffy high points of this original musical revue, which surprises repeatedly by getting laughs from standard-issue seasonal themes both Jewish and Christian. There are clunkers, but you leave feeling that the season's a bit brighter (2:00). Theater at St. Peter's, 619 Lexington Avenue, at 54th Street, (212) 935-5820. (Genzlinger)

'25 QUESTIONS FOR A JEWISH MOTHER' This is the comedian Judy Gold's fiercely funny monologue, based on her own life as a single Jewish lesbian mother and interviews with more than 50 other Jewish mothers (1:10). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Phoebe Hoban)

'TWO TRAINS RUNNING' Directed by Lou Bellamy, a rough-edged revival of August Wilson's 1992 play about the stark economics of life and death for African-Americans, set in a dying diner in Pittsburgh in the late 1960s. The pace drags in this production, but it remains a bracing reminder of Mr. Wilson's singular talent for making cold, hard numbers sing hot, molten blues (3:40). Signature Theater at Peter Norton Space, 555 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 352-3101. (Brantley)

'THE VOYSEY INHERITANCE' David Mamet has cleanly and cannily adapted Harley Granville Barker's 1905 play about corruption in the genteel world of Victorian finance. An excellent cast and a sumptuous production bring extra immediacy to a tale of embezzlement and entitlement that feels as fresh as tomorrow's stock options (1:50). Atlantic Theater, 336 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

Off Off Broadway

'NEVER MISSED A DAY' A well-observed and sometimes funny play about a group of co-workers who are giving their souls to the company, and one who has lived to regret it. A good cast brings the characters to life, but their common beef against an unseen boss offers little in the way of conflict (1:30). The WorkShop Theater, 312 West 36th Street, (212) 352-3101. (Wilborn Hampton)

'TRUE WEST' This perfectly pleasant new version of Sam Shepard's sibling rivalry drama tries something new: understatement (1:35). Big Little Theater, 141 Ridge Street, Lower East Side, (212) 868-4444. (Zinoman)

Long-Running Shows

'ALTAR BOYZ' This sweetly satirical show about a Christian pop group made up of five potential Teen People cover boys is an enjoyable, silly diversion (1:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'AVENUE Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:10). Golden Theater, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'BEAUTY AND THE BEAST' Cartoon made flesh, sort of (2:30). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, (212) 307-4747. (Brantley)

'CHICAGO' Irrefutable proof that crime pays (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE COLOR PURPLE' Singing CliffsNotes for Alice Walker's Pulitzer Prize-winning novel (2:40). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'HAIRSPRAY' Fizzy pop, cute kids, large man in a housedress (2:30). Neil Simon Theater, 250 West 52nd Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'JERSEY BOYS' The biomusical that walks like a man (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE LION KING' Disney on safari, where the big bucks roam (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street at Broadway, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'MAMMA MIA!' The jukebox that devoured Broadway (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE PHANTOM OF THE OPERA' Who was that masked man, anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE PRODUCERS' The ne plus ultra of showbiz scams (2:45). St. James Theater, 246 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'RENT' East Village angst and love songs to die for (2:45). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

'SLAVA'S SNOWSHOW' Clowns chosen by the Russian master Slava Polunin stir up laughter and enjoyment. A show that touches the heart as well as tickles the funny bone (1:30). Union Square Theater, 100 East 17th Street, (212) 307-4100. (Lawrence Van Gelder)

'SPAMALOT' A singing scrapbook for Monty Python fans. (2:20). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Brantley)

'THE 25TH ANNUAL PUTNAM COUNTY SPELLING BEE' ''A Chorus Line'' with pimples (1:45). Circle in the Square, 1633 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200. (Isherwood)

'WICKED' Oz revisited, with political corrections (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, (212) 307-4100. (Brantley)

Last Chance

'ALL THE WAY HOME' The play won a Pulitzer Prize, but in this revival by the Transport Group it is Sandra Goldmark's simple, striking set that first gets your attention, and then keeps refocusing it during a show that runs almost three hours. Amid her doll-size houses, the human actors seem like giants, but as the play progresses, it becomes apparent that the characters they play are anything but. The acting is excellent, though the play, centered on a small domestic tragedy, doesn't have the punch it once did (1:35). Connelly Theater, 220 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101; closing on Monday. (Genzlinger)

'FLOYD AND CLEA UNDER THE WESTERN SKY' Floyd and Clea are two country-western singers who strike up an oddball friendship in this gentle but seriously sentimental two-person musical, written by and starring David Cale (1:40). Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200; closing on Sunday. (Isherwood)

'HEARTBREAK HOUSE' A ripping revival of Shaw's comedy about the English gentry waltzing toward the abyss as the shadow of World War I looms. Philip Bosco, as the admirably sane madman Captain Shotover, and Swoosie Kurtz, as his swaggeringly romantic daughter, lead the superb cast, under the sharp direction of Robin Lefevre. Nearly a century after its composition, the play still sparkles with wit and sends a shiver down the spine too (2:30). American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street, (212) 719-1300; closing on Sunday. (Isherwood)

'HIGH FIDELITY' This bland musical adaptation of the popular book and movie of the same title erases itself from your memory even as you watch it. Walter Bobbie directs a cast led by the affable and smooth Will Chase (2:00). Imperial Theater, 249 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200; closing on Sunday. (Brantley)

'THE MILLINER' Suzanne Glass's delicate play tells of a Jewish hat-maker who, after fleeing Germany and his beloved mother and business just before World War II, longs to return to Berlin. A vixenish cabaret singer is among the things beckoning him back. The lovely hats, both worn and used as scenery, will make the bare heads of 2006 long for the old days (2:30). East 13th Street Theater, 136 East 13th Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101; closing on Sunday. (Genzlinger)

'MY NAME IS RACHEL CORRIE' A small, intense and loudly heralded one-woman drama that tells the true story of its title character, a pro-Palestinian activist killed in the Gaza Strip by an Israeli Army bulldozer. Yet for all the political and emotional baggage carried by this production, adapted from Ms. Corrie's writings and starring Megan Dodds, it often feels dramatically flat, even listless (1:30). Minetta Lane Theater, 18 Minetta Lane, Greenwich Village, (212) 307-4100; closing on Sunday. (Brantley)

'OPEN DOOR' Federico Restrepo and Loco 7's ''dance puppet music odyssey'' about the joys of immigration is striking and evocative, even if some specific messages aren't altogether clear (1:10). La MaMa E.T.C. (Annex Theater), 74A East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 475-7710. (Gates)

'POST MORTEM' A grievance list of a comedy by the indefatigable A. R. Gurney, set in the near future, about the unearthing of a world-shaking play called ''Post Mortem'' by A. R. Gurney. Jim Simpson directs this likable grab bag of insider jokes, polemical satire and cosmic lamentation (1:30). Flea Theater, 41 White Street, TriBeCa, (212) 352-3101; closing tomorrow. (Brantley)

'TWO SEPTEMBER' Mac Wellman calls a halt to his usual brainy wordplay in this surprisingly sober (and rather dry) historical drama that tells two tangentially related stories. The journalist Josephine Herbst recalls her struggles duing the blacklist years, while Ho Chi Minh meets with United States officials in 1945 to seek their aid in forming a new country from the ruins of postwar Indochina (1:10). Flea Theater, 41 White Street, TriBeCa, (212) 352-3101; closing tomorrow. (Isherwood)

Movies

Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, show times and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.

'APOCALYPTO' (R, 138 minutes, in Maya) More blood from Mel Gibson, but more ''Braveheart'' than ''Passion of the Christ.'' Ultraviolent entertainment, well executed (so to speak) but not very surprising in the end. (A. O. Scott)

* 'THE AURA' (No rating, 138 minutes, in Spanish) A heist, a case of mistaken identity and a lonely, epileptic taxidermist are at the heart of this melancholy, deeply satisfying noir exercise, the second and last feature directed by the Argentine filmmaker Fabian Bielinsky, who died in June. (Scott)

'AUTOMATONS' (No rating, 83 minutes) Shot in silvery black and white with old eight-millimeter cameras, this shameless ode to '60s sci-fi depicts a blasted future where the few remaining humans wage a remorseless war of competing beliefs. With its retro look, cautionary theme and endearingly unsophisticated effects, ''Automatons'' leaves us with the comforting notion that the end of the world will look a lot like the beginning of television. (Jeannette Catsoulis)

* 'BERGMAN ISLAND' (No rating, 101 minutes, in Swedish and English) This documentary portrait of the great Swedish director, now 88 and living on the desolate Baltic Island of Faro, is extraordinarily revealing. In this extended interview, interwoven with fragments from his pictures, he recalls his life and loves and discusses his fear of death. The film underscores the intensely autobiographical nature of his art. (Stephen Holden)

'BLOOD DIAMOND' (R, 138 minutes) The makers of this foolish thriller about illegal diamond trafficking in Africa, starring an excellent Leonardo DiCaprio, want you to know there may be blood on your hands, specifically your wedding finger. Too bad they haven't thought through what it means to turn human misery into entertainment. (Manohla Dargis)

'BOBBY' (R, 111 minutes) Emilio Estevez's picture, which follows a score of characters through the Ambassador Hotel in Los Angeles on June 4, 1968, is full of noble ambition. The day in question ended with the assassination of Robert F. Kennedy, an event that hovers over the movie, even though Kennedy himself is visible only in archival clips. A huge cast (including Anthony Hopkins, Sharon Stone, Demi Moore, Ashton Kutcher, Lindsay Lohan and Mr. Estevez) labors to inject a collection of melodramatic anecdotes with portent and significance, but the individual parts of the film tend to be either overdone or vague and slight. (Scott)

* 'BORAT: CULTURAL LEARNINGS OF AMERICA FOR MAKE BENEFIT GLORIOUS NATION OF KAZAKHSTAN' (R, 89 minutes) In this brainy, merciless comedy, a Kazakh journalist named Borat Sagdiyev, a k a the British comic Sacha Baron Cohen, invades America. America laughs, cries, surrenders. (Dargis)

'CASINO ROYALE' (PG-13, 144 minutes) The latest James Bond vehicle finds the British spy leaner, meaner and now played by an attractive piece of blond rough named Daniel Craig. Zap, pow, ka-ching! (Dargis)

'DECK THE HALLS' (PG, 95 minutes) In the holiday tradition of stale fruitcake, ugly snowflake sweaters and food poisoning comes this piece of junk, in which Matthew Broderick and Danny DeVito compete to see who can annoy the audience more. (Scott)

'DEJA VU' (PG-13, 125 minutes) In Tony Scott's preposterous action flick, with Denzel Washington, the gaudy pyrotechnics are nowhere near as jaw-dropping as the screenplay that name-checks not one, not two, but three national tragedies. (Dargis)

'DHOOM 2' (No rating, 151 minutes, in Hindi) A slick and satisfying example of the new, thoroughly modern Bollywood, this cops-and-robbers tale is animated by old-fashioned star power. Hrithik Roshan plays the ''smartest and coolest thief alive,'' and Aishwarya Rai is the small-time crook who loves him. (Rachel Saltz)

'FAMILY LAW' (No rating, 102 minutes, in Spanish) Exploratory variations on that old saw, ''Like father, like son,'' are the thematic heart of this third installment of the Argentine filmmaker Daniel Burman's semiautobiographical trilogy of films about fatherhood. The delicate, bittersweet comedy about the relationship of father-and-son lawyers prepares you for an eruption of high drama that never arrives. (Holden)

* 'FAST FOOD NATION' (R, 106 minutes) Richard Linklater has turned Eric Schlosser's journalistic expose of the American industrial food system into a thoughtful, occasionally rambling inquiry into the contradictions of contemporary American life. Three stories examine different parts of the capitalist food chain: illegal immigrants from Mexico work in terrible conditions in a meat-processing plant; a restaurant chain executive undergoes a crisis of conscience; and a teenage burger-slinger is drawn into political activism. Mr. Linklater covers a lot of ground, and the result is an unusually funny, moving and intellectually demanding movie. (Scott)

* '51 BIRCH STREET' (No rating, 88 minutes) The mysteries of ordinary life drive this moving, engrossing documentary, in which the director, Doug Block, tries to figure out his parents' 54-year marriage. (Scott)

'FLANNEL PAJAMAS' (No rating, 124 minutes) The twin specters of Ingmar Bergman and Woody Allen hover over this film, which might have been more accurately titled ''Scenes From a Mixed Marriage'' or ''Annie Hall Without Laughs.'' This smart, talky history of a relationship between two New Yorkers follows a Jewish theatrical promoter and an aspiring caterer with a Roman Catholic background from courtship to marriage to separation. (Holden)

* 'FLUSHED AWAY' (PG, 85 minutes) Sewer rats, singing leeches and whimsical British anarchy -- this computer-animated feature from Aardman Animations (''Wallace and Gromit,'' ''Chicken Run'') is completely delightful. (Scott)

'FOR YOUR CONSIDERATION' (PG-13, 86 minutes) This satire of pre-Oscar-nomination buzz in Hollywood is far and away the broadest comedy Christopher Guest and his improvisatory company have made. It is also the flimsiest, and unlike Mr. Guest's earlier films, it has no airs of being a fake documentary. As farce trumps satire, the humor's subversive edge is lost, along with meaningful character development, with the brilliant exception of Catherine O'Hara. (Holden)

'THE FOUNTAIN' (PG-13, 96 minutes) Darren Aronovsky's new film spans a thousand years, as Rachel Weisz and Hugh Jackman pursue undying love and eternal life in the 16th, 21st and 26th centuries. There is some lovely visual poetry, but the ideas are pure doggerel, an ungainly mixture of sci-fi overreach and earnest sentimentality. (Scott)

'HAPPY FEET' (PG, 100 minutes) The director George Miller gets happy and snappy, then goes dark and deep, in a musical about an animated penguin who was born to dance. Take hankies. (Dargis)

'HERMANAS' (No rating, 100 minutes, in Spanish) The ghost of 1970s Argentina haunts 1980s Texas in this perceptive and beautifully acted drama from the Argentine director Julia Solomonoff. After eight years of exile in Spain, Natalia (Ingrid Rubio) travels to Texas to visit her sister, Elena (Valeria Bertuccelli), a suburban wife and mother. Extensive flashbacks to the sisters' teenage years during the military dictatorship reveal a rich vein of familial guilt and long-suppressed resentment. But the movie is most successful in the rocky emotional spaces in which the women struggle to reconcile over a chasm of political discord and unanswered questions. (Catsoulis)

'THE HISTORY BOYS' (R, 104 minutes) The current of intellectual energy snapping through this engaging screen adaptation of Alan Bennett's Tony Award-winning play, set in a north England boys' school in 1983, feels like electrical brain stimulation. As two teachers jockey for the hearts and minds of eight teenage schoolboys preparing to apply to Oxford and Cambridge, their epigrams send up small jolts of pleasure and excitement. How to teach and interpret history is the question. (Holden)

* 'INLAND EMPIRE' (No rating, 179 minutes) David Lynch's extraordinary, savagely uncompromised new film stars a dazzling Laura Dern as an actress who tumbles down rabbit holes inside rabbit holes inside rabbit holes. As cracked as Mad magazine, though generally more difficult to parse, the film has the power of nightmares and is one of the few this year that deserve to be called art. (Dargis)

* 'LITTLE CHILDREN' (R, 130 2:10 minutes) Todd Field's adaptation of Tom Perrotta's novel of suburban adultery is unfailingly intelligent and faultlessly acted. Kate Winslet and Patrick Wilson are superb as the parents of young children who meet at the playground and enact a two-handed variation on ''Madame Bovary'' against a backdrop of social paranoia and middle-class malaise. (Scott)

* 'MARIE ANTOINETTE' (PG-13, 123 minutes) In this elaborate, bittersweet confection, Sofia Coppola imagines the last pre-revolutionary queen of France (played with wit and charm by Kirsten Dunst) as a bored, pleasure-seeking teenager trapped in a world of artifice and rigid protocol. Dreamy and decadent, the film is also touching, funny and bracingly modern. (Scott)

'NATIONAL LAMPOON'S VAN WILDER 2: THE RISE OF TAJ' (R, 98 minutes) Britain and India face off in this strained attempt to transplant the American campus comedy to more uptight shores. Now graduated from college -- and sidekick status -- Taj Mahal Badalandabad (Kal Penn) heads to Camford University in England to pursue a Ph.D. and a bad reputation. While the screenplay dives into British history, and the camera dives into every cleavage in sight, the director, Mort Nathan, harnesses smut and silliness to an oddly innocent tale of true love. (Catsoulis)

'THE NATIVITY STORY' (PG, 100 minutes) Nothing earthshaking, but a fine performance by Keisha Castle-Hughes as Mary offers a glimpse of an interesting movie tucked inside what is otherwise an unsurprising and tasteful Christmas pageant. (Scott)

'RUNNING WITH SCISSORS' (R, 116 minutes) From Augusten Burroughs's best-selling memoir, this movie is a showcase of high-quality acting (especially from Annette Bening) without much in the way of dramatic coherence or emotional power. (Scott)

'THE SANTA CLAUSe 3: THE ESCAPE CLAUSE' (G, 98 minutes) Ho, ho, ho? No, no, no. (Dargis)

* 'SHUT UP & SING' (R, 93 minutes) Barbara Kopple and Cecilia Peck's revealing documentary follows the Dixie Chicks around for three years as the group deals with the consequences of a remark by its lead singer, Natalie Maines, who said from a London stage that they were ashamed the president of the United States was from Texas. The movie is a fascinating study of the relationship between the media, politics and the music industry in an era in which pop musicians are marketed like politicians. (Holden)

'TURISTAS' (R, 89 minutes) If stupidity were a crime, the nitwits in this cheap horror flick would be doing time in Attica. (Dargis)

'UNACCOMPANIED MINORS' (PG, 89 minutes) The title doubles as an advisory. Your kids may like it; pick them up when it's over. (Scott)

* 'VOLVER' (R, 121 minutes, in Spanish) Another keeper from Pedro Almodovar, with Penelope Cruz -- as a resilient widow -- in her best role to date. (Scott)

Film Series

THE COMPLETE JACQUES RIVETTE (Tomorrow through Dec. 31) The Museum of the Moving Image's 22-film retrospective of the innovative French New Wave director continues this weekend with four features. They include ''Merry-Go-Round'' (1983), starring Joe Dallesandro as a New Yorker in Paris, searching for a missing woman; and ''Divertimento'' (1991), Mr. Rivette's shortened version of ''La Belle Noiseuse,'' his own four-hour study of the artistic process. 35th Avenue at 36th Street, Astoria, Queens, (718) 784-0077, movingimage.us; $10. (Anita Gates)

FOX BEFORE THE CODE (Tonight through Dec. 21) Film Forum's three-week retrospective of Fox Studios films that predate Hollywood's family-values-driven Production Code continues this weekend with seven movies. They include ''Looking for Trouble'' (1934), starring Spencer Tracy as a telephone company employee mixed up with crooks, and ''Week Ends Only'' (1932), with Joan Bennett as a young woman in financial need who takes up some questionable part-time work. 209 West Houston Street, west of Avenue of the Americas, South Village, (212) 727-8110, filmforum.org; $10. (Gates)

FRANZ WAXMAN: MUSIC FOR THE CINEMA (Tomorrow through Jan. 17) The Museum of Modern Art is honoring Mr. Waxman (1906-67), the German composer who wrote the scores for ''Sunset Boulevard'' and ''Rebecca,'' with a 21-film retrospective, beginning tomorrow. This weekend's films include Fritz Lang's ''Liliom'' (1934), starring Charles Boyer as a womanizer who has difficulties in the afterlife; Hans Steinhoff's ''Scampolo, ein Kind der Strasse'' (1932), starring Dolly Haas as a homeless waif in Berlin; and James Whale's horror classic ''The Bride of Frankenstein'' (1935), which featured Mr. Waxman's first original Hollywood score. Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters, 11 West 53rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 708-9400, moma.org; $10. (Gates)

LOOKING IN/LOOKING OUT: DOCUMENTARIES FROM SCANDINAVIA (Tomorrow) Scandinavia House's festival of documentaries from five countries winds up tomorrow with Nahid Persson's ''Prostitution Behind the Veil'' (2005), a Danish film about two Iranian streetwalkers and their children. It will be screened with ''The Clown Children,'' a 2005 Norwegian documentary about young street performers. 58 Park Avenue, between 37th and 38th Streets, (212) 879-9779, scandinaviahouse.org; $8. (Gates)

THE RETURN OF THOMAS H. INCE (Monday through Dec. 29) The Museum of Modern Art's two-week tribute to Mr. Ince (1880-1924), the silent-era director, producer, screenwriter and murder victim (aboard William Randolph Hearst's yacht), began yesterday. It continues on Monday with films including ''The Bargain'' (1914), a western starring William S. Hart as a bad guy in need of redemption; and ''Hail the Woman'' (1921), a melodrama about a young woman whose puritanical father throws her out of the house. Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters, 11 West 53rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 708-9400, moma.org; $10. (Gates)

Pop

Full reviews of recent concerts: nytimes.com/music.

CORINNE BAILEY RAE, KEVIN DEVINE (Tonight) Even when she is griping that love is ''a type of loan with no dividends,'' it is hard not to be seduced by Ms. Bailey Rae, a 27-year-old British singer and guitarist who is this year's breakout soul star. In a sweet, tissue-thin voice that can recall Macy Gray or Sade, she sings of sisterly rituals, loves lost and her ''choux pastry heart.'' Mr. Devine, once of the band Miracle of 86, has carved out a niche as a singer-songwriter in the Elliott Smith mold. At 7:30, Housing Works Used Book Cafe, 126 Crosby Street, near Houston Street, SoHo, (212) 334-3324, housingworks.org; sold out. (Ben Sisario)

BOGMEN (Thursday) The fence-mending reunion thing worked well for '90s alternative giants like the Pixies and Dinosaur Jr., so what about the littler guys? A decade ago, the Bogmen were one of the biggest local draws in New York, mingling cynical lyrics with propulsive guitar riffs and the occasional funk rhythm. It was textbook alt-rock, but the Bogmen struggled to find a national audience and disbanded in 1999. The band's three-day revival begins Thursday at Webster Hall. At 8 p.m., 125 East 11th Street, East Village, (212) 533-2111, bowerypresents.com; $50. (Sisario)

CHAVEZ (Tomorrow) Did somebody say '90s New York alt-rock reunion? A decade ago Chavez's hefty, dissonant guitars and shy vocals fit right in with the music of Pavement, Archers of Loaf and Sebadoh. Now, with a new double album, ''Better Days Will Haunt You'' (Matador), collecting the complete works of the band -- it lasted only three years -- Chavez returns for this concert at Warsaw. Also on the bill is the aptly named Endless Boogie. At 8 p.m., 261 Driggs Avenue, at Eckford Street, Greenpoint, Brooklyn, (718) 387-0505, warsawconcerts.com; $15. (Sisario)

CHEETAH GIRLS (Thursday) Behold the new teenage pop: it is female, its reference points are sexed-up strutters like the Pussycat Dolls and Christina Aguilera, and it has the Disney seal of approval. The Cheetah Girls began as a Disney Channel movie, and the group's latest album (the soundtrack to the sequel) opened in the Top 5. With Everlife. At 7 p.m., Nassau Coliseum, 1255 Hempstead Turnpike, Uniondale, N.Y., (631) 888-9000, nassaucoliseum.com; $26.50 to $42. (Sisario)

CHILDREN OF BODOM (Sunday) From Finland, an exemplar of the operatically dismal but technically dazzling black-metal school. With Amon Amarth, Sanctity and Gojira. At 7 p.m., Nokia Theater, 1515 Broadway, at 44th Street, (212) 307-7171, nokiatheatrenyc.com; $22.50 in advance, $25 at the door. (Sisario)

MARSHALL CRENSHAW (Wednesday) Mr. Crenshaw's songs seem to roll off the guitar in a casual blend of pre-1970s styles -- folk-rock, surf-rock, country and above all the Beatles -- that put melody first. With his winsome tenor, he delves into the ways love goes right and goes wrong, from distant yearning to the aftermath of infidelity, hiding turmoil within the chiming tunes. With Matt Keating. At 8 p.m., the Tap Bar at the Knitting Factory, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-3006, knittingfactory.com; $12 in advance, $15 at the door. (Jon Pareles)

* THE EX (Tonight) Visits from this long-running Dutch band are too rare. Devoted to leftist political ideals, the group chocks its lyrics full of topical allusions and has been known to include 140-page books about the Spanish Civil War with its albums. Admirable, sure. But in concert the Ex is blessedly all about the beat: a brawny, anxious punk-funk that never releases its tension. The effect is unforgettably visceral. With Arbouretum and DJ/rupture. At 10, Maxwell's, 1039 Washington Street, Hoboken, N.J., (201) 653-1703, maxwellsnj.com; $12. (Sisario)

* MICHAEL FEINSTEIN (Tonight and tomorrow night, Tuesday through Thursday) The strongest incarnation so far of the singer and pianist's annual holiday bash, ''Home for the Holidays,'' a live variety show featuring a six-member band and three backup vocalists, is a perfect showcase for Mr. Feinstein to balance his two sides: a gregarious stand-up entertainer and an intimate crooner dreaming out loud. At 8:30 p.m., with additional shows tonight and tomorrow night at 11, Feinstein's at the Regency, 540 Park Avenue, at 61st Street, (212) 339-4095, feinsteinsattheregency.com; $75 cover and $40 minimum. (Stephen Holden)

GOGOL BORDELLO (Thursday) With an untamed stage persona a bit like Iggy Pop and a bit like a paranoid Kafka protagonist, the singer-contortionist Eugene Hutz leads a cultural mash-up of dirty punk, raucous Gypsy music and vaudevillian theatrics. The band has been playing like there's no tomorrow for years now and shows no signs of slowing down or even taking a breath. At 9 p.m., Irving Plaza, 17 Irving Place, at 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 777-6800, irvingplaza.com; sold out. (Sisario)

GOOD FOR THE JEWS (Tonight) The tree has been lighted in Rockefeller Center and the department-store window displays have gone up, which means that it's time for the annual ritual of comedians and rockers musing on the true meaning of being Jewish at Christmas. Among the witty reindeer joining the band Good for the Jews for this Hanukkah concert are the singers Lisa Loeb, Tammy Faye Starlite and Julian Fleisher, and the comedians Todd Barry and Rachel Feinstein. At 8, Knitting Factory, 74 Leonard Street, TriBeCa, (212) 219-3006, knittingfactory.com; $17. (Sisario)

* KIKI & HERB (Wednesday) Fresh from a run on Broadway, the world's most brilliantly perverse cabaret duo does its Christmas show, a highlight of which some years ago was a raucous medley of ''Smells Like Teen Spirit'' and ''Frosty the Snowman.'' At 8, Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; $20 in advance, $25 at the door. (Sisario)

JOE LALLY (Tomorrow) Mr. Lally's smooth, muscular bass lines steadied the sound of Fugazi, the alt-rock granddaddies from Washington. His first solo album, recorded while Fugazi is on hiatus, was released this fall. With the Shondes and Rude Mechanical Orchestra. At 8:30 p.m., Lit Lounge, 92 Second Avenue, at Fifth Street, East Village, (212) 777-7987, litloungenyc.com; $6. (Sisario)

RAY LAMONTAGNE (Tomorrow) A master of the breathy, apologetic croon, Mr. LaMontagne, a former shoe factory worker in Maine, has risen fast in the world of hypersensitive young singer-songwriters. His songs about ''trouble, trouble, trouble, trouble, trouble'' have also begun to dent the pop world, with cover versions by the ''American Idol'' winners Kelly Clarkson and Taylor Hicks. Also on the bill is Tristan Prettyman. At 8 p.m., Beacon Theater, 2124 Broadway, at 74th Street, (212) 307-7171; sold out. (Sisario)

LOSER'S LOUNGE TRIBUTE TO ELTON JOHN (Tonight and tomorrow night) As Nick Lowe said, you've got to be cruel to be kind. Joe McGinty's enduring Loser's Lounge series, now 13 years old, both honors and skewers pop greats with clever but usually over-the-top performances, and turns its attention here to Mr. John. At 7 and 9, Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, joespub.com; $25. (Sisario)

MATISYAHU (Tomorrow, Sunday and Tuesday) Both the best and worst Hasidic reggae singer in the world, Matisyahu -- who grew up as Matthew Miller in White Plains and followed Phish before discovering orthodox Judaism -- plays a three-night ''Festival of Light'' series of concerts for Hanukkah, a week before his new album, ''No Place to Be,'' is to be released by Epic Records. Opening the shows are Mr. Lif and the Coup tomorrow, Ben Kweller on Sunday and John Brown's Body on Tuesday. At 8 p.m., Hammerstein Ballroom, 311 West 34th Street, Manhattan, (212) 307-7171, mcstudios.com; $32 in advance, $35 at the door. (Sisario)

THE NEW DEAL (Tonight) Jam bands and electronic dance music usually call for different beats and different wardrobes, but their goal is the same: to make dancers happy with open-ended grooves. The New Deal brings both camps together, using human muscle to approximate computerized breakbeats. With Benzos. At 9, Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; $28. (Pareles)

POPA CHUBBY (Tonight) Popa Chubby hails from the Bronx, but his heart is in steamy, rambunctious Chicago blues and its 1960s-rock spinoffs. In a gruff voice, he sings about characters like a ''sweet goddess of love and beer''; his guitar solos coil and bite. With Irving Louis Lattin. At 8, Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 864-5400, symphonyspace.org; $30. (Pareles)

* RAINER MARIA (Tomorrow and Sunday) For a decade, this earnest and literate trio, which began in Madison, Wis., and moved to Brooklyn, could be counted on for big, urgent cries that sounded just a bit louder than the players were comfortable with (and that's not always a bad thing). Last month it announced that it would be disbanding, and these are its last concerts in New York. Tomorrow at 8 p.m., with Pela and Daylight's for the Birds, at the Bowery Ballroom, 6 Delancey Street, near the Bowery, Lower East Side, (212) 533-2111, boweryballroom.com; sold out. Sunday at 9 p.m., with the Jealous Girlfriends and Balthrop, Alabama, at Northsix, 66 North Sixth Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 599-5103, northsix.com; $15. (Sisario)

* LOU REED'S 'BERLIN' (Tonight through Sunday) Mr. Reed performs his bleak and beautiful 1973 cabaret-rock album in full for the first time, with friends including Antony and Sharon Jones on backup vocals, and with sets and projections by Julian Schnabel and his daughter Lola. At 8 p.m., St. Ann's Warehouse, 38 Water Street, at Dock Street, Dumbo, Brooklyn, (718) 254-8779, stannswarehouse.org; sold out. (Sisario)

SAM CHAMPION (Tonight) This local four-piece derives its shambolic jangle from Pavement, singing about being ''aggressively lazy''; the aggression comes in tense jabs of guitar that recall Neil Young. With Brian Bonz. At 8, Union Hall, 702 Union Street, at Fifth Avenue, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 638-4400, unionhallny.com; $8. (Sisario)

OUMOU SANGARE (Tomorrow) Ms. Sangare comes from the Wassoulou section of Mali, where women have a tradition of singing to entertain and instruct. Her group plays circular, triple-time vamps -- griot music tinged with funk -- as her voice soars above them, smooth and impassioned; backup singers spur her onward and dance, tossing bowls in the air. At 7:30 p.m., Aaron Davis Hall, City College, Convent Avenue at West 135th Street, Hamilton Heights, (212) 650-7289, carnegiehall.org; free, but tickets are required. (Pareles)

TRANS-SIBERIAN ORCHESTRA (Wednesday and Thursday) Christmas songs on mid-1980s rock steroids, for those who like their holiday spirit as bombastic as possible. Wednesday at 8 p.m., Nassau Coliseum, 1255 Hempstead Turnpike, Uniondale, N.Y., (631) 888-9000, nassaucoliseum.com; $33 and $49 ; Thursday at 8 p.m., Continental Airlines Arena, East Rutherford, N.J., (201) 935-3900, meadowlands.com; $45 and $60. (Pareles)

'Z100'S JINGLE BALL' (Tonight) In an annual act of fealty disguised as holiday cheer, pop stars sign up for this concert presented by one of the radio stations that has helped them become famous. (Many other stations around the country have similar shows.) Playing short sets for Z100 (WHTZ-FM) -- er, for fans, that is -- are Evanescence, the Killers, Nelly Furtado, the Fray, Nick Lachey, Rihanna, the Pussycat Dolls and RBD. At 7:30, Madison Square Garden, (212) 465-6741, thegarden.com; $25 to $204. (Sisario)

Jazz

Full reviews of recent jazz concerts: nytimes.com/music.

MOSE ALLISON (Tonight through Sunday) Mr. Allison is best known for his songs, which combine cosmopolitan wit with a folksy worldview. He enacts a similar fusion as a pianist and singer, recasting Delta blues in bebop's hipster argot. At 7:30 and 9:30, with an 11:30 set tonight and tomorrow, Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $30. (Nate Chinen)

BASSDRUMBONE (Thursday) The bassist Mark Helias, the drummer Gerry Hemingway and the trombonist Ray Anderson first began knocking about together as BassDrumBone nearly 30 years ago. They have a taut new album, ''The Line Up'' (Clean Feed), that once again proves the haleness of their rapport. At 8:30 p.m., Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; cover, $10, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

CHRIS BOTTI (Tuesday through Thursday) Mr. Botti is a trumpeter whose photogenic style and brooding sensuality suit current notions of the standard songbook as a lifestyle accessory. But his low-gloss polish is generally likable, and he tends to stretch out a bit with his first-rate band. (Through Dec. 24.) At 8 and 10:30 p.m., Blue Note, 131 West Third Street, West Village, (212) 475-8592 bluenote.net; cover, $50 at tables, $35 at the bar, with a $5 minimum. (Chinen)

GERALD CLAYTON (Monday) Mr. Clayton was the popular favorite at this year's Thelonious Monk International Jazz Piano Competition, though he finished second. His robust and eloquent style finds a good showcase in this concert, organized by the Monk Institute. At 7 p.m., TriBeCa Performing Arts Center, 199 Chambers Street, between Greenwich and West Street, (212) 220-1460, tribecapac.org; $25; students, $15 (Chinen)

CARLA COOK (Tonight and tomorrow night) A vivacious jazz singer with a growing book of original tunes, Ms. Cook performs with top-shelf accompaniment: Jon Cowherd on piano, Kenny Davis on bass, Steve Kroon on percussion and Bruce Cox on drums. At 8, 10 and midnight, Sweet Rhythm, 88 Seventh Avenue South, at Bleecker Street, West Village, (212) 255-3626, sweetrhythmny.com; cover, $20, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

SYLVIE COURVOISIER AND MARK FELDMAN (Tonight) As a pianist and composer Ms. Courvoisier pursues intricacy and rigor; Mr. Feldman, a violinist, favors plangent intensity. They have worked well as a duo, perhaps most notably on a recent album of John Zorn compositions. At 8:30 p.m., Roulette at Location One, 20 Greene Street, at Grand Street, SoHo, (212) 219-8242, roulette.org; $15; students, $10; members, free (Chinen)

LIBERTY ELLMAN (Wednesday) Mr. Ellman, a guitarist and composer with a taste for rhythmic convolutions, leads a dynamic trio with Stephan Crump on bass and Marcus Gilmore on drums. At 10 p.m., 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 929-9883, 55bar.com; cover, $8. (Chinen)

FATBLASTER (Tonight) A confab of adventurous trumpeters, representing three levels of experience: Ralph Alessi, an accomplished leader and educator; Shane Endsley, a prominent recent arrival; and Eric Biondo, who seems most likely to have been behind the prankish name. The saxophonist Loren Stillman and the guitarist Ryan Ferreira fill out the group, so to speak. At 8:30 p.m., Center for Improvisational Music, 295 Douglass Street, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (212) 631-5882, schoolforimprov.org; cover, $10. (Chinen)

* FRITH, HODGKINSON AND CUTLER (Tonight through Sunday night) In the 1970s the guitarist Fred Frith, the saxophonist and keyboardist Tim Hodgkinson and the drummer Chris Cutler were all members of the experimental British rock band Henry Cow. They reconvene not in the name of that band, but in the spirit of free-form interplay, and in various combinations. At 8 and 10, the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, thestonenyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)

LASZLO GARDONY (Tonight) On his most recent album, ''Natural Instinct'' (Sunnyside), Mr. Gardony matches his fluid pianism with a rhythmic undercurrent created by John Lockwood on bass and Yoron Israel on drums. The same trio plays here, in a room that rewards acoustic music of intimate scale. At 7, Rubin Museum of Art, 150 West 17th Street, Chelsea, (212) 620-5000, Ext. 344, rmanyc.org; $20. (Chinen)

* ROBERT GLASPER TRIO (Tuesday through Thursday) Robert Glasper is a pianist given to silvery flourishes and gospel intimations, though his deepest commitment is to the swirl of his trio with the bassist Vicente Archer and the drummer Damion Reid. The tenor saxophonist Mark Turner will make a guest appearance, but only on Thursday night. (Through Dec. 23.) At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Jazz Standard, 116 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 576-2232, jazzstandard.net; cover, $25; (Chinen)

JOEL HARRISON (Tomorrow) Mr. Harrison, a versatile guitarist and prolific composer, presents ''The Wheel,'' a suite of five movements for a nine-piece ensemble. In addition to an improvising string quartet spearheaded by the violinists Mark Feldman and Christian Howes, his aggregate will feature sharp improvisers like the trumpeter Ralph Alessi and the alto saxophonist David Binney. At 8:30 p.m., Roulette at Location One, 20 Greene Street, at Grand Street, SoHo, (212) 219-8242, roulette.org; $15; students, $10; members, free. (Chinen)

MARK HELIAS QUARTET (Tonight) Mark Helias is a bassist of adventurous temperament and great rhythmic assurance, as he demonstrates in a band with two longtime associates, the trombonist Ray Anderson and the tenor saxophonist Ellery Eskelin, and a dynamic younger colleague, the drummer Nasheet Waits. At 10, 55 Bar, 55 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 929-9883, 55bar.com; cover, $8. (Chinen)

TONY MALABY AND PALOMA RECIO (Sunday night) The fine tenor saxophonist Tony Malaby brings a Spanish tinge to this ensemble with the guitarist Ben Monder, the bassist Eivind Opsvik and the drummer Nasheet Waits. At 7 and 9, Jimmy's 43 Restaurant, 43 East Seventh Street, East Village, (212) 982-3006, freestylejazz.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)

RUSSELL MALONE QUARTET (Tonight) One of the most gifted guitarists in the modern jazz mainstream leads a sharp young band with Stantawn Kendrick on tenor saxophone, Ivan Taylor on bass and Rodney Green on drums. At 8, 10 and 11:30, Smoke, 2751 Broadway, at 106th Street, (212) 864-6662, smokejazz.com; cover, $30. (Chinen)

JOHN McNEIL/BILL McHENRY QUARTET (Sunday) The trumpeter John McNeil and the tenor saxophonist Bill McHenry focus on jazz obscurities of 1950s vintage in this resourceful and often delightful band, which holds a standing Sunday-night engagement at Biscuit BBQ (formerly Night and Day). This week their rhythm section consists of Chris Lightcap on bass and Jochen Rueckert on drums. At 8:30 and 10 p.m., Biscuit BBQ, 230 Fifth Avenue, at President Street, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 399-2161, biscuitbbq.com; cover, $5, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

* MICHAEL MOORE (Tuesday and Wednesday) A versatile clarinetist and saxophonist, Mr. Moore pays a visit from his perch in the Netherlands to perform with a handful of broadminded improvisers. On Tuesday that circle includes the saxophonist Rob Brown, the bassist William Parker and the drummer Gerald Cleaver; on Wednesday it features the keyboardist Jamie Saft, the drummer Kenny Wollesen and the bassist Trevor Dunn. At 8 and 10 p.m., the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, thestonenyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)

IKUE MORI (Tonight) Ms. Mori employs electronic sounds with the agility of an improviser. Here she adds live video and explores ''Phantom Orchard,'' a collaboration with the experimental harpist Zeena Parkins. The Norwegian avant-garde vocalist Maja Ratkje performs a separate solo set. At 8, the Kitchen, 512 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 255-5793, thekitchen.org; $10. (Chinen)

NEW LANGUAGES FESTIVAL (Tomorrow) Advancing an aesthetic ideal of cross-fertilization, this avant-garde Williamsburg series offers two compelling bands: a sextet led by the cornetist Taylor Ho Bynum, featuring the multi-reedist Matt Bauder, the violist Jessica Pavone, the guitarists Evan O'Reilly and Mary Halvorson and the drummer Tomas Fujiwara; and John Hebert's Byzantine Monkey, with Mr. Hebert on bass, Tony Malaby and Michael Attias on saxophones and Nasheet Waits on drums. At 8:30 and 10 p.m., Rose Live Music, 345 Grand Street, between Havemeyer and Marcy Streets, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 599-0069, newlanguages.org; cover, $10. (Chinen)

DAVID (FATHEAD) NEWMAN AND DR. LONNIE SMITH (Tuesday through Thursday) David Newman, the soulful tenor saxophonist long associated with Ray Charles, joins Dr. Lonnie Smith, whose unaccredited honorific has always been justified by his authority on the Hammond organ. Adding crisply to the conversation is the guitarist Peter Bernstein, a regular member of Dr. Smith's trio. (Through Dec. 24.) At 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., Dizzy's Club Coca-Cola, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 258-9595, jalc.org; cover, $30, with a minimum of $10 at tables, $5 at the bar. (Chinen)

IVO PERELMAN (Thursday) Mr. Perelman, a coloristic yet often fearsome Brazilian avant-garde saxophonist, joins forces with the bassist Dominic Duval and the drummer Newman Taylor Baker; in their later set they'll be joined by Rosie Hertlein on violin. At 8 and 10 p.m., the Stone, Avenue C and Second Street, East Village, thestonenyc.com; cover, $10. (Chinen)

POING (Tonight) This jittery new-music ensemble -- made up of the saxophonist Rolf-Erik Nystrom, the accordionist Frode Haltli and the bassist Hakon Thelin -- has recently been winning converts well beyond their Scandinavian base. They have a recent album, ''Planet Poing'' (Jazzaway), but this rare stateside appearance should be even more representative of their powers. At midnight, Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7501, tonicnyc.com; cover, $12. (Chinen)

RED HOT HOLIDAY STOMP (Tonight and tomorrow) In what has become a Jazz at Lincoln Center tradition, Wynton Marsalis heads up a Crescent City-style holiday celebration, with help from the trombonist Wycliffe Gordon, the banjoist Don Vappie and the drummer Herlin Riley, among others. Tonight at 8, tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m., Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 721-6500, jalc.org; $37.50 to $127.50. (Chinen)

ERIC REED TRIO (Tonight and tomorrow night) Sharp sophistication is a hallmark of Eric Reed's piano playing, the focal point of this trio with Gerald Cannon on bass and Willie Jones III on drums. At 7:30 and 9:15, Kitano Hotel, 66 Park Avenue, at 38th Street, (212) 885-7119, kitano.com; cover, $20, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

SEX MOB AND ROSWELL RUDD (Thursday) Sex Mob, the rugged and irreverent quartet led by the slide trumpeter Steven Bernstein, has worked fruitfully with the beatific free-jazz trombonist Roswell Rudd; their self-described Holiday Spectacular should live up to promise of its name. At 8 and 10 p.m., Tonic, 107 Norfolk Street, Lower East Side, (212) 358-7501, tonicnyc.com; cover, $15. (Chinen)

TODD SICKAFOOSE (Tonight) Mr. Sickafoose is a bassist and composer equally fond of rough edges and rounded forms. Drawing from his atmospheric recent album, ''Blood Orange'' (Secret Hatch), he leads a seven-piece group that includes Russ Johnson on trumpet, Alan Ferber on trombone and Mike Gamble on guitar. At 9 and 10:30, Tea Lounge, 837 Union Street, between Sixth and Seventh Avenues, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 789-2762, tealoungeny.com; donation, $5. (Chinen)

JIM STALEY, IKUE MORI AND JOHN ZORN (Sunday) Raucous but rigorous free improvisation serves as a common language among Mr. Staley, on trombone, Mr. Zorn, on saxophone, and Ms. Mori, on electronics and percussion. At 8:30 p.m., Roulette at Location One, 20 Greene Street, at Grand Street, SoHo, (212) 219-8242, roulette.org; $15; students, $10; members, free. (Chinen)

MARCUS STRICKLAND AND TWI-LIFE (Tonight and tomorrow night) Mr. Strickland, a thoughtful young tenor saxophonist, issued a double album this year called ''Twi-Life'' (Strick Muzic), with each disc featuring a separate band. The one he leads here is the more ethereal, though it has a foundation in groove; its ranks include Lage Lund on guitar, Keyon Harrold on trumpet and Mr. Strickland's brother, E. J., on drums. At 9 and 10:30, Jazz Gallery, 290 Hudson Street, at Spring Street, South Village, (212) 242-1063, jazzgallery.org; cover, $15; members, $10. (Chinen)

TRIO M (Tonight) A three-part collective with one initial and many improvisational stratagems in common: Myra Melford on piano, Mark Dresser on bass and Matt Wilson on drums. At 9 and 10:30, Cornelia Street Cafe, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village, (212) 989-9319, corneliastreetcafe.com; cover, $12, with a one-drink minimum. (Chinen)

* CEDAR WALTON (Tonight through Sunday; Tuesday through Thursday) As a pianist and composer Mr. Walton pursues an articulate, almost courtly variety of hard bop. This weekend he leads his superb trio, with David Williams on bass and Lewis Nash on drums; next week they become a quartet with the addition of Vincent Herring, a fluent force on alto saxophone. (Through Dec. 24.) At 9 and 11, Village Vanguard, 178 Seventh Avenue South, at 11th Street, West Village, (212) 255-4037, villagevanguard.com; cover, $20, $25 tonight and tomorrow, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

JAMES WEIDMAN (Wednesday) Mr. Weidman, a pianist with a broad resume and a graceful style, leads a trio with Cameron Brown on bass and Tony Jefferson on drums. At 7:30 and 9:15, Kitano Hotel, 66 Park Avenue, at 38th Street, (212) 885-7119, kitano.com; no cover, with a $10 minimum. (Chinen)

Classical

Full reviews of recent music performances: nytimes.com/music.

Opera

'LA BOHEME' (Tomorrow) Franco Zeffirelli's overblown ''Boheme'' returns to the Metropolitan Opera for its regular airing. Rolando Villazon, the talented Mexican tenor, is a convincing Rodolfo, although his voice and charisma are somewhat dwarfed by the massive sets. Tomorrow his Mimi is Maija Kovalevska, the Latvian soprano who was one of the first-prize winners in the 2006 Operalia Competition, which Placido Domingo runs for young singers. Anna Samuil is Musetta, and Peter Coleman-Wright ably sings her jealous lover, Marcello. Steven Crawford conducts. At 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $150 to $220 tickets remaining. (Vivien Schweitzer)

* 'DON CARLO' (Monday) The powerhouse tenor Johan Botha is a hefty man and a stiff actor. But he certainly brings the vocal goods to the title role of Verdi's noble masterpiece ''Don Carlo,'' in John Dexter's production. The winning cast includes Patricia Racette as Elisabeth, Dmitri Hvorostovsky as Rodrigo, Olga Borodina as Eboli and the astounding German bass Rene Pape as Philip II. James Levine conducts a magnificent performance. At 7 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $15 to $175. (Anthony Tommasini)

'THE FIRST EMPEROR' (Thursday) A rare sighting: new opera at the Met. Tan Dun's East-West fusion promises all the bells and whistles of a grand opera spectacle. Let's hope for the music too. At 8 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; sold out. (Bernard Holland)

'MEDEE' (Tonight, Sunday and Wednesday) Call it garage opera. The Vertical Player Repertory performs in a small Brooklyn factory-turned-studio but has developed a following for its intense performances of unusual works. Darius Milhaud's ''Medee,'' the last opera performed in Paris before the Nazi occupation, was so successful in November the company has brought it back for three more performances. At 8, Vertical Player Repertory, 219 Court Street, at Warren Street, Brooklyn Heights, (212) 539-2696, vpropera.org; $25. (Anne Midgette)

'RIGOLETTO' (Tomorrow and Tuesday) The strong Spanish baritone Carlos Alvarez has taken over the title role of Verdi's ''Rigoletto'' in the Met's revival of Otto Schenk's grimly realistic 1989 production. Of special interest is the emerging Maltese tenor Joseph Calleja as the rakish Duke. Tuesday brings the Met debut in that role of a young Polish tenor, Piotr Beczala. Friedrich Haider conducts. Tomorrow at 1:30 p.m., Tuesday at 7:30 p.m., Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $220 tickets remaining tomorrow, $15 to $175 on Tuesday. (Tommasini)

'DIE ZAUBERFLOTE' (Tonight and Wednesday) The revival of Julie Taymor's whimsical production of Mozart's ''Magic Flute'' continues tonight. Isabel Bayrakdarian uses her clear, expressive voice in a radiant portrayal of Pamina, while Nathan Gunn is a winningly animated Papageno. The rest of the cast, conducted by James Levine, includes Cornelia Gotz as Queen of the Night, Robert Lloyd as the Speaker, Stephen Milling as Sarastro and Christoph Strehl as Tamino. Fanciful puppets provide plenty of visual stimulation. At 8, Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center, (212) 362-6000, metopera.org; $205 to $375 tickets remaining tonight, Wednesday $80 to $175. (Schweitzer)

Classical Music

AXIOM (Thursday) New and recent music at Juilliard is no longer a one-party system: last year, the New Juilliard Ensemble was joined by Axiom, a student-run ensemble devoted to 20th-century repertory. This week the group offers an orthodox, appealing concert of several titans: Xenakis, Stockhausen and Boulez, along with Milhaud's jazz ballet ''La Creation du Monde'' and Frederic Rzewski's ''Moutons de Panurge,'' which starts with the whole ensemble playing a single tune and degenerates like a game of ''Operator.'' Jeffrey Milarsky conducts. At 8 p.m., Studio 309, Juilliard School, 60 Lincoln Center Plaza, (212) 769-7406, juilliard.edu; free. (Midgette)

BARGEMUSIC (Tonight, tomorrow and Sunday) Tonight at this intimate floating chamber music hall, Olga Vinokur, a pianist, offers a robustly Romantic program, with Beethoven's Sonata No. 10, Chopin's Sonata No. 2, Medtner's ''Canzona Matinata'' and Rachmaninoff's Etudes-Tableaux (Op. 39). Prokofiev's ''Sarcasms'' add a touch of early contemporary spice. Tomorrow and Sunday a clarinet trio -- Julian Bliss, clarinetist; Julien Quentin, pianist; and Eric Jacobsen, cellist -- play the Brahms Trio in A minor and works by Prokofiev, Bernstein, Berg and Bloch. Tonight and tomorrow at 7:30; Sunday at 4, Fulton Ferry Landing next to the Brooklyn Bridge, Brooklyn, (718) 624-2083, bargemusic.org; $35, $20 for students, $30 for 65+ tonight only. (Allan Kozinn)

BALTIMORE CONSORT (Sunday) This superb medieval and Renaissance quintet offers a Christmas program as part of the Music Before 1800 series. Included are carols and dances from England, France, Germany and Spain. For the vocal works, the ensemble is joined by Jose Lemos, a countertenor, and Danielle Svonavec, a soprano. At 4 p.m., Corpus Christi Church, 529 West 121st Street, Morningside Heights, (212) 666-9266, mb1800.org; $25 to $40, $5 off for students and 65+. (Kozinn)

CHAMBER MUSIC SOCIETY OF LINCOLN CENTER (Tonight through Sunday, and Tuesday) The Baroque Festival, planned by David Finckel and Wu Han, the husband-and-wife team serving as artistic directors of the Chamber Music Society, continues this week. Tonight, the violinist Ani Kavafian performs Bach's violin sonatas accompanied by Kenneth Cooper on harpsichord and fortepiano. Tomorrow, Colin Carr plays Bach's cello suites. On Sunday and Tuesday, the Society stays true to its annual holiday tradition with a concert of Bach's ''Brandenburg'' Concertos. Tonight at 7 and tomorrow at 4:30 p.m., Good Shepherd-Faith Presbyterian Church, 152 West 66th Street, Manhattan. Sunday at 5 p.m. and Tuesday at 7:30 p.m., Alice Tully Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 875-5788, chambermusicsociety.org; sold out. (Schweitzer)

* ETHEL (Sunday and Thursday) The indie, rock-infused, postclassical string band Ethel, which has been drawing audiences to its gigs at Joe's Pub, has another date there on Sunday evening, a collaboration with the self-described ''pixie songstress'' Jill Sobule. On Thursday, Ethel invites one and all to celebrate the winter solstice at the World Financial Center's Winter Garden with a performance of its site-specific, multimedia, semi-installation, quasi-theatrical concert piece ''In the House of Ethel.'' Sunday at 7:30 p.m., Joe's Pub, at the Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, joespub.com; $15 in advance, $18 at the door. Thursday at 7 p.m., Winter Garden, World Financial Center, West Street, south of Vesey Street, Lower Manhattan, (212) 945-0505, worldfinancialcenter.com; free. (Tommasini)

* RENEE FLEMING, orchestra of st. luke's (Thursday) ''Rejoice Greatly: Christmas With Renee Fleming'' is the title of a holiday program with the Orchestra of St. Luke's at Carnegie Hall. High-minded concertgoers tempted to roll their eyes at this event should remember that great divas past like Anna Moffo, Eileen Farrell and Joan Sutherland gave Christmas concerts and made Christmas recordings. Moreover, this program has some musically rich and substantive offerings, including arias from oratorios and cantatas by Handel, Mozart and Bach, songs by Bernstein and Reger, instrumental works by Berlioz and Korngold, and the requisite Christmas carols, not to mention Leroy Anderson's jaunty orchestral piece ''Sleigh Ride,'' which, admit it, everyone loves. At 8 p.m., (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $45 to $125. (Tommasini)

MUSICA SACRA CHORUS AND ORCHESTRA (Wednesday) The venerable Musica Sacra under Richard Westenburg continues its long-lived tradition of Handel's ''Messiah'' at Carnegie Hall. At 8 p.m., (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $20 to $120. (Holland)

* NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC (Tonight and tomorrow night) David Robertson, the intellectually curious and technically adept conductor of the St. Louis Symphony, visits the Philharmonic with a compelling program built around the United States premiere of the ''Adriana Songs'' by the Finnish composer Kaija Saariaho, a cycle based on her new opera, ''Adriana Mater.'' The mezzo-soprano Patricia Bardon is the soloist. Also on the program are two Debussy works, ''La Mer'' and excerpts from ''Le Martyre de St. Sebastien,'' and Sibelius's ''Night Ride and Sunrise.'' At 8, Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, nyphil.org; $28 to $96. (Kozinn)

ORATORIO SOCIETY OF NEW YORK (Monday) Early-music specialists may slim down their ''Messiahs,'' but the Victorians liked their Handel large and loud, and this venerable amateur chorus keeps that particular flame alive: it has sung ''Messiah'' at Carnegie Hall every year but one since the hall opened in 1891. Kent Tritle, a widely respected organist and choral conductor who is almost as ubiquitous as ''Messiah'' itself on New York stages, took over the group's leadership last year, and will conduct. At 8 p.m., (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $17 to $75. (Midgette)

TRINITY CHOIR (Sunday and Tuesday) ''Messiahs'' in the New York holiday season are as ubiquitous as Salvation Army Santas. But Trinity Church offers one of the city's best. It features the relatively lean forces of its own choir, suitable to the smallish church, and the Rebel Baroque Orchestra, all conducted by the choir's director, Owen Burdick. Sunday at 3 p.m., Tuesday at 6 p.m., Trinity Church, Broadway at Wall Street, Lower Manhattan, (866) 468-7619, trinitywallstreet.org; $30 to $50. (Midgette)

VIENNA CHOIR BOYS (Sunday) Founded in 1498 and counting Haydn, Schubert and the conductor Hans Richter among their illustrious graduates, the Vienna Choir Boys are still going strong. Here the talented young musicians, with pure, treble voices, offer a program of ''spiritual music'' from around the world, including a 13th-century Gregorian chorale, Mozart's ''Ave Verum Corpus,'' Charles Hubert Hastings Parry's ''Jerusalem,'' an Uzbek folk tune, a Peruvian/Quechuan hymn and Andy Icochea Icochea's ''Psalm 61.'' At 7 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $19 to $70. (Schweitzer)

WEST-EASTERN DIVAN ORCHESTRA (Tuesday) Daniel Barenboim's mixed youth orchestra from Israel, Middle Eastern Arab countries and Spain practices its musical metaphor for peace and cooperation with music by Beethoven, Mozart and Brahms. At 8 p.m., Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $18 to $48. (Holland)

OXANA YABLONSKAYA (Tonight) The Chopin Society of New York presents an all-Chopin evening with this pianist. She will be joined by the cellist Dmitry Yablonsky, the soprano Inna Dukach and the flutist Sarah Brady. The program includes the Grand Duo on themes from Meyerbeer's ''Robert le Diable'' for flute and piano, four songs, five mazurkas, the Cello Sonata (Op. 65) and the ''Polonaise Brillante.'' At 7:30, Zankel Hall, Carnegie Hall, (212) 247-7800, carnegiehall.org; $35, $15 for students and 65+. (Schweitzer)

Dance

Full reviews of recent performances: nytimes.com/dance.

* ALVIN AILEY AMERICAN DANCE THEATER (Tonight through Sunday, Tuesday through Thursday) This vibrant company's annual season has two highlights this week, along with the revolving programs of mostly stellar repertory, most of which include ''Revelations.'' On Sunday night the program will celebrate Renee Robinson's 25th anniversary as an Ailey dancer, with two items -- ''Grace'' and an excerpt from ''Sweet Bitter Love'' -- that can be seen only that night. And Tuesday will mark the first performance of the revival of ''Pas de Duke'' in its original duet form, after the one-shot version with three couples seen at the season-opening gala. Tonight, tomorrow, Wednesday and Thursday at 8 p.m., tomorrow and Wednesday at 2 p.m., Sunday at 3 p.m. and 7:30 p.m., Tuesday at 7 p.m., City Center, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212, alvinailey.org; $25 to $150. (John Rockwell)

Les Ballets Trockadero de Monte Carlo (Tuesday through Thursday) The Trocks, as fans call this long-established group, are men in tights -- and tutus and pointe shoes. They can be very funny, but they have also won a reputation for real technical ability and knowledgeable restagings of ballet classics. Highlights of the two programs on offer this year are Leonide Massine's ''Gaite Parisienne,'' created for the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo in 1938, and Jerome Robbins's ''Cage,'' a chilling portrait of a female devouring its male prey that should be perfect fodder for this company. Tuesday and Wednesday at 7:30, Thursday at 8 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, Chelsea, (212) 242-0800, joyce.org; $44, $33 for Joyce members. (Roslyn Sulcas)

CAMILLA BROWN AND DANCERS (Tonight and tomorrow) Ms. Brown, who aims at spiritual flight in dance grounded in modern, ballet and West African forms, will present her own work and dances by Darrell Moultrie and Roger C. Jeffrey. Tonight and tomorrow at 8, Joyce SoHo, 155 Mercer Street between Houston and Spring Streets, (212) 334-7479, joyce.org; $20, $15 for students. (Dunning)

DANCE AND PROCESS: DANIEL LINEHAN, MELANIE MAAR AND JILLIAN PENA (Wednesday and Thursday) The three choreographers, chosen by Miguel Gutierrez, show work developed over a seven-week group process of shared creation. Wednesday and Thursday at 8 p.m., the Kitchen, 512 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 255-5793, thekitchen.org; $10. (Dunning)

DANCE AT DIXON PLACE (Tomorrow and Tuesday) Jody Oberfelder will offer a preview of new work (tomorrow), and Marcia Monroe's ''Crossing Boundaries'' series will feature dance by Marija Krtolica, Sally Hess, the Roosters, Moeno Wakamutsu and Amos Pinhasi (Tuesday). At 8 p.m., Dixon Place, 258 Bowery, between Houston and Prince Streets, Lower East Side, (212) 219-0736, dixonplace.org; $12, $10 for students (tomorrow) and $12 or TDF (free) (Tuesday). (Dunning)

LIZ GERRING DANCE (Tonight through Sunday) A spare movement vocabulary drawn from natural gesture forms the basis of ''when you lose something you can't replace,'' a collaboration with the artist Burt Barr. At 8:30, Danspace Project, St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (212) 674-8194, danspaceproject.org; $15. (Anderson)

SCOTTY HERON AND HIJACK (Tonight through Sunday) Mr. Heron is a performer of irresistible, fearless and eloquent illogic. Hijack is a dance duo (Kristin Van Loon and Arwen Wilder) from Minneapolis. The three will perform in ''Stacked, Double Cow,'' which shares the bill with a piece called ''3 Minutes of Pork and Shoving.'' At 8 p.m., Performance Space 122, 150 First Avenue, at Ninth Street, East Village, (212) 352-3101, ps122.org; $20; $10 for members. (Dunning)

JUILLIARD DANCE DIVISION (Tonight through Sunday) The entire division will perform in a program of new works created for them by David Parker, Matthew Neenan, Doug Varone and Aszure Barton. Tonight at 8, tomorrow at 3 and 8 p.m., Sunday at 3 p.m., Juilliard Theater, 155 West 65th Street, Manhattan, (212) 769-7406, juilliard.edu; free. (Dunning)

* MARK MORRIS DANCE GROUP (Tonight through Sunday) ''The Hard Nut,'' Mr. Morris's affectionate, off-kilter, 1970s disco-style version of this classic, still set to Tchaikovsky's wonderful score, will return to this area for four performances at the flashy Frank Gehry-designed Fisher Center for the Performing Arts at Bard College. Today and tomorrow at 8 p.m., tomorrow at 2 p.m., Sunday at 3 p.m., Sosnoff Theater in the Fisher Center, Bard College, Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y., (845) 758-7900, bard.edu/fishercenter; $25 to $65. (Rockwell)

Richard Move/MoveOpolis! (Tuesday through Thursday) Richard Move is best known for channeling Martha Graham, but he also makes more serious dance-theater pieces. This program is a chance to see some of his older works in this vein, as well as ''Toward the Delights of the Exquisite Corpse,'' first shown at the Jacob's Pillow festival this summer. It combines several famous talents -- the visual artist Charles Atlas, the writer Hilton Als, the designer Patricia Fields -- and a bunch of talented dancers. At 7:30 p.m., Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 691-6500, dtw.org; $25; $15 for artists, members, students and 65+. (Sulcas)

* NEW YORK CITY BALLET (Tonight through Sunday, Tuesday through Thursday) George Balanchine's prototypical ''Nutcracker'' continues until Dec. 30, with nine performances this week alone. It may be hard on its rotating casts of dancers, not to speak of the orchestra and the stagehands, but it's magic for the audience. Sunday afternoon will offer a cast full of younger dancers in their roles for the first time, including Ana Sophia Scheller as the Sugarplum Fairy, Tyler Angle as her Cavalier and Sara Mearns as Dewdrop. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8, tomorrow and Wednesday at 2 p.m., Sunday at 1 and 5 p.m., Tuesday though Thursday at 6 p.m., New York State Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 870-5570, nycballet.com; $15 to $110. (Rockwell)

NEW YORK THEATER BALLET (Tomorrow and Sunday) The company's production of ''The Nutcracker,'' choreographed by Keith Michael, is childlike and just an hour long. Tomorrow and Sunday at 11 a.m., 1 p.m. and 3:30 p.m., Florence Gould Hall, 55 East 59th Street, Manhattan, (212) 355-6160, fiaf.org; $30; $25 for children 12 and under. (Dunning)

PARSONS DANCE COMPANY (Tonight through Sunday) David Parsons brings his high-energy company to the Joyce with two programs performed over two weeks. Highlights include ''The Nascimento Project,'' a new collaboration with the Brazilian musician Milton Nascimento; a revival of ''Ring Around the Rosie,'' last seen in New York more than a decade ago; and ''In the End,'' set to music by the Dave Matthews Band. Tonight at 8, tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m., Sunday at 2 and 7:30 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 242-0800, joyce.org; $42. (La Rocco)

* SARAH SAVELLI (Tonight) There is only one night to see Ms. Savelli, an Ohio dancer whom the tap diva Jane Goldberg describes as the Barbra Streisand of tap, in a program with guests including Ayodele Casel. Tonight at 7:30, Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 864-5400, symphonyspace.org; $25. (Dunning)

STREB SLAM (Tonight through Sunday) Elizabeth Streb and her fearless (we hope) high-flying, hard-crashing performers will present a new show, ''Streb SLAM 8: Extreme Action,'' complete with popcorn and cotton candy. Tonight at 7, tomorrow at 3 and 7 p.m., Sunday at 3 p.m., SLAM, 51 North First Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (212) 352-3101, strebusa.org; $15; $10 for children 12 and under. (Dunning)

'TRIBUTE TO BUTOH' CELESTE HASTINGS AND MOENO WAKAMATSU (Tonight and tomorrow) Ms. Hastings, whose work blends dance, theater and Butoh, takes four women's dreams of the Amazon jungles as her metaphor in ''Amazonas.'' And Ms. Wakamatsu, who began her professional career in architecture, draws from Ovid's ''Metamorphoses'' in this program honoring Butoh on the 100th birthday of Kazuo Ohno, a pioneer of the Japanese dance and theater form. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8, CRS Center, 123 Fourth Avenue, at 12th Street, East Village, (212) 677-8621, crsny.org; $15, $10 for students. (Dunning)

Art

Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art.

 Museums

American Folk Art Museum: 'A Deaf Artist in Early America: The Worlds of John Brewster Jr.,' through Jan. 7. Few Early American artists painted more incisive and empathetic likenesses than John Brewster Jr. (1766-1854), the subject of a fine traveling show at the American Folk Art Museum. And few worked under such potentially limiting circumstances: Mr. Brewster was born deaf in an era before remedial help or a common sign language existed. The case the show makes for Mr. Brewster's physical condition's being reflected in his art is inconclusive, but the paintings are wonderful. 45 West 53rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 265-1040. (Holland Cotter)

* American Museum of Natural History: 'GOLD,' through Aug. 19. Having delved into pearls, diamonds and amber, the museum applies its time-tested show-and-tell formula to gold. An astounding array of art, artifacts and natural samples, larded with fascinating facts and tales, ranges from prehistoric times to the present. Stops along the way include pre-Columbian empires, sunken treasure, Bangladesh dowry rituals and the moon landing. It turns out that gold comes from the earth in forms as beautiful as anything man has thought to do with it. Central Park West and 79th Street, (212) 769-5100. (Roberta Smith)

BROOKLYN MUSEUM: 'Watercolors by Walton Ford,' through Jan. 28. This show assembles more than 50 of Mr. Ford's large-scale watercolors of birds, animals, snakes and lushly exotic flora, produced since the early '90s. They frequently depict moments in which a wild animal encounters human culture, often to its detriment. Sometimes the threat is overt, as in pictures of animals and birds roped or wounded; in other images the sense is that some horrible violence has occurred or is about to happen. This artist imparts an environmental message, couched in a lament for the irreversible loss that occurs when a sense of ethics does not govern the treatment of animals. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, Brooklyn (718) 638-5000. (Benjamin Genocchio)

* Frick Collection: 'Domenico Tiepolo (1727-1804): A New Testament,' through Jan. 7. The 60 ink drawings by Domenico Tiepolo, son of the Italian master painter Giambattista, have a funny kind of jitter. They look as if they were maybe woven from hair-fine brambles, or done on a ride over rough ground, or in a state of agitated elation. Illustrations of episodes from the four Gospels, they are among some 300 drawings the artist did on subject in a project that seems to have been an extended exercise in personal piety. In them the Christian story of salvation becomes an operatic epic, gravely serious but with notes of homely sweetness: Jesus in Gethsemane delivers his aria of mortal doubt and pain high up on a bare stage, all alone; the Virgin Mary's mother, Anna, aged and stooped, is cosseted by angel-nurses who guide her every step. 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700. (Cotter)

* GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'Spanish Painting from El Greco to Picasso,' through March 28. This show is carried along on its sheer star power and optical finesse. There are dozens of Goyas and Velazquezes and Zurbarans and El Grecos and Riberas and Dalis and Picassos, many famous, many not. The big point is that Spanish art did not constantly reinvent itself over time. It was a bubble culture, sustained for centuries by its political and religious isolation and its national loner mindset. Velazquez's painting of a dwarf is alone worth crossing a continent to see. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Michael Kimmelman)

* THE METropolitan museum of art: 'GLITTER AND DOOM: GERMAN PORTRAITS FROM THE 1920s,' through Feb. 19. This show's 100 paintings and drawings are by 10 artists, among them George Grosz, Christian Schad, Rudolf Schlichter and Karl Hubbuch, and most conspicuously the unrelentingly savage Otto Dix and his magnificent other, Max Beckmann. In their works the Weimar Republic's porous worlds reassemble. We look into the faces of forward-looking museum directors and cabaret performers, society matrons and scarred war veterans, prostitutes and jaded aristocrats who were watching their world slide from one cataclysm to the next. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)

* THE MET: 'LOUIS COMFORT TIFFANY AND LAURELTON HALL -- AN ARTIST'S COUNTRY ESTATE,' through May 20. Laurelton Hall may have burned to the ground in 1957, but this exhibition does an excellent job of reassembling what remains of this extraordinary house-museum and its gardens, which Tiffany created for himself in the early 1900s. The Gilded Age opulence of the place, which occupied 580 acres overlooking Long Island Sound -- and of the Tiffany residences preceding it -- is conveyed most blatantly by the Temple-of-Dendur-size Daffodil Terrace, in wood, marble and glass. The main events are the glass windows, vases and lamps, where Tiffany's genius for color, love of the exotic and reverence for nature coalesce into an unforgettable mystical materialism. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)

* MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: 'SAUL STEINBERG: ILLUMINATIONS,' through March 4. Saul Steinberg's famous New Yorker cover positioning Manhattan at the center of the world may be his best-known drawing, but he took on everything -- Floridians, linguistic concepts, erotica, cowboys, Cubism, nature, architecture and women -- with visual puns, manic doodles, grandiloquent calligraphy and other inspired artifice. As this show of more than 100 drawings, collages and constructions, arranged in chronological order, goes on, Steinberg's progress is evident: from relatively simple cartoons like ''Feet on Chair'' (1946), in which a fellow reading a newspaper parks his feet on the seat of an ornate Victorian monstrosity, to complex comments on the state of the world, like ''Street War (Cadavre Exquisis)'' (about 1972-74), derived from news clips of postcolonial troubles in the Middle East and Africa. The flow of his work amazes. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008. (Grace Glueck)

* Museum of Modern Art: 'Manet and the Execution of Maximilian,' through Jan. 29. This small, gripping, focused show reminds us of Modernism's mutinous, myth-scouring origins. And it does so by bringing one of art's great path-cutters, Edouard Manet, onto the scene, wry, politically infuriated and painting like Lucifer. There's not a lot of him here -- eight paintings, three on a single theme: the death by firing squad of the Austrian archduke Ferdinand Maximilian in Mexico in 1867. But it's enough. Manet's images, surrounded here by a riveting selection of prints and photographs, are electrifying, a new kind of history painting that turned an art of pre-set ideals into one of mutable and unpredictable realities. (212) 708-9400. (Cotter)

* MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK: 'A CITY ON PAPER: SAUL STEINBERG'S NEW YORK,' through March 25. A very lively adjunct to the Morgan show, this smaller display of some 40 drawings focuses on New York. An architect, Steinberg was particularly attracted to edifices like the Chrysler Building, which appears here looming majestically over humble brownstones and in another incarnation, from a perspective directly below it, looking positively squat. New York people, in Steinberg's eyes, could be monuments, too. And no one ever fully appreciated the impact of upscale New York women until Steinberg the misogynist came along. ''Fur Coats'' (1951), portrays four expensive baroque pelts wearing four women, and it's dead on. You may think you know Steinberg's work, but these shows make it new. 1220 Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street, (212) 534-1672. (Glueck)

* NEUE GALLERY: 'JOSEF HOFFMANN: INTERIORS, 1902-1913,' through Feb. 26. An architect-designer who became an impresario of high taste in turn-of-the-century Vienna, Mr. Hoffmann was a believer in the Gesamkunstwerk, or ''total work of art,'' orchestrating useful objects with paintings, sculptures and architecture in a composition greater than its parts. His early, intensely 20th-century design program, based on the grid and the square, is evident here in the installation of four interiors he designed for wealthy Viennese patrons, replete with furniture, wall and floor coverings, textiles, lighting, ceramics, glass and metal work. Most impressive here is the dining room he designed in 1913 for the Geneva apartment of the Swiss Symbolist painter Ferdinand Hodler, a large, calm space with furniture that has a pre-postmodern look. Neue Gallery, 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200. (Glueck)

* New-York Historical Society: 'Legacies: Contemporary Artists Reflect on Slavery,' through Jan. 7. Slavery, some would say, didn't really end in the United States until the civil rights legislation of the '60s, a century after the Emancipation Proclamation. Or the ''Emancipation Approximation,'' as the artist Kara Walker calls it in a series of hallucinatory silkscreen prints. They are among the high points of this large, powerful, subtle group show. 2 West 77th Street, Manhattan, (212) 873-3400, nyhistory.org. (Cotter)

Studio Museum in Harlem: 'Africa Comics,' through March 18. Intense is the word for this modest-size, first-time United States survey of designs by 35 African artists who specialize in comic art. The work is intense, the way urban Africa can be intense: intensely zany, intensely harsh, intensely warm, intensely political. The entertainment value is high. We are on familiar Marvel Comics ground with the adventures of the charismatic Princess Wella, a Superwoman with a ceremonial staff and braids, and the schlumpy but wily character named Goorgoolou from Senegal. But more often than not, humor is sugarcoating for varying degrees of disquiet, including images of jabbing violence. 144 West 125th Street, (212) 864-4500. (Cotter)

Whitney Museum of American Art: Kiki Smith: 'A Gathering, 1980-2005,' through Feb. 11. Many things fly and float in ''Kiki Smith'': men and women, harpies and angels, birds and beasts, toadstools and stars. And some things fall to earth, or rather to the museum's black stone floors, maybe to rise again, maybe not. The whole show, a midcareer retrospective, suggests a Victorian fairy tale, its tone at once light, grievous and dreamlike. But fanciful as it is, Ms. Smith's art is also deeply, corporeally realistic. It wears moral and mortal seriousness on its sleeve, if not tattooed on its wrist. It is about life and death, the essential things. 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (212) 570-3676. (Cotter)

Galleries: Uptown

* 'AMERICAN MASTERWORKS FROM THE MUNSON-WILLIAMS-PROCTOR ARTS INSTITUTE' This Utica, N.Y., institution, celebrating its educational alliance with New York City's Pratt Institute, is showing more than 75 paintings, drawings, sculptures and furniture pieces, from the 18th to the 20th centuries. A highlight is the original version of Thomas Cole's moving allegory ''The Voyage of Life'' (1839-40), which in four monumental canvases compares the journey from childhood to old age with the winding course of a river. A smashing portrait of the Revolutionary War general Peter Gansevoort (about 1794) by Gilbert Stuart and a luscious still life of a steak and with a cabbage and a carrot by Raphaelle Peale (1816-17) are distinguished entries from the earlier part of the show. Post-World War II paintings by Pollock and Rothko add to the buzz. Hirschl & Adler, 21 East 70th Street, (212) 535-8810, through Dec. 29. (Glueck)

* JOHN CURRIN The leading bad boy of figurative painting is trying his best to be even more provocative. While he usually paints in series, here he has many options under consideration: pornography, romance, still life, portraits of all kinds. The result is a Currin medley that functions as a kind of installation brought off with a new, somewhat vacuous facility. But the paintings with the most Currinesque goofiness and distortions are still the best. Gagosian Gallery, 980 Madison Avenue at 76th Street, (212) 744-2313, through Dec. 22. (Smith)

* 'THE ODYSSEY CONTINUES: MASTERWORKS FROM THE NEW ORLEANS MUSEUM OF ART AND FROM PRIVATE NEW ORLEANS COLLECTIONS' Nearly 100 European and American objects covering six centuries, from the New Orleans Museum of Art but also from private lenders, are displayed, ranging from the Venetian-born Lorenzo Lotto whose forceful study of an authoritative figure, ''Portrait of a Bearded Man'' (1530-35) is a highlight, to works by contemporary Americans. A showstopper is a full-length portrait of Marie Antoinette (about 1788), by Elizabeth Vigee-Lebrun, in which the doomed French queen wears an enormous feathered concoction on the head she was eventually to lose. Sculptures by Rodin, Brancusi, Louise Bourgeois and Louise Nevelson are also part of the treasures on view. The show is a benefit for the New Orleans Museum, whose building -- though not its art -- was battered by Hurricane Katrina. Wildenstein, 19 East 64th Street, (212) 879-0500, through Feb. 9. (Glueck)

Sigmar Polke Painting is man's oldest conjuring trick, and Sigmar Polke is one of its reigning magicians. In this show, new paintings and those from the 1980s, all two-sided and painted with resin, surround a small selection of German Baroque amber (Bernstein is German for amber) jewelry and exquisite tchotchkes. The paintings, made translucent by the resin, nearly defy deciphering. Doodles and abstract splashes of white paint overlay murky washes of glowing resin on both sides of their membranous support, then cast dim shadows on the wall behind, so that the pictures seem suspended in midair, floating. Michael Werner Gallery, 4 East 77th Street, (212) 988-1623, through Jan. 13. (Kimmelman)

Galleries: SoHo

SLATER BRADLEY: 'THE ABANDONMENTS' This show features six new, contemplative video works by this 31-year old artist. In ''Dark Night of the Soul'' (2005-6), which invokes Stanley Kubrick's ''2001: A Space Odyssey,'' a figure in a space suit is shown wandering through the exotic scenery of the American Museum of Natural History after hours, to the poetic sound of a flute. The chic, odd camera angles suggest detachment, making the suited figure seem as if he were visiting some strange, remote world. Team Gallery, 83 Grand Street, (212) 279-9219, teamgallery.com, through Dec. 23. (Genocchio)

Galleries: Chelsea

Nathan Carter On the surface, Mr. Carter's work is all about communication, transportation and networks. Big, sprawling sculptures and rough collages recreate the hectic spaghetti of subway lines and the intricate wiring of radio circuitry. The work itself cultivates the look of the amateur, the hobbyist with a ham radio or a backyard workshop and a jigsaw churning out crudely built constructions that look as if they might topple over at any second. At the same time, there's an offhanded vapidity to these references that suggests that they are little more than visual candy for the graphically attuned eye. Casey Kaplan, 525 West 21st Street, (212) 645-7335; caseykaplangallery.com, through Dec. 22. (Martha Schwendener)

CHRIS DUNCAN: THE CONTINUED EXPLORATION OF PINK AND BROWN In his New York debut, this young artist from Oakland, Calif., continues the tradition of men who draw (and glue) by sewing that dates back at least to Alan Shields. His richly colored, semi-abstract works on paper, sometimes sewn together into expansive surfaces, combine geometric structures with scattered drips, accrue into playful but quietly magnetic melanges of decorative and mystical, and East and West. Jeff Bailey Gallery, 511 West 25th Street, (212) 989-0156, through Dec. 22. (Smith)

* GEORGE ORTMAN: EARLY CONSTRUCTIONS, NEW SCULPTURE In the late 1950s and early '60s, Mr. Ortman combined paint, canvas, plaster and wood into geometric reliefs whose every element was physically discrete. Hailed as exemplary ''specific objects'' by Donald Judd, they took some tips from Jasper Johns's flag and target paintings and gave others to Judd's own work. Mitchell Algus Gallery, 511 West 25th Street, (212) 242-6242, through Dec. 23. (Smith)

* TL SOLEIN: INSULATUS In these large, ingeniously-made works on paper, which combine stenciling, bright cutout collage and washy fields of color, Mr. Solein brings his considerable pictorial sense to bear on ''Moby-Dick.'' He borrows from 19th-century illustration and folk art as well as personal memory, creating intimate stage-set-like scenes that can evoke anything from puppet shows to Cubism. The results frequently dazzle and sustain comparison with equally well-sourced but better-known paper wizards, from Donald Baechler to Jockum Nordstrom. Luise Ross Gallery, 511 West 25th Street, (212) 343-2161, through Dec. 23. (Smith)

Last Chance

LUCIAN FREUD The latest efforts of this British painter conform to a certain Freudian formula. Whether nudes or portraits, most paintings make palpable the claustrophobia of the studio and its harsh light, the dead weight of the people posing and the continuous effort on the painter's part to get things right. As usual there are occasional forays into the outside world and a rather startling self-portrait. ''The Painter Surprised by a Naked Admirer'' shows the artist with a naked female model clinging to his leg as he stands (clothed) poised to work on the very painting we are looking at. Acquavella Galleries, 18 East 79th Street, Manhattan, (212) 734-6300, closes Wednesday. (Smith)

* Richard Hamilton This British artist, born in 1922, is famous for having coined the term Pop Art and for pioneering the aesthetic it defined. Yet he remains little known here. The Dickinson and Roundell show is his first New York career survey since 1973. Given its small scale, it can't help but be a scrappy affair, but it is a piece of history. Dickinson Roundell, 19 East 66th Street, Manhattan, (212) 772-8083, closes today. (Cotter)

Paul Lee Queer coding has long been a protective necessity, a cultural binder and a source of pleasure, in art no less than in life. Paul Lee, born in London and in his early 30s, explores it in his fragile sculptures and gently prods its mechanisms without fully exposing or demythologizing them. He gives us the props associated with erotically charged environments -- back rooms, baths, parks -- but also preserves a quality of hiddenness, mystery. Massimo Audiello, 526 West 26th Street, No. 519, Chelsea, (212) 675-9082 , massimoaudiello.com, closes tomorrow. (Cotter)

* THE MUSEUM AT F.I.T.: 'LOVE AND WAR: THE WEAPONIZED WOMAN.' From a museum known for elucidating both the erotic and architectural nature of clothing design, this characteristically handsome exhibition examines the influence of garments of love and seduction (lingerie) and of war (armor and military uniforms) on modern and contemporary couturiers. The Museum at F.I.T., Fashion Institute of Technology, Seventh Avenue at 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 217-5800, fitnyc.edu/museum, closes tomorrow. (Smith)

ARIC OBROSEY In these fastidious graphite drawings of woven and knotted threads, all the strands behave according to strict spatial and structural rules, even as they coalesce at the center into mandala-like circles or a wildly knotted disco ball. As they twist and turn they also evoke different cultures, materials and crafts. Care in making encourages care in looking. McKenzie Fine Art Inc., 511 West 25th Street, Chelsea, (212) 989-5467, closes Wednesday. (Smith)

Jeff Perrone Mr. Perrone was a charter member of Pattern and Decoration, the 1970s movement that officially turned craft into art and elevated visual extravagance to a high place. Compared to the ornamental painting and fabric pieces he is best known for, though, the work in this show is Minimalist plain: 46 small earthenware plaques hung edge-to-edge in a row, each painted flat turquoise blue with modest yellow border designs and hand-printed texts, manyof them bitingly topical. Silo, 1 Freeman Alley, off Rivington Street, Lower East Side, (212) 505-9156, closes tomorrow. (Cotter)

* 'Political Cartoons from Nigeria' Most of the drawn and painted images in this show are single-panel lampoons of past and present social inequity and governmental corruption in Nigeria. Nearly all are by Ghariokwu Lemi, who is famous for having painted 26 superb, incident-filled album covers for the Afrobeat idol and political rebel Fela Kuti. For the occasion, Mr. Ghariokwu also introduces two of his younger colleagues, Comfort Jacobs and Lordwealth Ololade, to New York. Without resembling him in style, they follow his sharp commentarial lead. Southfirst, 60 North Sixth Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 599-4884, closes Sunday. (Cotter)

GRAPHIC: Photos: DANCE -- Les Ballets Trockadero de Monte Carlo, left, perform at the Joyce Theater next week. Page 37. (Photo by Sasha Vaughn)
POP -- Rihanna, below left, is among the stars on the roster at Z100's Jingle Ball concert tonight at Madison Square Garden. Page 36. (Photo by MJ Kim/Getty Images)
 ART -- ''Woman on Porch'' (1958), by Richard Diebenkorn, is one of the works from the New Orleans Museum of Art on display as part of a benefit at Wildenstein. Page 37. (Photo by New Orleans Museum of Art)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER REVIEWS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); BALLET (74%); THEATER (58%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); LOUISIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2006



331 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; NYC; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: We're Glad You Love Us; Don't Overdo It

BYLINE: By CLYDE HABERMAN. 
E-mail: haberman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Unfortunately, the T-shirt that came closest to what we wanted was hopelessly obscene. We dropped in on a dozen souvenir shops, and not one carried a shirt that we had seen some years ago. It summed up our sentiments in this season when Midtown streets are so crowded that you can barely move.
 ''Welcome to New York,'' it said. ''Now go home.'' 
Really, is it asking too much to have our city back?
 Oh, sure, this is not a new lament. And yes, out-of-towners pump economic juice into a city that produces precious little these days other than Goldman Sachs bankers and traders with year-end bonuses that amount to double the gross domestic product of Tajikistan. We know how much New York needs tourists.
 NYC & Company, the city's tourism marketer, estimates that the number of visitors this year will exceed 44 million, including more than 7 million foreigners. That would be a 20-percent increase from 2002, the jittery first post-9/11 year.
 Visitors, bless their open wallets, are spending more than ever, thanks perhaps to the incredible shrinking dollar vis-a-vis the euro and British pound. They shelled out $22.8 billion last year, or 62 percent more than in 2002, NYC & Company says.
 Thank you, visitors.
 But now can't you go home, some of you anyway?
 It shouldn't take a reasonably fit fellow 10 minutes to walk from 50th Street to 45th Street in the theater district. But the crowds were so impenetrably thick on a recent Saturday at matinee time that the best one could do was shuffle along in frustration.
 Is it fair to be forced, in one's own city, to walk in the gutter because the crush on the sidewalk is too great? Must New Yorkers repeatedly endure the annoyance of not getting to an appointment on time because the tourists in front of them insist on walking -- no, make that ambling -- five abreast?
 The mayor delivered a fine speech this week about the challenges awaiting a city whose population over the next 25 years is expected to grow by about a million, to more than nine million overall. Among other things, he said, mass transit must expand so that ''congestion doesn't bring our economy grinding to a halt.''
 He was talking about the year 2030. Never mind that. Those of us who live and work here are grinding to a halt on the streets right now. And the city's marketers are not content with 44 million visitors. They want to beef up the number to 50 million within a few years.
 Gutter, here we come.
 In fairness, most visitors seem like perfectly nice people, even if they sometimes do odd things. This goes beyond their non-New York tendency to stand dutifully at the corner waiting for the light to change.
 They also -- a startlingly large number of them -- stand in long lines to get into Broadway shows for which they already have assigned seats. This phenomenon is conspicuous at tourist-dependent shows like ''The Phantom of the Opera,'' ''Tarzan'' and ''Les Miserables.'' Tickets in hand, the out-of-towners start forming tidy lines 45 minutes or more before the curtain goes up, as if they were at a movie theater with its policy of first come first served.
 It is a baffling phenomenon.
 ''We saw others doing it, and we just joined them,'' a middle-aged woman said as she waited with her teenage daughter outside the Broadhurst Theater to see ''Les Miz.'' The daughter added, ''It's part of the experience, I guess.''
 I GUESS. No New Yorker would think so, though. Philip S. Birsh, the president and publisher of Playbill, chalked it up to these visitors' being ''a Disney World crew.'' And ''if you're a Disney World person,'' he said, ''you're in some way trained to stand on line.''
 At least there is no harm in being sheepishly sheeplike. The same cannot be said of another type of visitor: young Europeans who come here for the sole purpose of spraying billowing clouds of graffiti on New York subway cars. ''Guten-taggers,'' The Daily News cleverly labeled them this week. 
 How serious is the problem? It's not clear. New York City Transit says that defiled trains never make it out of the yards, so they are not an eyesore for the riding public.
 Still, have we reached the point where we are outsourcing our graffiti?
 Too bad we couldn't find that T-shirt. It would have been nice to tell the Guten-taggers: Willkommen in New York. Jetzt verschwinden Sie wieder nach Hause.
 In other words, welcome to New York -- now go home. For that matter, you graffiti vandals can forget about the Willkommen.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); TOURISM (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (70%) Travel and Vacations; T-Shirts (Apparel)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: Clyde Haberman

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); TAJIKISTAN (79%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2006



332 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: Council Considers 3 Bills On Developers' Tax Breaks

BYLINE: By JANNY SCOTT

 BODY:
An arcane section of the property tax code turned into a cause celebre this week -- the focus of three competing bills in the City Council and political maneuverings round the clock, all followed in some circles with the kind of rapt attention more commonly inspired by cable television coverage of missing blondes.
 The issue on the table is the city's most popular tax break for housing developers, known as 421-a, a program widely agreed to be in need of reform. 
The three bills aim to make the tax break a more potent incentive for developers to build housing for working-class New Yorkers before they can no longer afford to live in the city at all. The issue has become entangled with fears about gentrification and displacement. 
 Housing advocates say 421-a has subsidized luxury housing; city officials counter that 80 percent of the apartments built under 421-a outside Manhattan in recent years have been affordable to low- and moderate-income New Yorkers.
 ''Rarely have people mounted the barricades or stormed the Bastille over an obscure part of the tax code,'' said Jonathan Rosen, a spokesman for Housing Here and Now, a coalition that has campaigned for a change in the law, in part by framing it as a fight against gentrification.
 With the Council expected to vote on the issue next Wednesday, the speaker, Christine C. Quinn, has spent much of the week negotiating with members, hoping to muster a substantial majority behind her bill -- a compromise between a Bloomberg administration bill and another backed by about 20 of the 51 council members.
 More than half the Council supports Ms. Quinn's bill. She said that she expected to have ''a vast majority'' by the time of the vote. In response to pressure from council members, she modified her bill this week, tightening the definition of ''affordable'' to ensure that more units go to low-income people and making it clearer that neighborhood residents would receive some preference in new developments over outsiders. 
 The Council does not have the last word on 421-a, however. The program is part of the state's property tax code, so the State Legislature must decide whether to renew it next year.
 The Council's vote is expected to carry weight with the Legislature, especially if the Council and the administration appear to be united.
 But the chairman of the Assembly Housing Committee, Vito J. Lopez, who is also the Brooklyn Democratic chairman, said the speaker's bill is inadequate. He said that he wanted more radical changes, along the lines of those proposed in the bill introduced by Councilwoman Annabel Palma of the Bronx; that measure has the backing of 20 members. 
 ''I would assume that the bill that passes is going to be the Christine Quinn bill,'' Assemblyman Lopez said. ''That improves on the mayor's bill, and the mayor's bill improved on the law. I believe it does not go far enough. The definition of 'affordable' housing in many communities is not affordable.''
 There is a deep disagreement over how best to change the 421-a program. While housing advocates and community-based groups say that they want the sweeping changes proposed in Ms. Palma's bill, administration officials and developers say some of those changes could backfire and unintentionally discourage moderately priced development in certain areas.
 Under the current program, started in the 1970s to spur housing development of all sorts, developers of new buildings can get a 10-to-15-year exemption from the increase in taxes that results from their work. Only in areas with the hottest real estate markets -- known as the exclusion zone -- are they required in return to make 20 percent of the units affordable to lower-income people.
 Ms. Palma's bill would require developers in the entire city to make 30 percent of their units lower-priced if they want the tax break. The speaker's bill, which the Bloomberg administration supports, would expand the current exclusion zone to incorporate Lower Manhattan, parts of Upper Manhattan and many parts of northwestern Brooklyn. Twenty percent of the units would have to be low-priced.
 Ms. Quinn's bill would create a commission that would reconsider the exclusion zone boundaries every two years in light of economic conditions. In many poorer neighborhoods, where developers now get a 25-year tax break, they, too, would have to make 20 percent of units low priced if they wanted that maximum 25-year break.
 To avoid oversubsidizing luxury apartments, there would be no increase in the tax break after the first $65,000 of assessed valuation, roughly equivalent to a $650,000 condominium. And the current system under which affordable-housing developers can raise equity by selling their tax benefits to market-rate developers would be replaced by a $400 million fund to be used for low-income housing development.
 Housing advocates and Ms. Palma want a $1 billion fund. They would also set the income guidelines for ''affordability'' lower than they are now; lower-priced units would have to be affordable to households making no more than 50 percent of area median income, or roughly $37,000 for a family of four, instead of the current 80 percent.
 Shaun Donovan, commissioner of the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development, whom council members questioned for five hours in two days of hearings this week, warned that excessive changes in the income guidelines, the percentage of lower-cost units and the exclusion-area boundaries could change the economics of development in some neighborhoods. That, he said, would make it harder, not easier, to build moderate-income units.
 ''To do something that would actually hurt the production of affordable housing would be, to us, the greatest mistake that would come out of this process,'' Mr. Donovan said in an interview.


CORRECTION-DATE: December 16, 2006

 CORRECTION:
A map with an article yesterday about bills in the New York City Council that would overhaul a tax break for housing developers omitted areas in Brooklyn that under one bill, introduced by Speaker Christine C. Quinn, would be part of a zone in which developers must include some lower-cost housing to get the tax break. A corrected version is at nytimes.com/region.

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: ''Tax Break Pockets''The City Council is set to vote next Wednesday on a bill introduced by Speaker Christine C. Quinn that would, among other things, expand the exclusion zone, areas of the city where developers must include some affordable housing in their projects if they want to receive a tax break.Map of Manhattan, Queens and Brooklyn highlighting current exclusion zone and area proposed by Ms. Quinn, as of Dec. 5.(Source by New York City Department of Housing Preservation and Development)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX LAW (93%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); POOR POPULATION (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (67%) Housing; Law and Legislation; Property Taxes; Law and Legislation ; Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions; Taxation; Housing

PERSON: Janny Scott; Christine C (Speaker) Quinn

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) New York City; New York City; New York State

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2006



333 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: Catskill Casino One Step Closer To Being Reality

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
After more than 10 years of delays, tribal recriminations and opposition from Atlantic City gambling interests, the effort to build a Las Vegas-style casino in the Catskills took a major step forward yesterday.
 The Interior Department approved an environmental review of the St. Regis Mohawk Indian tribe's $600 million project. Proponents say the casino will bring thousands of jobs and tens of millions of dollars in revenue to a once thriving resort area known as the Borscht Belt.
 James E. Cason, the associate deputy secretary for Indian affairs at the Interior Department, said yesterday that he was notifying the Mohawks, whose reservation straddles the Canadian border, that the agency determined that the proposed casino on 30 acres next to the racetrack outside Monticello in Sullivan County would not have a significant environmental impact. 
 The longtime harness racing track, owned by Empire Resorts, which would build the new casino, is currently the site of Monticello Gaming and Raceway. It now features more than 1,500 electronic gambling machines, including video poker, where patrons can wager from pennies to $10. A similar setup with the electronic machines is in place just north of New York City at Yonkers Raceway, which is about 85 miles southeast of Monticello.
 ''It's a step in what's been a long process for Monticello,'' Mr. Cason said of the casino, which would include table games like blackjack, roulette, craps and the more traditional slot machines as well as the current electronic ones. 
 Mr. Cason, who said ''there is not an environmental impediment'' to the new casino in Monticello, added that he was sending a notice to Gov. George E. Pataki, who has long supported Indian casinos in the Catskills, asking him to concur. 
 As recently as May 25, Mr. Pataki urged the Interior Department to expedite its review of the Mohawk casino, which he ''strongly supports.'' A spokesman for the governor said yesterday that Mr. Pataki, who leaves office in two weeks, had not yet received the notification.
 The federal determination formally revives a project that first received approval in April 2000, when the Interior Department ruled that a casino at the racetrack would be a boon to both the tribe and the surrounding communities. 
 ''This is great news for the Mohawk people, as well as the people of Sullivan County who have been waiting for this project to become a reality for well over 10 years now,'' Chief Lorraine M. White of the Mohawks said yesterday.
 The next step in that reality is for the Mohawks and New York State to amend a gambling compact and revenue-sharing agreement before construction can begin. The tribe may also have to fend off a lawsuit by environmentalists. 
 While Mr. Pataki, a Republican, is expected to send a concurrence letter before he leaves office, the compact negotiations would presumably fall to the incoming governor, Eliot Spitzer, a Democrat, who has generally said he supports tribal casinos in the Catskills.
 Chief White said the tribe had already agreed to provide the state with up to 25 percent of the slot machine revenues and to collect sales taxes for the state. The Mohawks also agreed to provide Sullivan County and Monticello with $20 million a year.
 The political climate nationally has turned against what are known as off-reservation casinos, with Senator John McCain, a Republican from Arizona, leading an effort to curtail or even eliminate them. If the Monticello casino is built, it will be the fourth such casino established since the National Indian Gaming Regulatory Act was passed in 1988.
 The Mohawk casino ''may actually be the last off-reservation casino,'' said Prof. I. Nelson Rose of Whittier Law School in California, an expert on Indian gambling.
 There are currently four tribal casinos on reservations in New York. But for casino operators and the tribes, the prize has always been the Catskills, which is closer to New York City than either Atlantic City gambling or the two Indian casinos in Connecticut. 
 Empire Resorts says the casino in Monticello would attract 6.1 million visitors annually. Analysts estimate that it could take a 15 percent bite out of Atlantic City gambling revenues. ''It's exciting to get going,'' said David P. Hanlon, the chairman of Empire.
 Under federal law, Empire can transfer 30 acres to the tribe for a casino project. Empire would build and operate the casino under a contract with the Mohawks. 
 News of the latest move by the Interior Department was greeted with delight and relief by tribal chiefs on the Akwesasne Reservation and, 400 miles south, by officials in Sullivan County.
 ''This is great news,'' said Anthony P. Cellini, supervisor of the Town of Thompson, which includes the village of Monticello. ''It's about time. This will have a major economic impact on the county. I think you'll see an economic development explosion.'' 
 There has been a burst of second-home construction in Sullivan County. But many of the hotels and bungalow colonies that were in the county in the 1940s and '50s are gone. And along Broadway, the once bustling main road in Monticello, there are mostly vacant parking spaces and empty storefronts.
 Not everyone is thrilled. The Natural Resources Defense Council has said that the federal government failed to adequately assess the casino's environmental impacts. Rosa Lee, treasurer of Casino-Free Sullivan County, said that a casino would generate road-clogging traffic, pollution and crime, ruining the bucolic environment that now exists.
 ''The paybacks the casinos are offering don't begin to touch the impacts from the casino,'' she said.
 But elected officials like Senator Charles E. Schumer, Representative Maurice D. Hinchey, State Senator John J. Bonacic and Sullivan County legislators support the Mohawk plan. 
 If the project goes forward, it will be a victory for Empire Resorts and Robert Berman, a local resident who in 1994 conceived the idea. Mr. Berman suffered innumerable setbacks over the years, including a falling-out with the Mohawks in 2000, but always kept at it.
 ''After 12 long years, the federal approvals have been secured by Governor Pataki,'' Mr. Berman said. ''Now it's at the state's sole discretion whether thousands of jobs can be created and the Catskills can be revitalized.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Monticello Gaming and Raceway currently offers electronic gambling machines. A new Las Vegas-style casino would include table games like blackjack and roulette. (Photo by Phil Mansfield for The New York Times)(pg. B1)Map of New York State highlighting site of racetrack: Gambling executives have longed to open a casino in the Catskills. (pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (93%); RESORTS (90%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (90%); GAMING (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); CARD GAMES (78%); POKER (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); APPROVALS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT (77%); SPORTS REVENUES (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%) Gambling; Casinos; Indians, American

ORGANIZATION: Interior Department; Empire Resorts Inc; St Regis Mowhawk Indian Tribe

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (50%) Charles V Bagli

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (57%) New York State; Catskills (NYS Area); Monticello (NY)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2006



334 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: U.S. IS DROPPING EFFORT TO TRACK IF VISITORS LEAVE

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS and ERIC LIPTON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 14 

 BODY:
In a major blow to the Bush administration's efforts to secure borders, domestic security officials have for now given up on plans to develop a facial or fingerprint recognition system to determine whether a vast majority of foreign visitors leave the country, officials say.
 Domestic security officials had described the system, known as U.S. Visit, as critical to security and important in efforts to curb illegal immigration. Similarly, one-third of the overall total of illegal immigrants are believed to have overstayed their visas, a Congressional report says. 
Tracking visitors took on particular urgency after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, when it became clear that some of the hijackers had remained in the country after their visas had expired.
 But in recent days, officials at the Homeland Security Department have conceded that they lack the financing and technology to meet their deadline to have exit-monitoring systems at the 50 busiest land border crossings by next December. A vast majority of foreign visitors enter and exit by land from Mexico and Canada, and the policy shift means that officials will remain unable to track the departures.
 A report released on Thursday by the Government Accountability Office, the nonpartisan investigative arm of Congress, restated those findings, reporting that the administration believes that it will take 5 to 10 years to develop technology that might allow for a cost-effective departure system. 
 Domestic security officials, who have allocated $1.7 billion since the 2003 fiscal year to track arrivals and departures, argue that creating the program with the existing technology would be prohibitively expensive.
 They say it would require additional employees, new buildings and roads at border crossings, and would probably hamper the vital flow of commerce across those borders.
 Congress ordered the creation of such a system in 1996.
 In an interview last week, the assistant secretary for homeland security policy, Stewart A. Baker, estimated that an exit system at the land borders would cost ''tens of billions of dollars'' and said the department had concluded that such a program was not feasible, at least for the time being.
 ''It is a pretty daunting set of costs, both for the U.S. government and the economy,'' Mr. Stewart said. ''Congress has said, 'We want you to do it.' We are not going to ignore what Congress has said. But the costs here are daunting.
 ''There are a lot of good ideas and things that would make the country safer. But when you have to sit down and compare all the good ideas people have developed against each other, with a limited budget, you have to make choices that are much harder.''
 The news sent alarms to Congress, where some Republicans and Democrats warned that suspending the monitoring plan would leave the United States vulnerable.
 Representative Dana Rohrabacher, a California Republican who is a departing subcommittee chairman on the House International Relations Committee, said the administration could not say it was protecting domestic security without creating a viable exit monitoring system.
 ''There will not be border security in this country until we have a knowledge of both entry and exit,'' Mr. Rohrabacher said. ''We have to make a choice. Do we want to act and control our borders or do we want to have tens of millions of illegals continuing to pour into our country?''
 Representative Bennie Thompson, the Mississippi Democrat who is set to lead the Homeland Security Committee, also expressed concern. 
 ''It is imperative that Congress work in partnership with the department to develop a comprehensive border security system that ensures we know who is entering and exiting this country and one that cannot be defeated by imposters, criminals and terrorists,'' Mr. Thompson said in a statement Thursday. 
 In January 2004, domestic security officials began fingerprint scanning for arriving visitors. The program has screened more than 64 million travelers and prevented more than 1,300 criminals and immigration violators from entering, officials said. 
 Homeland Security Secretary Michael Chertoff and other officials often call the program a singular achievement in making the country safer. U.S. Visit fingerprints and photographs 2 percent of the people entering the country, because Americans and most Canadians and Mexicans are exempt.
 Efforts to determine whether visitors actually leave have faltered. Departure monitoring would help officials hunt for foreigners who have not left, if necessary. Domestic security officials say, however, it would be too expensive to conduct fingerprint or facial recognition scans for land departures. Officials have experimented with less costly technologies, including a system that would monitor by radio data embedded in a travel form carried by foreigners as they depart by foot or in vehicles. 
 Tests of that technology, Radio Frequency Identification, found a high failure rate. At one border point, the system correctly identified 14 percent of the 166 vehicles carrying the embedded documents, the General Accountability Office reported. 
 The Congressional investigators noted the ''numerous performance and reliability problems'' with the technology and said it remained unclear how domestic security officials would be able to meet their legal obligation to create an exit program.
 Some immigration analysts said stepping away from the program raised questions again about the commitment to enforce border security and immigration laws.
 A senior policy analyst at the Center for Immigration Studies, Jessica Vaughn, said the government had long been too deferential to big businesses and travel groups that raised concerns that exit technology might disrupt travel and trade.
 ''I worry that the issue of cost is an excuse for not doing anything,'' said Ms. Vaughn, whose group advocates curbing immigration. Domestic security officials said they still hoped to find a way to create an exit system at land borders. ''We would to do more testing,'' a spokesman for the department, Jarrod Agen, said. ''We are evaluating the initial tests to determine how to move forward.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); BORDER CONTROL (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); REFUGEES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); BIOMETRICS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (77%); PATTERN RECOGNITION (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); BUDGETS (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); HIJACKING (70%); INTERVIEWS (67%) Terrorism; Fingerprinting; Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Immigrants; Security and Warning Systems; Terrorism

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (83%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (55%) Homeland Security Department

PERSON: DANA ROHRABACHER (58%) Rachel L Swarns; Eric Lipton; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2006



335 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: Expert Panel Proposes Far-Reaching Redesign of the American Education System 

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

 BODY:
Warning that Americans face a grave risk of losing their prosperity and high quality of life to better educated workers overseas, a panel of education, labor and other public policy experts yesterday proposed a far-reaching redesign of the United States education system that would include having schools operated by independent contractors and giving states, rather than local districts, control over school financing.
 The panel, the New Commission on the Skills of the American Workforce, included two former federal education secretaries, Rod Paige, a Republican, and Richard W. Riley, a Democrat; two former labor secretaries, William E. Brock, a Republican, and Ray Marshall, a Democrat; and an array of other luminaries, including former Gov. John Engler of Michigan, and the New York City schools chancellor, Joel I. Klein. 
The commission's report, released at a news conference in Washington, rethinks American schooling from top to bottom, going beyond the achievement goals of the federal education law known as No Child Left Behind, and farther than many initiatives being pursued by the Bush administration or by experimental state and local school authorities. Among other things, the report proposes starting school for most children at age 3, and requiring all students to pass board exams to graduate from high school, which for many would end after 10th grade. Students could then go to a community or technical college, or spend two years preparing for selective colleges and universities.
 ''We have run out the string on a whole series of initiatives that were viewed as hopeful,'' said Lewis H. Spence, commissioner of the Massachusetts Department of Social Services and a member of the panel. ''This puts a whole new set of ideas on the table.''
 Mr. Spence, a former deputy schools chancellor in New York City, and other commission members acknowledged that enacting the proposals would be difficult, requiring legislation in all states and the cooperation of the federal government. Some, like one for merit pay for teachers, would require renegotiating teacher contracts nationwide and persuading local school boards to relinquish authority and take a new role enforcing performance contracts with schools.
 ''You can't implement something like this overnight,'' said Mr. Klein, who had been scheduled to appear at yesterday's news conference with Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York, but whose flights were grounded by thick fog in Washington. Mr. Klein strongly applauded the commission's proposals, and pointed to many efforts in New York -- including sharp increases in teacher pay, a new master-teacher career step; increased roles for private groups in running public schools and performance agreements signed by 331 principals in exchange for greater freedom from superintendents -- as examples of how some of the commission's goals could begin to be accomplished. ''We need to think big,'' he said.
 The commission's work was quickly hailed by some as a potentially groundbreaking document. ''This report has the potential to change the debate on education at the national level,'' said Jack Jennings, the president of the Center on Education Policy, who is a Democrat and prominent expert on the federal education law. 
 The national teachers' unions were apprehensive. Antonia Cortese, executive vice president of the American Federation of Teachers, said the proposals included ''some seriously flawed ideas with faddish allure that won't produce better academic results.'' Reg Weaver, the president of the National Education Association, urged ''caution in calling for drastic changes.''
 The commission was organized by the National Center on Education and the Economy, a nonprofit, nonpartisan group based in Washington, and partly financed by the Bill and Melinda Gates foundation. The center organized a similar commission that issued a similar report 16 years ago. Marc S. Tucker, the group's president, said globalization had created new urgency. ''There is this growing mismatch between the demands of the economy and what our schools are supplying,'' Mr. Tucker said.
 In its report, the commission warned of dire consequences should the country not adopt a strikingly bold approach. ''If we continue on our current course, and the number of nations outpacing us in the education race continues to grow at its current rate,'' it said, ''the American standard of living will steadily fall relative to those nations, rich and poor, that are doing a better job.''
 ''If the gap gets to a certain but unknowable point,'' the report said, ''the world's investors will conclude that they can get a greater return on their funds elsewhere, and it will be almost impossible to reverse course.''
 Paul Romer, an economist at Stanford University, said that some of the fears about competition with India and China might be overblown but that the education system still needed improvement. He said the current effort was driven by improvements in technology, much as advances in the early 20th century led to universal high school. 
 ''High productivity investments in education are one of the most universally supported and effective policies that governments have ever undertaken,'' Mr. Romer said. ''The left and the right are both on board for high payoffs in education.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATION LAW (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (85%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (78%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); MERIT PAY (78%); CHILDREN (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (73%); EDUCATION FUNDING (73%) Education and Schools; States (US); Labor; Education and Schools

ORGANIZATION: Commission on the Skills of the American Workforce

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (55%) David M Herszenhorn; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2006



336 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: TODAY IN BUSINESS

 BODY:

INQUIRIES AT INTERIOR DEPT. The Justice Department has begun two criminal inquiries into the Interior Department's Minerals Management Service, which is already the focus of inquiries into its collection of royalties for oil and gas produced on federal property. [Page C1.] 


'LEANER, THINNER CITIGROUP' Charles O. Prince III, Citigroup's chairman and chief executive, promised analysts and investors a ''leaner, thinner Citigroup.'' A major part of that plan, Mr. Prince, above, said, will be the bank's new chief operating officer, Robert Druskin, who has a reputation as a cost-cutter. [C1.]

OPEC TO REDUCE OUTPUT The OPEC oil cartel said that it planned to reduce its output by nearly 2 percent in February, the group's second production cut in two months and the strongest indication yet that it would seek to keep oil prices above $60 a barrel next year. [C1.]

EFFORT TO REDEVELOP SLUMS An unusual government program in Mumbai, India, encourages investors to raze entire slums and use part of the land to build rent-free tenement houses. In return, investors can build lucrative towers on the rest of the property. [C8.]

AN INVITATION TO TRY AGAIN Wal-Mart Stores, after stunning Madison Avenue by tossing out the results of a lengthy search for new advertising agencies, asked four of the five finalists to take another shot at the $580 million assignment. One declined. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [C6.]

DOW CLOSES ABOVE 12,400 Wall Street resumed its fourth-quarter rally, pushing the Dow Jones industrial average to its first close above 12,400, after a series of strong company earnings and a drop in unemployment claims revived investors' confidence in the economy. [C10.]

CLAIM OF GASOLINE OVERCHARGES Seventeen oil companies and gasoline service stations were named in a class-action lawsuit contending that they overcharge customers at the pump by failing to compensate for changes in gasoline volumes when temperatures rise. [C10.]

DEAL FOR GERMAN BROADCASTER Two private equity firms, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and Permira, agreed in principle to buy the largest private German TV broadcaster, ProSiebenSat.1, in a transaction worth about $7.6 billion. [C3.]

DIFFERING VISIONS IN BEIJING Senior cabinet officials from China and the United States, opening an unusual two-day dialogue in Beijing, promoted clashing visions of how quickly China should move to modernize its economic policies. [C3.]

RECORD EARNINGS ON WALL STREET Lehman Brothers Holdings and the Bear Stearns Companies, the Wall Street companies most dependent on the fixed-income market, posted record fourth-quarter earnings, helped by corporate bonds and derivatives. [C3.]

A RISE IN IMPORT PRICES Prices of goods imported into the United States rose last month for the first time in three months because of a jump in the cost of natural gas purchases. [C3.]

EMI DEAL FALLS THROUGH The EMI Group, the British music company, confirmed what some analysts and investors had been speculating for several days -- a hoped-for takeover by a private equity investor was dead in the water. [C5.]

ROUGH YEAR ISN'T OVER Chrysler's chief executive, Thomas W. LaSorda, is racing to put together another turnaround plan for the automaker. It has been a difficult year for Chrysler, which has lost its No. 3 spot in the American market to Toyota and is compiling losses that are expected to top $1.2 billion. [C1.]

TIMES CO. NAMES FINANCE CHIEF The New York Times Company named James M. Follo, the former chief financial officer of Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia, as its chief financial officer. [C5.]

RECORDING MAGNATE DIES Ahmet Ertegun, the record-company magnate who founded Atlantic Records and shaped the careers of many of the top musicians of his day, including John Coltrane, Ray Charles, the Rolling Stones and Led Zeppelin, died in Manhattan. He was 83. [C13.]

CATSKILLS CASINO ADVANCES After more than 10 years of delays, tribal recriminations and opposition from Atlantic City gambling interests, the effort to build a Las Vegas-style casino in the Catskills in New York State took a major step forward. [B1.]

ONLINE

FLOODING IN EAST AFRICA Jeffrey Gettleman reports from Somalia that the floods there are yet another installment of a nation in crisis. An audio report is at nytimes.com/multimedia.

A NOTORIOUS SYMBOL Gen. Augusto Pinochet Ugarte, who seized power of Chile on Sept. 11, 1973, in a bloody military coup, died on Sunday. A photo slide show of his life is at nytimes.com/multimedia.

TRAVEL MINUTE Joe Sharkey's Business Travel Minute, can be found at nytimes.com/video.

ADVERTISING NEWSLETTER
Readers can sign up for Stuart Elliott's weekly In Advertising newsletter at nytimes.com/email.

GRAPHIC: PhotoGraph tracks the daily closing price of DaimlerChrysler shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CARTELS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); ROYALTIES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (88%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (85%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MINERAL ROYALTIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); GAS STATIONS (78%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); RECORD INDUSTRY (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); OIL & GAS ROYALTIES (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (76%); BONDS (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); PRIVATE EQUITY (76%); IMPORT PRICES (75%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); LITIGATION (73%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); SLUM DWELLINGS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (72%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (72%); CORPORATE BONDS (71%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (70%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); RECORD REVENUES (68%); STOCK INDEXES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (67%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (65%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (64%); CLASS ACTIONS (63%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); EMI GROUP LTD (81%); KKR & CO LP (63%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (61%); WAL-MART STORES INC (55%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: MINERALS MANAGEMENT SERVICE (84%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (83%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); KKR (NYSE) (63%); WMT (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (81%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (81%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (63%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (61%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (61%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (55%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (66%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (66%) CHINA (94%); INDIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2006



337 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Street Scene; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: After the Summit, A Different Path 

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED

 BODY:
Only a few weeks after leaving his job on Wall Street in the spring of 2004, Lawrence Schloss found himself dealing with dirty running water and eight-hour walks across glaciers that at times threatened to collapse.
 For three weeks, Mr. Schloss, formerly the global head of Credit Suisse's private equity business, was simply Larry from New York, traversing paths along Mount Everest with a group of nine other tourists and their guides.
''It was incredibly calming,'' Mr. Schloss, 52, said in an interview this week at his office, as he pointed out in photos and on maps exactly where he and his group had been. 
 When he returned, members of his former team at Credit Suisse called him and asked what he was up to. By the fall, they had set up their own fledgling buyout shop, Diamond Castle Holdings, to focus on leveraged buyouts and recapitalizations in the media, health care, financial services, power and industrial sectors. 
 Yesterday, Diamond Castle announced that it had closed on raising $1.825 billion for its first fund, Diamond Castle Partners IV. The firm has already committed $675 million, or about 40 percent, of the fund to buying six companies.
 The Diamond Castle fund is dwarfed by the $32 billion that Mr. Schloss oversaw in his old job heading CSFB Private Equity, one of the premier buyout operations at the time. But he is confident that he and his team can compete with the behemoths.
 The confidence extends even to the name of their fund. While it is their first fund, he and his partners -- Ari J. Benacerraf, Michael W. Ranger, Andrew H. Rush and David M. Wittels -- began at IV because, given their combined experience, they felt that they should not have to start at I. 
 Their confidence seems to be shared by the firm's investors, many of them clients from their Credit Suisse days. Mr. Schloss said having 40 percent of Diamond Castle Partners IV already invested by the closing date was highly unusual for a first fund. About 75 percent of the fund's investors had previously invested with the Diamond Castle team, first at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette and later at Credit Suisse.
 ''Larry's incredibly bright, incredibly honest and he knows how to make money,'' said Mark D. Wiseman, senior vice president for private investments at the Canada Pension Plan's investment board, which is an investor in the Diamond Castle fund. ''He's kind of like the Jack Welch of private equity,'' referring to the former chief executive of General Electric.
 This has been an extraordinary year for buyout firms. Private equity deal volume has grown to $375.6 billion in 1,130 transactions, accounting for a record 26.8 percent of all transactions in the United States, according to Thomson Financial. Seven of the 10 largest buyouts on record were announced this year. 
 And the big investment banks have embraced the trend. Merrill Lynch was a principal in the buyout of the hospital chain HCA for about $33 billion, and Goldman Sachs's private equity unit has invested in scores of buyouts this year.
 Mr. Schloss has been in the game for a long time. He first arrived at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette in 1978 as an investment banker, and he soon made a name for himself by helping found the investment bank's private equity shop. By the time he left Credit Suisse, which had acquired Donaldson, Lufkin in 2000, he had overseen transactions of more than $100 billion.
 He attributed his success to a genuine interest in the private equity business, a quality noticeable in a 15-minute discourse on connecting the dots and figuring out the angles in a theoretical acquisition of a maker of paper napkins. The process of identifying companies, negotiating the terms to buy them and helping their management improve the business never gets old, he said. 
 ''There's always something to think about,'' Mr. Schloss said. ''It's a gas.''
 Moreover, it is clear that Mr. Schloss believes in the superiority of private equity over public ownership. 
 Blaming what he calls ''the myopia of quarterly earnings,'' he is troubled by the sometimes volatile nature of the stock market, where missing analyst earnings expectations by a penny can crater a company's stock in hours.
 But now it appears that too many others agree and have leaped into private equity, and Mr. Schloss said he was under no illusions about the hurdles his team faces in building Diamond Castle: getting known, obtaining additional capital. But he has learned to stick to his strengths and avoid his weaknesses. No one will see Diamond Castle investing in a restaurant chain, for example.
 And although the transition from the summit of private equity to starting from the bottom was rocky early on -- his team had to deal with new business issues like finding furniture and deciding on a name for their company -- Mr. Schloss said he enjoyed the challenge of helping build a firm from the ground up. 
 It will take time to hire more team members and to attract more investors to Diamond Castle, but the smaller focus of the deals presents an opportunity to fly below the radar and to spend more time with companies he feels can grow and succeed, he said.
 ''I had been to the summit, and I wanted to try something different,'' he said.
 While the private equity business will eventually slow, no crash seems imminent, Mr. Schloss said, pointing to a strong economy, vast amounts of liquidity and relatively low, stable interest rates.
 ''Make no mistake, this is a golden time for private equity,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Before 2000, Lawrence Schloss oversaw deals worth more than $100 billion. But the current pace of deals, he said, makes now ''a golden time for private equity.'' (Photo by Michael Falco for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PENSION FUNDS (72%); MOUNTAINS (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (68%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (67%) 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (84%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (60%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (52%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Diamond Castle Holdings; Credit Suisse

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (84%); CS (NYSE) (84%); GNE (PAR) (50%); GEC (LSE) (50%); GE (SWX) (50%); GE (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: JACK WELCH (56%) Lawrence Schloss; Michael J De La Merced

GEOGRAPHIC: HIMALAYAS (92%); MOUNT EVEREST (92%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2006



338 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: Rich Earnings on Wall Street Help to Lift Shares Broadly 

BYLINE: By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Stocks rose broadly yesterday, bouncing off several listless days of range-bound trading, after a series of strong company earnings and a drop in unemployment claims revived investors' confidence.
 The market, which had stalled on interest rate and economic concerns, was reinvigorated by robust quarterly profit reports from Bear Stearns, Lehman Brothers and Costco Wholesale, as well as healthy outlooks from Citigroup and Honeywell International.
The Labor Department reported that the number of Americans filing for unemployment benefits dropped for a second week, suggesting that the economy would not cool as quickly as some investors feared. 
 ''As far as I can tell, consumers keep spending as long as unemployment is low,'' said Ed Peters, chief investment officer at PanAgora Asset Management.
 Airline stocks were pummeled by rising oil prices after the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries said it would reduce production in February. Over all, though, the market seemed unfazed by the possibility of higher fuel prices' dampening consumer spending and increasing companies' costs.
 In trading yesterday, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 99.26 points, or 0.81 percent, to 12,416.76, another record close. The blue-chip index of 30 stocks is up nearly 16 percent this year.
 Broader market gauges also rose. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 12.28 points, or 0.87 percent, to 1,425.49. The technology-focused Nasdaq composite index rose 21.44 points, or 0.88 percent, to 2,453.85. And the Russell 2000 index of smaller-capitalization companies was up 5.47 points, or 0.69 percent, closing at 794.22.
 Markets in Canada, Mexico and Brazil broke records. Leading Asian indexes rose sharply. 
 On the New York Stock Exchange, advancing issues outnumbered those declining by a margin of 7 to 4. Volume came to 1.57 billion shares, compared with 1.47 billion on Wednesday.
 Oil prices increased after OPEC's announcement. On the New York Mercantile Exchange, crude oil for January delivery settled $1.14 a barrel higher, at $62.51.
 The higher price buoyed the stocks of oil companies, pushing up Chevron $1.57, or 2.1 percent, to $75.97. ConocoPhillips gained $2.07, or 2.9 percent, to $73.07. Exxon Mobil closed up $1.37, or 1.77 percent, at $78.73.
 But Continental Airlines fell 42 cents, to $44.34; Southwest Airlines fell 19 cents, to $15.75; and UAL was down 69 cents, at $44.55.
 Technology companies got a boost from robust profits at Ciena and a forecast by Advanced Micro Devices of cost savings from its acquisition of ATI Technologies. Ciena, which makes equipment for fiber optic communications networks, rose $2.87, or 11.5 percent, to $27.83, and Advanced Micro was up $2.54, or 12.6 percent, at $22.71.
 Investors were also cheered by Costco, which said that its quarterly profit rose 10 percent. Its shares added 97 cents, to $54.11.
 Bear Stearns climbed $4.07, or 2.6 percent, to $159.96, on its strong financial results. Lehman Brothers slipped 29 cents, to $76.08. The firm did not produce record quarterly profits, as Bear Stearns did yesterday and Goldman Sachs on Tuesday.
 Citigroup advanced 79 cents, to $53.11, after its chief executive disclosed plans to improve profitability in 2007. The diversified manufacturer Honeywell rose 83 cents, or nearly 2 percent, to $42.69, after saying it expected double-digit earnings growth next year.
 On the bond market prices fell, with the 10-year Treasury note dropping 4/32, to 100 7/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.60 percent from 4.58 percent late Wednesday.


GRAPHIC: Graph tracks position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources by Associated Press
 Bloomberg Financial Markets)Tables: ''The Favorites'' lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Sources by The Associated Press, Bloomberg Financial Markets)Graph: ''Freddie Mac Yields'' tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since September. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source by F.H.L.M.C.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (88%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); MEASURING & CONTROL DEVICES MFG (76%); AIRLINES (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%); INTEREST RATES (57%); FIBER OPTICS (50%) 

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (83%); COSTCO WHOLESALE CORP (72%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (57%); PANAGORA ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (56%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (52%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (52%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (51%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (56%)

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (83%); COST (NASDAQ) (72%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); HON (NYSE) (57%); HON (LSE) (57%); UAL (NYSE) (56%); XOM (NYSE) (52%); AMD (NYSE) (51%); AMD (FRA) (51%); LUV (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (83%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (83%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (83%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (83%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (83%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (83%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (83%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (83%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (83%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (72%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (72%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (57%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (52%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2006



339 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; INSIDER; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: Barring the Hedge Fund Doors to Mere Millionaires 

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON

 BODY:
IN a year characterized by the undoing, redoing or modifying of regulations, hedge funds for a time looked as if they would end 2006 as the only major businesses more regulated than they had been before. 
 Until now.
On Wednesday, the Securities and Exchange Commission, under its chairman, Christopher Cox, embraced its investor protection mandate and redefined who is rich, severely limiting the number of people who can invest in hedge funds. 
 The impact of the rule, if passed, will be negligible for big funds that attract the majority of money and disastrous for small funds who depend on rich people, and even the moderately rich, to get a start. The rule will be significant for the S.E.C. because it finally gives it ammunition to fight Congressional demands to know what the agency is doing about all that money in hedge funds. 
 The commission started 2006 with a registration rule that forced most hedge funds to disclose the names and any criminal records of those running the funds and permitted the S.E.C. to do routine audits. 
 A federal appeals court tossed out registration, animating the hedge fund industry until Amaranth Advisors, a $9 billion fund, staged a disappearing act. 
 Soon afterward, the Connecticut attorney general and some high-ranking members of Congress took notice and serious regulation looked possible. That impulse appears to have been squelched by the November elections, which put Democrats in power, and by the rule. 
 Before the new rule, hedge funds could raise money from 100 so-called accredited investors, those with a net worth of $1 million (including the value of the investor's home) or two consecutive years of income of $200,000 (or $300,000 for a couple's combined income). They could also raise money from an unlimited number of qualified buyers, those with investable assets of $5 million. 
 Critics noted that the housing boom had made a lot of not-so-rich people accredited investors. So the S.E.C. proposed raising the standard to require investable assets of $2.5 million -- assets in stocks or bonds or real estate, as long as the real estate served only investment purposes. 
 The objective, staff members said, was to make sure that people investing in hedge funds had experience in the markets. In 1982, when the $1 million accredited investment standards were set, 1.87 percent of American households qualified. By 2006, 8.47 percent of American households could invest in hedge funds. With the new rule, only 1.3 percent of American households can join the party. 
 Lawyers representing small hedge funds, as well as hedge funds that started small, at $5 million to $10 million, and got large ($500 million to $1 billion) challenged the rule, protesting that the brunt of the impact would be borne by small funds. 
 ''There is no viable argument that would support the notion that an investor with $2.5 million in investable assets is better suited to determine the quality of a hedge fund investment than an investor with a net worth of $1 million,'' said Ron Geffner, a lawyer at Sadis & Goldberg who represents 400 hedge funds and funds of funds. 
 So why did the agency change the rule? 
 ''The S.E.C. and politicians have been on a witch hunt for hedge fund managers for making too much money, for violating the law and not adding value to the economy when in reality, that is the exception and not the rule,'' Mr. Geffner said. 
 The rule has flaws. For one, venture capital funds are exempted because they provide capital to start-up companies, raising the question of how a start-up company differs from a start-up investment manager. 
 ''It's demoralizing to employees to tell them they cannot invest with the people they work with and know best,'' said Paul Roth of the Schulte Roth & Zabel law firm. 
 Most hedge funds have a minimum investment requirement of $1 million, making the accredited investor definition seem redundant. (If you only have $1 million in the form of your house, you won't have the additional $1 million to get into the fund.) 
 The rule coincides with waning enthusiasm for regulating hedge funds.
 ''I'm not envisioning, legislatively, running back to that,'' Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut, said about hedge fund regulation during a news conference. Mr. Dodd has been preparing to take over the leadership of the Senate Banking Committee. ''Again, I'd rather listen to people who are out there talking about what needs to be done,'' he said.
 His Democratic counterpart in the House, Barney Frank of Massachusetts, who proposed legislation this year to authorize the S.E.C. to reinstate the registration rule after the courts dismissed it, seems to have changed his tune. 
 ''Not legislating, no,'' he was quoted by the San Francisco Chronicle. ''What we need to do is have hearings on hedge funds.''
 During which the S.E.C. will say, ''only for the very, very rich.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator Christopher J. Dodd, left, foresees no hedge fund legislation. The S.E.C., under its chairman, Christopher Cox, has redefined who is rich. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (95%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ACCREDITATION (86%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); BONDS (72%); LAWYERS (72%); HOUSING MARKET (71%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); ELECTIONS (69%); AUDITS (68%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (67%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (67%); APPEALS COURTS (52%) 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (92%) Securities and Exchange Commission

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER COX (88%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (76%) Jenny Anderson

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2006



340 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: Talks With China End With Few Signs of Progress on Currency Issue

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: BEIJING, Friday, Dec. 15 

 BODY:
Top officials from China and the United States concluded two days of talks on economic disputes Friday by setting up several study groups and making general pledges, but avoiding any sign of concrete progress on the principal American demand that China stop undervaluing its currency as a way to promote exports.
 Despite the lack of specific pledges on currency and other issues, Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. declared that the strategic economic dialogue involving several cabinet-level officials and the Federal Reserve chairman would pave the way for progress in the future.
 Mr. Paulson asserted that as a result of the talks, China would move to open its economy and enforce intellectual property rights, and would adopt ''greater flexibility'' in exchange rates. The United States, he said, would strive to increase its savings rate so that it borrows less from China to feed an addiction to imports. 
 ''While we cannot resolve every difference we have had,'' Mr. Paulson said, ''the candid conversations we have had will make progress much more achievable.''
 Also on Friday, Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, in a comment likely to draw attention in Washington, called the undervalued yuan an ''effective subsidy'' for China's exports. The use of the phrase may be seized upon by critics of China in Washington who are demanding some sort of protectionist retaliation.
 The working groups established will encompass health care, aviation, energy and the environment, and will try to clarify regulatory processes in both country as well as remove obstacles to investments.
 China's currency policy will continue to be discussed in existing groups, American and Chinese officials said. But the Americans noted that China had allowed the yuan to rise in value by 5.8 percent against the dollar in the last 18 months in what could be a response to American pressure.
 ''We have seen some greater flexibility of late, and will continue to press for more in the future,'' said a senior Treasury official said. 
 The closing ceremony on Friday capped an unusual two-day dialogue behind closed doors on economic issues, promoted clashing visions of how quickly China should move to modernize its economic policies to resolve tensions with Washington.
 In marathon meetings at the Great Hall of the People, Mr. Paulson led an elaborate effort by the United States to persuade China to reform its policies. Though American officials argued that a faster pace of reform was in China's interest, Chinese officials countered that their country must proceed at its own pace, given its history of poverty, colonial subjugation and civil wars, and that American officials must try harder to understand China's constraints and achievements. 
 The divergent perspectives were recounted during and after the daylong session by American officials who briefed reporters, but they were also reflected in the opposing statements of Mr. Paulson and his counterpart, Wu Yi, a vice prime minister, who gave a lengthy talk that was both defensive and defiant.
 Ms. Wu's comments, accompanied by a PowerPoint presentation and pictures illustrating 5,000 years of Chinese history, were clearly directed not simply at her audience sitting across from the Chinese delegation but also at Congress, where anti-Chinese protectionist measures are being readied in case Mr. Paulson does not win concessions.
 ''We have had the genuine feeling that some American friends are not only having limited knowledge of, but harboring much misunderstanding about the reality in China,'' Ms. Wu said in her presentation, according to a text released by her government. 
 ''Our particular hope,'' she added, ''is to let people in the world know that China's development is an opportunity instead of a threat to the world, that it is a propelling force behind the growth of the world economy.''
 Mr. Paulson's keynote address called for ''tangible results'' from the strategic economic dialogue. His aides said he was talking about a timetable of two years, not this week. 
 Ms. Wu said that China's reforms were speeding faster than her listeners appreciated. Her colleagues cited a barrage of statistics, showing for example that spending by Chinese consumers was already transforming China into a country more reliant on domestic spending than exports for growth.
 ''Reform and opening up are the most distinct characteristics of contemporary China,'' she said, while emphasizing that China would maintain a ''socialist market economy system'' with government ownership its ''mainstay.'' There was no indication that she felt China needed to change that system faster than it was doing already.
 The issue of currency reform was cited several times, American officials said. Mr. Paulson opened the Thursday morning session by again urging that China let its currency float freely so that it could rise in value against the dollar, making Chinese exports more expensive for Americans to buy.
 In his comments, Mr. Bernanke said that letting the yuan float would be beneficial for China's economic growth and for allowing its central bank a freer hand.
 He explained that to keep the value of Chinese currency low to promote exports, China has to buy dollars and flood the country with local currency. This would produce inflation, so China instead sells bonds and bills to Chinese to ''sterilize'' the economy from inflation brought on by an oversupply of money.
 It was a highly theoretical discussion from the Fed chief, delivered at a prestigious government-financed policy institute, the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences. Because it was a sophisticated analysis of how markets work, it may have more of an impact on Chinese leaders than the preaching about capitalism they have heard from the Bush administration in the last two days.
 As if anticipating the American appeal, the yuan did rise against the dollar on Thursday, to 7.8197 yuan to the dollar, bringing its appreciation to well over 5 percent since mid-2005. Many economists say that if the yuan were to float freely in the markets, it would rise 20 percent or more.
 The United States contends that China has for years kept the yuan's value artificially low by buying up the dollars earned by Chinese corporations and husbanding them as reserves. At present, China has an estimated $700 billion in dollar-denominated reserves.
 Several American officials said that the toughest talk on Thursday came from Susan C. Schwab, the United States trade representative, who went through a litany outlined in a report her office issued on Monday, saying that China was ''backsliding'' in its obligations to the World Trade Organization to open its economy.
 Ms. Schwab said the theme of her presentation was that the ''Asian model'' of state control of the economy and huge exports was no longer suitable for China, which now needs to focus on domestic consumption rather than exports to achieve economic growth.
 American officials said that thesis was disputed by Ma Kai, chairman of the National Development and Reform Commission of China, and others who argued that China's model of mixing state control and free markets was more appropriate given the country's volatile history.
 Economists say Chinese do not consume goods because they save a larger portion of their income than Americans. 
 The Chinese had their own bill of particulars, American officials said. China contends that the United States unfairly accuses it of dumping low-cost exports into American markets, and it also wants the United States to lift a ban on sales of high-technology products to China.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Ben S. Bernanke, Federal Reserve chairman
Stephen L. Johnson, Environmental Protection Agency head
Susan C. Schwab, United States trade representative
Commerce Secretary Carlos M. Gutierrez
 and Labor Secretary Elaine L. Chao awaited the opening of talks in Beijing yesterday. (Pool photo by Greg Baker)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (77%); EXPORT PROMOTION (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (65%); CIVIL WAR (60%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (54%) 

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (59%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (79%); BEN BERNANKE (73%); CARLOS GUTIERREZ (58%); ELAINE CHAO (57%) Henry M Jr Paulson; Steven R Weisman

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%) China

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2006



341 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Lawmakers Approve Borrowing $270 Million for Stem-Cell Research 

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN; Richard G. Jones contributed reporting.

DATELINE: TRENTON, Dec. 14 

 BODY:
In an end to a two-year journey that was as much about politics as it was about science, legislators on Thursday approved New Jersey's most sweeping and financially ambitious effort to take a lead role in stem-cell research.
 By comfortable margins, the State Senate and the General Assembly authorized borrowing $270 million to build the state's first stem-cell research centers in New Brunswick, Newark and Camden. Gov. Jon S. Corzine said on Thursday that he would enthusiastically sign it. 
''It's, I think, one of the great initiatives that this state has taken on," Mr. Corzine said. "I think it really does sustain our leadership as the recognized medicine chest of certainly the country, and probably the globe.''
 Approval of the stem-cell measures came on a madcap final session of the year in which the calendar was crammed with several pieces of major legislation. 
 One minute, the Assembly was approving a measure establishing civil unions for same-sex couples and expanding campaign finance reform. 
 The next, the Senate was leaving lobbyists, reporters and others clustered in the halls of the State House in a lurch by delaying the start of its session by three hours because of 11th-hour snags over bills intended to reduce property taxes. Amid the swirl there were news conferences, an ethics hearing in which a number of lawmakers were accused of conflicts of interest -- and at least two holiday parties held across the street from the State House by lobbying firms.
 ''It was very reminiscent of budget time,'' said Michael P. O'Connell, a lobbyist with the firm Pringle Quinn Anzano. ''A lot of people waiting for big answers, results. But it was different, because you could pose for pictures with Santa.''
 Ultimately, both the Senate and the Assembly decided to put off until next year any action on property taxes -- which for months had seemingly captured most of their attention -- including measures dealing with pension and health benefits for state employees, school financing and consolidating local governments.
 For their part, the Democrats insisted the delay was necessary to do a thorough job. ''We're closer and closer by the minute,'' said the Senate majority leader, Bernard F. Kenny Jr., of Hudson County.
 Not surprisingly, Republicans disagreed. ''Instead of property tax relief and reform, which is needed immediately in New Jersey, the people of this state have gotten coal in their Christmas stockings,'' said the Senate minority leader, Leonard Lance, of Hunterdon County.
 For all the turmoil in the chambers, behind closed doors and in the crowded hallways, the final votes on stem-cell research were uneventful events, a marked difference from the political machinations that have surrounded the issue since it emerged two years ago.
 In 2004, Gov. James E. McGreevey signed a bill to establish the country's first state-supported stem-cell research institute, despite the objections of Roman Catholic bishops and others, proclaiming that medical science should not be compromised by politics.
 New Jersey also earned the distinction of becoming the second state in the nation, after California, to approve a law specifically legalizing embryonic stem-cell research, much to the chagrin of anti-abortion advocates, because it requires the destruction of human embryos.
 But as politicians in New Jersey squabbled over the details of how to translate the idea of a research institute into a bricks-and-mortar reality, at least half a dozen states -- including Connecticut and Maryland -- created similar funds or research centers. In recent months, stem-cell advocates had become increasingly fretful that New Jersey was losing competitive ground.
 One of the sticking points, according to Assemblyman Neil M. Cohen, a Democrat from Union County who sponsored the bill, was that the Corzine administration initially insisted that all of the research be conducted at Rutgers University in New Brunswick.
 But under a compromise, the measure calls for $150 million to go toward a research center in New Brunswick, and $50 million apiece for facilities in Camden and Newark. The remaining $20 million is to be used at centers in Belleville and in Allendale.
 The projects are expected to be finished within a few years, and they are eventually expected to generate about a billion dollars in economic activity and create more than 10,000 jobs, according to a recent Rutgers study.
 Supporters hope the investment, paid for with the state's unused bonding capacity, will pay off with the recruitment of top researchers and the promise of federal funds should the Bush administration's ban on financing for embryonic stem-cell research be lifted.
 ''What edge California thought they had, they've lost it,'' Mr. Cohen said.
 But Marie Tasy, executive director of New Jersey Right to Life, criticized the vote as ''putting the cart before the horse, because they're funding buildings before voters have a chance to fund the research.''
 In the next couple of months, the Assembly is expected to consider a related measure that has already cleared the Senate: asking voters in November to approve $230 million in grants for stem-cell research.
 But on Thursday, at least, debate on the highly charged emotional issue lasted only a minute or two in each chamber.
 Some said that perhaps the legislators were trying to pace themselves during a day that was expected to be long but in the end was not. Or maybe it was the holiday spirit that had wafted across State Street from parties sponsored by the New Jersey Restaurant Association or the lobbying firm of Mulroy, LiCausi & Gibbs. 
 Even Santa Claus was spotted going down the stairs of the State House. But when asked jokingly by a reporter, ''Is that you, Gov. Corzine?'' he turned and answered, ''I'm the Grinch.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (91%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LOBBYING (89%); POLITICS (89%); BIOETHICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (88%); APPROVALS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TAX LAW (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ETHICS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (71%); TAX RELIEF (71%); PROPERTY TAX (70%); CHRISTMAS (69%); EDUCATION FUNDING (67%); DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIPS (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); GAYS & LESBIANS (52%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (52%) Medicine and Health; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Research; Stem Cells

COMPANY: PRINGLE QUINN ANZANO PC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (53%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (73%); LEONARD LANCE (58%) David W Chen

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Jersey; New Brunswick (NJ); Newark (NJ); Camden (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2006



342 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: Bush Celebrates Early Victories in Campaign Against Malaria

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 14 

 BODY:
Malaria, a deadly tropical disease long overshadowed by AIDS, shared the stage with the president and the first lady on Thursday when the Bushes were the hosts of a forum at the National Geographic Society to raise the profile of this neglected scourge.
 The gathering highlighted the growing efforts of influential evangelical, business and charitable leaders to raise money and mobilize volunteers against malaria, which kills 800,000 African children each year. Their rallying cry: Donate $10 for a mosquito net, save a life. 
It also gave President Bush, whose reputation for compassionate conservatism has taken a beating during the grueling war in Iraq, a moment to bask in some of the early victories in the five-year, $1.2 billion campaign against the disease that his administration undertook a year and a half ago. 
 For example, on one of the spice islands of Zanzibar, where the United States helped distribute mosquito nets to cover every slumbering pregnant woman and child younger than 5 years old, the number of malaria cases has plummeted almost 90 percent since last year. 
 ''So we're acting and we're leading,'' Mr. Bush said. ''And with partners across the world we are helping the people of Africa turn the tide against malaria.''
 Melinda Gates, who with her husband, Bill, has invested heavily in research for a malaria vaccine, told the Who's Who of global malaria warriors packed into the auditorium that a decade ago, their number would have fit in a broom closet.
 The top leaders of all the main malaria-fighting organizations -- from the World Health Organization to the World Bank, from the United States Agency for International Development to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation to Unicef -- were at the forum, which the Bush administration titled the White House Summit on Malaria. They met for hours after the public session to plot strategy.
 A Gallup poll that was done free for Malaria No More in recent days found that while 96 percent of Americans counted AIDS as a very serious problem in Africa, only two-thirds knew that malaria was also a grave threat.
 Malaria No More, a nonprofit group of business and charitable groups that organized in response to a challenge from Mr. Bush, talked up its Web site, www.malarianomore.org, as a place where people can donate $10 to provide a family with a mosquito net to prevent malaria, and the education to use it properly.
 The big money, however, has come from big donors. The Global Fund has so far committed $2.6 billion to malaria. The Gates Foundation has promised to spend $766 million. The World Bank has approved $357 million in loans.
 The president's Malaria Initiative is supposed to gradually ramp up spending. But money for this year's programs in Uganda, Tanzania, Angola, Mozambique, Rwanda, Senegal and Malawi -- $135 million -- is still uncertain. Whether it survives depends on collaboration between the administration and Democratic leaders in Congress.
 Senator Patrick J. Leahy, a Vermont Democrat expected to lead the Senate appropriations subcommittee that oversees foreign aid, was at the forum and said he wanted to find a way to finance the administration's malaria program. ''We're trying to get the kind of money we spend in a day in Iraq,'' he said. ''Somewhere we've got to have our priorities right. It's a moral issue.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MALARIA (97%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); GEOGRAPHY (90%); AIDS & HIV (90%); TROPICAL MEDICINE (90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); TROPICAL DISEASES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); CHARITIES (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (88%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (86%); FUNDRAISING (77%); BUDGETS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); VACCINES (73%); TUBERCULOSIS (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (71%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); APPROVALS (63%); RELIGION (57%) Malaria; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Foreign Aid; Children and Youth; Malaria

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC SOCIETY (91%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (59%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (59%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (59%) National Geographic Society; World Health Organization; International Bank for Reconstruction and Development; Agency for International Development; Gates, Bill and Melinda, Foundation ; United Nations Children's Fund

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); MELINDA GATES (74%); BILL GATES (56%) Celia W Dugger; George W (Pres) Bush; Laura Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); AFRICA (93%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (92%); UGANDA (79%); IRAQ (79%) United States; Africa

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2006



343 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; HAVANA JOURNAL; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: Cuba's Rap Vanguard Reaches Beyond the Party Line

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY

DATELINE: HAVANA 

 BODY:
In a country like Cuba, where the state has its hand in just about everything, it is perhaps not surprising that there is a governmental body that concerns itself with rap music.
 Alarmed by the number of young people in baggy clothing and ill-aligned baseball caps rapping around the island, the government created the Cuban Rap Agency four years ago to bring rebellious rhymers into the fold.
 The person chosen to lead the agency was Susana Garcia Amaros, 46, who studied Latin American literature at the University of Havana, specializing in the writings of Afro-Cubans. She said that when officials from the Ministry of Culture approached her for the job she told them that she was not a rap expert. But she said she appreciated the music and its underlying messages.
 ''Rap is a form of battle,'' she said. ''It's a way of protesting for a section of the population. It has force. It's not just the beat -- the boom, boom, boom -- it's the lyrics.'' 
 The rap agency became a co-sponsor of an annual hip-hop festival that began in 1994, and it started promoting rappers and helping them to produce occasional albums. But only artists whose rap does not veer too much from the party line qualify for the government aid.
 ''We don't have songs on a record that speak badly of the revolution,'' Ms. Garcia Amaros said on a recent day. ''That doesn't make sense.''
 Not surprisingly, most rappers, who are by definition a rebellious lot, are averse to joining forces with the government, even as they struggle to spread their rhymes on their own. Only nine groups are working with the agency. Of the remaining 500 or more across the island, some voice discontent with Cuban society in language that is as blunt as the accompanying beat is loud.
 ''We are not in agreement with any political system, the one here or the one you have,'' said Aldo Rodriguez Baquero, 23, who teams up with his friend Bian Rodriguez Gala in a popular group called Los Aldeanos, or The Villagers. ''We want liberty and freedom.''
 While rap appeals to just a subset of Cuba's youngsters, many of the five million Cubans under the age of 30 similarly question the system.
 The government's own surveys have found that the bulk of the unemployed in Cuba are young and that many youths are uncertain about their future. The blame, the government argues, lies with the United States trade embargo.
 Foreign Minister Felipe Perez Roque raised the disenchantment of many of Cuba's young people in a speech last year, which was reported by The Miami Herald. ''We have a challenge,'' said Mr. Perez Roque, who is in his early 40s and is considered one of the next generation of Cuban leaders. ''These young people have more information and more consumer expectations than those at the start of the revolution.''
 He added that young people were more likely to hear their elders telling stories about social progress under the current government and respond, ''Oh, please, don't come to me with that same old speech.''
 The situation among Afro-Cubans, about 60 percent of the population, is especially acute. They are considerably poorer than whites, according to studies. Among the reasons are that white Cubans are more likely to have relatives sending remittances from the United States, and whites hold the bulk of the jobs in the profitable tourism industry.
 Afro-Cubans complain that they have inferior housing and are more likely than whites to be hassled on the streets by the police. 
 The rappers speak of these and other problems, often bluntly.
 ''What we sing, people can't say,'' said Mr. Rodriguez Baquero, who wore a blue bandanna to pull back his braided hair as he rapped on the sidewalk outside an overflowing club. ''They think we are crazy. We say what they only whisper.''
 He acknowledged that his mother and his rap partner's mother worried about their outspoken ways. ''They don't want to lose us,'' he said.
 But they keep rapping, even though some of Havana's club owners have banned them for a time over some of their toughest songs, including one dealing with police harassment.
 As for the rap agency, Mr. Rodriguez Baquero dismisses that with a wave of his hand. ''We don't want to be in any agency,'' he said. ''It's the same as slavery for us.''
 But not all that many people hear what he and other independent rappers have to say. They produce albums in their homes in bare-bones studios and distribute them by hand.
 ''It's very difficult to do rap in Cuba,'' he acknowledged.
 One of those working behind the scenes to aid Cuba's rappers is Cheri Dalton, an American who goes by the name Nehanda Abiodun. She is a black militant who is wanted by the F.B.I. in connection with a string of robberies, including a 1981 holdup of an armored car near Nyack, N.Y. Now living in exile in Cuba, she has formed a Havana chapter of Black August, a grass-roots group that promotes hip-hop culture.
 ''There's always been a love for music from the States in Cuba,'' said Ms. Abiodun, who declined to discuss her own case. ''You can go back to Nat King Cole, Earth Wind & Fire and Aretha Franklin.''
 Rap, first heard in the '80s by those in eastern Cuba who picked up Florida radio stations, is no exception. ''They spit out rhymes on everything from race to gender to police harassment,'' she said of Cuba's hip-hop generation. ''They point out contradictions in society that were taboo to talk about.''
 But despite the disenchantment of many young people with Cuba's system, rap appears to be losing some ground here. The hip-hop festival, held every August, was a flop last year and was canceled this year. Nobody seems sure why. Some rappers say the culprit was not so much the government involvement as it was another musical genre that is pushing rap aside. Reggaeton, a blend of reggae, rap and Latin music that was born in Puerto Rico, is now the rage.
 The governmental rap agency has begun promoting reggaeton artists, whose messages are often intended more to get people on the dance floor than to protest. It is harder than ever for rappers to find a stage.
 ''Reggaeton is about sex and girls and that's it,'' grumbled Mario Gutierrez, 19, who criticizes his fellow rappers who have speeded up their beat and gone reggaeton. ''We are singing for change. We want freedom. We want a better Cuba than this one.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Cheri Dalton, an American exile who goes by the name Nehanda Abiodun, has been working with Cuban rappers to promote their music.
 The rappers Bian Rodriguez Gala, second from left, and Aldo Rodriguez Baquero, right, of Los Aldeanos. (Photographs by Jose Goitia for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAP MUSIC (93%); HIP HOP CULTURE (90%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); FESTIVALS (77%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (72%); LITERATURE (70%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (61%); POLITICS (61%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (50%) Children and Youth; Public Opinion; Music; Rap Music

PERSON: PEREZ ROQUE (50%) Marc Lacey

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%) Cuba; Cuba

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2006



344 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 15, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: Creativity and the Global Employee

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Learning to Keep Learning'' (column, Dec. 13):
Thomas L. Friedman, in offering perspectives on the American public education system in the context of China's continued growth, gives us the hint of a major issue in education. 
 I fear, however, that those responsible for our educational practices, at least in the public sector, are not reading or heeding. 
 Every employer in the American economy knows that creative thinking is the gold standard he seeks in his employees. But our public schools, disabled by high-stakes standardized testing frenzy, which stifles creativity, and lack of appropriate financing levels, continue to decline while our international standing, educationally, plummets.
 One of the many reasons private schools continue to flourish is that they are much more willing to be innovative around issues of creativity than their bureaucracy-stifled, money-starved brethren in the public domain. 
 If we were willing to create a partnership between the public education system and the independent schools, one that really took a long, hard look at what we need for global education and the global integrated world of the future, Mr. Friedman's advice might be much more than pearls cast before those who will not or cannot see.

Jon McGill
Headmaster, Gilman School
Baltimore, Dec. 13, 2006

To the Editor:
 Thomas L. Friedman calls into question China's ability to take innovation to the next level, based on its policy of limiting Internet access. Indeed, China has laws that try to prohibit free use of the Internet, which can and do present unique problems as it moves to become an innovative power.
 But even worse is a society without laws that prohibit access, where freedom has been a right but its people have seemingly lost interest in research and in their abilities to delve beneath the surface and challenge the status quo. 
 Here in the United States, we are so overly dependent on the technology in our lives that we don't exercise our brains in the necessary ways to move into this new century as true leaders. 
 We hear professors complain that their students find it difficult to read for content; we hear officials from all walks of life calling for increases in scientists, engineers and mathematicians; and at the same time, we encourage people to ''wire up'' for eight hours a day to gadgets that sap our creativity and limit our exposure to the ''real'' world.
 Access to electronic media without knowing how to use it to drive creativity is costing us dearly. China's imposed limits create a desire in its people for more; the freedom we take for granted has led us to become a nation of the uninterested. I think that we all know which is worse for our future.

Robert Kesten
Executive Director, Center
for Screen-Time Awareness
Washington, Dec. 13, 2006

To the Editor:
 Thomas L. Friedman made a number of excellent points regarding the importance of creative and innovative thinking and what needs to be emphasized in our school curriculums to make sure that we do not fall behind. 
 To think creatively means to think outside the box. That kind of thinking needs role models, and who better serves that function than our artists and designers, whom we count on to bring us new visions and possibilities.
 All of this exposure can and should be found in a good school art program. As an art teacher in a public school for 35 years, I am forever wondering why every art program in this country has constantly to be justified, defended or put to rest whenever some new educational idea surfaces and needs to be tried out in place of the art class.
 Unfortunately, art programs are still considered a ''frill'' in our educational system, and here is where our youth really get the opportunity to use their imagination and to come up with creative ideas. 
 Creativity is our greatest achievement. Let's make sure that the No Child Left Behind law doesn't leave our creative children behind.

Linda Kastner
Garden City, N.Y., Dec. 13, 2006

To the Editor:
 In my studies of more than 2,000 men and women, all members of Phi Beta Kappa, the honor society that promotes the importance of a well-rounded liberal arts education, I found that these academic high-achievers matured into adults who did well professionally, socially and personally. 
 These Phi Beta Kappas had the type of education that Thomas L. Friedman described in his column.
 What I also gleaned from my research is that their strong love of learning was fostered by parents who loved to read and who filled their homes with books. 
 These academic high-achievers also spoke of teachers, especially in the elementary grades, who supported their thirst for knowledge. 

Arline L. Bronzaft
New York, Dec. 13, 2006

To the Editor:
 ''Weighing the Costs in Public vs. Private Colleges'' (Education page, Dec. 13) provided opinions on whether the cost of private higher education is worth the price. But the most compelling argument was found in Thomas L. Friedman's Dec. 13 column, ''Learning to Keep Learning.'' 
 Mr. Friedman predicted that the great nations of the 21st century will be those that ''develop the best broad-based education system'' that produces the most creative people. 
 Private liberal arts colleges demand the best academically and engage the whole student. It's the kind of education I want for those tackling tough issues on my behalf: diplomats seeking Middle East peace; doctors treating my illness and me as a person; lawyers advocating and pursuing justice.
 I would also include authors helping me understand the human condition; manufacturers making excellent products and caring about their workers and the environment; and business leaders using the global economy to produce greater wealth and standards of living in sustainable ways.
 Worth it? Yes.

Daniel F. Sullivan
President, St. Lawrence University
Canton, N.Y., Dec. 14, 2006


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Derek Stukuls)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (92%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); ACADEMIC TESTING (77%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (77%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (77%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); EXECUTIVES (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%) Education and Schools; Computers and the Internet; Education and Schools; Tests and Testing; Private and Sectarian Schools; Research

ORGANIZATION: Center for Screen-Time Awareness; St Lawrence University

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (90%) Jon Mcgill; Linda Kastner; Robert Kesten; Daniel F Sullivan; Arline L Bronzaft; Thomas L Friedman

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%) China

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2006



345 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; At $300 a Bottle, Do You Have to Tip?; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1614 words

HEADLINE: The Allure of Expensive Liquors in Pretty Packages

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
Roberto Cavalli, the Italian fashion designer, knows a thing or two about catching someone's eye, and his new vodka was making an impression on a recent Friday night at the glitzy Y Bar here.
 The bottle, which sells for $60 in stores and around $300 in the V.I.P. lounges of clubs like Y Bar, glowed on its own light stand, lending a green hue to its slender shape. April Sargent, a customer, leaned forward from her couch, and ran a finger along the bottle's embossed serpent coiled around its middle and its silver snakehead spout. ''I like it,'' she said.
If it sounds a bit like Ms. Sargent, 30, was checking out a fragrance at a cosmetics counter, that is precisely the point. The liquor industry looks a lot like the perfume business these days, with dramatic packaging and rich price tags that often have little direct connection to the liquid inside. 
 From flavored liquors to the new Bong Vodka (named for the bottle's shape), there are hundreds of new choices popping up to slake an apparent growing thirst among Americans to sip better -- or at least more attractive and expensive -- alcoholic beverages. 
 Americans are spending more than ever on their drinks, with sales of spirits, wine and beer increasing 47 percent from 1995 to 2005, to $160 billion, according to ACNielsen, a research firm that tracks retail sales of food and beverages. (Adjusted for inflation the increase was 14 percent.)
 The trend is especially evident in liquor, with Americans drinking more of it, and paying even more for it. Measured by liters sold, sales of spirits are up 10 percent since 2002, said Information Resources, a market research firm. But as the price of bottles like Cavalli jumps higher, revenue from liquor sales is rising even faster -- 21 percent since 2002.
 ''Consumers are trading up at an alarming rate,'' said Bump Williams, general manager of global beverage alcohol consulting for Information Resources. ''And price has not been a deterrent.''
 The industry has never produced such a burst of innovation to meet and spur on this growing demand. In the last two years, spirits companies have introduced more than 210 varieties of flavored vodkas, rums and tequilas; and dozens more ''superpremium'' varieties priced at an average of $25 a bottle and higher.
 Revenue in this high-end part of the business jumped almost 62 percent from 2003 to 2005, according to the Distilled Spirits Council of the United States, an industry trade group.
 The trend to pricier drinks is also evident in wines. Sales of wines priced $15 or higher increased 18 percent this year, after jumping 11 percent last year, according to ACNielsen. 
 Many of the gains have come at the expense of beer makers, whose sales have largely flattened; the only signs of growth are found mostly in higher-priced imports.
 Younger drinkers are driving much of the surge in sales of spirits. 
 They may be taking their cues from celebrity icons like Paris Hilton and the rapper Eminem, who have been spotted downing shots of the hot-selling Patron Spirits tequila in Las Vegas. Spirits companies, in turn, have attached themselves to such celebrities for the buzz they create. Bong Vodka sponsored Ms. Hilton's CD release party in March in Miami; Donald Trump provided three customized bottles of his new Trump Vodka, painted in 24-karat gold, for the rapper Diddy's release party in Miami last month. (Mr. Trump, according to his spokesman, now has 1,000 cases on order of the real-gold vodka bottles.)
 Even in the less-rarefied world that Ms. Sargent moves in, there seems to be little sticker shock. ''I spent $150 on booze last night,'' Ms. Sargent, a sales manager at a telecommunications company, said. ''It's the vodka. You can drink it so fast.''
 Even faster when it is flavored. Vodka by definition is flavorless, colorless and aroma-free. But distillers are selling more flavored varieties, and have lowered the alcohol content so that the flavors are easier to taste. Absolut, for example, will introduce a pear vodka in January, its 10th flavor.
 Flavored vodkas, which now account for 11 percent of all vodka sales, have helped draw in more female drinkers, particularly those with a sweet tooth. 
 Purists may complain that vodka is meant to be unflavored, but many bartenders are finding ways to use the flavored varieties to create new cocktails. 
 ''It's like an artist with her paints,'' said Bridget Albert, president of the Illinois chapter of the United States Bartenders Guild. ''It gets your creative juices flowing.''
 At Voda, a San Francisco bar that offers about 100 kinds of vodka, a co-owner, Davide Mega, showed off his recent concoction, made in-house: bubble-gum-flavored vodka (using real gum). 
 Back in Chicago, Ms. Sargent said the premium flavored vodkas had helped her reduce the problem of hangovers. Less-expensive vodkas also give her headaches, and she finds beer too filling. ''A vodka and soda has 80 calories,'' she said. ''I can drink it all night long.''
 But some drinkers said they are also buying more expensive vodka as a status symbol. Those symbols carry a hefty price tag if drinkers order ''bottle service'' in clubs, and pay from 5 to 10 times the bottle's retail cost.
 ''Bottle service is prestigious,'' said Quinn Bradley, 25, another customer at Y Bar. ''I am not a vodka connoisseur, but a higher price usually means it's better, right?''
 Marketers have spent millions trying to convince consumers of just that.
 By all accounts, the superpremium spirits craze was started by the late Sidney Frank, owner of the New York drinks importer that created Grey Goose vodka in 1997.
 His idea was to build a sophisticated image, beginning with a price of about $10 a bottle more than the market leader Absolut. He gave away bottles at high-profile charity events and managed to get them placed in limousines of Hollywood stars.
 He picked France as the source of his vodka, he said, because ''the best things come from France.'' And he chose a frosted bottle with a two-panel image featuring flying birds. 
 Sales took off, and Grey Goose soon caught the attention of other competitors. Bacardi, the rum giant, bought the brand in 2004 for almost $2.3 billion.
 To many drinkers, it is still the most popular vodka when they want to ''trade up.'' 
 Working the bar of a V.I.P. booth at De La Costa, a trendy new restaurant in Chicago, a waitress, Allison Smith, shook her head after opening a bottle of Grey Goose on a recent evening. A man in his 20s had ordered Absolut for some male friends, but when another friend showed up minutes later with several girls, he quickly changed his order to Grey Goose, which cost $50 more.
 ''He got nervous when his buddy showed up and clearly felt pressure not to be embarrassed somehow,'' Ms. Smith said.
 Grey Goose's success opened the door for a higher-priced tequila. In 1989, several years before Mr. Frank dreamed up his vodka, John Paul DeJoria, founder of the Paul Mitchell hair care line, started a tequila company called Patron.
 Patron took off slowly at first, despite an elegant corked bottle and a boast that they sourced the best agave plants in all of Mexico. When Tom Cruise drank it in ''Vanilla Sky'' in 2001, people began to notice. It also helped that rappers like Snoop Dogg began mentioning Patron in their songs. To date, Patron has been mentioned in more than 100 songs, from rap to country to a Dutch rock band, said John McDonnell, chief operating office of Patron Spirits. 
 He said the company did not pay any musical artist to mention Patron. But Patron does not leave its marketing to chance, spending about $25 million a year to promote the tequila. 
 Some celebrities who have touted their favorite spirits -- and seen the effect they can have on sales -- have joined the business. The rapper Jay-Z became so enamored of Armadale, a high-end vodka, that in 2002 he bought the company, which is based in Scotland.
 Celebrities have good reason to invest: superpremium spirits are the most profitable of alcoholic beverages. Average gross profit margins are more than 20 percent for spirits, compared with 18 percent for wine and 15 percent for beer, said Mr. Williams of IRI.
 Perhaps more than the vodka itself, bottle design is critical to winning over customers.
 Mr. Trump hired Milton Glaser, the New York graphic artist famous for the ''I 3/5sheart 4/5 NY'' ad campaign, to design his new vodka bottle. Mr. Glaser's answer, a four-sided bottle painted gold on two sides, is meant to convey the ''magnificence'' of Trump Tower in New York, said Patrick Kenny, chief executive of DrinksAmericas, which is importing Mr. Trump's vodka from Holland.
 The Dutch company Bong Spirit had something else in mind when they created Bong Vodka in the shape of a pipe used to smoke marijuana. The brand was introduced last year in Florida. 
 For all their focus on packaging, vodka companies do try to sell on quality, as well. Mr. Trump's is supposedly distilled five times in a meticulous process where the Dutch distiller washes the oak barrels with Trump vodka before filling it with Trump vodka, Mr. Kenny said. 
 Mr. Cavalli's vodka claims to be ''filtered through layers of crushed Italian marble to achieve optimum purity.''
 At Y Bar, Ryan Schmiege, the club's manager, has found that gimmicks like Cavalli's multicolored light stand can make a difference to today's breed of drinkers. 
 A local Cavalli representative provided the stands, to be used exclusively for the Cavalli vodka. The first night she brought them in and lighted up a Cavalli bottle, patrons noticed. ''I sold four bottles that night,'' Mr. Schmiege said. ''Clearly, some people want the glam factor.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Costly alcoholic beverages often come in provocative packaging. Chicago's Y Bar features Bong Vodka, above. Special coasters illuminate Roberto Cavalli vodka and Ecstasy, right. Daily Wedd pours Cavalli mixed drinks. (Photographs by Peter Wynn Thompson for The New York Times)(pg. C1)
 April Sargent sips on a new vodka introduced by the fashion designer Roberto Cavalli, at Y Bar in Chicago. (Photo by Peter Wynn Thompson for The New York Times)(pg. C8)Chart: ''Changing Tastes''Americans are drinking more liquor, with a trend toward pricier drinks like vodkas costing $26 or more a bottle. Sales figures are in millions.BEER52 WEEKS ENDINGOCT. 22, 2005: $21,899OCT. 21, 2006: $22,372CHANGE: +2.2%WINE52 WEEKS ENDINGOCT. 22, 2005: 8,439OCT. 21, 2006: 9,093CHANGE: +7.7SPIRITS52 WEEKS ENDINGOCT. 22, 2005: 6,463OCT. 21, 2006: 6,737CHANGE: +4.2BOURBON-BLENDED52 WEEKS ENDINGOCT. 22, 2005: $124OCT. 21, 2006: $121CHANGE: -2.7BRANDY/COGNAC52 WEEKS ENDINGOCT. 22, 2005: 502OCT. 21, 2006: 525CHANGE: +4.6CANADIAN WHISKEY52 WEEKS ENDINGOCT. 22, 2005: 430OCT. 21, 2006: 427CHANGE: -0.8GIN52 WEEKS ENDINGOCT. 22, 2005: 337OCT. 21, 2006: 339CHANGE: +0.5IRISH WHISKEY52 WEEKS ENDINGOCT. 22, 2005: 36OCT. 21, 2006: 41CHANGE: +12.9RUM52 WEEKS ENDINGOCT. 22, 2005: 793OCT. 21, 2006: 831CHANGE: +4.8SCOTCH52 WEEKS ENDINGOCT. 22, 2005: 623OCT. 21, 2006: 629CHANGE: +1.0TEQUILA52 WEEKS ENDINGOCT. 22, 2005: 357OCT. 21, 2006: 403CHANGE: +12.7VODKA52 WEEKS ENDINGOCT. 22, 2005: 1,694OCT. 21, 2006: 1,791CHANGE: +5.7DOMESTIC52 WEEKS ENDINGOCT. 22, 2005: $978OCT. 21, 2006: $1,012CHANGE: +3.5IMPORTED52 WEEKS ENDINGOCT. 22, 2005: 716OCT. 21, 2006: 779CHANGE: +8.9FLAVORED52 WEEKS ENDINGOCT. 22, 2005: 226OCT. 21, 2006: 240CHANGE: +6.2ACCORDING TO PRICE ($6.99 and less)52 WEEKS ENDINGOCT. 22, 2005: 475OCT. 21, 2006: 465CHANGE: -2.3$7 to $12.9952 WEEKS ENDINGOCT. 22, 2005: 531OCT. 21, 2006: 583CHANGE: +9.9$13 to $25.9952 WEEKS ENDINGOCT. 22, 2005: 502OCT. 21, 2006: 519CHANGE: +3.4$26 or more52 WEEKS ENDINGOCT. 22, 2005: 184OCT. 21, 2006: 211CHANGE: +14.4(Source by ACNielsen Scantrack)(pg. C8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (89%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (89%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (89%); BEER & ALE (89%); BEVERAGE PRICES (89%); TRENDS (87%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (78%); RETAIL SALES (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); PERFUMES & COLOGNES (74%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (69%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (69%); COSMETICS (69%); BREWERIES (65%) 

PERSON: Alexei Barrionuevo

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2006



346 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 698 words

PERSON: Bernard Kleiman

HEADLINE: Bernard Kleiman, 78, Steel Counsel, Dies

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
Bernard Kleiman, general counsel to the United Steelworkers of America for 32 years and a top adviser to five of the union's presidents during decades of industry turmoil, died on Wednesday in Pittsburgh. He was 78.
 Union officials said Mr. Kleiman died of a heart attack, days after he returned from visiting several cities where Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company workers are on strike.
As general counsel to the steelworkers, Mr. Kleiman negotiated an innovative and controversial agreement in 1973 that barred strikes in the steel industry for a decade. That deal was designed to curb steel imports, because six months before every contract deadline, the nation's automakers and other steel users began greatly increasing their purchases from abroad. 
 Mr. Kleiman also negotiated contracts that helped keep several teetering steel companies afloat during the 1980s, when the industry was traumatized by recession and surging imports.
 ''He was probably the most important person in the steelworkers' union for a period of 30 years,'' said Michael Gottesman, a law professor at Georgetown University and a former outside counsel to the union. 
 Mr. Gottesman said Mr. Kleiman was ''certainly the most important adviser, the source of much of the major policy decisions that were made.'' 
 Mr. Kleiman had a major hand in negotiating an affirmative action agreement for the steel and aluminum industries, paving the way to hire more minority workers. The aluminum agreement was upheld in a landmark Supreme Court case, United Steelworkers v. Weber.
 Bernard Kleiman was born in Chicago on Jan. 26, 1928, the son of Isadore and Pearl Kleiman. He grew up in Kendallville, Ind., where his father was a scrap dealer. He played center on the varsity basketball team in high school, and graduated in 1944. 
 He interrupted his studies at Purdue University to enlist in the Army. He toured with the Army basketball team and served in Korea; his military service was cut short by scarlet fever. He returned to Purdue and graduated in 1951, having majored in metallurgical engineering. He then attended the Northwestern University School of Law, and graduated in 1954.
 In 1960, he became counsel for District 31 of the union, covering Illinois and Indiana. He spearheaded a successful lawsuit that forced Illinois to reapportion its legislature to assure it followed the principle of one person one vote.
 Impressed by Mr. Kleiman's accomplishments, I. W. Abel, the union's president, named him the union's general counsel in 1965. As general counsel Mr. Kleiman often served as the union's chief negotiator, helping make the nation's steelworkers some of the highest-paid blue-collar workers in the world. 
 He negotiated with many leading companies, including United States Steel, Kaiser Aluminum, Bethlehem Steel, Goodyear and Bridgestone Firestone.
 ''It is difficult to overstate his impact on the union,'' said Leo W. Gerard, president of the steelworkers. ''His role with the union was much broader then the typical duties of general counsel.''
 In the 1980s, Mr. Kleiman negotiated deals with two companies that were close to bankruptcy, the Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel Corporation and the Allegheny Ludlum Corporation, allowing them to pay smaller compensation packages than steelmakers in better financial shape. When the industry rebounded in the late 1980s, Mr. Kleiman spearheaded efforts to restore a pattern in which all steelmakers provided similar wages and benefits.
 Mr. Kleiman stepped down from the general counsel's position in 1997, but remained special counsel to the union's president. He officially retired last summer but continued working, most recently in the union's two-month-old strike against Goodyear.
 He is survived by his wife, Gloria Baime Kleiman; his brother, David Kleiman of Indianapolis; his sister, Carolyn Winn of Locust Valley, N.Y.; his daughter, Leslie Kleiman of Cobble Hill, British Columbia; his son, David Kleiman of Chicago; his stepchildren, Dr. Michael Baime of Philadelphia; David Baime of Washington; Ronald Baime of Pittsburgh; Lynn Mamet of Sherman Oaks, Calif.; and David Mamet, the playwright; three grandchildren; and 12 step-grandchildren. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); DEATHS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (90%); LAWYERS (89%); STRIKES (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); RUBBER & SILICONE (76%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (76%); IMPORT CONTROLS (75%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); LITIGATION (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (72%); TIRES (71%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (71%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (70%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (70%); EXTRACTIVE METALLURGY (70%); BASKETBALL (69%); HIGH SCHOOLS (68%); KOREAN WAR (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); SUPREME COURTS (66%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (55%); AUTOMAKERS (55%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER CO (84%); UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (50%); BRIDGESTONE CORP (50%); BETHLEHEM STEEL CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STEELWORKERS OF AMERICA (84%); GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (55%)

TICKER: GT (SWX) (84%); GT (NASDAQ) (84%); GT (BRU) (84%); X (NYSE) (50%); 5108 (TSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS441320 TIRE DEALERS (84%); NAICS326220 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSES & BELTING MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (84%); SIC5531 AUTO & HOME SUPPLY STORES (84%); SIC3052 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSE & BELTING (84%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (84%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%)

CATEGORY: Labor

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2006



347 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: Latest Consumer Price Data Ease Fears of Inflation

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
The latest report on consumer prices showed that inflation was following an arc that must give some relief to the Federal Reserve.
 Prices fell last month on everything from a gallon of gasoline to fresh vegetables and children's clothing, helping to contain the overall rate of inflation at zero, the Labor Department reported yesterday.
The core inflation rate, a measure closely watched by the Fed because it excludes the volatile prices of food and energy, was also zero. 
 For the Fed, which has bet that a slowing economy would temper inflation, the latest numbers appear to bolster its decision to keep interest rates steady. The central bank on Tuesday kept rates unchanged at 5.25 percent for the fourth consecutive time, and gave its clearest nod yet to emerging soft spots in the economy.
 The government reported separately yesterday that industrial production -- a measure of output at the nation's factories, mines and utilities -- was essentially flat from October through November.
 ''The inflation scare of 2006 is over,'' Kenneth Beauchemin, a United States economist with Global Insight, said in a research note. ''Much credit belongs to the Fed.'' 
 Stagnant prices combined with stunted economic growth make it less likely that the Fed will increase interest rates early next year. 
 Wall Street also appeared to think so, and investors propelled shares to new highs yesterday. The benchmark Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and the Dow Jones industrial average both closed at record levels. 
 Resurgent inflation could still spoil the trend of calm price increases, particularly if gas prices spike or employers start passing on the cost of rising wages to consumers.
 ''Don't get too carried away,'' said Ken Matheny, senior economist with Macroeconomic Advisers. 
 He said the news should ease the Fed's concerns. ''But I wouldn't go too far,'' he added. ''It doesn't establish a new reality.'' 
 Though prices have steadied since the summer, the core inflation rate for the year remains at 2.6 percent, well above the 2 percent that the Fed has said it considers healthy.
 While yesterday's figures suggest that the economy is gently gliding into a period when prices will be tame and growth steady, economists dispute just how orderly the decline in growth will be and how much prices will fall.
 On the one hand, the price deceleration has been broad-based. Just as the cost of gasoline was responsible for much of the run-up in prices earlier this year, falling fuel prices have brought down inflation. In addition, prices either fell or barely increased last month in most of the major categories that the government surveys for the consumer price index. Fruit and vegetable prices tumbled along with prices for airline tickets, automobiles and prescription drugs.
 But the cost of housing climbed last month, reflecting the higher cost of natural gas and other utilities.
 The price of oil, always a volatile economic force, is one of the wild cards. In fact, OPEC said Thursday that it planned to reduce its output quotas by 2 percent in February, a move intended to keep crude oil prices elevated next year. Oil prices closed up almost a dollar yesterday at $63.43 a barrel.
 The other wild card is labor costs. Economists cautioned that rising wages could pressure businesses to raise prices in the months ahead. 
 ''People have been expressing a lot of relief over declining energy prices while seeming to neglect the rise in labor costs,'' Richard F. Moody, chief economist with Mission Residential, a real estate investment firm. ''Now with oil over $60 a barrel, it looks like it could be both energy costs and labor costs.''
 For the first time in four years, wages are significantly outpacing inflation. A separate Labor Department report yesterday showed that while wage gains have slowed slightly in the last month, workers are still enjoying the strongest buying power in years. When adjusted for inflation, the average hourly wage of a worker in a position below management level rose 2.3 percent. November was the third consecutive month that wages rose at more than 2 percent when inflation is factored in, the first time that has happened in five years.
 Not all economists are convinced, however, that the recent rise in wages threatens to push inflation back up. Jared Bernstein, an economist at the Economic Policy Institute, said when inflation was not taken into account, wages had increased about the same year-over-year rate since this summer. 
 ''Inflation hawks are always going to look to the phantom menace of labor costs,'' he said. ''What real wage growth we've achieved has come from slower price growth. And that's been a long time in coming. Don't stop the party just when the working class gets there.''


CORRECTION-DATE: December 20, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Saturday about the latest report on consumer prices, which showed that inflation was being held in check, referred incorrectly to Friday's close of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. (The error was repeated in the DataBank on Sunday.) The close of 1,427 was a six-year high, not the record high. (The record was 1,527 in March 2000.)
An article in Business Day on Saturday about the latest report on consumer prices, which showed that inflation was being held in check, referred incorrectly to Friday's close of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. (The error was repeated in the DataBank on Sunday.) The close of 1,427 was a six-year high, not the record high. (The record was 1,527 in March 2000.)

GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Consumer Prices''Percent change, month to month, seasonally adjusted.U.S. and Major Metropolitan AreasNot seasonally adjustedPercent change from previous:U.S.MONTH: -0.1YEAR: +2.0New YorkMONTH: -0.4YEAR: +2.6Los AngelesMONTH: -0.1YEAR: +2.7ChicagoMONTH: +0.2YEAR: +0.3Boston*MONTH: -0.6YEAR: +2.1Dallas*MONTH: -1.9YEAR: +0.3Detroit*(Oct.)MONTH: -1.0YEAR: +0.8Houston*(Oct.)MONTH: -1.2YEAR: +0.7Philadelphia*(Oct.)MONTH: -2.2YEAR: +2.0San Francisco*(Oct.)MONTH: +0.1YEAR: +2.5Washington*MONTH: -0.7YEAR: +3.1*Calculated bimonthly. Figures are for November, except as noted.(Source by Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INFLATION (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); FOOD PRICES (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); TRENDS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); GASOLINE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (68%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%); TRAVEL TICKETS (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) Labor Department (US); Federal Reserve System

PERSON: Jeremy W Peters

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2006



348 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; FIVE DAYS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: Airlines, Now Healthy, Getting Frisky

BYLINE: By MARK A. STEIN

 BODY:
HOW well have the commercial airlines rebounded from their near-death brushes with bankruptcy in the first half of the decade? Consider this: flights are packed, fares are rising and profits have reappeared despite stubbornly high fuel costs. The best may be to come, as some of the biggest airlines flirt with mergers that could permit them to cut costs and raise fares even further.
 Federal regulators, meanwhile, eased up on some of the rules and prosecutorial tools after the collapses of Enron and WorldCom touched off a series of corporate scandals involving accounting fraud, insider trading, backdated stock option grants and other malfeasance.

THE BAGGAGE CAROUSEL -- The week began with news that another major airline was about to be acquired and ended with the announcement of just such an offer, but the two deals were related only in that they illustrated the industry's budding revival. 
Qantas, the Australian airline, was the one that agreed to be acquired, accepting an $8.7 billion offer from a consortium led by Macquarie Bank and the Texas Pacific Group. Earlier in the week, Continental Airlines confirmed it was being courted by United, its much larger rival. 
 Both deals follow US Airways' offer last month to buy Delta Air Lines for $8 billion. Delta's board is considering that offer as it tries to emerge from bankruptcy court protection.
 If one big domestic merger goes through, other airlines will feel pressure to pair off, too, or risk winding up at a competitive disadvantage because they have higher costs or smaller route networks. While such consolidation may bolster airlines' bottom lines, reduced competition would probably also result in more-crowded flights and higher fares, at least in the short term. 
 Delta, which opposes US Airways' bid, will file a plan next week outlining how it intends to operate as an independent airline once out of bankruptcy court protection.

EASING THE RULES -- Federal regulators and prosecutors moved to narrow or roll back some rules and investigative methods adopted after Enron and WorldCom imploded in multibillion-dollar accounting frauds, starting a wave of corporate scandals that are still unfolding.
 The Justice Department acted first, imposing new limits on prosecutors in white-collar corruption cases. They now must seek approval from senior officials before asking companies to waive their attorney-client privilege, and they must disregard if a company has hired lawyers for potential witnesses when deciding whether to charge the company.
 A day later, the Securities and Exchange Commission moved to relax an auditing provision of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 for smaller companies. In the law, Congress left it to the S.E.C. to decide precisely how thoroughly auditors must review the financial controls companies employ to detect fraud in their accounts.
 The United States Chamber of Commerce and other business groups that have been critical of the S.E.C. rules and the Justice Department's approach may still try to persuade Congress to further reduce regulations and enforcement.

HOLDING STEADY -- The Federal Reserve left its benchmark interest rate steady, holding firm to its position that a slowing economy will subdue inflation in the months ahead but warning in a statement that ''some inflation risks remain.''
 The possibility that inflation will not slow as expected has worried Fed board members, particularly Jeffrey M. Lacker of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, who has dissented each time since the central bank stopped raising rates in August.
 While the Fed's Open Market Committee indicated in its statement that another rate increase could soon be needed to hold price increases down, it also acknowledged that ''recent indicators have been mixed'' and it could not rule out the possibility that economic growth and inflation could slow enough to warrant a rate cut next spring.
 One barometer of inflation, the Labor Department's producer price index, will be updated Tuesday with figures from November.

BIDDING WAR -- Rival steel makers from India and Brazil opened a bidding war for the British-Dutch producer Corus, accelerating a worldwide consolidation of steel companies amid sharply higher costs for raw materials and energy.
 Tata Steel of India began the scrap by offering $9.2 billion in cash for Corus, which itself was created by the 1999 merger of British Steel and Royal Hoogovens of the Netherlands. Within hours of Tata's bid, however, the Brazilian company, Companhia Siderurgica Nacional, offered $9.6 billion.
 Both bidders have access to cheap iron ore, a crucial matter in a global market where ore prices have risen in consecutive years. Tata also has the advantage of India's booming appetite for steel among road builders, land developers and automakers. 
 If either bid succeeds, the deal would be the second largest in 2006, trailing only Mittal Steel's $38.3 billion takeover of the Spanish-French-Luxembourgian steel maker Arcelor last summer.

UNHAPPY ANNIVERSARY -- On the eve of a high-level visit by American officials, the Bush administration accused China of failing to honor promises to open its economy to foreign competition and crack down on piracy of foreign goods.
 The criticism came in a report to Congress by Susan C. Schwab, the United States trade representative. The analysis, which praised China in some areas, was required by American law on the fifth anniversary of China's joining the World Trade Organization.
 The United States may seek arbitration from the World Trade Organization if it cannot resolve its disputes with China.

GOLDEN GOLDMAN -- The investment bank Goldman Sachs said its profit soared 93 percent in its fiscal fourth quarter, meaning it earned nearly as much in 2006 as it had in the previous two years combined -- both of which were also record years.
 Driven by a record year in mergers and acquisitions, a robust stock market rally and rapid growth in credit markets -- which are now much bigger than stock markets -- Goldman posted a record annual profit of $9.5 billion on record revenue of $37.7 billion.
 Soaring profit means soaring bonuses. Investment bankers who generated a lot of business can expect $20 million to $25 million each, while top traders can take home up to $50 million, according to executives at other leading banks.

MOST POPULAR -- Following are the most popular business news articles on nytimes.com from Dec. 9 through Dec. 15:

1. Religion for Captive Audiences, With Taxpayers Footing the Bill
2. The Cost of an Overheated Planet
3. Vista Wins on Looks. As for Lacks...
4. A House Divided: Uncivil War on E. 73rd
5. Protectors, Too, Gather Profits From ID Theft
Links are at nytimes.com/business.



GRAPHIC: Photo: Qantas planes at Melbourne Airport in Australia. In a busy week for airline deals, Qantas agreed to a deal from a consortium to take the company private. (Photo by William West/Agence France-Presse -- Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (95%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); MERGERS (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); ACCOUNTING (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (86%); MISCONDUCT (76%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (75%); INSIDER TRADING (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (75%); CORRUPTION (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (75%); SCANDALS (75%); PRIVILEGED COMMUNICATIONS (70%); LAWYERS (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (67%); WITNESSES (65%); ATTORNEY CLIENT PRIVILEGE (60%); BACKDATED STOCK OPTIONS (55%) 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (92%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (91%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (90%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (57%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%); MACQUARIE BANK LTD (56%); TPG CAPITAL LP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (59%) Qantas Airways; Macquarie Bank; Texas Pacific Group; Justice Department; Securities and Exchange Commission; Enron Corp; Worldcom Inc; Federal Reserve System; Corus Group Plc; Tata Steel; Companhia Siderurgica Nacional; Goldman Sachs Group Inc

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (92%); LCC (NYSE) (91%); UAL (NYSE) (90%); VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%); MBL (ASX) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (55%)

PERSON: George W (Pres) Bush; Mark A Stein

GEOGRAPHIC: MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (76%) AUSTRALIA (91%); UNITED STATES (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2006



349 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: A Sliver of Good News (or Is It?) in the Worsening Trade Balance

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
THE American trade balance continues to worsen, but there is a positive sign. Over the last 12 months, United States exports of goods have risen at a faster rate than imports, in contrast to the situation for most of the last decade. 
 Exports were up 14.3 percent, the fastest growth rate since 1995, while imports climbed 12.4 percent.
That did not, however, cause the deficit to shrink. The trade figures for October, released this week, showed that the United States had exported a record $1.01 trillion in goods over the previous 12 months. Imports, however, came to $1.84 trillion.
 Given that imbalance, exports would have to rise at nearly twice the rate of imports to reduce the dollar total of the deficit. Instead, the 12-month deficit of $828.7 billion was $76.7 billion more than the deficit for the 12 months through October 2005.
 The last time the annual United States trade deficit declined over a 12-month period was in 2002, in the aftermath of the 2001 recession when both imports and exports were declining on an annual basis. 
 The charts show the annual change in exports and imports for the United States both in total and with five countries or groups of countries -- groups that together account for the vast majority of the American trade deficit.
 Measured in terms of growth of exports and imports, the American trade position is improving now with every one of the groups except North America, made up of Canada and Mexico. There, United States exports are up 10.9 percent, while imports grew at a rate of 12.3 percent.
 American exports to China were up 33.4 percent, while imports were up just 17.3 percent -- the slowest rate of gain for imports in four years. But imports from China to the United States are more than five times as large as the flow of goods moving the other way, so the deficit continues to increase. Similarly, American exports to members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries are rising at a more rapid rate than are imports from them -- but the deficit is growing because imports are more than three times as large as exports.
 It was not too many years ago that Japan was the area of most concern to Americans worried about trade deficits. It still accounts for an annual deficit of $87 billion, a tenth of the total, but it provided less than 2 percent of the deterioration in the trade balance since the end of 2000, during the administration of President Bush.
 China, on the other hand, now accounts for 27 percent of the trade deficit and for 36 percent of the deterioration since President Bush took office. 
 The OPEC countries have accounted for 15 percent of the deterioration in the trade deficit, but that is less than the contribution from either Europe -- all the way to Russia and some other former Soviet republics -- or from North America.
 The fact that American exports are now rising faster than imports is in part an indication that other parts of the world are showing more economic strength than the United States. Stronger growth in United States consumption could erase even that small success story.


GRAPHIC: Chart: Exports from the United States are now rising more rapidly than imports on a 12-month basis, although the trade deficit keeps growing because the percent change for exports is off a much lower base. Shown below is United States trade with five key partners, their proportion of the total trade deficit and the percentage of deterioration in the trade balance they accounted for.Graphs track total U.S. trade and U.S. trade with the following (imports and exports) since 2001:EUROPEJAPANCHINANORH AMERICAOPECTotal U.S. Trade12-MONTH U.S TRADE DEFICIT (BILLIONS)2000: $436.12006: $828.7U.S. trade with:NORTH AMERICA2000: $76.52006: $141.0EUROPE2000: $69.32006: $142.3JAPAN2000: $81.62006: $87.1CHINA2000: $83.82006: $225.4OPEC2000: $48.02006: $107.0Total U.S. TradeDETERIORATIONCHANGE IN U.S TRADE DEFICIT, '00-'06 (BILLIONS)$392.6SHARE OF DETERIORATION, IN BILLIONSNORH AMERICA: $64.5AS A PERCENTAGE: 16.4%EUROPE: $72.9AS A PERCENTAGE: 18.6%JAPAN: $5.6AS A PERCENTAGE: 1.4%CHINA: $141.6AS A PERCENTAGE: 36.1%OPEC: $58.6AS A PERCENTAGE: 14.9%*Through October(Source by U.S. Census Bureau via Haver Analytics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (94%); EXPORT TRADE (93%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (61%) 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (84%)

PERSON: Floyd Norris

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (94%); EUROPE (93%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2006



350 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2006
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Science Desk; Q&A; Pg. 0

LENGTH: 1518 words

HEADLINE: Ask Science

BYLINE: By NATALIE ANGIER

 BODY:
Natalie Angier answered selected readers' questions regarding her recent article about turtles in Science Times. 
 First, in response to several reader queries about how they can help save turtles:
There are a number of environmental groups focused on turtle conservation, including the Partners in Amphibian and Reptile Conservation, or PARC, at the University of Georgia; the Turtle Conservation Fund, http://www.chelonian.org/tcf/; and the Caribbean Conservation Corporation and Sea Turtle Survival League, www.cccturtle.org, where a donation allows you to ''adopt'' a sea turtle and then track its transoceanic movements by satellite. 
 Q. Are there turtles in India? There must have been because there are words to describe them in Indian languages, and one of Vishnu's avatars is said to be that of a turtle, but I have never seen a turtle in India outside a zoo, and don't know anyone who has. - S. Rao, Bangalore, India 
 A. There are wild turtles in India, but many species are in trouble. The Indian star tortoise (Geochelone elegans), for example, can still be found in the drier regions of northwest India and into Pakistan, and along the eastern coast from south of the Ganges delta and into Sri Lanka. As a result of habitat loss, the clamor for turtle meat, and the international pet market -- the star tortoise is, after all, one of nature's great beauties -- the numbers are falling sharply. According to the newly published ''Turtles of the World,'' ''more than 100,000 are sold in a single Calcutta market each year.'' The flapshell turtle (Lissemys punctata), once abounded in lakes, streams, canals and swamps throughout the Indian subcontinent, but, again, the relentless human market for turtle flesh, combined with the impact of egg predators like otters, jackals and vultures and the use of the turtle in Vedic religious rituals, has cut the flapshell population to a fraction of its former size. For a more detailed status report on the freshwater and land turtles of India, see http://nytts.org/proceedings/choud.htm.
 Q. Ms. Angier, are there certain markings on turtles that can tell their age? - D. T. Jones
 A. Like other reptiles, turtles shed their skin as they grow, although they shed it in bits and flakes rather than as a whole husk, snake-style. What they do generally shed are the hard keratin-rich plates, or scutes, that on many turtles species, cover the bony underlying shell. Over time, then, the scute layers accumulate one atop the other, like the graduated rings of a baby's toy, and the number of scute rings can give you a rough idea of a turtle's age. The number will be only the baldest of approximations, however, for scute growth rate is quite episodic, and the plates sometimes fall off or get scraped away. Some turtles lack scutes. The leatherback sea turtle and soft-shelled turtles, for example, are covered with thick, leathery skin rather than the horny scales. For species without scutes to count, overall body size is the best indicator of relative age.
 Q. Thank you for your wonderful article. I was fascinated to learn that ''box turtles and other forest-dwelling species can spot a lake or pond a mile in the distance, possibly by detecting polarized light glinting off the surface of the water.'' Can you tell me the source of this information? - E. Gould
 A. Dr. Whit Gibbons of the University of Georgia observes that many turtles have a horizontal black line running through their pupil that remains horizontal and parallel with the horizon even when the turtle is held vertically, suggesting that the line serves an optical purpose, perhaps to detect polarized light. With turtle vision, as with so much of our understanding of the natural world, we remain woefully in the dark.
 Q. I enjoyed your great article this morning. You mention a ''new book'' recently published. Could you give me some info on that? Sounds like a great Xmas gift for my husband. - M. Destiche
 A. The book is ''Turtles of the World,'' by Franck Bonin, Bernard Devaux and Alain Dupre, and translated by Peter C.H. Pritchard. The publisher is the Johns Hopkins University Press.
 Q. One of the main threats to turtles is the illegal wildlife trade in turtles for food, traditional medicines, and souvenirs. This has been a particular threat in East and Southeast Asia, where law enforcement is weak. At the same time, from my experience traveling in the region, most people there do not yet see turtles as sympathetically Americans do, making them more willing to consume turtles. 
 Did anyone you talked with discuss this problem? If so, how do they recommend changing attitudes toward turtles? - D. Nardi
 A. This is an extremely tough issue, especially since people in developing nations may eat turtles to survive, or they harvest turtles and ship them elsewhere because the market demand is large and they need the money. Moreover, Jack Cover, curator of the National Aquarium in Baltimore admitted to having tried the meat of a green sea turtle. 
 ''As much as I love turtles,'' he said, ''I have to admit that it was some of the best meat I ever had.'' Conservations propose that there need to be economic incentives to conserve turtle populations, for example, by linking them to ecotourism packages, as they have in Costa Rica, where people pay big money to watch green sea turtles come ashore in Tortuguero and lay their eggs each August. 
 Q. I've owned turtles for many years. It seems to me they may be as intelligent as parrots, although it's hard to tell because their language ability is mainly receptive. The related story about the turtle who came over for ice cream on hearing the spoon tapped on the bowl reminds me of Gerald Durrell's story about his wild Greek tortoise who would come to his garden when he yelled ''Strawberries, Archimedes!'' (related in ''My Family and Other Animals''). The turtles I had as a college student would climb around and rattle the small stones in their bowl to attract my attention if I hadn't fed them on time, which seems like active communication; they didn't do it at any other time. A Portuguese friend claims to have had a toilet-trained tortoise who would attract attention and ''ask'' to be held over the toilet, which seems odd. However, my Florida three-toed slider uses a water bowl for the same purpose -- but he can climb in and out of it. Has anyone tested turtle intelligence? They must be doing something right to have survived so long. - C. Parkhurst
 A. Ethologists who study animal behavior rightly argue that every organism is brilliant in the ways it needs to be. A honeybee has yet to ace the SAT, possibly because nobody has figured out yet how to attach the bee to a No. 2 pencil without getting stung; but as somebody who gets lost in her own neighborhood and, to avoid embarrassment, has to pretend she's a foreigner whenever somebody stops to ask her directions, I admire a bee's ability to unerringly find its way back home after foraging for miles through dense forest cover, and then to draw a waggle-map for its sister bees that tells them where she's been.
 Be that as it may, I did ask turtle biologists how bright they thought their subjects were, and their responses varied widely. Dr. George Zug of the Smithsonian Institute said that, although one psychology study years ago found found that wood turtles were better than white rats at learning mazes, ''as an overall thing, turtles are dumb.'' Dr. Joseph Mitchell, an ecologist in Virginia, insisted that box turtles were a lot like humans. ''They don't reach sexual maturity until they're in their teens, they mate often, they switch back and forth from monogamy to promiscuity, and they can be very social creatures,'' he said.
 Turtles also seem wise enough not to take themselves too seriously. Play behavior, for example, was long thought to be the province of young mammals and birds -- warm-blooded creatures whose internally generated metabolism allowed them to engage in seemingly frivolous activities off-limits to cold-blooded reptiles dependent on external heat sources to so much as digest a meal.
 In a report on an obviously distressed turtle at the National Zoo, however, Gordon M. Burghardt of the University of Tennessee and his colleagues determined that ectotherms, too, just want to have fun. The object of their study, a 70-pound Niles soft-shelled turtle named Pigface, had been at the zoo for more than 40 years when he inexplicably began mutilating himself -- biting his forelimbs through to the muscle and raking his foreclaws along his neck until he was covered with open sores and infected wounds. 
 Wondering if the turtle might simply be going crazy with boredom, the researchers started adding toys to his tank: a basketball, floating hoops, sticks, spritzing hoses. Soon the turtle was nosing the ball and pushing it around with his forelimbs, darting through the hoop like a trained seal, grabbing the sticks in his mouth and shaking them back and forth, puppy-style, and playing tug-of-war with the zookeepers over the rubber hose. And the more Pigface played, the less he self-mutilated.


GRAPHIC: Photos: From top, a leopard tortoise, a South African land-based species and a common pet. Center, a New Guinea snakeneck turtle, a carnivorous species found in the river system in the southern part of the country. Above, a big-headed turtle, native to mountain streams in Southern China and related to North American snapping turtles. (Photos by Imke Lass for The New York Times, at the University of Georgia, Savannah River Ecology Lab)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (93%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MARINE MAMMALS (78%); MAMMALS (78%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (77%); COASTAL AREAS (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); ECOSYSTEMS & HABITATS (72%); RELIGION (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA (84%); CONSERVATION FUND (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KOLKATA, INDIA (57%) GEORGIA, USA (91%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); WEST BENGAL, INDIA (57%); KARNATAKA, INDIA (57%) INDIA (96%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (91%); UNITED STATES (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CHINA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2006



351 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: City's Elderly Will Outnumber School-Age Children in 25 Years, Study Predicts

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
New York City is growing bigger and grayer. Within 25 years or so, elderly New Yorkers will outnumber school-age children for the first time, projections released this week show.
 Fully one-third of the population gain in the first three decades of the 21st century -- a projected growth rate of nearly 14 percent, slower than between 1980 and 2000 -- is expected to be among people over 65. That is a shift that carries potentially major policy implications for health care, housing, transportation and other issues.
''It's a question of where resources need to go,'' said Joseph J. Salvo, director of the planning department's population division. ''The challenges we face are going to be different.'' 
 By 2030, the number of New Yorkers over age 65 is expected to soar by 400,000, or 44 percent. They would account for nearly 15 percent of the population, compared with less than 12 percent in 2000. 
 In Staten Island, where the number of elderly is projected to double, their share of the population would rise to 19 percent, from 12 percent in 2000. Citywide, the number 85 and older would increase by about 25 percent. 
 The city's population, estimated most recently at 8.2 million, is projected to hit 8.4 million in 2010, 8.7 million in 2020 and 9.1 million in 2030. Queens and Staten Island will reach new highs and Brooklyn and the Bronx will approach their historic peaks, with Brooklyn remaining the most populous and Manhattan growing the second fastest of any borough, the Department of City Planning estimates. 
 The largest numerical increase, 336,000, is anticipated for Queens; the largest percentage gain, 24 percent, for Staten Island. 
 In 1950, the proportion of school-age children was double that of the elderly. 
 By 2030, with the proportion of children declining, both shares are expected to be about equal. 
 After that, officials anticipate that people over 65 will outnumber New Yorkers from the ages of 5 to 17. 
 The number of school-age children is expected to rise slightly in Manhattan and significantly in Queens and Staten Island, but decline over all in the city by 70,000 from 2005 to 2020 to 1.36 million because of declining birthrates, migration and a shrinking share of women of childbearing age.
 The number would begin to rise again after 2020.
 The planning department's projections were issued one day after Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced a campaign to engage the public in helping his Sustainability Advisory Board, led by Daniel L. Doctoroff, the deputy mayor for economic development, plan how the city can cope with a rising population. The board will examine the impact the increasing numbers could have on the environment and on aging systems that provide power, water and transportation.
 Population projections are subject to lots of variables and, historically, those predictions have tended to overestimate growth.
 The planning department's estimates assume that people will live longer. Also, that immigrants -- who typically have higher birthrates than native-born New Yorkers -- will continue to come at about the same pace, but that beginning in 2010 migration from the city will increase because housing elsewhere in the metropolitan area will become more available as elderly suburban homeowners die or retire to other states. 
 ''The region is aging even faster than the city,'' Mr. Salvo said. 
 The median age in the city is projected to rise from 34.2 in 2000 to 37.4 in 2030, and range then from 33.3 in the Bronx to 39.5 in Manhattan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POPULATION SIZE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); POPULATION GROWTH (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (86%); POPULATION DECLINE (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%) Population; Aged; Children and Youth; Education and Schools

ORGANIZATION: Planning Department (NYC)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (59%) Sam Roberts

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2006



352 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2271 words

HEADLINE: In Raising the World's I.Q., the Secret's in the Salt

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.

DATELINE: ASTANA, Kazakhstan 

 BODY:
Valentina Sivryukova knew her public service messages were hitting the mark when she heard how one Kazakh schoolboy called another stupid. ''What are you,'' he sneered, ''iodine-deficient or something?''
 Ms. Sivryukova, president of the national confederation of Kazakh charities, was delighted. It meant that the years spent trying to raise public awareness that iodized salt prevents brain damage in infants were working. If the campaign bore fruit, Kazakhstan's national I.Q. would be safeguarded.
In fact, Kazakhstan has become an example of how even a vast and still-developing nation like this Central Asian country can achieve a remarkable public health success. In 1999, only 29 percent of its households were using iodized salt. Now, 94 percent are. Next year, the United Nations is expected to certify it officially free of iodine deficiency disorders.
 That turnabout was not easy. The Kazakh campaign had to overcome widespread suspicion of iodization, common in many places, even though putting iodine in salt, public health experts say, may be the simplest and most cost-effective health measure in the world. Each ton of salt needs about two ounces of potassium iodate, which costs about $1.15. 
 Worldwide, about two billion people -- a third of the globe -- get too little iodine, including hundreds of millions in India and China. Studies show that iodine deficiency is the leading preventable cause of mental retardation. Even moderate deficiency, especially in pregnant women and infants, lowers intelligence by 10 to 15 I.Q. points, shaving incalculable potential off a nation's development. 
 The most visible and severe effects -- disabling goiters, cretinism and dwarfism -- affect a tiny minority, usually in mountain villages. But 16 percent of the world's people have at least mild goiter, a swollen thyroid gland in the neck. 
 ''Find me a mother who wouldn't pawn her last blouse to get iodine if she understood how it would affect her fetus,'' said Jack C. S. Ling, chairman of the International Council for Control of Iodine Deficiency Disorders, a committee of about 350 scientists formed in 1985 to champion iodization. 
 The 1990 World Summit for Children called for the elimination of iodine deficiency by 2000, and the subsequent effort was led by Professor Ling's organization along with Unicef, the World Health Organization, Kiwanis International, the World Bank and the foreign aid agencies of Canada, Australia, the Netherlands, the United States and others.
 Largely out of the public eye, they made terrific progress: 25 percent of the world's households consumed iodized salt in 1990. Now, about 66 percent do.
 But the effort has been faltering lately. When victory was not achieved by 2005, donor interest began to flag as AIDS, avian flu and other threats got more attention. 
 And, like all such drives, it cost more than expected. In 1990, the estimated price tag was $75 million -- a bargain compared with, for example, the fight against polio, which has consumed about $4 billion. 
 Since then, according to David P. Haxton, the iodine council's executive director, about $160 million has been spent, including $80 million from Kiwanis and $15 million from the Gates Foundation, along with unknown amounts spent on new equipment by salt companies.
 ''Very often, I'll talk to a salt producer at a meeting, and he'll have no idea he had this power in his product,'' Mr. Haxton said. ''He'll say 'Why didn't you tell me? Sure, I'll do it. I would have done it sooner.' ''
 In many places, like Japan, people get iodine from seafood, seaweed, vegetables grown in iodine-rich soil or animals that eat grass grown in that soil. But even wealthy nations, including the United States and in Europe, still need to supplement that by iodizing salt.
 The cheap part, experts say, is spraying on the iodine. The expense is always for the inevitable public relations battle. 
 In some nations, iodization becomes tarred as a government plot to poison an essential of life -- salt experts compare it to the furious opposition by 1950s conservatives to fluoridation of American water.
 In others, civil libertarians demand a right to choose plain salt, with the result that the iodized kind rarely reaches the poor. Small salt makers who fear extra expense often lobby against it. So do makers of iodine pills who fear losing their market.
 Rumors inevitably swirl: iodine has been blamed for AIDS, diabetes, seizures, impotence and peevishness. Iodized salt, according to different national rumor mills, will make pickled vegetables explode, ruin caviar or soften hard cheese.
 Breaking down that resistance takes both money and leadership. 
 ''For 5 cents per person per year, you can make the whole population smarter than before,'' said Dr. Gerald N. Burrow, a former dean of Yale's medical school and vice chairman of the iodine council. 
 ''That has to be good for a country. But you need a government with the political will to do it.'' 

'Scandal' of Stunted Children
 In the 1990s, when the campaign for iodization began, the world's greatest concentration of iodine-deficient countries was in the landlocked former Soviet republics of Central Asia. 
 All of them -- Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan, Kyrghzstan -- saw their economies break down with the collapse of the Soviet Union. Across the region, only 28 percent of all households used iodized salt.
 ''With the collapse of the system, certain babies went out with the bathwater, and iodization was one of them,'' said Alexandre Zouev, chief Unicef representative in Kazakhstan.
 Dr. Toregeldy Sharmanov, who was the Kazakh Republic's health minister from 1971 to 1982, when it was in the Soviet Union, said the problem was serious even then. But he had been unable to fix it because policy was set in Moscow.
 ''Kazakh children were stunted compared to the same-age Russian children,'' he said. ''But they paid no attention. It was a scandal.''
 In 1996, Unicef, which focuses on the health of children, opened its first office in Kazakhstan and arranged for a survey of 5,000 households. It found that 10 percent of the children were stunted, opening the way for international aid. (Stunting can have many causes, but iodine deficiency is a prime culprit.)
 In neighboring Turkmenistan, President Saparmurat Niyazov -- a despot who requires all clocks to bear his likeness and renamed the days of the week after his family -- solved the problem by simply declaring plain salt illegal in 1996 and ordering shops to give each citizen 11 pounds of iodized salt a year at state expense. 
 In Kazakhstan, the democratic credentials of President Nursultan A. Nazarbayev, who has ruled since 1991, have come under criticism, but he does not rule by decree. ''Those days are over,'' said Ms. Sivryukova of the confederation of Kazakh charities. ''Businesses are private now. They don't follow the president's orders.''
 Importantly, however, the president was supportive. But even so, as soon as Parliament began debating mandatory iodization in 2002, strong lobbies formed against the measure. 
 The country's biggest salt company was initially reluctant to cooperate, fearing higher costs, a Unicef report said. Cardiologists argued against iodization, fearing it would encourage people to use more salt, which can raise blood pressure. More insidious, Dr. Sharmanov said, were private companies that sold iodine pills. 
 ''They promoted their products in the mass media, saying iodized salt was dangerous,'' he said, shaking his head.
 So Dr. Sharmanov, the national Health Ministry, Ms. Sivryukova and others devised a marketing campaign -- much of it paid for by American taxpayers, through money given to Unicef by the United States Agency for International Development. 
 Comic strips starring a hooded crusader, Iodine Man, rescuing a slow-witted student from an enraged teacher were handed out across the country. 
 A logo was designed for food packages certified to contain iodized salt: a red dot and a curved line in a circle, meant to represent a face with a smile so big that the eyes are squeezed shut. 
 Also, Ms. Sivryukova's network of local charity women stepped in. As in all ex-Soviet states, government advice is regarded with suspicion, while civic organizations have credibility.
 Her volunteers approached schools, asking teachers to create dictation exercises about iodized salt and to have students bring salt from home to test it for iodine in science class. 
 Ms. Sivryukova described one child's tears when he realized he was the only one in his class with noniodized salt. 
 The teacher, she said, reassured him that it was not his fault. ''Children very quickly start telling their parents to buy the right salt,'' she said.
 One female volunteer went to a bus company and rerecorded its ''next-stop'' announcements interspersed with short plugs for iodized salt. ''She had a very sexy voice, and men would tell the drivers to play it again,'' Ms. Sivryukova said.
 Even the former world chess champion Anatoly Karpov, who is a hero throughout the former Soviet Union for his years as champion, joined the fight. ''Eat iodized salt,'' he advised schoolchildren in a television appearance, ''and you will grow up to be grandmasters like me.''
 Mr. Karpov, in particular, handled hostile journalists adeptly, Mr. Zouev said, deflecting inquiries as to why he did not advocate letting people choose iodized or plain salt by comparing it to the right to have two taps in every home, one for clean water and one for dirty.
 By late 2003, the Parliament finally made iodization mandatory.

In Aral, Mountains Made of Salt
 Today in central Kazakhstan, a miniature mountain range rises over Aral, a decaying factory town on what was once the shore of the Aral Sea, a salt lake that has steadily shrunk as irrigation projects begun under Stalin drained the rivers that feed it.
 Drive closer and the sharp white peaks turn out to be a small Alps of salt -- the Aral Tuz Company stockpile. Salt has been dug here for centuries. Nowadays, a great rail-mounted combine chews away at a 10-foot-thick layer of salt in the old seabed, before it is towed 11 miles back to the plant, and washed and ground. Before it reaches the packaging room, as the salt falls through a chute from one conveyor belt to another, a small pump sprays iodine into the grainy white cascade. The step is so simple that, if it were not for the women in white lab coats scooping up samples, it would be missed. 
 The $15,000 tank and sprayer were donated by Unicef, which also used to supply the potassium iodate. Today Aral Tuz and its smaller rival, Pavlodar Salt, buy their own. 
 Asked about the Unicef report saying that Aral Tuz initially resisted iodization on the grounds that it would eat up 7 percent of profits, the company's president, Ontalap Akhmetov, seemed puzzled. ''I've only been president three years,'' he said. ''But that makes no sense.'' The expense, he said, was minimal. ''Only a few cents a ton.''
 Kazakhstan was lucky. It had just the right mix of political and economic conditions for success: political support, 98 percent literacy, an economy helped along by rising prices for its oil and gas. Most important, perhaps, one company, Aral Tuz, makes 80 percent of the edible salt. 
 That combination is missing in many nations where iodine deficiency remains a health crisis. In nearby Pakistan, for instance, where 70 percent of households have no iodized salt, there are more than 600 small salt producers. 
 ''If a country has a reasonably well-organized salt system and only a couple of big producers who get on the bandwagon, iodization works,'' said Venkatesh Mannar, a former salt producer in India who now heads the Micronutrient Initiative in Ottawa, which seeks to fortify the foods of the world's poor with iodine, iron and other minerals. ''If there are a lot of small producers, it doesn't.''
 Now that Kazakhstan has its law, Ms. Sivryukova's volunteers have not let up their vigilance. They help enforce it by going to markets, buying salt and testing it on the spot. The government has trained customs agents to test salt imports and fenced some areas where people dug their own salt. Children still receive booklets and instruction.
 Experts agree the country is unlikely to slip back into neglect. Surveys find consumers very aware of iodine, and the red-and-white logo is such a hit that food producers have asked for permission to use it on foods with added iron or folic acid, said Dr. Sharmanov, the former Kazakh Republic health minister. And the salt is working. In the 1999 survey that found stunted children, a smaller sampling of urine from women of child-bearing age found that 60 percent had suboptimal levels of iodine.
 ''We just did a new study, which is not released yet,'' said Dr. Feruza Ospanova, head of the nutrition academy's laboratory. ''The number was zero percent.'' 

The Disease
 Lack of dietary iodine causes goiters -swollen neck glands and, in severe cases, cretinism. But even moderate deficiencies in fetuses can permanently lower I.Q. by 10 to 15 points.

Two billion people face some deficiency.

Iodine is in seaweed, seafood and plants grown in iodine-rich soil. Iodizing salt, for less than 5 cents a year per person, is the cheapest solution.

On the Brink
 This article is part of a series examining diseases that hover on the brink of eradication, and the daunting obstacles that doctors and scientists face to finish the job. A final article will report on the challenges of campaigns that try to offer prevention of a number of diseases at once.


GRAPHIC: Photos: MAKING A DIFFERENCE -- Salt, excavated from a field at the Aral Tuz salt processing plant in Aral, Kazakhstan, in train carriages. In 1999, only 29 percent of the nation's households were using iodized salt. Now, 94 percent are.
GETTING THE WORD OUT -- In Kzyl-Orda, Kazakhstan, seventh graders passing information booklets to one another about the importance of iodized salt. (Photographs by Joseph Swenkyj for The New York Times)
 (Photo by Earl & Nazima Kowall/Corbis)(pg. A10)Chart/Map: ''An Ounce of Prevention''Up to two billion people in the world are at risk of iodine deficiency. Below, map illustrates levels of iodine intake worldwide in 2002.UNITED STATESA goiter-reduction plan began in 1924 by the Michigan State Medical Society and Morton Salt. Now 70 percent of table salt is iodized.RUSSIASeventy percent of households still do not use iodized salt. Parliament declines to make it make it mandatory.CHINAAfter a 10-year government campaign, over 90 percent of people use iodized salt, still leaving 100 million facing deficiency.CONGOFew parts of Africa face iodine crises because many import salt from countries like South Africa and Kenya that iodize.INDIAAbout 500 million people get too little iodine, 54 million have goiters and two million are cretins.Map of the World highlighting areas listed above.(Source by International Council for the Control of Iodine Deficiency Disorders)(pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MENTAL RETARDATION (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (88%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (88%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); PUBLIC SERVICE ADVERTISING (78%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (75%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (75%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (74%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (74%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (71%); NUTRITION (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); AVIAN INFLUENZA (69%); DISABLED PERSONS (69%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (69%); MOUNTAINS (63%) Medicine and Health; Third World and Developing Countries; Salt; Iodine; Diet and Nutrition; Mental Retardation; Medicine and Health; Pregnancy and Obstetrics; Women; Children and Youth; Intelligence; Goiters; Dwarfism; Surveys and Series; Medicine and Health

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%) United Nations

PERSON: Donald G Jr Mcneil

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) KAZAKHSTAN (99%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (79%); ASIA (79%); INDIA (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); KENYA (79%); AFRICA (79%); NETHERLANDS (66%) Kazakhstan; China; India

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2006



353 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: Global Warming Poses Threat to Ski Resorts in the Alps

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: KITZBUHEL, Austria, Dec. 15 

 BODY:
How balmy has it been in the Alps these last few months? At the bottom of the Hahnenkamm, the famously treacherous downhill course in this Austrian ski resort, the slope peters out into a grassy field. And it's just 10 days before Christmas.
 Snow cannons are showering clouds of white crystals over the slopes, but by midmorning each day, the machines have to be turned off because the mercury has risen too far for the fake snow to stick. 
''Of course I'm nervous about the snow, but what am I supposed to do?'' said Signe Kramheller-Reisch, as she walked in a field outside her family's hotel, wearing suede shoes and a resigned expression. ''We have classic winters and we have nonclassic winters.''
 This season is certainly shaping up as a nonclassic, but it may be a milestone of another kind. The record warmth -- in some places autumn temperatures were three degrees Celsius above average -- has brought home the profound threat of climate change to Europe's ski industry.
 If venturing outdoors without a jacket is not enough evidence, there are two new studies -- one that says the Alps are the warmest they have been in 1,250 years and another that predicts that an increase of a few more degrees would leave most Alpine resorts with too little snow to survive.
 The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, which sponsored the second study, stopped short of predicting ruin for Europe's ski industry. But Bruno Abegg, a researcher at the University of Zurich who was involved in it, said low-lying resorts faced an insuperable problem. ''Let's put it this way,'' he said. ''I wouldn't invest in Kitzbuhel.''
 People here have heard baleful predictions for years. Because Kitzbuhel sits in a low Tyrolean valley, at an altitude of only 2,624 feet, it is viewed as particularly vulnerable to the effects of global warming. (Vail, by contrast, sits at 8,210 feet in the Colorado Rockies).
 For Kitzbuhel, a glamorous dowager among Alpine resorts, the only comfort in the warm spell is that it has afflicted rivals at all altitudes. Val d'Isere, in France, and St. Moritz, in Switzerland -- which are twice as high -- were forced to cancel recent World Cup races for lack of snow.
 Among the hoteliers, bartenders and others who depend on the ski trade, the long wait for winter has summoned a stoicism that comes from long experience with the vagaries of Mother Nature.
 ''This just happens every few winters,'' said Josef Brandstutter, the owner of a mountaintop hotel, as he nursed a beer at a bar in town. ''We know the snow will come.''
 A few guests have canceled bookings for Christmas week, according to the local tourism office. But most are holding on to see if the weather changes; snow is forecast for Sunday. If it does not snow by New Year's Day, however, people here say the trickle of cancellations could turn into a flood.
 As for the broader threat of global warming, townspeople react with a mixture of fatalism and mild skepticism to studies like the one coordinated by Austria's Central Institute for Meteorology and Geodynamics, which says the Alps have not been this warm since the eighth century.
 Mrs. Kramheller-Reisch, whose great-grandfather introduced skiing to Kitzbuhel in the 19th century, cited a letter her grandfather wrote in the 1920s, in which he said farmers could not haul wood from the mountains down to the village because there was no snow for their sleds.
 While she does not dispute the inevitability of global warming, Mrs. Kramheller-Reisch, 51, said that for the ski industry in Austria, ''This is not going to be a problem in our lifetimes.''
 Climatologists, however, say the warming trend will become dramatic by 2020. The new studies are alarming, suggesting that the Alps are warming twice as fast as the average in the rest of the world. In 1980, 75 percent of Alpine glaciers were advancing; now, 90 percent are retreating.
 Reinhard Bohm, a meteorologist who worked on the study of Alpine temperatures, said one explanation for the disparity was the region's location in the middle of the European continent, far from any oceans, which react more moderately to global warming trends.
 Temperatures in the Alps began heating up around 1980, Mr. Bohm said, after an uncommonly cool period that started in 1950. This coincided with the major development of the European ski industry.
 Despite the evidence of rapid change, Mr. Bohm said there was little talk of how to prepare for global warming in the resorts. ''Nobody in ski tourism plans out further than 10 years,'' he said. ''If you ask people whether they are interested in the climate in 50 years, they say no.''
 The O.E.C.D. study may focus minds. In Austria today, it says, 83 percent of ski resorts are ''snow-reliable,'' meaning they have enough snow for 100 days a season. If temperatures increased one degree Celsius, only 67 percent would have enough; if they rose two degrees, only half would.
 Like most resorts, Kitzbuhel has focused on offering more alternatives to skiing. Most hotels now have saunas and steam rooms befitting the Romans. There is an elaborate town sports center, with curling, climbing and ice hockey. Mrs. Kramheller-Reisch has put in conference facilities.
 Kitzbuhel has invested heavily in snowmaking equipment, which will soon cover all the major slopes. The resort has a few advantages: Because farmers use the slopes to graze cattle and sheep in the summer, there are fewer rocks than at other resorts. That means Kitzbuhel needs less snow cover.
 Snowmaking, of course, is still hostage to the weather. Even with the machines running full tilt, Kitzbuhel will be able to open only 6 or 7 of its 54 lifts this weekend. And snowmaking is extremely expensive, prompting a debate in town about who should pay the bill.
 Climate change need not end in Kitzbuhel's extinction, said Georg Hechenberger, a director of the company that runs the resort's cable cars and lifts. One theory, he noted, is that rising temperatures will disrupt the Gulf Stream, plunging northern Europe into a period of chillier weather.
 ''In that scenario,'' he said, ''low-lying ski resorts are in good shape. You're not going to feel comfortable at high altitudes.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Two skiers walking across a patch of grass at the foot of a Kitzbuhel ski slope. Experts say the Alps are heating up twice as fast as elsewhere.
 A ski chairlift was idle yesterday in sunny Kitzbuhel, Austria. A new study says the Alps are now the warmest they have been in 1,250 years. (Photographs by Roland Schlager for The New York Times) Map of Austria highlighting Kitzbuhel: The ski resort at Kitzbuhel sits in a low-lying valley in the Tyrol.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESORTS (91%); MOUNTAINS (91%); SKIING FACILITIES (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); SKIING (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); CHRISTMAS (77%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (77%); WEATHER (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); DRINKING PLACES (63%); SPORTS & RECREATION (60%) Weather; Global Warming; Skiing; Snow and Snowstorms

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (82%) Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development

PERSON: Mark Landler

GEOGRAPHIC: ZURICH (79%) ALPS (95%); TYROL, AUSTRIA (92%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) AUSTRIA (94%); EUROPE (91%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%) Alps Mountains; Europe; Kitzbuhel (Austria) 

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2006



354 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 302 words

HEADLINE: The Story of the Numbers

 BODY:
There is a novel hidden in the raw data recently released in the Census Bureau's 2007 Statistical Abstract -- a kind of collective ''Pale Fire'' by Vladimir Nabokov, a portrait of strangeness amid familiarity. All the vestiges of causality and context are missing from the numbers, so one is left to ponder what link there might be between the growing size of our houses and our drinking 23 gallons of bottled water a year. 
 Could our passion for high-fructose corn syrup have something to do with the decline in the divorce rate? And why have college students given up hopes of finding a meaningful philosophy of life in favor of being financially well off? Is it because they seem to be taller than their elders?
Let's face it. In the abstract -- statistically -- we don't make much sense. Before the data means anything it has to be balanced, weighted, contextualized and interpreted. Even then the questions of cause and volition are still problematic. Do we drink 10 times more bottled water than we did in 1980 because we now distrust tap water? Or have we been led into aquatic skepticism by bottled-water marketing campaigns? Or does the truth lie muddled in the middle? The census numbers are endpoints in our understanding of the country around us. They outline our demographic diversity, our economic decisions, but they have a harder time showing the pressures that bear upon us every day and that shape our behavior. 
 Still, there is something fascinating about thumbing through this summary of America. Every census tries to capture a detailed snapshot of who and how we are, a portrait of the present. But as everyone who has ever stood in front of a camera knows, we will look back at these numbers -- 13 million blogs created, 64 days a year watching television -- and wonder who on earth we were. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (92%); STATISTICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BOTTLED WATER (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (55%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (51%) Population; Editorials

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (91%) Census Bureau

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2006



355 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Arrive at the Heart of the Matter 

BYLINE: By THOMAS B. EDSALL. 
Thomas B. Edsall, a correspondent for The New Republic and National Journal, has been a guest columnist for the last month. He holds the Pulitzer-Moore Chair at the Columbia Graduate School of Journalism.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Democrats are positioned to make a down payment to the voters who gave them majority control of the House and the Senate. Their ability to pay in full is another question.
 House Democrats, more than their Senate colleagues, can set certain partisan markers: a minimum-wage hike, ethics reform, reduced student loan interest rates and changes in labor law, which will make union organizing less difficult.
As the majority, Democratic leaders and committee chairs can focus public attention on job, pension and health care security issues; publicize evidence of decreased mobility on the economic ladder; and spotlight the growing vulnerability of middle-income families to sharp and sudden downward financial swings. 
 The threat to the middle class is real. ''I won by almost 13 points, with almost no newspaper endorsements, against an incumbent who had given out $1 billion in projects,'' says Sherrod Brown, a new senator for Ohio. ''It was because of the strength of our message about the middle class.''
 So much for the down payment. After that, the going for the Democrats gets tougher. They will encounter two roadblocks: Republican chokeholds on federal spending, meant to ''starve the beast'' by radically depleting coffers, and intense internal Democratic policy conflicts.
 Democrats on the House Budget and Appropriations Committees released a report early this month, titled The Republican Legacy, which describes the spending restrictions confronting them. The 110th Congress ''will face a fiscal challenge of historic proportions. The cost of the Iraq war, coupled with the growing price tag of tax cuts passed over the previous six years, have left the nation deeper in debt than ever.'' (Since 2002, Congress has appropriated $379 billion for the Iraq war.)
 One solution, raising taxes, is widely seen as a third rail for Democrats. ''We are not talking about that now,'' said a spokesman for the incoming speaker, Nancy Pelosi.
 The intraparty conflict pits its business and labor wings against each other on policies dealing with the international marketplace. Should lawmakers encourage the flow of cheap goods from China to stock the shelves of Wal-Mart, benefiting American shoppers, many of whom are low income? Or should policy be designed to protect American jobs and wages by raising trade barriers?
 This split is profound. Barney Frank -- echoing a large swath of his party -- contends that this nation's ''enormous economic power'' could be used to stem the hemorrhage of services and production overseas. Trade agreements could be made contingent upon rules requiring that China and other countries abide by environmental and labor standards. ''People greatly exaggerate the value of a cheap T-shirt,'' Frank says, upholding the position of organized labor and dismissing the argument that such goals are unattainable and unenforceable.
 A leading Democratic proponent of free trade, who does not want to publicly engage the topic yet, has a counterargument, that China is moving full speed ahead, that ''you cannot put labor provisions into a trade agreement with China. They'll walk away.'' That globalization is inexorable. That ''we are either going to be inside the net or outside the net.'' That America needs to deal with dislocation effects and negative distribution consequences. He points out that Midwestern law firms are outsourcing research to India, that the U.S. needs a better education system, that Korea has a national broadband infrastructure, that Shanghai and Beijing airports are more modern than J.F.K., that key military agencies no longer support basic research. 
 He argues that chemical plants need security and that America needs universal health coverage. ''There's a lot we can do to make it better,'' he says, like locating businesses in the U.S. in clusters around universities, and locating production closer to centers of ''intellectual ferment.'' He is firm on one point: ''We need to get back on track fiscally. We have to have higher revenue. Business is not supporting taxes. They rail against government spending. We don't have the means to pay for what we need.''
 This conflict goes to the heart of Democratic struggles to develop a credible economic policy. The Democrats have a two-year window in which to confront their internal schisms and to present a stronger face to the electorate in 2008.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); ETHICS (77%); TAX INCREASES (77%); MINIMUM WAGE (77%); TAX LAW (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (76%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); STUDENT LOANS (71%); FAMILY (70%); IRAQ WAR (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); INTEREST RATES (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) United States Economy; Election Issues

PERSON: BARNEY FRANK (58%); SHERROD BROWN (58%); NANCY PELOSI (55%) Thomas B Edsall

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2006



356 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 382 words

HEADLINE: Inquiry on China Export Subsidies Is Approved

BYLINE: Reuters

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 15 

 BODY:
The International Trade Commission on Friday approved the first American investigation into suspected Chinese government subsidies to exporters since 1991 in a case that could open the floodgate to more inquiries. 
 The trade panel voted 4 to 1 to clear the way for the Commerce Department to decide whether to place countervailing duties on coated paper from China to offset what American manufacturers charge are subsidies that include government grants, preferential loans and tax breaks.
At issue is a long-standing Commerce Department policy, upheld by a 1986 court ruling, that United States countervailing duty laws do not apply to nonmarket economies like China.
 When the department accepted the countervailing duty petition last month, it said it would decide within the course of that investigation whether to change its policy.
 The department is expected to issue its preliminary decision in the case next month.
 The manufacturer that filed the case, the NewPage Corporation of Dayton, Ohio, also asked the Commerce Department to investigate whether China was selling coated free sheet paper in the United States at below fair-market value.
 The commission also approved the antidumping inquiry and similar sets of investigations on coated paper from Indonesia and South Korea. By the 4-to-1 vote, it found a reasonable indication that imports from all three countries had materially injured, or threatened to materially injure, the domestic industry.
 Coated free sheet paper is a high-end product used for coffee table books, company reports, magazines and brochures. The significance of the countervailing duty case against China goes beyond the paper industry, as the trade deficit with China nears a record $240 billion this year.
 American manufacturers have not tried to bring a countervailing duty complaint against China since 1991, when the Commerce Department rejected two cases dealing with lugnuts and ceiling fans. However, they have been pushing for a change in the policy, through legislation if necessary.
 The U.S. position has been that it is too difficult to determine subsidy levels in a ''nonmarket economy,'' as China is still considered under American trade laws, said John Magnus, president of Tradewins, a Washington law firm specializing in trade cases.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (94%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (93%); INVESTIGATIONS (92%); EXPORT TRADE (91%); APPROVALS (91%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); EXPORT PROMOTION (90%); COUNTERVAILING DUTIES (90%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); PAPER & PACKAGING (89%); PAPER MILLS (89%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); PAPER BAG & COATED PAPER MFG (76%); PAPER MFG (76%); PETITIONS (75%); LAWYERS (74%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (71%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (71%) 

COMPANY: NEWPAGE CORP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%) International Trade Commission (US); Commerce Department; Newpage (Paper Mill)

INDUSTRY: NAICS322220 PAPER BAG & COATED & TREATED PAPER MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAYTON, OH, USA (55%) OHIO, USA (79%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); INDONESIA (79%) China

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2006



357 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1305 words

HEADLINE: OPTIONS WEIGHED FOR SURGE IN G.I.'S TO STABILIZE IRAQ

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and MICHAEL R. GORDON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Dec. 15 

 BODY:
Military planners and White House budget analysts have been asked to provide President Bush with options for increasing American forces in Iraq by 20,000 or more. The request indicates that the option of a major ''surge'' in troop strength is gaining ground as part of a White House strategy review, senior administration officials said Friday.
 Discussion of increasing the number of American troops, at least temporarily, has coursed through Washington for two months, as a possible way to reverse the deteriorating security situation in Baghdad. But the decision to ask the Joint Chiefs of Staff to specify where the additional forces could be found among overstretched Army, Marine and National Guard units, and to seek a cost estimate from the White House Office of Management and Budget, signifies a turn in the debate.
Officials said that the options being considered included the deployment of upwards of 50,000 additional troops, but that the political, training and recruiting obstacles to an increase larger than 20,000 to 30,000 troops would be prohibitive. 
 At present, only about 17,000 American soldiers are actively involved in the effort to secure Baghdad, so even the low end of the proposals being considered by military and budget officials could more than double the size of that force. If adopted, such an increase would be a major departure from the current strategy advocated by Gen. George W. Casey Jr., which has stressed stepping up the training of Iraqi forces and handing off to them as soon as possible. 
 The details of the plan under study by the White House are not known, but in most scenarios the troop increase would be accomplished in large part by accelerating some scheduled deployments while delaying the departure of units in Iraq. 
 President Bush has made no final decision, the White House said. Gordon Johndroe, the National Security Council spokesman, said that no memorandums outlining the options for increasing troop strength had gone to the president. But one senior official said the subject was discussed at length on Wednesday during Mr. Bush's briefing at the Pentagon, and the president has reportedly asked detailed questions that some officials have interpreted as suggesting that he is strongly leaning in that direction. 
 American military officials said Friday night that the Pentagon was planning to send the Second Brigade of the 82nd Airborne Division to Kuwait in January. The brigade, based at Fort Bragg, N.C., would serve as a reserve that commanders in Iraq could draw on. 
 American military commanders have been operating without such a reserve since the Marine unit that had been on call was dispatched to Anbar Province in western Iraq. The Army brigade could become an element of a larger troop deployment to Iraq if the White House decided to increase troops there. 
 That option has been central to a broader debate in Washington. Advocates of a troop increase say the aim would be to reverse the slide toward an all-out civil war and give the new Iraqi government more time to consolidate control, while training of Iraqis is stepped up. 
 At the same time, American and Iraqi forces would try to tamp down strife in neighborhoods that contain Shiites and Sunnis, and slow insurgent attacks. To be effective, proponents say, these tactics would need to be married to a broader political and economic strategy to generate employment in Baghdad and stabilize Iraq.
 Critics of a surge approach have argued that any American troop increase would lead to more American casualties and merely put off the day when the Iraqis need to assume responsibility for their own security. 
 There is also concern that the military benefits would be short-lived unless the higher troop levels were sustained for a long period, adding to the strain on American forces. Alternatively, critics say, if the surge in troop levels was too brief, adversaries could simply wait for the reinforcements to leave.
 Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, said during a visit to Baghdad this week that American military commanders were discussing the possibility of adding as many as 10 more combat brigades -- a maximum of about 35,000 troops -- to establish some of control while Iraq's divided political leaders seek solutions to the mounting violence. 
 On Friday, however, one administration official said that additional work was needed to fit a troop increase into the larger strategy, as well as on technical aspects about how the operation would be carried out. ''There has not been a full articulation of what we would want the surge to accomplish,'' he said. 
 Strikingly, the surge proposal has not been actively promoted by the top commander in Iraq. General Casey, the senior American commander in Baghdad, has emphasized faster training of Iraqi security forces, an effort that would be supported in part by converting existing combat forces into trainers. 
 Gen. John P. Abizaid, the top American commander in the Middle East, has said that the advantages of a surge in troop levels would be temporary, and that it might dissuade Iraqis from doing more to provide for their own security.
 Some of the chiefs of the services that would supply forces for the surge have spoken about it in hedged terms. ''We would not surge without a purpose,'' Peter J. Schoomaker, the Army chief of staff, told reporters on Thursday. ''And that purpose should be measurable.''
 But Lt. Gen. Raymond T. Odierno, who is assuming day-to-day command of American troops in Iraq from Lt. Gen. Peter W. Chiarelli, is said to be sympathetic to the idea.
 The surge proposal has also gained greater support among recently retired officers who served in Iraq, particularly if carried out as part of a broader political and economic strategy.
 Two retired Army veterans who served in the unit that took control of the northern Iraqi city of Tal Afar in 2005 -- Col. Joel Armstrong and Maj. Daniel Dwyer -- helped draft a new study issued Thursday by the American Enterprise Institute that called for sending an additional four or five combat brigades, or some 14,000 to 17,500 troops, to Baghdad. 
 The study determined that the military could sustain a surge of that level, but that it would require sending several Army brigades back to Iraq a couple of months early and extending the customary yearlong Army tour to 15 months.
 In its report last week, the bipartisan Iraq Study Group rejected the idea of a ''substantial'' force increase on the order of 100,000 to 200,000 troops, saying that those levels were not ''available for a sustained deployment'' and would feed fears in Iraq that the United States was planning a long-term occupation. 
 ''We could, however, support a short-term redeployment or surge of American combat forces to stabilize Baghdad,'' the report added, ''or to speed up the training and equipping mission, if the U.S. commander in Iraq determines that such steps would be effective.''

Bush Speaks With Maliki
By The New York Times
 WASHINGTON, Dec. 15 -- President Bush held a videoconference with the Iraqi prime minister, Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, on Friday, the eve of a Baghdad conference aimed at cooling sectarian violence.
 At the conference, Kurdish, Shiite and Sunni Arab politicians are expected to discuss a reconciliation plan that includes possible amnesty for insurgent fighters and proposals to curb militia violence.
 White House officials said Mr. Bush spoke by secure video with Mr. Maliki for roughly half an hour. 
 Gordon Johndroe, a spokesman for the National Security Council, said Mr. Maliki talked about his desire ''for a larger core of Iraqi political leaders to come together for the common objective of stabilizing Iraq.'' The Bush administration has been encouraging Mr. Maliki to rely less on the radical Shiite cleric Moktada al-Sadr.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (92%); BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ARMIES (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (79%); NATIONAL SECURITY (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (75%) Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; United States Armament and Defense

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (57%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (56%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (51%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (51%)

PERSON: David E Sanger; Michael R Gordon; George W (Pres) Bush; George W Jr (Gen) Casey

GEOGRAPHIC: FAYETTEVILLE, NC, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (95%); KUWAIT (79%) Iraq; United States; Iraq

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2006



358 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: Japanese Lawmakers Pass Two Laws That Shift the Nation Away From Its Postwar Pacifism

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI

DATELINE: TOKYO, Dec. 15 

 BODY:
Japan broke two postwar taboos on Friday as the upper house of Parliament approved laws that would officially bring patriotism back into the classroom and upgrade the status of its Defense Agency.
 The new education law revises the country's 1947 Fundamental Law of Education, which had been drafted during the American occupation to prevent a revival of prewar nationalism and avoid encouraging patriotism. The new law stresses ''love of country,'' ''public spirit'' and ''tradition'' while handing greater control over schools to politicians.
The upper house, controlled by Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's Liberal Democratic Party, also passed laws turning the country's Defense Agency into a full-fledged ministry and defining overseas missions as a main duty. The lower house had already enacted the bills. 
 The laws were passed in keeping with Mr. Abe's drive to instill pride of country among Japanese and claim a larger role for Japan in the world. But to critics, especially of the education law, the moves take Japan further from its postwar pacifist ideals while harking back to vaguely defined, prewar Japanese values.
 The bills were enacted despite a motion of no confidence by opposition parties against Mr. Abe's administration, two days after a government report revealed that the government had routinely staged town meetings since 2001 to manipulate public opinion. The government had paid people to ask questions and make statements supportive of its policies, including the revision of the education law.
 The meetings took place under Mr. Abe's predecessor, Junichiro Koizumi. But Mr. Abe had organized them as chief cabinet secretary, and he had championed rewriting the education law as a pillar of his conservative agenda, which also includes revising the pacifist Constitution.
 Japanese conservatives had long contended that the 1947 education law put too much emphasis individual rights over the public good, with negative results ranging from the erosion of communities to the rise in juvenile crime.
 Across the country, conservative politicians have been leading efforts to bring patriotism into the classroom. Tokyo's nationalist governor, Shintaro Ishihara, has punished hundreds of teachers for failing to force their students to sing the national anthem and stand before the national flag during school ceremonies. Other school districts have started grading students on their patriotism.
 ''Based on the spirit of the education law, we will drive to revive our education to build a respectful, beautiful nation,'' Mr. Abe said in a statement. Mr. Abe's approval ratings have fallen sharply because he has backpedaled on Mr. Koizumi's political and economic changes.
 The new laws related to the Defense Agency continue to solidify the role of the Self-Defense Forces, which are still exclusively defensive and governed by strict rules of engagement. Conservatives have sought to upgrade the agency's status almost since it was created in 1954, but an aversion to the military remained strong until recently.
 The change to ministry status is largely symbolic. But it will now allow the Defense Ministry to submit legislation to Parliament and make budget requests directly.
 ''We will have to deal with other countries as not just an agency, but as a ministry that can discuss policy and the country's security,'' Fumio Kyuma, the Defense Agency director, who will become defense minister next month, told the Japanese news media.
 Government officials have indicated that they want to expand the Self-Defense Forces' role further by pressing for a permanent law that would allow them to be deployed overseas and to exercise the right to collective self-defense.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EDUCATION LAW (90%); POLITICS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); GRADES & GRADING (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (77%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); JUVENILE CRIME (50%) Law and Legislation; Legislatures and Parliaments; Education and Schools

PERSON: SHINZO ABE (79%) Norimitsu Onishi

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%) Japan

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2006



359 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1245 words

HEADLINE: Balancing Act With Beijing

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: BEIJING, Dec. 15 

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr. went to China with a team of heavyweights, including an array of Bush administration cabinet members and the Federal Reserve chairman. 
 But he is returning home to a more critical audience that is unlikely to be satisfied with the inconclusive results he achieved in opening a new economic dialogue with Beijing.
The problem is that Mr. Paulson faces a growing number of lawmakers -- and behind them powerful but divided business constituencies, along with a politically energized labor movement -- who are not counseling patience right now, especially after an election where China-bashing was a bipartisan sport. 
 While no members of Congress were actually in Beijing, they might as well have been sitting at the rows of tables at the Great Hall of the People surrounded by red, gold and green decor and even more ornate rhetoric. The antitrade sentiment in Congress lurked over the meeting, and certainly was felt by the Chinese. 
 One sign that the American delegation was playing to an audience both here and at home came in the speech delivered by the Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, on Friday to the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, in which he made a strong case for China to let the value of its currency rise against the dollar.
 Mr. Bernanke's advance text, replete with 22 footnotes, called China's undervalued currency an ''effective subsidy'' of exports. In the end, though, he omitted that term, taking a more diplomatic approach, possibly because the term might feed protectionist sentiments on Capitol Hill while ruffling more feathers among the Chinese. 
 Mr. Paulson, in an interview before leaving here Friday, acknowledged that the Chinese were motivated to act out of fear of retaliation by American lawmakers who charge that inexpensive Chinese goods have cost jobs and forced the country to borrow $700 billion from China to finance its import addiction.
 ''The way I've articulated the situation to the Chinese is to look beyond Congress,'' Mr. Paulson said. ''Congress is a reflection of the American public, and the American public has a perception that the benefits of trade between our two countries aren't being shared equally or fairly.''
 Mr. Paulson said it was not realistic to expect the dialogue, which he began in September, to produce concrete results this quickly. But, he added, ''The American people are rightfully going to demand that we show tangible results along the way.''
 Some already are. The United States Business and Industry Council, which represents some 1,500 small- and medium-size manufacturers and generally opposes free trade initiatives, said in a statement that Mr. Paulson and his high-level delegation had engaged in ''chit-chat diplomacy.'' It called the meetings ''yet another meaningless mission to China -- one that accomplished nothing while domestic manufacturers and other U.S. businesses continue to be victimized by Beijing's predatory trade practices.'' 
 Part of the frustration among business groups and lawmakers is that Mr. Paulson, by the mere fact that he was accompanied by several cabinet members and Mr. Bernanke, may have raised expectations that he would bring home more concrete results. Instead, the meeting wound up Friday with an agreement to set up several study groups and other pledges, but only atmospherics to suggest that China might eventually stop undervaluing its currency to promote exports.
 Mr. Paulson said the currency issue was a ''core concern'' and would take time to resolve. But for China it was Congress that was a core concern. 
 That was obvious from the pointed comments of Wu Yi, the stern vice prime minister and principal interlocutor in these sessions, who many times criticized Americans for not understanding China's situation as a country that has had to rely on exports to develop and needed time to transform its economy away from that model.
 ''I think both sides know that it is not good politically for Paulson to go back empty handed,'' said Jin Canrong, a professor of international studies at Renmin University in Beijing. ''China can also see that Paulson is concerned about the incoming Democrats on this issue. He has very actively delivered this message of concern.''
 Another session of the dialogue, also with many cabinet members on both sides, was scheduled for May in Washington, where it is certain that members of Congress will participate in some form, if not directly in the talks.
 As for Mr. Bernanke, his lecture was a powerful though perhaps esoteric argument for noneconomists that is likely to be closely studied by Chinese officials.
 The Fed chairman explained that, to keep the currency undervalued, China has to buy dollars to prop up their price. Buying dollars means exchanging them for Chinese currency, flooding China with an abundance of renminbi, the domestic currency.
 The renminbi glut would normally fuel inflation, he said, so China sells bonds to Chinese owners of renminbi to take them out of circulation in a process known as ''sterilization.'' Mr. Bernanke told the Chinese that can only work so long.
 China's desperate need to keep its currency low to support its export drive, meanwhile, forces it to keep interest rates artificially low as well. The result is that China's central bank is unable to use monetary policy to manage its economy.
 Artificially low interest rates have another downside: When Chinese bureaucrats make loans for political objectives, mainly to money-losing state enterprises layered with Communist Party bureaucrats, the interest rates they charge cannot reflect the risk involved or the market value of investments, as they do in the West.
 It all boiled down to Mr. Bernanke telling the Chinese that they cannot have a sound market economy and also an artificially low currency value. Mr. Paulson, treating Mr. Bernanke as his new best friend, called it a great speech that offered ''a whole new dimension'' to the American arguments.
 Some in the Bush administration think China is going through an internal struggle, and that forces favoring a free-floating currency are taking baby steps to get there, by letting the yuan rise ever so gradually to avoid touching off a panic, in hopes of persuading leaders of the export-driven economy that they can adjust to it over time.
 Whether Congress can be convinced of that point of view is now Mr. Paulson's main challenge, along with negotiating cuts in the federal budget and savings in Social Security and Medicare to make good on his pledge in Beijing to do something about the United States' low savings rate. 
 The key to whether Congress proves willing to give Mr. Paulson more time lies, in the administration's view, with the business groups the members listen to.
 That is why the Treasury chief met with the United States Chamber of Commerce, the National Association of Manufacturers and leaders of Fortune 50 companies before he went to China. He plans to meet with them again when he gets back. If they see currency moving in the right direction, they may be more patient.
 But without concrete evidence that the bilateral trade imbalance between China and the United States has started to shrink, Mr. Paulson's aides concede, he does not have too much time before Congressional pressure leads to bills imposing tariffs or other sanctions on China. 
 The Chinese see President Bush as ready to veto such legislation, but administration officials hope it never comes to that.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr., head of a high-level delegation, addressed a press conference yesterday in Beijing. (Photo by Guang Niu/Getty Images)
 Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chief, speaking yesterday in Beijing. (Pool photo by Elizabeth Dalziel)(pg. C4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (79%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PROTECTIONISM (76%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); CURRENCIES (70%); EXPORT TRADE (69%); IMPORT TRADE (69%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (51%) 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) Federal Reserve System

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (91%); BEN BERNANKE (90%) Henry M Jr (Sec) Paulson; Ben S (Chmn) Bernanke; Steven R Weisman

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (93%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (97%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%) China

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2006



360 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: Spitzer Names Port Authority Head and Fills 11 Other Top Positions

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY and WILLIAM NEUMAN

 BODY:
Governor-elect Eliot Spitzer's choice to lead the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey said yesterday that the Spitzer team would take a ''fresh look'' at the Freedom Tower project at ground zero.
 Mr. Spitzer cautioned that it was premature to say whether plans would change, but the new Port Authority leader, Anthony E. Shorris, said there was little flexibility to make a major overhaul. 
The comments came at a news conference where Mr. Spitzer named Mr. Shorris to be executive director of the Port Authority and also tapped 11 others for top jobs in his administration. Half of the appointees are current or former members of Mr. Spitzer's staff in the attorney general's office, and others, like Mr. Shorris and Priscilla Almodovar -- his choice to be president of the state housing finance agency -- have been advisers to the governor-elect. 
 Mr. Spitzer's selection of so many people close to him came despite promises made during the campaign that he would look broadly for the best possible talent. He said yesterday that he would make a wide search to fill other top jobs.
 Mr. Shorris's remarks about a top-to-bottom review of the Freedom Tower reflected private comments made recently by some Spitzer advisers. They have vowed to examine everything from the project's cost and leasing viability to its height, which Gov. George E. Pataki helped set at 1,776 feet.
 Both the Port Authority, which owns the World Trade Center site, and the state have many other significant infrastructure needs, from the Second Avenue subway to the rebuilding or replacement of the Tappan Zee Bridge. And Mr. Spitzer is on record, as a candidate last spring, as saying the Freedom Tower could become ''a white elephant'' because it seemed to lack ''economic viability.''
 ''We'll be looking at every aspect of it, both the plan and the execution of it, we'll take a fresh look at the whole thing,'' Mr. Shorris said yesterday. ''But I also think the No. 1 priority of the governor is to get ground zero moving. The last thing that any of us wants to see is a slowing down of the progress.''
 He added that at this stage, with work already begun for the tower, there was ''very limited'' opportunity to rethink the project, especially with many New Yorkers impatient for action at the site.
 Mr. Shorris was a top aide at the Port Authority from 1990 to 1995, and was deputy schools chancellor in New York from 2001 to 2003. He left the schools job soon after it became known that he held a second high-paying job as a consultant for then-Local 1199's National Benefit Fund, with his supervisor's approval. 
 Mr. Spitzer also appointed Elliot G. Sander as the executive director and chief executive officer of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. He signaled that Mr. Sander might also replace Peter S. Kalikow, the powerful chairman backed by Governor Pataki, once Mr. Kalikow steps down.
 Mr. Kalikow has created tension with the Spitzer camp by saying he will not resign until federal financing is in place for both the Second Avenue subway and a Long Island Rail Road link to Grand Central Terminal, which is likely to occur in the first six months of next year. But Mr. Spitzer and Mr. Sander made clear that Mr. Sander will have effective control of the agency even with Mr. Kalikow still in place.
 Mr. Sander is a senior vice president at DMJM Harris, an engineering firm with millions of dollars of contracts with the transportation authority. He is also a former city transportation commissioner. 
 As he had during his campaign, Mr. Spitzer characterized the Metropolitan Transportation Authority as an agency that ''needs a management shake-up,'' and indicated once again that it would ''make sense'' to combine the powers of the transportation authority chairman and executive director. 
 He added that he needed to work with the Legislature to accomplish that. 
 But Mr. Sander stressed continuity in at least one area, saying he planned to move ahead with the list of ambitious projects already under way at the agency, including the Second Avenue subway, the Long Island Rail Road link to Grand Central and the westward extension of the No. 7 subway line to the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center.
 Mr. Sander will have to deal with immense deficits projected for the agency. He said that while there would be no fare increase next year, one was possible in 2008.
 He said one of his first acts would be to evaluate the transportation authority's security program, including its antiterrorism efforts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PORT AUTHORITIES (93%); GOVERNORS (91%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (91%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (73%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (63%) Appointments and Executive Changes; Transition Between Administrations; Governors (US); Attorneys General

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Port Authority of New York and New Jersey; Metropolitan Transportation Authority

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (91%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (92%) Patrick Healy; William Neuman; Eliot (Atty Gen) Spitzer; Anthony E Shorris; Elliot Sander

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York State; New York State

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2006



361 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 16, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: Who Has the Road Map for Iraq? 

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Military Considers Sending as Many as 35,000 More U.S. Troops to Iraq, McCain Says'' (news article, Dec. 15):
Senator John McCain says a troop increase should last ''until we can get the situation under control, or until it becomes clear that we can't.''
 Senator McCain: We can't. 
 In the 1960s, the United States steadily increased the number of soldiers in Vietnam. It didn't help then. Why would it now?
 Mr. McCain says that unlike the situation with the Vietnam War, Iraq's fighters ''will follow us home.'' This 21st-century domino theory has a big flaw: if we fail in Iraq, the Islamic militants will be too busy fighting in a widespread Sunni-Shiite conflict. That might be an economic threat to the United States because of our dependence on Saudi oil, but it would not be a military or terrorist threat.

David Levner
Rego Park, Queens, Dec. 15, 2006

To the Editor:
 Re ''Bush Won't Be 'Rushed' on Iraq, but Says He'll Press Maliki'' (news article, Dec. 14):
 Having rushed us into war in Iraq, President Bush won't be rushed out. Too bad it's not the reverse. 
 Mr. Bush's justifications for starting the war were false and ever shifting. Now his most recent reason for delaying his decision on a new strategy in Iraq is that he wants Robert M. Gates, the new secretary of defense, ''to get to know people and hear people and to be a part of these deliberations.'' 
 But Mr. Gates was a member of the Iraq Study Group and got to know and hear from all these ''people'' (unlike Mr. Bush) before being appointed defense secretary.

Sid Tamm
Newton, Mass., Dec. 14, 2006

To the Editor:
 Considering that President Bush launched the invasion of Iraq well over three and a half years ago, his declaration that he won't ''be rushed'' on making new strategy decisions about that tormented country seems patently absurd.

Stephen Jones
Oakland Park, Fla., Dec. 14, 2006

To the Editor:
 President Bush's decision to delay his announcement of a new strategy for Iraq until early next year is not at all surprising.
 He has followed the same pattern throughout his presidency. Whenever faced with a complex or controversial issue -- taxes, stem cell research, the environment, Medicare, Social Security or weapons of mass destruction -- Mr. Bush has always preferred to seek the advice of a wide range of experts before misrepresenting their conclusions to the American people.

Dale MacDiarmid
Los Angeles, Dec. 14, 2006

To the Editor:
 Is it just me, or does anyone else see the pattern of behavior with President Bush's deliberations on charting a new course in Iraq and his runup to the war?
 Faced with facts and recommendations that he cannot or will not accept, Mr. Bush surrounds himself with like-minded thinkers to craft a plan that fits his way of thinking. What good can come from such a flawed process?

Scott Hight
Chicago, Dec. 14, 2006

To the Editor:
 Re ''Democrats Plan to Take Control of Iraq Spending'' (front page, Dec. 14):
 I think that is a wonderful idea. 
 We have had a Congress that prides itself on cutting taxes and relying on supplemental budgets to finance a costly, ill-conceived war. 
 The human cost of the war has been borne by the less affluent young men and women who have been seduced by recruiters with offers of education and career advancement. The truly needy have had large holes in their safety nets.
 If we are indeed in a quagmire, we should all pay more taxes. It has taken us five years to wake up to the fact that our leaders have led us into a costly war that has put us all in danger. 
 The young and the poor have carried the main burden of this war. It is time for the rest of us to chip in. 

Susan Stern
Chestnut Hill, Mass., Dec. 14, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); TERRORISM (68%); RELIGION (68%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (67%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (62%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (50%) United States Armament and Defense

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (91%); ROBERT M GATES (58%) David Levner; Sid Tamm; Stephen Jones; Dale Macdiarmid; Scott Hight; George W (Pres) Bush; Susan Stern

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); VIET NAM (72%) Iraq

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2006



362 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Society Desk; WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 201 words

HEADLINE: Elaine Fleming, John Ledyard

 BODY:
Elaine Marianna Fleming and John O. Ledyard were married in a civil ceremony on Tuesday at the New York City Municipal Building, where Blanca Martinez, a community associate, officiated. 
 Ms. Fleming, 57, is keeping her name. She is a director in the fund-raising office of the Polytechnic School in Pasadena, Calif., where she is responsible for major gifts. Until last year, she was the executive director in Manhattan for the North American alumni office of the London School of Economics Foundation. She graduated from Occidental College in Los Angeles. She is the daughter of Mary Steyrer of Pasadena and the late Rudolph Steyrer.
Dr. Ledyard, 66, is the Alan and Lenabelle Davis professor of economics and social science at the California Institute of Technology in Pasadena. He graduated from Wabash College in Crawfordsville, Ind., and received master's and doctoral degrees in economics from Purdue. He is the son of Florence Odell Ledyard of Port Huron, Mich., and the late William Hendrie Ledyard. 
 He is a descendant of Gen. Lewis Cass, the secretary of war under Andrew Jackson and secretary of state under James Buchanan. 
 The bride's and bridegroom's two previous marriages ended in divorce.


GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); MARRIAGE (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); MAJOR GIFTS (72%); ALUMNI (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: CALIFORNIA INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2006



363 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: The More You Pay, the Better the Care? Think Twice

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
EXPERTS have long been puzzled by the existence of large regional disparities in medical care in the United States. Even for diseases for which the appropriate treatment is widely accepted, doctors across the country take vastly different approaches, often leading to enormous expense without making any appreciable improvement in their patients' health. 
 Consider heart attacks. Prescribing beta blockers immediately after a heart attack is a well-established, cheap and efficient treatment. In Iowa, nearly 80 percent of victims in 2000 received the drugs within 24 hours of a heart attack. In Alabama or Georgia, by contrast, fewer than 6 out of 10 patients received the drugs. 
''What makes the lag in beta-blocker adoption puzzling is that the clinical benefits have been understood for years,'' wrote Jonathan S. Skinner and Douglas O. Staiger, economists at Dartmouth, in a recent study about these regional patterns. 
 Congress has decided that some treatment decisions may be best taken out of doctors' hands. In one of their last acts this year before adjourning, lawmakers passed a bill entitling doctors to a bonus from Medicare if they report data on the quality of their care, using criteria like whether they prescribe aspirin or beta blockers to heart attack victims. In the future, this data would permit Medicare to reward doctors who followed government guidelines. 
 Many doctors criticized the decision, saying it would impose a form of medicine by cookbook that could endanger patients. Still, some experts contend that this form of accountability is a necessary step to deal with inefficiencies that riddle the health care system and fuel much unnecessary spending on care. 
 Several new studies suggest that there is no relationship between the amount spent on treating a patient and the quality and outcome of the care. 
 Consider chronically ill elderly patients in the last two years of their lives. According to a comparison of hospitals across the country done by researchers at Dartmouth, if the patients die in a hospital in New York State, the average cost of those two years would be $38,369. In Florida, by contrast, it would be $29,604, while in Iowa it would be only $23,746. 
 To be sure, much spending on health care provides enormous benefits. A study published this year by Mr. Skinner, Mr. Staiger and Dr. Elliott S. Fisher of Dartmouth Medical School found that Medicare spending on hospital care for heart attack victims surged two-thirds from 1986 to 1996, after accounting for inflation. But the percentage of victims who were alive a year after their attacks also increased, though by just 10 percentage points, to roughly 68 percent. 
 The relationship -- rising costs bringing increased benefits -- has broken down recently. From 1996 to 2002, Medicare spending on treatments for heart attack victims increased about 14 percent, after inflation. But there was virtually no improvement in survival rates. 
 There is mounting evidence that the zeal to treat and spend may actually hurt patients. The study by Mr. Skinner, Mr. Staiger and Dr. Fisher found that hospitals in regions where spending grew fastest from 1986 to 2002 had some of the worst practices, in terms of providing tried-and-true therapies, and recorded the smallest gains in survival rates. 
 Treatment of heart disease underscores the deeply idiosyncratic nature of many choices made by America's doctors and hospitals. Coupled with a fee-for-service system that encourages aggressive treatment, these choices stimulate health spending that provides little benefit to patients. ''A lot of the innovation and spending growth are going into gray areas that are not helping people that much,'' Mr. Skinner said. 
 But perhaps the most puzzling inefficiency in how doctors treat heart disease is not the spending on fancy yet ineffective therapies. It's the lack of spending on treatments that have been known to work for years, like beta blockers. 
 ''The biggest failure of the American health care system is not that we overuse stuff but that we underuse stuff,'' said David Cutler, an economist at Harvard. Consider aspirin. It helps prevent formation of blood clots, and its widespread use has probably been the cheapest breakthrough in the history of heart disease treatment.
 A study five years ago by Dr. Mark McClellan, who was to become the commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, and Dr. Paul A. Heidenreich of the Veterans Affairs Palo Alto Health Care System in California, estimated that growing aspirin use explained more than a third of the decrease in the death rates of heart attack victims from 1975 to 1995.
 Still, a Duke University study of about 32,000 patients with coronary artery disease who were treated from 1995 to 2002 found that only 83 percent took aspirin. And only 71 percent did so consistently. 
 The financial incentives in the health care system are part of the problem, experts say. These incentives encourage hospitals and clinics to provide more services, hire more specialists and install more devices. They shuttle patients from one specialist to the other -- providing more-scattered care. All too often, when the patient leaves the hospital, nobody among the crowd of doctors takes responsibility for prescribing the beta-blockers. ''The system rewards throughput and higher-margin services,'' Dr. Fisher said. ''This leads us inadvertently to waste and inadvertently to harm.''
 He argued that hospitals and doctors must gather into bigger units that coordinate care smoothly -- sharing medical records and responsibility for a patient's overall health. They should provide information about treatments and outcomes. And, he said, Medicare must start paying for results, measured in terms of lives improved and extended and of value for the money. 
 Congress has taken a step in this direction. But changing entrenched practices is not easy.
 MR. SKINNER and Mr. Staiger found an odd pattern in the regional propensities of doctors to prescribe beta blockers: it closely matched the propensities of farmers to embrace hybrid corn early in the 20th century. 
 Hybridization spread through Iowa's cornfields as early as the mid-1930s. By contrast, in Alabama and Georgia it didn't take hold until the late 1940s. In other words, the lag in the prescription of beta blockers is not simply a problem of the health care system. It also reflects regional attitudes about the adoption of new technologies, the study concluded. That problem could take generations to solve.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Costs and Benefits''Though the cost of treating heart attacks has risen, the survival rate leveled off in the mid-1990s.HEART ATTACK EXPENDITURESGraph tracks Medicare hospital spending* since 1985.HEART ATTACK SURVIVAL RATEGraph tracks percentage of Medicare patients surviving for one year after a heart attack since 1985.*In the 12 months after a heart attack, inflation-adjusted.(Source by Jonathan S. Skinner, Douglas O. Staiger, Elliott S. Fisher, Health Affairs [February 2006])

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); HEART DISEASE (90%); MEDICARE (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); HEALTH CARE (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); STATISTICS (76%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (73%); CHRONIC DISEASES (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (66%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (64%); AGING (50%) 

PERSON: Eduardo Porter

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2006



364 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: In a Merger Wave, a Dangerous Undertow for Stocks

BYLINE: By MARK HULBERT. 
Mark Hulbert is editor of The Hulbert Financial Digest, a service of MarketWatch. E-mail: strategy@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
THE total value of mergers and acquisitions this year is already one of the largest in history. That's ominous, because past merger waves have coincided with overvalued stock markets.
 The biggest single year for mergers and acquisitions was 2000, with the totals for 1998 and 1999 only slightly behind. At the moment, 2006 ranks fourth over all. Of course, those earlier three years were at the end of the great bull market of the 1990s, and a severe bear market followed.
Should we be concerned right now? Yes, because the correlation between stock market tops and soaring M.& A. levels is no coincidence, according to Matthew Rhodes-Kropf, an associate professor of business at Columbia, who has studied the subject closely. 
 ''Periods of high relative valuation are nearly always associated with high M.& A. activity,'' he said in an interview, ''and the stock market has fallen after each major merger wave.''
 Understanding the reasons for the correlation is the difficult part. Though it is easy to see why an overvalued company would want to acquire another -- because it could pay for the deal with overvalued stock -- it is hard to see why the company being acquired -- the so-called target -- would sell itself for stock that is priced too high.
 One answer is provided in a theory from Andrei Shleifer, an economics professor at Harvard, and Robert W. Vishny, a finance professor at the University of Chicago. They discussed their idea in an article titled ''Stock Market Driven Acquisitions'' in the December 2003 issue of the Journal of Financial Economics. A copy is at post.economics.harvard.edu/faculty/shleifer/papers/StockMarketDrivenAcquisitionsF.pdf.
 The professors argue that if the target company's managers have a short time horizon, they will be willing to sell their company for stock even when they suspect it to be overvalued. These managers may be ready to retire, for example, or have options or stock they are anxious to sell. Because these managers can quickly unload the stock of the acquiring company that they receive in the deal, they may have little concern that it's overvalued and unattractive from a longer-term point of view. 
 Another theory was proposed by Professor Rhodes-Kropf and S. Viswanathan, a finance professor at Duke, in an article they wrote in the December 2004 issue of the Journal of Finance titled ''Market Valuation and Merger Waves.'' (A copy of the study is at www0.gsb.columbia.edu/faculty/mrhodeskropf/joffinal5.pdf).
 According to this theory, a target company's managers can't determine in advance whether a high-priced offer reflects real synergies of the potentially combined company or the overpricing of the acquirer's shares. Professor Rhodes-Kropf says this means that we shouldn't be surprised by the number of acquisitions that occur during periods when -- from the benefit of hindsight -- stocks appeared to be overvalued. 
 BECAUSE both of these academic theories focus on deals financed with stock, they apply only partially to the current merger wave, much of which has been paid for with cash raised through debt financing. (This undoubtedly reflects the fact that debt is so cheap right now, Professor Shleifer said.)
 Professor Rhodes-Kropf cautions stock-market investors not to take solace in that difference. ''To the extent the current merger wave reflects an overvalued debt market, it stands to reason that it will eventually correct -- just as overvalued stock markets eventually correct,'' he said. ''And it can't be good news for the stock market if money is destined to become much tighter in coming years.''
 The bottom line is this: The current merger wave means that stocks are probably closer to the overvalued end of the spectrum than to the opposite extreme, and that they also are vulnerable to tighter money in coming years. 
 This doesn't necessarily mean that stocks will fall in the near future. But it does imply that their prospects are well below average.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''The M.&A. Surge''The value of mergers and acquisitions peaked in 2000, along with the last bull market. After a trough in 2002, it has been rebounding sharply.Graph tracks total annual M.&A. activity since 1983.2006 data reflects announcements through Dec. 15(Source by Thomson Financial)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (92%); MERGERS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); ACQUISITIONS (78%); RANKINGS (76%); INTERVIEWS (68%) 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%)

PERSON: Mark Hulbert

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%) ILLINOIS, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2006



365 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 6; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OPENERS: THE COUNT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 173 words

HEADLINE: In One Industry, Great Danger From Falling Axes

BYLINE: By PHYLLIS KORKKI

 BODY:
This has been a crushing year for American automakers. Slammed by competition from Asian rivals, buffeted by high gas prices and overwhelmed by soaring pension and health care costs, they have decided that they must shrink to survive. 
 This year, both Ford and General Motors sent incentive-laced letters to their workers saying basically this: Please consider leaving.
 Signs of the tough times show up in some cold hard numbers from Challenger, Gray & Christmas. Planned job cuts in the United States auto industry reached 151,457 this year through November, up 43 percent over the same period in 2005, Challenger said. 
 Over all, though, companies have been less inclined to drop the ax. Across all industries, employers based in the United States announced 785,179 job cuts through November, a drop of 19 percent from 2005. 
 In November alone, employers added 132,000 jobs, according to the government. So there is some hope for newly unemployed autoworkers, at least those who are willing and able to try a new trade. PHYLLIS KORKKI


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Job Cuts, by Industry''INDUSTRIES WITH LARGEST NUMBERS OF JOB CUTS THIS YEARAutomotive2005*: 105,8862006*: 151,457Industrial goods2005*: 77,9812006*: 73,669Computer2005*: 68,0452006*: 63,712Government/nonprofit2005*: 86,3762006*: 62,392Retail2005*: 82,9122006*: 49,222*Data through November of each year.(Source by Challenger, Gray & Christmas)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (88%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (88%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (88%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (88%); OIL & GAS PRICES (88%); GASOLINE PRICES (88%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (87%); LAYOFFS (86%) 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); CHALLENGER GRAY & CHRISTMAS INC (57%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: Phyllis Korkki

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2006



366 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3564 words

HEADLINE: How Suite It Isn't: A Dearth of Female Bosses 

BYLINE: By JULIE CRESWELL

 BODY:
LIKE so many other women who entered corporate America in the 1970s, Carol Bartz simply wanted to make a little money. She did not harbor secret desires to run her own company or become chief executive of a large corporation. She just wanted to do a good job.
 After working her way through college at the University of Wisconsin in Madison as a cocktail waitress (required uniform: red miniskirt, black fishnets and red feather in hair), Ms. Bartz graduated with a computer science degree in 1971. Tall, blonde, boisterous and ambitious, she entered the work force at a time when the promise of new professional opportunities for women was in the air.
What Ms. Bartz says she discovered, however, was that male counterparts and supervisors shook the corporate ladder ever more fiercely with each rung that she and other pioneering women of her generation ascended. But by combining a first-rate mind with hard work and decisive career moves, she managed to duck, bob and weave her way through Silicon Valley's male-dominated technology industry in the 1980s. 
 By the early 1990s, Ms. Bartz had become one of the first women to run a large corporation. She garnered accolades from Wall Street and her peers for turning Autodesk into a leading international software company. This spring, Ms. Bartz stepped down as Autodesk's chief executive, but she remains the executive chairwoman of its board.
 Despite her hard-won reputation as an astute businesswoman, Ms. Bartz found herself repeatedly skipped over during a recent meeting of business and political leaders in Washington. The reason was that the men at the table assumed that she was an office assistant, not a fellow executive. ''Happens all of the time,'' Ms. Bartz says dryly, recalling the incident. ''Sometimes I stand up. Sometimes I just ignore it.''
 The contours of her long, bumpy journey to the chief executive's suite reflect some of the gains women have made in navigating corporate hierarchies over the last 30 years, but also illustrate how rare it still is for a woman to get the keys to a company's most powerful corner office. For decades, the pat explanation was that women simply had not been in the work force long enough; with patience, the pipeline would fill. 
 A look at the pipeline suggests otherwise. While top business schools are churning out an increasing number of female M.B.A.'s, only about 16 percent of corporate officers at Fortune 500 companies are women, according to Catalyst, an organization that studies women in the workplace. The numbers are even sparer at the top of the pyramid: women fill only nine, or less than 2 percent, of the chief executive jobs at Fortune 500 companies.
 ''There have been women in the pipeline for 20 to 25 years; progress has been slower than anybody thought it ever would be,'' laments Julie H. Daum, the North American board practice leader for Spencer Stuart, the executive search firm. She says she does not expect the situation to change anytime soon. ''It's not as if we're in the beginning of something that's going to explode and that there are going to be lots of women in the c-suite,'' she said. ''I think we're still way far removed from where we should be and from where women would like to be.''
 No one disputes that more women have highly visible roles as chief executives. During the past year alone, several women joined the ultra-exclusive C.E.O. club, taking the reins at large, prominent Fortune 500 companies. In June, Irene B. Rosenfeld was named the chief executive of Kraft Foods, a job that once eluded her earlier in her career at Kraft; she joined a competitor before she returned to the company. Two months earlier, Patricia A. Woertz jumped from the Chevron Corporation to become chief executive at the chemical giant Archer Daniels Midland. Those two anointments were followed by Indra Nooyi's ascent to the top seat at PepsiCo.
 Even so, those women remain statistical anomalies. And the complex question of why women remain so underrepresented in the corporate suite yields a variety of possible answers. A number of women leave their careers -- sometimes by choice, sometimes not -- to focus on rearing families. The remaining pool suffers from a lack of networking or mentoring programs, others contend. 
 Many other women end up in dead-end staff positions, says Ilene H. Lang, president of Catalyst. ''Women are almost two and one half times as likely to be channeled into staff jobs like H.R. and communications than into operating roles where they would be generating revenue and managing profit and loss,'' Ms. Lang says. ''When more women hold line positions, there will be more women top earners and C.E.O.'s.''
 Analysts and executive women also say that one of the biggest roadblocks between women and the c-suite is the thick layer of men who dominate boardrooms and corner offices across the country. ''The men in the boardroom and the men at the top are choosing and tend to choose who they are comfortable with: other men,'' Ms. Bartz says.
 Women -- particularly those who have made it to the top -- may also shoulder some of the responsibility for the dearth of female C.E.O.'s. There is little consensus among them over how to approach the topic of women in power, or, in fact, whether the issue should even be addressed. Representatives of nearly all of the Fortune 500 female chief executives contacted for this article said that their bosses were either ''too busy'' or did not want to participate in an article about female C.E.O.'s. They said that these executives preferred to be acknowledged for their accomplishments, rather than for being women. 
 Another camp of women argues that until stories of women landing top jobs are no longer newsworthy -- that is, as long as they remain curiosities or oddities -- and until women's occupation of the c-suite reaches a statistical par with men, women owe it to future generations to continue to address the topic.
 ''The truth is, left alone, I think the situation would get worse,'' Ms. Bartz says. ''I think the reason you see roughly 2 percent of Fortune 500 companies run by female C.E.O.'s is because there has been some discussion about the issue. If the topic didn't continue to be highlighted as important, I do think that percentage would slide backward.''
 MS. BARTZ, 58, reached a professional pinnacle in 1992 when, after contending with years of what she believed were stereotypes about women's managerial aspirations, she assumed the chief executive's job at Autodesk. The company had revolutionized the architecture and manufacturing design fields with software that allowed users to build multidimensional computer models of their plans.
 For Ms. Bartz and other women of the watershed generation who moved into senior corporate roles, there were no how-to manuals and few mentors to offer guidance in handling corporate and personal challenges in the glare of the public spotlight. Ms. Bartz and other women say they also discovered that every decision they made -- business or personal -- was magnified.
 Ms. Bartz was born on a Wisconsin dairy farm, where her grandmother raised her after her mother died. She was a high school cheerleader and homecoming queen who also excelled in physics and advanced algebra. And she saw education as a way to escape the confines of her small hometown.
 ''It was never about wanting to be a C.E.O.,'' Ms. Bartz says. ''I didn't know what a C.E.O. was. It was about getting the A's and getting the education.'' 
 After college, Ms. Bartz took a few odd jobs before landing a sales position at 3M, where she says she ran directly into a wall of men stalling her career. There was, for instance, the time a manager booked her to share a room with a male sales representative during a business trip and then tried to fire her over it, she said. Ms. Bartz had actually quietly booked a separate room when she arrived at the hotel. In her fourth year at 3M, she asked for a transfer to corporate headquarters. ''Women didn't do those jobs,'' she recalls being told. After that, she packed up her belongings and quit. A spokeswoman for 3M declined to comment.
 During the following years, Ms. Bartz climbed the ranks at the Digital Equipment Corporation before joining Sun Microsystems in 1983. There, she flourished under the culture that gave managers more autonomy to make decisions quickly and shoulder more responsibility. 
 Kim Polese, who worked at Sun for seven years in the 1980s before helping to found a tech company, Marimba, in 1996, said: ''Sun was a culture of true opportunity. I didn't feel at Sun that the fact I as a woman factored into whether I would advance or not.'' Ms. Bartz eventually became Sun's No. 2, behind the chief executive Scott McNealy, who once described her as ''hardly a shrinking violet.'' Indeed, she earned a reputation as a direct and tough-as-nails manager who could soften her approach with humor and charm. 
 That style would become vitally important to her when she joined Autodesk in the early 1990s. She swept into her new role with enthusiasm. Her plans had to be put on hold, however, when she discovered during her first week on the job that she had breast cancer. After undergoing a mastectomy, Ms. Bartz ignored her doctor's recommendation that she recuperate for six weeks. She did not want to appear fragile or weakened, and she returned to work after four weeks. (Asked about questions tossed her way that a male C.E.O. would never receive, Ms. Bartz said that during a news conference shortly after she disclosed her cancer, a reporter asked, ''Which breast?'')
 To be sure, there have been plenty of men who have gone out of their way to support the professional advancement of their female colleagues. Maggie Wilderotter, 51, the chief executive of Citizens Communications, a communications services company based in Stamford, Conn., credits an early boost to a male boss who gave her numerous opportunities in the emerging cable industry in the 1970s. During the 12 years she spent at a San Diego software company, CableData, she held no less than 14 different jobs. 
 ''I was able to move from job to job, and that prepared me to be the leader of those business units at the company,'' Ms. Wilderotter recalls. ''A lot of that had to do with the entrepreneurial founder of the company, Bob Matthews, who built a culture where women were given opportunities.''
 One of four daughters of a former telecom executive, Ms. Wilderotter said her early peek into the life of a working woman came from her mother, who worked part-time as a real estate agent in New Jersey. 
 ''I grew up in a household where it was a matter of fact that we would all go to college and a matter of fact that we could do and be anything that we wanted to be,'' she says. ''I didn't feel that I had to be relegated to only getting married and having kids.''
 Ms. Wilderotter studied economics and business administration at the College of the Holy Cross and, like Ms. Bartz, did not know what career path she would follow. ''I never sat down and said, 'I'm going to be a doctor when I grow up,' '' she says. ''I just had opportunities present themselves to me in my career.'' 
 Opportunities eventually led her to McCaw Cellular and then to AT&T, where she became an executive in the AT&T Wireless unit. In 1996, she became the chief executive of a start-up called Wink, which provided electronic commerce on television. While her career was moving forward quickly, finding the right work-life balance over the years wasn't always easy.
 When she was nine months' pregnant with her first son in 1984, Ms. Wilderotter jumped on an airplane because a customer refused to sign a contract unless she appeared before him in person -- regardless of her condition. After an arduous cross-country trip involving canceled flights and late-night arrivals, Ms. Wilderotter marched into the customer's office at 10 a.m. and dropped the contract on his desk, threatening to have the baby in his office if he didn't sign the document in five minutes. He signed, and her baby arrived seven days later.
 Today, having raised two sons, Ms. Wilderotter says her husband's flexible schedule as the owner of a small vineyard allowed her to take on increasingly demanding opportunities as a businesswoman.
 ''Having that backstop at home was essential for me to be able to do what I needed to do from a business demand perspective, but there were many times I missed the soccer game or couldn't make it to the parent-teacher conference,'' she says. ''But my boys have grown into delightful young men and they are very proud of me as a working woman and even the women they date now are strong women. I think of that as a gift to my boys.''
 Another legacy Ms. Wilderotter hopes to leave is the presence of more women on corporate boards. Some analysts argue that the key to securing more C.E.O. titles for women may be found in the boardroom. Boards play pivotal roles when it comes to recruiting and appointing chief executives, and they are a power center in which women remain very underrepresented.
 In the most recent Catalyst report on women in the workplace, women held 14.7 percent of the director seats at Fortune 500 companies. More glaringly, 53 companies have no women as directors, while 182 other companies each have only one woman on the board, according to the report.
 CORPORATE boards remain, for the most part, clubby and male-dominated worlds where members have attended many of the same schools, dress the same and represent a single social class, says Douglas M. Branson, a professor of corporate governance at the University of Pittsburgh School of Law. In his new book, ''No Seat at the Table: How Corporate Governance and Law Keep Women Out of the Boardroom,'' he argues that boards can minimize their isolation from larger social issues by adding women. Others agree.
 ''Women on boards are the ones who pay attention to the pool of employees and succession planning and whether there are women and people of color coming up in those succession plans,'' says Vicki W. Kramer, a management consultant and co-author of a study, ''Critical Mass on Corporate Boards: Why Three or More Women Enhance Governance,'' that was released this fall by the Wellesley Centers for Women.
 Through interviews with 12 C.E.O.'s and 50 women who served on a combined 175 boards of Fortune 1000 companies, the study examined how the dynamics and issues discussed in the boardroom changed as more women were added to the mix. A single woman on a board is typically viewed as a ''token woman'' and is unlikely to drive female-related issues because she does not want to be seen as a one-issue director, Ms. Kramer says.
 The addition of a second woman to the board only slightly changes the environment. The women sometimes feel the need to stay away from each other, worried that it will appear as if they are conspiring against the men on the board.
 The tipping point is the presence of three women on a board. ''Somehow, at three, gender goes away and they are much less concerned about being seen together,'' Ms. Kramer says.
 Still, the number of corporations with three or more women on the board is fairly limited. Only 76 boards among the Fortune 500 have three or more female members. Ms. Wilderotter herself started off as the lone woman on nearly all the 14 boards of which she has been a member over the years, with the exception of those at Xerox and the McClatchy Company. She says she is most proud of the fact that she never left a board without a woman on it. ''I would finesse myself onto the nominating committee and try to populate boards with women,'' she says, laughing.
 That includes her own company, Citizens. When she joined the company two years ago, it had no women as board members and only one woman in a senior position. Today, 5 of Citizen's 14 directors are women. And women hold many of the senior operating positions at the company. 
 ''We've all had hurdles we've had to overcome, but I also believe you can take control over your own destiny,'' Ms. Wilderotter says. ''I've always tried to align myself with companies that had good, positive cultures in the work environment that supported both women and men.''
 At Autodesk, Ms. Bartz felt under intense pressure to perform immediately at a very high level, not only because she was one of the first women to get the keys to a corner office in Silicon Valley, but because Autodesk was desperately in need of a new direction. 
 Founded by an unconventional programmer, Autodesk was a classic Valley example of a successful company being run by an unwieldy group of innovators. For years, it had ridden on the success of its AutoCAD software product, but by the time Ms. Bartz arrived on the scene, Microsoft had solidified its dominant position in the software industry and Autodesk was struggling to release a Windows version of its product. 
 From Ms. Bartz's perspective, being a woman was not a hindrance at Autodesk, but being an outsider among the insulated cadre of programmers and coders was. 
 But she eventually found her footing, and during her 14-year reign as Autodesk's C.E.O., the company's annual revenue jumped to $1.52 billion from $368 million and shareholders were rewarded with an 18.6 percent annualized return on their stock, versus 10.6 percent for the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index.
 Ms. Bartz says she believes that a lot of women take themselves out of the race to the c-suite before it ever begins. ''There is a whole lot of hand-wringing going on with women,'' she says. ''They get the high-power degrees and then they drop back because they tell themselves they're not going to get very far anyway. I think they look around and wonder whether the struggle is worth it or not.'' 
 Finding a work-life balance was also easier for her because she could afford good child care, Ms. Bartz notes. (Her husband is a retired Sun executive.) ''The problem with balance is that it only works if you can buy some balance,'' she observes. 
 And while Ms. Bartz says networking played an important part in driving her career forward, she is not big on mentoring programs. ''It's sort of like trying to find the perfect snowflake match,'' she says. ''Does someone think in order to be successful, they need to act like me?'' 
 Now retired and with her daughter at college, Ms. Bartz says her life has entered an awkward stage. ''Before, every second was planned. I'd be pointed to a conference room, told who was in there and off I'd go,'' she said. ''I didn't have a minute to spare, therefore, I don't think I wasted any minutes.''
 BUT as executive chairman of the Autodesk board, Ms. Bartz still travels regularly on behalf of the company. She recently returned from a trip to Moscow, where she was surprised to be ushered into a room to meet a top executive with one of the country's largest energy companies. 
 ''He wanted to meet me. My guys were doing back flips because it was a really big deal to get a meeting with him,'' she says, laughing. ''That's the irony of the whole situation of being a female C.E.O. It is so darn hard to get to the top, but you do get the privileges once you are there.''
 No one knows that better than the former Hewlett-Packard chief executive Carleton S. Fiorina, who declared after she had been removed from her job that she had been treated differently simply because she was a woman. Many other powerful businesswomen, however, contend that the polished blonde who graced glossy magazine covers actively pursued and used the media spotlight to draw attention to herself and her leadership at H.P. -- in the process becoming one of the best-known female executives in recent memory.
 ''She lived her tenure in the press, but she did that by design. That was her strategy,'' Ms. Wilderotter says. ''I guess it's a lesson in being careful what you ask for.''
 Ms. Wilderotter says that for up-and-coming female C.E.O.'s, a better example of grace under pressure is Anne Mulcahy, the chief executive of Xerox who has stunned Wall Street and her peers by saving a company many had written off. ''She does not seek publicity but gets publicity because she's good at what she does,'' Ms. Wilderotter says.
 Ms. Mulcahy, who has been at Xerox for 30 years, says she was lucky to inherit a company in which ''enlightened leaders'' long ago had built an infrastructure of recruiting and sourcing and development that has created a diverse team of leaders at the top.
 ''I feel fortunate because this is a company that understood the value of inclusiveness before it was in vogue because it believed it was the best way to keep talent,'' Ms. Mulcahy says. ''But you have to keep focusing on it. This doesn't happen by accident. But it helps to have a culture that has a history of practicing this.''
 Looking forward, Ms. Wilderotter says change in the c-suite will occur only if chief executives lead by example and begin adding different voices to their leadership teams.
 ''I don't think it's about mentoring programs or diversity programs at companies -- it starts with a C.E.O. who is willing to have a diverse leadership team to run his or her business,'' she says. ''If a C.E.O. declares through his actions that men and women are important to the performance of the company, the rest of the company takes notice and changes the paradigm.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Carol Bartz, the former chief executive of Autodesk, said that it was not uncommon for men in business meetings to assume that she was an office assistant, not a fellow corporate executive. (Photo by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
From left, Irene B. Rosenfeld of Kraft Foods, Indra Nooyi of PepsiCo and Patricia A. Woertz of Archer Daniels Midland are among the small number of women who are chief executives of Fortune 500 companies. (Photo by Zack Seckler/Bloomberg News)
(Photo by Peter Newcomb/Bloomberg News)
(Photo by Kraft Foods via Associated Press)(pg. 9)
 Maggie Wilderotter, the chief executive of Citizens Communications, says she benefited from working for a male boss who created a culture where women were given opportunities. (Photo by Janet Durrans for The New York Times)(pg. 10)Chart: ''Few Seats At the Table''The percentage of women on the upper rungs of the corporate ladder at Fortune 500 companies in 2005.Chairwoman only: 0%Vice chair: 6.4%C.E.O.: 1.6%President: 2.9%C.O.O.: 2.6%Sr. Executive Vice Pres.: 12.3%Executive Vice Pres.: 13.7%(Source by Catalyst)(pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN WORKERS (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); WOMEN (90%); LABOR FORCE (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (76%); MEN (74%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (70%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (67%) 

COMPANY: AUTODESK INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (57%)

TICKER: ADSK (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%)

PERSON: CAROL BARTZ (91%); IRENE ROSENFELD (57%); INDRA K NOOYI (57%); PATRICIA A WOERTZ (57%); STEVEN JOBS (56%) Julie Creswell

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (91%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) WISCONSIN, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2006



367 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL/2007 Chrysler Sebring; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1244 words

HEADLINE: Just Listed: Fixer-Upper In a Busy Neighborhood

BYLINE: By JERRY GARRETT

 BODY:
TO those who have been there, Sebring, Fla., might seem an odd namesake for a line of midsize Chrysler sedans and convertibles. It is a landlocked city in hot, humid central Florida, far from white sand beaches and turquoise waters. 
 It is, however, a bastion of affordable housing. In fact, it is possible to buy a home in Sebring for less than one might spend on a new Sebring automobile.
Of course, the inspiration for the name wasn't so much the city as the gritty 12-hour sports car endurance race held at an old airfield outside town. 
 Sebring, the race, is where finely tuned machines try to excel at things midsize sedans are not known for: blinding acceleration, triple-digit cornering speeds and round-the-clock durability. Sebring, the Chrysler, is one of those vehicular non sequiturs, part of a pattern in which the sites of famous races are expropriated for cars that have absolutely no connection to the events. Think of the Bonneville, Le Mans and Monte Carlo, the Daytona and Monza. 
 Chrysler has used the Sebring name since 1995, so it has had time to gain some traction. But in that time, the name has adorned three types of vehicles: a coupe, a convertible and a sedan. They have been built on different platforms, in different plants, and even, in the case of the coupe, by a different company (Mitsubishi).
 The odd disconnects continue on the completely remodeled Sebring sedan that made its debut this fall as a 2007 model. (An all-new Sebring convertible arrives in the spring, likewise riding on a modified Mitsubishi platform; it will offer a retracting metal hardtop, or canvas or vinyl options.)
 The sedan looks like the offspring of an arranged marriage between the Chrysler Pacifica crossover van and the Crossfire sports car. The Sebring tries so hard to be so many things, it seems to have a hard time being itself.
 The Sebring arrived as something of a premature baby, given that so many ''signature features'' were promised after the car went on sale. (''Late availability'' is the euphemism.) Among these not-ready-for-production items were the heavily advertised ''information, entertainment and safety navigation audio system,'' heated and cooled cup holders, rear-seat DVD player and L.E.D. interior lighting. I am sure Chrysler's intentions are good, but I cannot recall Toyota releasing a vehicle before its important features were ready.
 Still, it must be said that when all those wonderful new gadgets are available, the Sebring will be a boon to those priced out of the housing market. That's because it will almost be feasible to live in your Sebring. 
 Rear seatbacks fold flat, and with the spacious trunk you can create a passable bed. Need more room? The front passenger seatback folds forward (an optional feature). 
 My test car did have the L.E.D. lighting, and it bathed the interior in other-worldly white light suitable for map reading, crossword-solving or nocturnal epiphanies. 
 The top-line stereo includes a 20-gigabyte hard drive -- enough memory to store your music library. And, of course, the rear-seat DVD system gives you your own little drive-in movie theater -- great for dates, camp-outs and small civic gatherings. Add a Bluetooth feature for hands-free cellular connections, and except for bathroom breaks you'll never need to leave the car. 
 Without all those optional features, even the basic interior can provide endless entertainment. There are more puzzles and clues to unravel than ''The Da Vinci Code''; the designers adorned practically every inch of the cabin with variations of the winged Chrysler logo. How many can you count? Hint: To find the biggest one, check out the entire dashboard. Somewhere there, you'll also find the smallest. There are dozens. 
 Gimmickry abounds outside, too, starting with grooves cut into the hood. Character lines and angles crease the sheet metal from stem to stern. To create excitement, Chrysler is trying every trick short of adding a law-enforcement light kit.
 Kudos for the thought, if not the execution. After a fairly uninspiring series of Sebrings dating back to 2000 (and its predecessor, the 1995-2000 Chrysler Cirrus), any change is welcome. Remember, before that came the midsize K-car, a series of dowdy front-drive models that started life with wicked torque steer, three-speed transmissions and 84-horsepower engines. Chrysler has been trying to atone for that automotive atrocity for more than 20 years, but as it has built better and better midsize cars, sales have gone from bad to worse. Former customers must have long memories.The midsize market is a cutthroat kingdom where the Toyota Camry and Honda Accord rule nearly two dozen pretenders to the throne. There is money to be made in midsize cars, because that's where the volume is.
 Chrysler says the new Sebring is so advanced it will be an inspiration to competitors. Certainly, in finished form -- when that model comes to market next year -- the Sebring will offer some compelling features. But beware that bottom line: a fully loaded Sebring can cost dearly, and not all features will be available in the same car.
 Look under the hood, for instance: here you find V-6 power and a six-speed transmission, a highway fuel economy rating of 32 m.p.g. and flex-fuel technology that permits the use of ethanol. What's not to love?
 Well, actually, those are the attributes of three different engines. 
 The base model has a 2.4-liter four-cylinder (though, thankfully, not the same plodding 2.4 used in the last Sebring). This one is a new 173-horsepower offering from the ''world engine partnership'' of Chrysler, Hyundai and Mitsubishi, and it is the mileage champ. 
 A step up is a slightly less fuel-efficient 2.7-liter V-6 that produces 189 horsepower. It is the one that is ethanol-capable.
 But each of those engines comes mated to a four-speed automatic transmission. To get the modern six-speed, with its AutoStick manual-shifting control, you must have the 235-horsepower V-6. And to get that, you must first buy the most expensive Sebring, the Limited, and then order a $2,000 option package that includes larger tires and wheels.
 (A truly desirable turbodiesel is offered, too, but not in North America.) 
 With the biggest engine, the economy rating drops to 19 city, 28 highway. And, yes, the best engine-transmission package is another of those late-availability deals, too.
 The 2007 Sebring is something of a pioneer: it's the first car based on Chrysler's new front-drive D platform. It rides comfortably on a fully independent suspension, with MacPherson front struts and a fairly sophisticated multilink rear unit. The rack-and-pinion steering is precise without appreciable torque steer. Chrysler initially promised that antilock brakes would be standard on all Sebrings, but it then made them optional on the base model. What's more, the sticker of my Touring test car listed them as a $450 extra.
 Two nearly essential features, traction and stability controls, are options, though they are standard on many competitors.
 The Sebring comes in three flavors: base, Touring and Limited. The Limited, which mostly adds some convenience features, is $5,000 more than the $18,995 base model. 
 By my estimate, once all the features become available, a loaded Sebring sedan will approach $30,000. 
 Some competitors may offer more for less. None but the Sebring, however, can solve the housing squeeze.

INSIDE TRACK: Chrysler, still winless at Sebring.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The '07 Sebring is Chrysler's latest challenger to midsize sedans like Toyota's Camry.
 Coming in spring: A Sebring convertible.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); SEDANS (90%); SPORTS CARS (89%); REAL ESTATE (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); BEACHES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (73%); CD & DVD DRIVES (50%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (50%); MARRIAGE (50%) Automobiles; Reviews

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%)

ORGANIZATION: Daimlerchrysler Ag

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%)

PERSON: Jerry Garrett

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2006



368 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; AROUND THE BLOCK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: A Diesel Sold Everywhere (for a Limited Time Only)

BYLINE: By EZRA DYER

 BODY:

TESTED: 2006 Volkswagen Touareg V-10 TDI
WHAT IS IT? Four-door midsize luxury S.U.V.
HOW MUCH? $59,690 base, $63,540 as tested with $3,350 Navigation Plus Package (navigation system, rear camera and 11-speaker audio system) and $500 trailer hitch.
WHAT'S UNDER THE HOOD? A 5-liter diesel V-10 with twin turbochargers (310 horsepower, 553 pound-feet of torque); 6-speed automatic transmission.
E.P.A. MILEAGE: 17 m.p.g. city, 22 highway.
 EUROPEANS get all the cool diesels. A few months ago in Italy, I drove a diesel-powered Saab 9-3 convertible that did 125 miles an hour on the autostrada and returned 45 m.p.g. at more relaxed speeds. Modern diesels get hybridlike fuel economy without the complexity and wonky driving experience of a full hybrid. 
With monstrous torque, they're relaxed on the highway and don't need to rev hard to keep pace in stop-and-go traffic. And lest you think diesels represent some kind of worthy hardship, a grim penance in the name of economy, consider that 67 percent of the BMW's sold in Europe are diesels. So why don't we have more of them here?
 It all comes down to emissions laws -- especially California's. Getting a diesel engine to meet California's rules is harder than getting a salary concession out of Scott Boras. New York, Massachusetts, Maine and Vermont also adhere to California standards, which takes a huge chunk of the market out of play. To paraphrase the Soup Nazi, then, ''No diesel for you!'' 
 So how is it possible that right now you can walk into a Volkswagen dealership in Vermont -- where the haze in the air doesn't necessarily come from tailpipes, if you know what I'm saying -- and buy a Touareg S.U.V. stuffed with a take-no-prisoners, 310-horsepower twin-turbo diesel V-10? 
 It's all about timing.
 Volkswagen took a look at its calendar and realized that the last few months of 2006 presented an opportunity to sell its monster V-10 Touareg in all 50 states. (The Touareg V-10 TDI was last available in 2004 as a 45-state model). 
 The opportunity arose after the United States finally rolled out ultra-low-sulfur diesel fuel in September. The low-sulfur fuel permits the use of a particulate filter, which, in combination with the cleaner fuel, allows the engine to meet California emissions standards -- 2006-level California emissions standards. 
 The regulations ratchet up to a new degree of severity on Jan. 1, at which point the mighty diesel will once again be motora non grata in Manhattan, N.Y., and Manhattan Beach, Calif. 
 Still, however, VW can sell 2006-model Touareg V-10s in all 50 states into 2007, until the ones it has imported (750 or so) are sold off. The company estimates that the supply will be gone by March.
 Audi, BMW, Ford, DaimlerChrysler, Honda, General Motors and VW are among the companies working on 50-state diesels for introduction in 2008 and 2009, so the '06 Touareg diesel can be thought of as a preview of good things to come. 
 With 553 pound-feet of torque, a prod of the accelerator sends the Touareg surging forward, often with a chirp from the front tires as the all-wheel-drive system shuffles power to cope with the thrust. While the V-10 isn't as quick to 60 m.p.h. as the 350-horsepower gasoline V-8 (7.5 vs. 7.1 seconds, according to VW), it feels as if it wouldn't be much slower while, say, towing a Boeing 747 down a runway. In fact, VW recently engaged in a bit of showmanship by doing exactly that, using a V-10 Touareg to tow a 155-ton 747 about 150 yards. 
 While the V10's official tow rating of 7,716 pounds isn't any higher than the V-8's, the V-10 is the one that would give your horses whiplash back in the trailer. (As I am very much against horse whiplash, I recommend towing only boats and inanimate objects with the Touareg V-10). As you'd expect, the diesel gets moderately better fuel economy, 22 m.p.g. on the highway to the V-8's 19.
 One other thing: the V-10 costs a bit more than the V-8. As in $16,030 more -- $59,690 versus $43,660. So there's really no objective reason to buy this thing. You just have to want it because it's cool, it's exclusive and it puts a big smile on your face when those turbos light up and your 5,924-pound S.U.V. rockets forward as if it weighs less than a Miata.
 With respectable fuel economy and prodigious power, the 2006 Touareg V-10 TDI is a foreshadowing of America's diesel future that you happen to be able to buy right now. Even in California. EZRA DYER


GRAPHIC: Photo: The 2006 VW Touareg V-10 TDI meets California emissions rules, until Jan. 1.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); EMISSIONS (88%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (88%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (86%); DIESEL FUEL (76%); NAVIGATION SYSTEMS (72%); NEW CAR DEALERS (69%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (69%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (67%) Automobiles; Reviews; Diesel Power

ORGANIZATION: Volkswagen of America Inc

PERSON: Ezra Dyer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); VERMONT, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (91%); ITALY (57%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2006



369 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; SURFACING: BUENOS AIRES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: Psst! Want a Discreet Dinner? 

BYLINE: By IAN MOUNT

 BODY:
IN Buenos Aires, land of plastic surgery and tanning solariums, few rituals are as beloved as having dinner in full public view. On any given night Sucre, Dominga and other restaurants known for large, ostentatious doors and department-store-size windows are packed with the city's peacocks showing off their latest designer threads. 
 But lately, the Botox injections and Hermes bags have become harder to spot. As Argentina recuperates from a recent financial collapse, many of the city's affluent residents are now going underground -- to private clubs, unmarked bars and invitation-only restaurants -- to flaunt their status. 
''Traditional Buenos Aires is about big fronts, big doors, big everything,'' said Terry Walshe, who recently opened Club 647, a membership-based restaurant and club tucked behind a loading dock in the San Telmo neighborhood (Tacuari 647; 54-11-4331-3026; www.club647.com). ''The new trend is to be more in the know instead of buying yourself into places.''
 Several of the secret boites were inspired by clubs in London and New York, and were started by expatriates like Mr. Walshe, an English film director who moved to Buenos Aires two years ago to write ''a gangster script about London.'' He faced some resistance from flashier Argentines, he said, but they seem to have come around. 
 Club 647, which has Shanghai-style decor and photos of semi-nude women, overflows at night with fashion models, media types and businessmen -- some of whom paid 2,000 pesos (about $645 at 3.1 pesos to the dollar) in membership dues for the privilege of bypassing the velvet rope and having full access to the V.I.P. room.
 Other places are a bit more egalitarian. Maat, a restaurant in Belgrano, modeled after an English clubhouse, allows guests to dine three times before they are asked to pony up the $2,000 membership fee (levied in U.S. dollars) -- or not come back (Sucre 2168; 54- 11-4896-1818; www.maatclubprivado.com.ar). Dishes include a grilled lamb filet served with an eggplant emulsion and goat-ricotta gnocchi (50 pesos). The owner, Nora Julian, an Argentine financier, said she got the idea from the Aspinalls club in London. 
 The speakeasy aura also extends to grittier establishments. Ocho7Ocho (Thames 878; 54-11-4773-1098), a restaurant and bar popular with bohemian types in their 20s and 30s, is hidden behind an unmarked wooden door in the residential Villa Crespo district. And Providencia (Cabrera 5995; 54-11-4772-8507), a hippie bakery and cafe in the Palermo Hollywood neighborhood, is in an old warehouse, behind an orange door with a handwritten note that says ''golpee fuerte'' (''knock hard''). Vegetarian curries are about 15 pesos. 
 But perhaps the most exclusive place to flaunt one's status are the puertas cerradas (or restaurants with closed doors) that have recently boomed in Buenos Aires. 
 Among the insiders' favorite is Casa SaltShaker (54-9 11 6132-4146; www.casasaltshaker.com), held twice a week at the ground-floor rear Recoleta apartment of Dan Perlman, an American chef and sommelier, and his Peruvian companion, Henry Tapia. The five-course menu is built around a theme, often wacky, like the Great Moon Hoax of 1835, or the film ''Babette's Feast.'' Dinner is 60 pesos and up to 12 can be seated. 
 ''There's something kind of cool about knowing what's behind the secret door,'' Mr. Perlman said, ''of being in on something that no one else knows.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: To get into Providencia, a bakery and cafe in Buenos Aires, you must find an orange door that says ''knock hard.'' (Photo by Horacio Paone for The New York Times)Map of Buenos Aires shows the surrounding area.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); INTERIOR DECORATING (89%); US DOLLAR (76%); NONSURGICAL COSMETIC PROCEDURES (73%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (73%); RETAIL BAKERIES (72%); DRINKING PLACES (70%); TRENDS (67%); FILM DIRECTORS (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (56%) Restaurants

PERSON: Ian Mount

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (95%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) ARGENTINA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%) Buenos Aires (Argentina); Argentina

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2006



370 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; JOURNEYS: ECOTOURISM; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1607 words

HEADLINE: Traveling the World to Help Save It

BYLINE: By BONNIE TSUI

 BODY:
AS a Peace Corps volunteer in the 1960's, Lynn Franco, now a 62-year-old psychoanalyst who lives in Berkeley, Calif., had always been interested in the underdeveloped regions she had traveled through. She said that longtime interest was what led her to join a March trip to Borneo with Seacology, a Berkeley-based nonprofit organization that seeks to preserve island environments and cultures by providing services in exchange for local conservation efforts.
 ''The project we visited was a micro-hydroelectric generator,'' Ms. Franco said, ''which was funded by Seacology and built by the community, in exchange for the community's preservation of some of the surrounding lands.'' She and her husband, Nathan Kaufman, met residents, participated in a traditional dance, hiked through the rain forests and explored the nearby coral reefs on scuba-diving expeditions.
''We were able to enter a society more quickly and deeply than would otherwise have been available to us,'' Ms. Franco said. 
 As exotic destinations become more commonplace and travelers seek out more unusual and broadening experiences, nonprofit groups are responding. By promoting and helping to organize ecotourism, nonprofits benefit by raising awareness -- and money -- for their causes. The draw for travelers? Gaining access to places that they wouldn't be able to get to otherwise.
 According to the International Ecotourism Society, the market for conservation-oriented tourism continues to grow; in 2004, worldwide ecotourism and nature tourism were growing three times faster than the tourism industry as a whole. The popularity of nature-based travel led the United Nations to hold a World Ecotourism Summit and declare 2002 the International Year of Ecotourism. More than 55 million Americans are interested in sustainable travel, which protects both environment and culture, according to a study by the Travel Industry Association of America sponsored by National Geographic Traveler. 
 Duane Silverstein, executive director of Seacology, said, ''These people are looking for two things: access to unique areas that most tourists can never visit, and a way to improve the quality of life of the people and places they do visit.'' This year, the group opened its fund-raising expeditions to the public for the first time. These trips visit project sites in remote places like Fiji, where the group built a kindergarten in return for the establishment of a 17-square-mile marine reserve, and Tonga, where a floating medical clinic was set up as incentive for the creation of a nature preserve.
 The fund-raising trips were initially limited to major donors, but their success made it increasingly obvious that Seacology could raise more money by opening the trips to the public.
 ''I can speak until I'm blue in the face about our projects,'' Mr. Silverstein said, ''but there's no substitute for having a potential donor see this for themselves.''
 Tourism can be a powerful conservation tool, said Alasdair Harris, founder and executive director of Blue Ventures, a British nonprofit that offers three-to-six-week expeditions for scientists and volunteers to its marine field station in secluded Andavadoaka, Madagascar. The nonprofit-meets-travel model has worked well for the organization. In three years, Blue Ventures has won the United Nations Seed Award and opened the world's first community-run marine-protected area for octopus, which has improved catches among local octopus fishermen and led the national government to use the project as a model for other marine-protected areas in the country. 
 Gabrielle Johnson, 35, a teacher from Santa Barbara, Calif., traveled to Andavadoaka as a volunteer in 2004. ''I loved interacting with the local people, and learning how they respect the area where they live while still having to fish and depend on that for a living,'' she said. ''And getting to dive every day, getting to know the corals and the fish and collecting data, was amazing.'' 
 Blue Ventures' latest project is to develop a community-run eco-lodge in Madagascar; in 2007, the group will also offer short-term marine survey expeditions to the Argyll Islands, which are being considered as a possible location for Scotland's first coastal and marine national park. 
 Well-established nonprofit groups like the Nature Conservancy, whose Yunnan Great Rivers Project supports sustainable ecotourism development in China's Yunnan Province, are also using local connections to draw attention to larger programs. Yunnan's lush landscape is rich with rare plants and animals that are threatened by dams and deforestation, and the Nature Conservancy has worked with the tour company Mountain Travel Sobek to develop river-based ecotourism in the area. Mountain Travel Sobek now offers rafting trips that benefit the Great Rivers Project, as well as guide-training courses for local citizens. On the customer side, you get to raft the great bend of the Yangtze before it's gone -- plans are afoot to dam it by 2009. 
 ''This 'creative class' that we market to is getting more sophisticated about how they spend their money, and possibly this trend will continue and exert more influence on their decision to buy a trip,'' said Nadia Billia Le Bon, director of special programs for Mountain Travel Sobek.
 But the rivers themselves were the big attraction for Jon McKee, 61, who traveled to Yunnan in February to run both the Yangtze and the upper Mekong on back-to-back trips.
 ''I do river trips all over the world, some with other outfitters,'' said Mr. McKee, of Brenham, Tex., ''and to be honest, I'm usually very much focused on the river running.'' 
 But he was impressed with the efforts to integrate a sustainable new business with the area economy. ''The guides over there,'' he said, ''were very passionate about ecotourism and coming up with a way for the locals to get a new cash economy other than logging.''
 Because nonprofits are now marketing these new trips to the general public -- and not just to an audience that is already familiar with their organizations -- an expedition can be an opportunity to attract new members. ''Very often, we get people on our trips who don't think of themselves as environmentalists, they just want to have a fun vacation,'' said Tanya Tschesnok, a spokeswoman for Sierra Club Outings, the Sierra Club's travel arm. Major donors, she added, have come to the club through the outings program: ''It's a subtle -- some might say 'sneaky' -- approach that is extremely effective in fostering a lasting emotional commitment to nature.''
 Conservation-oriented travel is territory long occupied by groups like Sierra Club Outings and Earthwatch Institute. Earthwatch was founded in 1971 to support scientific research by offering the public a chance to work alongside experts on field expeditions. Last year, the organization attracted 4,190 volunteers from 50 states and 79 countries. It is perhaps the most successful model for this kind of travel: returnees make up a third of each year's volunteers, and over 35 years, volunteer work has led, for example, to the creation of national parks or wildlife reserves in places like Vietnam, Argentina and Australia.
 ''People selfishly want experiences that are real -- they don't want canned tours, they want to meet the park ranger, they want to help in an orphanage,'' said Blue Magruder, director of public affairs for Earthwatch. ''And an increasing number of people want their time on the planet to count.
 ''Anything that lets people get to know locals as individuals and colleagues rather than just someone they take a picture of is going to be beneficial.'' 
 Ms. Tschesnok of Sierra Club Outings stresses that even though some of the organization's trips go to places that aren't normally accessible to the public -- like its 2007 research expedition in Peru to the isolated Cordillera Azul National Park, where new bird and plant species have recently been discovered -- the real distinguishing feature of nonprofit-led expeditions is access to people who frame a destination, even one close to home, in a new way.
 ''Organizations, including ours, give people access to on-the-ground activists and local experts,'' she said. ''This is the view of the place that they would not get on a mainstream tour.'' 

SEEKING OUT THE SUSTAINABLE
 Seacology (510-559-3505; www.seacology.org) leads excursions to project sites in Tanzania, Fiji, Vanuatu and Indonesia in 2007; a $1,000 donation is requested.
 The Nature Conservancy (703-841-5300; www.nature.org) was a pioneer in encouraging ecotourism, and has worked with Mountain Travel Sobek (888-687-6235; www.mtsobek.com) to develop rafting trips on the Yangtze and upper Mekong Rivers that benefit the Conservancy's Great Rivers Project and local guides. Prices start at $2,890.
 Blue Ventures (44-20-8341-9819; www.blueventures.org) accepts volunteers on three-to-six-week expeditions to its marine field station in Andavadoaka, Madagascar; there will be shorter trips in 2007 to the Argyll Islands of Scotland, in partnership with Britain's Seasearch program. Six-week expeditions are $:1,950($3,900 at $2 to the pound.)
 Earthwatch (800-776-0188; www.earthwatch.org) has a host of new research expeditions for 2007; travelers can study elephants in Kenya, track rare butterflies on Mount Fuji, and work with a conservation team to explore Brazil's distinctive savannalike cerrado ecosystem.
 Sierra Club Outings (415-977-5522; www.sierraclub.org/outings) runs about 350 trips annually, to destinations both near (the Dry Tortugas of Florida, the Ozarks) and far (Patagonia, the Himalayas). BONNIE TSUI


GRAPHIC: Photos: Coral reef rebuilding in the Philippines. A community center in Papua New Guinea. (Photo by Arnaz Mehta/Seacology)
 (Photo by Jon Stansbury/Seacology)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIN FORESTS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ECOTOURISM (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); VOLUNTEERS (78%); PSYCHOLOGY (78%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (76%); ISLANDS & REEFS (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); SPONSORSHIP (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (76%); MARINE BIOLOGY (73%); HIKING (73%); TRAVEL AGENTS (71%); SCUBA DIVING (71%); TOURISM (71%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (70%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (67%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%) Travel and Vacations

ORGANIZATION: PEACE CORPS (91%)

PERSON: Bonnie Tsui

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); BORNEO (92%); TONGA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); PAPUA NEW GUINEA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2006



371 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 4; Travel Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3360 words

HEADLINE: The Rediscovery of Nicaragua

BYLINE: By GREGORY DICUM. 
GREGORY DICUM is the author of '''Window Seat Europe,'' about reading the landscape from 35,000 feet in the air, published by Chronicle Books.

 BODY:
LOLL in one of the pools at Pelican Eyes, a new development above the town of San Juan del Sur, on Nicaragua's Pacific Coast: a tranquil breeze blows up the hillside from the perfect bay below, the pool's disappearing edge merges with sea and sky, and the only sound is the rhythmic tapping of the bricklayers who are building the place -- a compound of whitewashed, tile-roofed houses amid lush greenery and looking out to perfect sunset views. At the bottom is an airy palm-thatched restaurant, where cheerful waiters serve strong drinks and the patrons sit in the warm night air and talk about real estate.
 This is Nicaragua as the Next Costa Rica, the sort of hopeful real estate appellation signaling that gentrification may now begin in earnest. In the last few years, as Americans on the prowl for second homes, or just an investment, have found places like the Last Costa Rica already overrun by their own kind, a boom has started in the country just to its north. 
Nicaragua is no stranger to American visitors with grandiose plans. That perfect bay at San Juan del Sur was the place Forty-Niners on their way to California from New England embarked upon the Pacific after a journey across Nicaragua. William Walker, a freelance American colonialist, made landfall here in 1855 to undertake a bloody, tragicomic campaign to introduce democracy, railroads and slavery. 
 Before facing a firing squad, Walker was briefly the president of Nicaragua, an episode that, perhaps even more than the quarter-century occupation by the United States Marines at the start of the 20th century, and even the Contra war of the 1980s, informs a Nicaraguan wariness of American enthusiasms.
 So for now, this is still Nicaragua. If you descend the hill from Pelican Eyes and pass its guardhouse at the foot of the drive, the road is pocked and broken. Shanties cluster at its side. Yet toward the water, San Juan del Sur retains an attractive character. It's a mellow seaside town where blond surfers stroll obliviously past a Sandinista rally, with loudspeakers blaring revolutionary songs. 
 This town of brightly painted wooden houses with red metal roofs is fronted by a wide, pretty beach. At the open-air restaurants there, you can relax with a setup that includes a bottle of fine, clean Flor de Cana rum, a bucket of ice, a few bottles of Coke and a dish of limes. 
 You can walk out for a dip in the warm, shallow water from time to time, then return to the restaurant and snack on salty fried cheese and sweet maduros (fried ripe bananas) as you watch kids play soccer on the beach. Boats bob just behind the soft, curling surf.
 I visited in August, with the photographer Morgan Stetler and his fiancee, Anne-Lise Reusswig. In preparation for the elections that took place at the beginning of November, all around us were the workings of the democracy that has emerged from Nicaragua's troubled past. This was the fourth consecutive free election in the 16 years of peace since the end of the Marxist regime of Daniel Ortega. 
 The Sandinistas won, making Mr. Ortega, their longtime leader, president once again. But he is president of a different Nicaragua, and there seems little chance that the Sandinista victory will lead back to the chaos of the past. 
 The news in August was of campaigns, scandal and, more pertinent to the visitor, the rolling blackouts born of high oil prices and botched energy privatization. ''No hay luz'' -- ''There is no light'' -- was an apologetic refrain we heard throughout the country, and we found that a generator had become the most important hotel amenity. 
 In Granada, we stayed at the newly remodeled Gran Francia. Besides being a well-lighted beacon in the darkened city, it was comfortable and well placed, on the corner of the central plaza, right next to the freshly painted mustard yellow cathedral. 
 In the plaza, the city's annual weeklong festival for its patron saint, the Virgin of the Assumption, was in full swing. It featured a cacophony of school drum corps, church bells and booming fireworks at seemingly random times (like just before dawn). 
 The afternoon we arrived, an endearingly bad mariachi band played sad songs of lost loves as the singer hobbled about the plaza's band shell with one leg drastically shorter than the other. Vendors sold wooden toys and fire-roasted cashews around the plaza, and a breeze brought the sweet smell of the countryside into the city. 
 Horse-drawn carriages, which serve as taxis -- and not just for tourists -- lined one side of the plaza, while families sat under spreading flame trees drinking pitaya, a cool and tangy juice of cactus fruit and lime with a stunning fuchsia color that glowed radiantly against the turquoise-painted tables. Old grandmothers sat on park benches watching beneficently as boys fiddled with their cellphones, too shy to flirt more directly with the clusters of laughing girls. It was hot, and everyone wished it would rain. 
 When the band was done and night had fallen, a town booster took the microphone in the elegant salmon-colored band shell to make a speech about Granada's sunny future, saying ''We're now the 25th most visited city in Latin America!'' When he was done, the power went out.
 Granada was founded in 1524, and it was laid waste by William Walker as he abandoned it after losing his grip on power. When we took a tour of the city, our guide introduced nearly every building with a variation of ''this church was burned by William Walker, the American filibuster.'' 
 Everywhere, new cobblestones were going in, and new streetlights. Fresh paint in vivid yellow, pink and blue shone on magnificently restored post-Walker 19th-century churches. Visitors -- European tour groups, Latin American families, Australian backpackers -- wandered about the central part of the town, soaking up the evanescent atmosphere of more than a hundred years of solitude.
 Like every city in Nicaragua, Granada is in a spectacular location. A richly forested volcano overlooks the city, which is perched at the edge of Lake Nicaragua. At the foot of the city, an enchanting archipelago of tiny, close-set islands beckons: Las Isletas are heaps of rock that were spewed out of the volcano and are now covered in big, leafy tropical vegetation. Some are private estates, opulent getaways for captains of Nicaraguan industry. Others are modest, primordial knobs concealing rustic cottages. 
 We took a boat through the islands, marveling at the beauty of such a setting -- the white egrets wolfing down sardines, and the laconic fishermen in brightly painted rowboats on the calm water. Here and there ''For Sale'' signs in English hung low over the water from stout tree branches. They were beseeching, attached to improbable personal tropical paradises that could be had by any American sitting on a chunk of home equity. 
 But Lake Nicaragua seems too majestic a place for such thoughts. It's a near-mythical tropical lake, one of the largest in the world, ringed by volcanoes and forest. Its waters are home to strange beasts -- including freshwater sharks and sawfish, both sadly in decline -- and moving legend: it is said to have been an Eden that was drowned after a Romeo and Juliet tragedy. It is shallow, and turbid from volcanic ash, but it is warm, and clean, lending a freshness to the air along its shores. Toward its southern end is an unexpected gem: the island of Ometepe.
 Ometepe, composed of twin volcanoes rising from the lake, is like a magical little freshwater Hawaii. It is a true backwater -- the rough road around the island was finished just 15 years ago, and the only access is by ferry -- with the feel of a place where nothing ever happens, in the best sense. 
 As though by providence, the island was spared the centuries of violence that unfolded all around it. Ancient pre-Colombian petroglyphs and sculptures dot the volcanoes' flanks. Above the plantings of plantains, sugar cane and sesame, the mountains' upper reaches remain as they have always been.
 With the aid of a guide, Leonel Barrios, who had grown up on its shoulder, we attempted to climb Volcan Maderas, the more southerly peak. The trail wound up past fields of rice and corn accessible only on foot or horseback. Then it passed pasture and entered the cloud forest, where howler monkeys roared at us from above.
 But as we climbed, the clouds closed in. Halfway up, we were forced off the steep mountain trails by driving rain.
 At least we had the beach to console us that afternoon, once the rain stopped. The fresh water was warm, with wind-blown waves rolling onto a long stretch of sand empty but for a few horses. I sat on a beach chair in front of the modest Hotel Villa Paraiso and listened to the clatter of coconut fronds. A boy ran up the beach to the hotel, carrying the day's catch in a bucket.
 Nicaraguan food has a hearty simplicity: a local fish, with tostones (medallions of fried plantains) and gallo pinto, or red beans and rice, washed down with a Tona, a classic tropical lager. Local specialties like vigoron (fried pork skin and yuca, a popular roadside meal around Granada) and nacatamales (corn tamales stuffed with meat and wrapped in banana leaves) are worth trying as well. 
 If Nicaraguan food tends toward sweetness, especially in its sauces, it is perhaps a symptom of its being a sugar-producing country. Regardless, in such a small country with so much agriculture and so many climate zones, virtually everything is fresh and holds up well to simple preparation.
 After Ometepe, volcano fever seized us. Central America is one of the world's most vigorous volcanic zones, and Nicaragua alone has 19 active volcanoes. And they are very accessible -- there are one or two outside every city. Most are protected as parkland and make popular excursions, but even so, on many volcanoes you'll find yourself alone with nature at its most potent. 
 Volcan Masaya, between Granada and Managua, is a huge heap of geology, with a road that lets visitors drive right to its lip. Past the parking area, right over a distressingly low wall, one stares directly into Hell. Sheer walls drop nearly 1,000 feet into a rumbling, smoldering hole a third of a mile across; fumes rise up in an ominously dirty-looking cloud. When wisps float by, the effect is like being tear-gassed. 
 Incredibly, a flock of specially adapted green parrots lives in the crater walls, safe from predators and mocking our coughs with their bright squeaks. 
 Masaya is at the center of a well-organized park that features guided tours through volcanic caves, a visitor center with a thorough explanation of the geology, history and ecology of the area, and trails that let you wander around the cone. Next to where our car was parked, a sign recommended we back in, in case we had to make a quick getaway, and warned, ''In case of expulsions of rocks, protect yourself under the car.'' 
 This kind of casual at-your-own-risk approach is refreshing if you've ever felt infantilized by the signs, guides and boardwalks at places like Yellowstone. Near the village of San Jacinto, outside Leon, we visited a field of bubbling mud and hissing fumaroles. There was a half-completed and abandoned overlook, built by an American volunteer during the 1980s, and a few concrete footings built by Soviet engineers who had planned a geothermal plant here. And there was a trail down into the shifting, boiling inferno. 
 The only safety measure -- but a very effective one -- was provided by a handful of local kids who shouted ''No, No! Peligro!'' (''Danger!'') whenever we were on the verge of a false step. From time to time, pigs fall in and are cooked alive.
 Nearby is Cerro Negro, a big, black cinder cone that began erupting only in 1850, and quickly grew to more than 2,300 feet. I was eager to visit since, as a boy, I had been entranced by stories of this magical mountain.
 The climb is a hot slog over crunchy lava on which absolutely nothing grows. The trail leads over the lip and directly into the crater, where smoking fumaroles emit noxious gas, coating the surrounding rocks with sulfur. The ground there is too hot to touch; all reminders of a habitable world are gone. There is nothing but heat and fumes and the sharpest, blackest rock: a visit to our planet before it was ours.
 But from the high point of the rim above the crater, Nicaragua spreads out in all its glory. A line of big volcanoes extends north and south, with the green coastal plain below. Leon's tight cluster marks the center of the area, and beyond it the Pacific shines in the west.
 We visited Cerro Negro with Mario Munguia, a leader in a tourism cooperative based in Leon. The cooperative movement has been strong in Nicaragua since the Sandinista revolution and includes businesses from coffee farms to ice cream factories. A nationwide network of co-ops was founded in 2004 to help spread the benefits of the country's boom. 
 As recently as five years ago, almost no facilities existed for foreign visitors, yet now development is brisk. Social development projects like the tourism co-ops and a scholarship and job training program associated with Pelican Eyes, as well as many others, tie the growing sector to society more broadly, as rarely happens elsewhere in Central America. As a visitor, there is the refreshing feeling that how it all turns out is, in part, up to you.
 AFTER Cerro Negro, we stopped at Mario's small farm by a sandy road in the woods. We met his son and his wife, who teaches at the village school. We saw his horses and the grapefruit trees he had planted and felt, for a moment, the slow pace of country life. Mario, of the generation that had lived -- and fought -- through the revolution, has an earnest and intense patriotism. 
 ''I could have left here,'' he told us, waving his hand across his home, ''and gone to the United States, but this is my country.''
 From there, we went on to nearby Leon. We stayed at the Hotel el Convento, a gorgeously converted 17th-century convent in the center of town. Surrounding a perfectly manicured courtyard and fountain, high wooden cloisters are decorated with enough religious artifacts to resemble a museum (including an entire golden altar in the expansive open-air lobby). 
 Not so recently destroyed, Leon seems older than Granada. And not so recently restored, it has a more lived-in feel. Historically the liberal city, in opposition to the conservative pole of Granada, Leon is today the Sandinista Party's stronghold. The city was draped in Sandinista black and red in anticipation of the election season and there was an expectant bustle on the sidewalks, which teemed with students from the university in the center of town.
 Leon bears the weight of its history with cultured if slightly shabby ease. It is a repository of folkloric tradition but is strongly influenced by classical European forms. The city cherishes its inheritance, on display in its newly restored theater and in its art galleries and poetry museums.
 Indeed, poetry seems ideally suited to the Nicaraguan disposition. The daily papers include poems, along with cartoons and news. Nicaragua has produced poet-heroes like Ruben Dario, the 19th-century diplomat and journalist whose seminal influence on Spanish-language poetry has been likened to Whitman's on English.
 In Leon, Dario is buried to the side of the altar in the hulking Basilica de la Asuncion, said to be the largest church in Central America. His words are carved in the marble, but like history itself, they live on all around Nicaragua. 
 One night on the beach at San Juan del Sur -- the same beach where thousands of Americans once decamped for the gold rush, and where others are, maybe, rushing back again -- I met John Oliver, a poet from Nicaragua's eastern coast. He recited a poem of his, in his rich Caribbean English. 
 Then he switched to Spanish, and Dario's heartbreaking ''Melancolia.'' His strong voice blended into the soft surf as he hit the last line: ''No oyes caer las gotas de mi melancolia?'' (''Can't you hear the drops of my sadness falling?'') 

A CHANGING LAND

GETTING THERE
 American, Delta and Continental all fly to Managua, usually with one stop from New York. Recent online round-trip fares from New York for mid-January started around $680.

GETTING AROUND
 Highways between the main cities in Nicaragua are in good shape: both Granada and Leon are each a little more than an hour from Managua, but in opposite directions. Navigating is not difficult, although it is reassuring to know at least some Spanish. When Nicaraguans do speak English, it is often excellent -- many have spent time in the United States.
 Many establishments will accept U.S. dollars rather than cordobas.
 Budget Rent A Car (800-472-3325; www.budget.com) has four locations in Managua, including the airport. In January, the rate for an economy car will be $11 a day plus taxes and fees; a small four-wheel-drive S.U.V., $35 a day. When I rented, I was offered a free cellphone, too. 
 The other alternative is to hire a car with a driver. Any hotel or tour operator can arrange this for about $60 a day. Taxis within cities are cheap and easy to find -- within central Managua, shared taxi rides can be had for as little as 30 cents. 

WHERE TO STAY
 In San Juan del Sur, consider Pelican Eyes (De la Parroquia 1 1/2 cuadras al este; 866-350-0555 or 505-568-2110; www.piedrasyolas.com). In 2007, room rates will start at $120, double occupancy. A house that sleeps six, with an ocean view and terrace, will start at $225. All have air-conditioning, Wi-Fi, satellite TV and purified water. Prices are a good deal higher around Christmas, New Year's and Easter.
 The area is filled with other options, including developments in the nearby hills and at nearby beaches, and smaller, family-run hotels in town that are friendly and clean, if less spectacular. Some can be found at www.sanjuandelsur.org.ni.
 La Gran Francia is next to the cathedral in Granada (Esquina Sureste del Parque Central; 505-552-6000; www.lagranfrancia.com). It is in a carefully restored colonial building, with high ceilings and imposing dark wood furniture on cool floors of old tile. Its restaurant, in a similarly restored building across a quiet street, serves slightly more sophisticated versions of classic Nicaraguan and Cuban dishes. Service is gracious and obliging. And there is a generator. The 21 air-conditioned rooms with private bath start at $100 double occupancy.
 Villa Paraiso, at Playa Santo Domingo on the isthmus in the middle of Isla Ometepe (505-453-4675; vparaiso@ibw.com.ni), is a little compound of small but comfortable rooms and cabanas right above the beach that start under $20. It resembles the kind of travelers' haunt you'd find on one of the Caribbean islands in Belize, and it fills up fast. The row of imitators next to it fails to reach quite the same standard.
 Other than the quiet serenity in a beautiful building, little else at Hotel El Convento next to San Francisco Church in Leon (505-311-7053, www.hotelelconvento.com.ni) is reminiscent of the cloistered life. Rooms, starting at $95 including tax and breakfast, are spacious, the staff is attentive, and the restaurant is refined. Rooms can be a bit dark, a defense against the tropical sun before air-conditioning was added, but they are well appointed and restful. 

GUIDES
 In Leon, Las Pilas-El Hoyo Rural Tourism Cooperative can arrange volcano treks of varying lengths and levels of difficulty for $15 to $25 a day. Call the co-op at 505-878-0238 (Spanish only) or send an e-mail in English or Spanish to laspilaselhoyoleon@yahoo.com. English-speaking guides are available.
 Richard Leonardi, an American (and author of the Footprint Nicaragua guidebook), is the general manager at Tours Nicaragua (Plaza Barcelona, Modulo 5, Reparto Serrano, Managua; 505-270-8417; www.toursnicaragua.com), which can arrange any kind of excursion in the country.

WHEN TO GO
 The best time is December and January, when the rains have stopped but the country has not yet dried to hot dust. The seasons are less pronounced on the Caribbean coast. GREGORY DICUM


CORRECTION-DATE: December 24, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the emergence of tourism in Nicaragua included an incorrect phone number for a guide in Leon who leads volcano treks. The number for the guide, Mario Munguia, who is a member of Las Pilas-El Hoyo Rural Tourism Cooperative, is 505-6967-381.

GRAPHIC: Photos: On a bird-watching excursion, Anne-Lise Reusswig of California pauses at a waterfall in central Nicaragua. (Photo by Morgan Stetler for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
The new Pelican Eyes resort overlooks the bay at San Juan del Sur
a few of Las Isletas in Lake Nicaragua, top, and produce for sale in Leon
sunset on a street in colorful Granada, perhaps Nicaragua's most popular tourist destination
and hikers climbing Central America's youngest volcano, Cerro Negro, which began erupting in 1850.
 Momotombo is one of 19 active volcanoes in Nicaragua, most of which are protected as parkland, allowing visitors to get close to nature at its most potent. (Photographs by Morgan Stetler for The New York Times)(pgs. 8, 9)Map of Nicaragua highlighting the surrounding area. (pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); BEACHES (78%); SURFING (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); ELECTIONS (69%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (65%); VISUAL ARTISTS (60%); SOCCER (50%) Travel and Vacations

PERSON: Gregory Dicum

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) NICARAGUA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); COSTA RICA (92%); CENTRAL AMERICA (73%) Nicaragua

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2006



372 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk; STREET LEVEL -- Greenwich Village; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: The Last Roundup

BYLINE: By DAVID SHAFTEL. 
E-mail: streetlevel@nytimes.com

 BODY:
STARTING next Sunday, for the first time in nearly 20 years, one-stop shopping for working cowboys will no longer be available in the Village. That is the date Whiskey Dust will pack up the ranch, like a boomtown entrepreneur that has become a victim of its own success.
 Whiskey Dust, a Western clothing and curio shop, has been celebrated for nearly two decades as the only store in the city that carries every item, save the horse, that a real cowboy needs, from spurs and chaps to branding irons and saddles. 
 In the early 1990s, Whiskey Dust was the anchor of a trio of authentic Western establishments that turned Hudson Street between West 10th and Charles Streets into a miniature cow town. In a neighborhood whose residents would have been quick to reject a T. G. I. Friday's-style, ready-made down-home atmosphere, Whiskey Dust used its authenticity as a calling card for prop stylists, photographers and clothing designers, not to mention the occasional dominatrix in search of a good bullwhip. 
 Bruce Springsteen bought cowboy boots there, according to the proprietor, Hollie Bendewald, and it was there that Calvin Klein sought a Halloween costume that he hoped would make the Western wear connoisseur Ralph Lauren jealous.
 At times Whiskey Dust's merchandise has been a touch too authentic for urban cowboys and girls looking to keep up with the periodic Western fashion revival, Ms. Bendewald said the other day as she sorted through vintage cowboy hats. ''Here's a juicy one,'' she said as she produced a hat with dense inner ring of real cowboy sweat, its brim splattered with authentic bull's blood. 
 Her husband, a Montana rancher named Mervin, had arrived in the far West Village in the '60s, when the neighborhood was not yet gentrified, and started a string of Western-theme businesses, culminating with Whiskey Dust in 1988. Ms. Bendewald met him when Whiskey Dust was in its infancy. ''It was just a hoot of a store,'' she recalled, ''with stuffed rattlesnakes, some of Merv's early taxidermy efforts, and deerskin vests with bullet holes in them.'' 
 The Bendewalds spent their summers traveling the West and Southwest, acquiring the artifacts that now bulge from the tiny subterranean shop and the rest of the town house above it. Among the most memorable items are a fireplace mantle from a bordello, sombreros from the 1920s and Antoine, a stuffed cow's head that appears as a prop on ''Late Night With Conan O'Brien.''
 Around the time that Whiskey Dust was staking its claim, Bob Phillips, a Roy Rogers biographer from Texas, opened Dusty Trails, a shop specializing in Western records, sheet music and other ephemera. Another Texan, Sherry Delamarter, opened the restaurant Cowgirl Hall of Fame. 
 With Dusty Trails gone since the mid-'90s and Whiskey Dust on the way out, the Cowgirl Hall of Fame will be the block's only refuge for anyone looking for a discourse on the different styles of barbed wire used in cattle ranching. 
 ''It was ironic that we all ended up on the same block,'' Ms. Delamarter said. ''Opening a Western-themed business was a very fragile concept in New York, where there is very little dialogue with the middle of the country.''
 In its lifetime, Whiskey Dust has outfitted Owen Wilson's foppish novelist Eli Cash in the movie ''The Royal Tenenbaums,'' as well as the Broadway cast of ''Annie Get Your Gun.'' 
 ''And thank God for Sam Shepard's plays,'' Ms. Bendewald said. ''There are always guys coming in wanting to learn how to use a lasso, because there is one where a guy has to rope a bedpost, so Merv used to take them into the backyard and teach them.'' 
 But with the death of Mr. Bendewald in 2001, crisscrossing the country in search of estate sales and unexplored barns just wasn't as much fun. ''It really was Merv's passion,'' his wife said, and as the West Village has become home to ever-increasing herds of baby carriages, and prime real estate has become as valuable as an oil well, it makes more economic sense to rent the property.
 As she was working this day, Merle Haggard was singing his classic Urban Cowboy's lament ''Big City'' on the store's radio. ''Turn me loose, set me free,'' he crooned, ''somewhere in the middle of Montana.''


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by John Marshall Mantel for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); RETAILERS (78%); GIFT NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); FASHION & APPAREL (76%); CITIES (76%); FASHION DESIGN (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); HALLOWEEN (51%); MUSIC (50%) Retail Stores and Trade; Shutdowns (Institutional)

ORGANIZATION: Whiskey Dust (NYC Shop)

PERSON: RALPH LAUREN (56%); BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN (51%); CONAN O'BRIEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2006



373 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 12-17-06: ENCOUNTER; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 3193 words

HEADLINE: Preaching to Wall Street

BYLINE: By Zev Chafets. 
Zev Chafets is the author of ''A Match Made in Heaven: American Jews, Christian Zionists and One Man's Exploration of the Weird and Wonderful Judeo-Evangelical Alliance,'' which will be published by HarperCollins next month.

 BODY:
Dan and Ann Stratton are a Wall Street power couple, even if Wall Street doesn't know it. Dan is a tall, blond, muscular Minnesota boy turned Yale football star who, by the time he was 30, had parlayed his college connections into a small fortune as a commodities trader. Today, at 47, he is the founder and pastor of Faith Exchange Fellowship, a fundamentalist Christian congregation in Manhattan's financial district. He is also a ''five-fold minister'' of Yahweh, a self-described evangelist, apostle and prophet, and spiritual warrior king. Ann is a North Jersey Catholic schoolgirl turned born-again miracle worker, a lithe beauty with deeply sympathetic eyes and a sexy wardrobe -- Carmela Soprano endowed with Protestant superpowers -- whose prayers once supposedly raised a German au pair from the dead on the street in front of the Blue Moon Mexican Cafe in Englewood, N.J.
Together they are on a mission to banish Satan from the financial temples of Wall Street and transform New York City into ''ChristTown.'' But first they have to find a decent piece of downtown real estate. 
 Usually, Faith Exchange Fellowship holds its Sunday services in a ballroom at the Marriott Financial Center Downtown Hotel on West Street, at least for the past five years, since they lost their permanent home on 9/11. The most recent Sunday I was there, a congregation of about 400 had gathered. They stood for half an hour before the service began, clapping and dancing to gospel tunes. The singing was led by Carolyn Miller, who once toured in a national company of ''The Wiz,'' and a small choir that includes professionals who perform in clubs and shows around New York. The band featured Billy (Spaceman) Patterson, a local guitar legend who has played with Miles Davis and James Brown and whose current night job was musical director of Melvin Van Peebles's raunchy off-Broadway musical, ''Ain't Supposed to Die a Natural Death.'' 
 Faith Exchange Fellowship attracts a lot of downtown artists and performers. It is probably the only fundamentalist church in the country whose active members includes a radical feminist poet, a homeless transsexual and a fellow who specializes in choreographing Shakespearian fight scenes. 
 This suits Dan Stratton, who once took private opera classes at Lincoln Center, just fine. ''A lot of my Yale friends regard me as a bigot, close-minded, sophomoric, a redneck,'' he says. ''But when it comes to sin, my motto is: fight the demand, not the supply. The Bible says homosexuality is an abomination, but I don't sermonize about that or come down too hard on it. The artists in my church wouldn't be there if I did. I let the Bible speak for itself on the subject of what is and isn't a sin.''
 The Strattons have a 14-year-old daughter, Danielle (''I was born born-again,'' she says), and they are attuned to the realities of life in the big city. ''If a woman comes to me and says she wants an abortion, I try and talk her out of it,'' Dan says. ''But we've got teenage girls in our church. I want them to love Jesus.'' 
 Still, you wouldn't mistake Dan Stratton for a liberal or a feminist. ''Most churches are 80 percent women,'' he says. ''But I attract men. I'm not a limp-wrist like a lot of these ministers. I'm a leader. As far as women in the church are concerned, well, they know who the boss is.''
 Along with its artists, Faith Exchange has a fair number of homeless people, ex-convicts and various downtown types. They mix with Wall Streeters who commute into the city on Sunday mornings from Connecticut and Westchester to hear a gospel message of personal faith, capitalist individualism and sound business practices. 
 The first time I heard Dan Stratton preach, his message came from the Book of Galatians: ''For every man shall bear his own burden.'' He added, ''I can look at your checkbook and see where your heart is.''
 Stratton's oratorical style is straightforward, a coach in the half-time locker room, with the Bible as his game plan. Occasionally he lightens the mood by poking fun at himself and then showing the congregation his technique. (''You just love that self-deprecating humor, don't you?'')
 ''He's a little more authoritative than other pastors I've had,'' says John Stanley, a 30-year-old Pentecostal who grew up in Oakland, Calif., and moved to Manhattan three years ago to run the New York office of a Chicago trading firm. ''Pastor Dan comes from the football field and the trading pits. He can be a little rough around the edges. When he preaches the message, he brings it hard and strong.'' 
 Stanley regards Stratton not only as a spiritual adviser but also as a business mentor. ''It helps to have a pastor who understands tough days on the market and speaks the lingo of Wall Street sometimes,'' he says. ''I watch Pastor Dan, see how he talks to different people, the kind of range he has, and I learn from him. He's definitely helped me expand not only in my prayer closet but in the boardroom.''
 Stanley is a member of ProVision Network, the Christian entrepreneurial support organization run by Stratton. ''It's definitely a worthwhile financial connection,'' he says. ''You brainstorm with people in other lines of work, and it opens all sorts of deal flows.''
 Stratton also dispenses pro bono financial advice to the less business-savvy members of his flock. For example, he expects everyone to tithe but teaches that God's 10 percent should come off net income, not gross. ''A person sells his home and clears $100,000, sometimes he thinks he should tithe $10,000. But I say: 'Wait a minute, how about the improvements you've made in the house? What about inflation?' A tithe isn't supposed to bankrupt you.'' 
 Prosperity is definitely part of the program. On speaking trips around the country, Stratton bills himself as a millionaire pastor, and in his sermons he flaunts his Mercedes and his upscale lifestyle. Some come to his services equipped with Bibles and copies of Christian financial guidebooks like Leroy Thompson's ''Money Cometh: To the Body of Christ.'' 
 ''It says in the Book of Timothy that the love of money is the root of all evil,'' says Joe Adevai, who first met Stratton in 1993 as a fellow commodities trader. ''Not money, the love of money. God should be your first love. But wealth was God's idea. You need money to carry out God's purpose.''
 When Stratton began his ministry, Adevai followed. He is the son of an Italian Catholic father and a Jewish mother who became a Pentecostal after reading the Bible. ''Back then, before I met Pastor Dan, my trading badge on the floor was JCL -- Jesus Christ is Lord -- but I wasn't a mature Christian.'' 
 In his day job, Adevai is the senior vice president of a commodities-exchange company. But he is also a pastor, ordained by Stratton himself five days after 9/11 (an associate pastor, Janice Fareed-Hardy, a former Muslim, was ordained by Stratton in 2005). Adevai doesn't know exactly how many Wall Streeters have been converted or influenced by Stratton's message over the years, but he puts it in the thousands. ''I've seen traders come into our meetings right from the floor, hardened guys, and they just burst into tears,'' he says. ''And you know, somebody's got to preach to people with money.''
 The last Sunday I visited, Dan Stratton, who ordinarily runs the show, was out of town on a guest-preaching assignment, and Pastor Ann was in the pulpit conducting a healing service. She held out her arms and proclaimed: ''Elohim, who is the father, the son and the Holy Ghost all rolled into one, is the healer. And the healer is in the house! Elohim blesses, he doesn't curse. He is good all the time.'' 
 ''Amen,'' the congregation murmured. ''Thank you, Elohim!''
 Hebrew words like ''Elohim'' dot the discourse of Faith Exchange Fellowship. The congregation sometimes sings homemade gospel tunes with lyrics like ''Baruch, baruch Hashem'' (''Blessed, blessed is God''), and Pastor Dan often expounds on the mysteries of the Hebrew language, which he calls ''God's DNA.'' His interest in Hebrew was sparked by his theological disputations with Orthodox Jewish commodities traders. Nowadays he takes private lessons from a friendly rabbi and has attended classes at the Jewish Community Center on Amsterdam Avenue. 
 The Strattons, like many evangelicals, have a thing for Jews. ''You don't know how much we love ya,'' Ann once told me. They estimate that 10 percent of their followers are Messianic Jews. The Strattons also give money and support to Christian Zionist missionaries in the former U.S.S.R. who bring Russian Jews to Jesus and then dispatch them to live in Israel. 
 ''I know Orthodox Jews don't accept my books, but I have no problem at all with that,'' Stratton says. ''I do have a problem with secular Jews who say we shouldn't talk about God.'' 
 Unlike her husband, Pastor Ann Stratton doesn't bring her message ''hard and strong'' but in a conversational style that owes more to Oprah than to Oral Roberts.
 ''God's plan is for people to live forever,'' she announced that morning. ''Health is the given state, the normal state. You're covered in the blood of the lamb? And a symptom comes to you? It's gotta go! Amen?''
 ''Amen,'' the congregation responded.
 Ann told them how, as a baby, she was cured of a club foot by her mother's prayers. She lifted her foot for inspection, a healer in stiletto heels. Then she recounted how, as a young woman, she was afflicted by ulcerative colitis that four-a-day doses of Librax couldn't mask, and she lost her menstrual period. The doctors were baffled. She was desperate. Finally she attended a faith-healing service in Hackensack, was touched by a traveling evangelist, Kenneth Hagin, and had her health restored.
 A year or so later, Ann was struck again, this time by an appendicitis. When she arrived at the emergency room, the doctors told her she needed an operation, but she decided to wait and pray, and two hours later, she says, the doctors were startled to find she was cured.
 ''They kept me in the hospital for two weeks, just to run tests!'' she told the congregation. ''Someone say, 'Hallelujah!' '' Then she burst into an unintelligible sentence. It took me a second to realize that she was speaking in tongues. This practice, like faith healing, is a hallmark of Pentecostal Christianity. Believers say it enables them to express God's spirit without the artificiality of language. It is rarely heard, however, in a Jersey accent.
 Lapsing back into English, Pastor Ann told the congregation that, while still in the hospital, she began praying for cures for other patients. A woman with brain cancer was healed, another was saved from a hysterectomy and a man came out of a seemingly permanent coma. Back in the world, a little deaf boy regained his hearing after she prayed for him. Once, in Dallas, her prayers replaced a blind eye in a woman's socket with a healthy, perfectly matched green eyeball. And then, in Englewood, the au pair came back from the dead. ''Today that woman's alive and well in Germany. Say, 'Amen!' '' 
 The congregation responded with thunderous applause and then lined up along the sides of the room for cures of their own. Pastor Ann took them a dozen or so at a time, forming them into a group and walking from one to the next, laying on hands and praying. As she did, ushers stood at attention, ready to catch the many people who were overcome. They were covered by red cloths and allowed to lie on the floor of the Marriott meeting room until they recovered.
 I was hoping your wife would fix my carpal-tunnel problem last Sunday,'' I told Dan Stratton the following week. We were sitting in the Plaza Diner in Fort Lee, N.J., eating corned beef and talking about God, salvation and downtown real estate. ''But no dice.''
 ''I'm sorry,'' said Stratton. ''But there were miracles there last Sunday. Ann performs miracles.''
 ''Look,'' I said. ''You went to Yale. You worked on Wall Street. You know that most people won't believe that your wife or anybody else can literally work miracles or help raise the dead. Do you want to explain these things in a more figurative way?''
 Stratton shook his head. ''Miracles are literal. Annie has a special gift because she has a childlike faith. She's a prayer warrior. That woman in Englewood was gone, she was dead weight; I picked her up myself. But Annie refused to give up on her until she came back to life. That happened. I saw it. Not figuratively. Literally.'' Stratton gave me a challenging look. He refers to himself not only as a divinely sent minister and a spiritual king but also as a provocateur.
 Of course, not everyone likes being provoked. In his days on Wall Street, he was ''ostracized, blackballed, openly attacked (both verbally and physically), back-stabbed and ridiculed,'' he recalls in his book, ''Divine ProVision.'' ''It was no bed of roses.''
 Stratton is not a bed-of-roses kind of guy. He vividly recalls how, as a poor jock from the sticks, he was mocked for his clothes and called Big Bird by the rich kids at Yale. Still, by his senior year, he was a major figure on campus, second team all-Ivy, starring in school productions of ''West Side Story'' and ''Man of La Mancha'' and even playing Larry in ''Boys in the Band.'' During his junior year, he became a member of Skull and Bones. This affiliation isn't mentioned in Stratton's book; a lot of evangelical Christians, he says, are put off by what they regard as the Satanic symbolism of the club, whose members include both George W. Bush and John F. Kerry.
 Stratton made a smooth transition from New Haven to the financial district and a job in the commodities division at Goldman Sachs. But he wasn't a happy man. Then one night he wandered into Dancin', a night club in Ridgefield Park, N.J., and locked eyes with Annie DiFiore.
 ''I used to pray to God to send me my husband,'' Ann told me. ''He sent me a lot of guys to minister to, let's say. But then Dan walked in, and that was that. In less than one month, he was saved.''
 The next stop on Dan Stratton's Road to Damascus came on April 27, 1987. His official church biography tells the story: ''For many months prior to this date, the precious-metals futures markets had been slow, prompting Dan to distribute his resume. But on this day, God chose to confirm Dan on the Exchanges and launch his ministry by enhancing his reputation. It was on this day that God chose to rain $453,000 into his life.'' 
 What happened next is recounted in ''Divine ProVision.'' ''Just a few months later, Dan became a full member of the New York Futures Exchange. Then again, in May 1989, God blessed him to become a member of the Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange. And again, in January 1991, YHWH himself opened the door for Dan to join the membership of the New York Mercantile Exchange. Now that Dan had the power of God's spirit working with him in his business labors, the increase was no longer just gradual -- it was supernatural.''
 Stratton began evangelizing among his fellow traders. ''During lulls in the action, they would mostly sit around reading betting sheets and porno magazines, or having silly conversations,'' Stratton says. To counter this moral sloth, he began publishing a weekly Faith Exchange newsletter. Most copies wound up in the trash. But gradually Stratton found appreciative readers. ''The newsletter birthed the church,'' he says.
 In 1991, Stratton began holding Bible-studies sessions in his office on the ninth floor of 4 World Trade Center. As his group expanded, he moved to 90 West Street. On Sept. 11, he had 5,000 square feet on the 18th floor.
 ''Sixty percent of our congregation worked at the Trade Center or nearby, or traveled through on their way to work,'' Stratton says. ''And yet nobody was killed or hurt. Not even any of their relatives. Our building was almost totally wrecked. The 1st to 15th floors were burned out and so were 19 to 22. But our floor, the 18th floor, while severely damaged, didn't burn. We even got some of our furniture out. And you know what 18 stands for in Hebrew, right? It means 'life.' ''
 By his reckoning, not only did Stratton save his congregation, he saved thousands of others as well. After the planes hit the towers, he and a friend went into prayer mode, beseeching God to keep the building standing. 
 In the aftermath of the attack, Stratton tried to minister to the survivors and workers at the World Trade Center. He says he had a tough time persuading the cops to let him through. ''Most of them are Catholics,'' he said, ''and they didn't think I was a real clergyman. I had to put on a clerical collar to get past the barricades.''
 Sept. 11 made Faith Exchange Fellowship homeless, and the Strattons discovered that finding a new address wouldn't be easy. ''Landlords had no problem renting to us on the upper floors,'' Dan told me, ''but they didn't want us at street level. I guess they were afraid that the neighbors might complain. There are people in New York who want churches zoned out completely. I signed four leases in four different buildings, paid the architects, fixed the move-in dates, and every time, the settlement was broken at the last minute. I discovered there is an adversary out there.''
 ''Who?''
 Stratton fixed me with a tight-end glare and said: ''Satan. Literally.''
 On April 27, 2005, the Strattons' fortunes seemed to change. Eighteen years to the day from his first Wall Street windfall, Pastor Dan signed a lease for a space on the corner of Greenwich and Vestry. Rent was $40,000 a month, but the site was not only at street level; it was also the former box office of the Tribeca Film Festival, perhaps a sign that ChristTown was making incursions even on the home turf of its godless cultural adversaries. That week, the Faith Exchange bulletin proudly announced, ''Pastor Dan has the keys to this property in his possession.'' 
 But Satan wasn't through. During the second Sunday service in the new church, Stratton was called from the pulpit to deal with fire-department inspectors who had been tipped off to supposed violations. Neighbors began complaining to the police about the noise. Soon the landlord informed Dan and Ann that the building was going to be sold and they would have to leave. Stratton isn't saying that the sale was aimed at him, but since April of this year, Faith Exchange has once again been a church without walls. 
 ''Why not move somewhere more hospitable?'' I asked Dan Stratton. ''There are fundamentalist churches all over the city.''
 ''Sure, I could find a place in Harlem or Brooklyn in a minute,'' Stratton said. ''But I'm called downtown. Wall Street needs a special kind of prayer.''
 The Strattons, despite their temporary setback, are optimistic. They continue to draw crowds at the Marriott and other temporary locales. And since May, Pastor Dan has been the host of a weekly cable show, ''The ProVision Network.'' 
 Still, the homelessness rankles. It turns out that, even for the ultimate Wall Street power couple, raising the dead can be easier than finding 15,000 square feet at a decent corner location in lower Manhattan.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Pastor Dan (next to his wife, Ann), bringing it hard and strong at a Sunday service.
 The Strattons: Danielle, 14, Pastor Dan and Pastor Ann. (Photograph By Danielle Levitt For The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (96%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (94%); FUNDAMENTALISM (89%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (89%); CELEBRITIES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (86%); REAL ESTATE (77%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (76%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (74%); COMMODITIES TRADING (72%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (71%); DANCE (71%); MUSICAL THEATER (69%); JAZZ & BLUES (69%); MUSIC (69%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (69%); CHOREOGRAPHY (69%); THEATER (66%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (57%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (50%) Christians and Christianity; Evangelical Movement; Faith Healers; Christians and Christianity

ORGANIZATION: Faith Exchange Fellowship

PERSON: Zev Chafets; Dan Stratton; Ann Stratton

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2006



374 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: What It Takes To Make a Student

 BODY:
Paul Tough's article (Nov. 26) on closing the race and class gaps in school performance usefully looked beyond what schools do to what parents do and to the enormous gaps in parent-child communication among middle-class and poorer families, in vocabulary, in the ratio of encouragement to discouragement and in promoting questioning and critical discussion, rather than simple obedience to orders.
But what lies behind this ''parenting gap''? Might the poor and less-skilled working-class parents be replicating with their children what they experience on the job -- limited opportunities to develop a wide range of skills, demands for simple obedience rather than discussion of what to do next, an authoritarian environment of bosses and managers full of ''negative communications'' and the frustrations of low pay, low recognition for their work and pervasive powerlessness? 
 Longer school hours, intensive tutoring and more quality pre-schooling may reduce the school-performance gap between the economic classes, but they cannot eliminate it. Schools are asked to overcome the effects of a system of stratification in which some people do the thinking and give the orders while other people are expected to simply obey orders and perform repetitive tasks out of fear of losing their jobs, while raising families on very low incomes. Schooling by itself cannot destratify a class society; class structure keeps reproducing itself. It needs to be attacked head on.

Allen H. Barton
 Chapel Hill, N.C.

Your article on education spent only a few lines on an obstacle of charter schools -- the teachers' union. A review of the National Education Association's Web site shows that the union is not merely ''skeptical'' of charter schools but also fights other potential reforms, including vouchers and merit pay. The only ''solution'' consistently advocated by the teachers' union is to put additional money into a system that has failed for the vast majority of poor, minority students.

S.D. Steele
 Newton, Mass.

My thanks to Paul Tough for a thorough analysis of No Child Left Behind as it applies to minority students. He did not mention, however, one of the most pernicious aspects of the legislation as it affects most of our classrooms: it treats all schools as if they were the same.
 This failure to distinguish among different schools with their very different student populations and, therefore, different needs, makes solving the problems of low-performing schools impossible and, as I have been experiencing for the past five years, injects unnecessary and often counterproductive requirements into schools that had been performing well. As a result, our worst schools only seem better and our best schools are in danger of slipping into mediocrity (simpler textbooks that all students can read; simpler classes that all students can pass).
 The statistics cited at the beginning of Tough's article indicate that we are reducing the performance gap as much by causing high-performing schools to do worse as by helping low-performing schools to do better.

George Wallach
 Fremont, Calif.

Your article omits mention of an enormous factor in children's lives today: the influence of a frenetic, often-violent and fiercely anti-intellectual popular culture.
 While it is true that middle-class children may wallow in this morass of video games and rap videos as well, less-privileged youngsters do not have the advantage of parents who can offer an alternative behavioral universe. I recently tutored a fifth-grade girl who couldn't name the president of the United States, but effortlessly pinpointed the profile and dispositions of a pantheon of pop stars.

Doug Brin
 New York

This was a very encouraging article about people actually doing something to address a longstanding national problem. Instead of profiting from sales of polemical books and television appearances, organizations like Kipp are on the ground making a real difference. I am concerned, however, about Kipp's desire not to attract too many well-prepared students. It is these very students that have the most to lose if they remain in inadequate public schools. Surrounded by peers that often view high academic achievement as ''acting white,'' they risk succumbing to the prevailing low standards.

Raheem M. Cash
 Alexandria, Va.

Paul Tough accurately points out that a child's family life is the dominant factor in determining success at school. I've taught for 15 years in a public high school. The first week of every school year, I ask each class for a show of hands to the question ''How many of you ate dinner with your family (TV turned off) at least three of the last seven nights?'' Overwhelmingly, the lifted hands belong to students who will maintain a high class average, will do well on standardized tests, will speak and write with an advanced vocabulary and will not be a discipline problem.
 No Child Should Be Left Behind at Home -- but that is a tough one to legislate.

Jjay Moore
 Abilene, Tex.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (90%); FAMILY (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (88%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (86%); TEACHER UNIONS (86%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (86%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); TEXTBOOKS (78%); EDUCATION LAW (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); PARENTING (73%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (73%); MERIT PAY (73%); DISMISSALS (70%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (69%) Education and Schools; Charter Schools; Tests and Testing

PERSON: Paul Tough; allen h barton; s d steele; george (fremont, calif) wallach; Doug Brin; raheem m cash; jay moore

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2006



375 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: A CITIZEN'S CALENDAR

 BODY:
A selective listing of state, county and local government events across New Jersey this week. (All dates and times subject to confirmation.) Items should be submitted by mail at least three weeks in advance to the New Jersey Op-Ed Page, The New York Times, 229 West 43rd Street, New York, N.Y. 10036, or by e-mail to njcivic@nytimes.com. 


State of New Jersey

Newark Board of Public Utilities. Wednesday at 10 a.m. Two Gateway Center, eighth floor, board hearing room. (973) 648-3426.
Port Republic Atlantic Coast Shellfisheries Council. Monday at 7 p.m. Nacote Creek Law Enforcement Office, 360 Old New York Road. (609) 748-2040.
Stockton Delaware and Raritan Canal Commission. Wednesday at 10 a.m. Canal Commission Headquarters, 33 Risler Street. (609) 397-2000.
Trenton New Jersey Historic Sites Council. Thursday at 10 a.m. Department of Environmental Protection, 401 East State Street. (609) 292-2023.
Trenton Legislative Task Force on Higher Education and the Economy. Tuesday at 10 a.m. State House Annex Building, 150 West State Street. (609) 292-4840.

Bergen County

Englewood City Council. Tuesday at 8 p.m. Municipal Court, South Van Brunt Street. (201) 871-6612.
Fort Lee Planning Board. Monday at 7:30 p.m. Fort Lee City Hall, 309 Main Street. (201) 592-3727.
Midland Park Planning Board. Monday at 8 p.m. Midland Park Borough Hall, 280 Godwin Avenue. (201) 445-5424.
Paramus Flu shots. (Shot are free for county residents 65 and older who are covered by Medicare Part B or non-H.M.O. medical insurance. They are $25 for residents ages 18 to 64. Pregnant women must have a doctor's note.) Monday from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. Community Services Building, 327 East Ridgewood Avenue. (201) 634-2648.

Cumberland County

Newport Township Committee. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Downe Township Municipal Complex, 288 Main Street. (856) 447-3100.
Rosenhayn Township Committee. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Deerfield Municipal Building, Landis Avenue. (856) 455-3200.
Vineland Zoning Board. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Vineland City Hall, 640 East Wood Street. (856) 794-4000.

Essex County

Montclair Township Council. Tuesday at 8 p.m. 205 Claremont Avenue. (973) 509-4928.
Newark Municipal Council. Wednesday at 6:30 p.m. Newark City Hall, 920 Broad Street. (973) 733-3600.

Gloucester County

Woodbury Board of Chosen Freeholders. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Gloucester County Courthouse, 1 North Broad Street. (856) 853-3275.

Hudson County

Jersey City Planning Board. Wednesday at 6:30 p.m. County Annex Building, 567 Pavonia Avenue. (201) 547-5010.
Kearny Board of Health. Wednesday at 7 p.m. Kearny Health Department, 645 Kearny Avenue. (201) 997-0600.

Mercer County

Princeton Township Committee. Monday at 7 p.m. Princeton Town Council, 400 Witherspoon Street. (609) 924-5704.

Middlesex County

Edison Zoning Board. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Edison Municipal Building, 100 Municipal Boulevard. (732) 248-7249.
Sayreville Mayor and Borough Council. Monday at 8 p.m. Sayreville Municipal Building, 167 Main Street. (732) 390-7025.

Morris County

Chester Township Council. Thursday at 7:30 p.m. Chester Township Municipal Building, 1 Parker Road. (908) 879-5100.
Mount Olive Planning Board. Thursday at 7 p.m. Mount Olive Municipal Complex, 204 Flanders-Drakestown Road. (973) 691-0900.

Ocean County

Toms River Planning Board. Wednesday at 6:30 p.m. Planning, Roads and Engineering Annex, 129 Hooper Avenue. (732) 929-2054.

Passaic County

Bridgeton Planning Board. Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. Hopewell Municipal Building, 590 Shiloh Pike. (856) 459-9483.
Wayne Township Council. Wednesday at 8 p.m. Wayne Town Hall, 475 Valley Road. (973) 694-1800.

Somerset County

Bridgewater Park Commission. Thursday at 6 p.m. Park Commission Headquarters, 355 Milltown Road. (908) 722-1200.
Somerville Planning Board. Tuesday at 4:45 p.m. County Administration Building, 20 Grove Street. (908) 231-7021.

Union County

Elizabeth Board of Chosen Freeholders. Thursday at 7 p.m. Administration Building, 10 Elizabethtown Plaza. (908) 527-4140.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); MEDICARE (78%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (76%); ZONING (75%); PORT AUTHORITIES (75%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); HEALTH INSURANCE (68%); HISTORIC SITES (68%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (64%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (52%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (50%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (50%); INFLUENZA (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%) NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2006



376 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; URBAN STUDIES-- Stocking Up; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 442 words

HEADLINE: Flour Power

BYLINE: By LAUREN C. PORCARO

 BODY:
LIKE its neighbors, the narrow walk-ups that line the block of 78th Street east of Second Avenue, Orwasher's bread bakery is a study in the economical use of space. That is why watching the weekly delivery of flour to the bakery is so mesmerizing. 
 According to Abram Orwasher, whose grandfather opened the bakery in 1916, an efficient way to have flour delivered is by a tanker truck. It can haul a large quantity of flour, which is sucked into the bakery through a vacuum tube and stored in an in-house silo.
But Orwasher's, which has only about 600 square feet of retail space, does not have room for a silo. So it buys flour by the bag, and as a result the bakery's routines are bound by a delivery of bagged flour around 9 a.m. every Tuesday, when the curb is cleared for street cleaning. 
 The intricate flour-delivery ballet on display one recent Tuesday began with the appearance of Jonathas DaSilva, who is a driver for Fodera Foods, a Queens bakery supply company. Mr. DaSilva positioned himself at the open bay of a large delivery truck that he had parked near the curb. In the belly of the truck, Victor Artiga, another Fodera employee, ripped plastic wrapping from a pallet stacked high with 100-pound sacks that bore labels like ''Progressive Baker Fancy First Clear.'' 
 Pulling down the top sack, Mr. Artiga stood it right side up, skidded it to the edge of the truck's inside and flipped it onto Mr. DaSilva's shoulder, where it landed with a floury puff. 
 Bag atop his shoulder, Mr. DaSilva went to an open cellar door in the sidewalk, where he hefted the bag over the lip of the entrance. It slid down an ancient wooden plank into the basement, where a third man was poised to catch the hurtling sacks and restack them. Long before all the sacks had made their way to the basement, the right side of Mr. DaSilva's black T-shirt had turned a little gray.
 The delivery, which takes about an hour, is an integral part of the bakery's rhythms, which are stilled for only a few hours each week. Overnight, long after the last customer has trudged off with fresh challah under one arm, the retail space is used to stage wholesale operations: slicers and packers busy themselves preparing deliveries for the next day. 
 Earlier in the evening, their places are held by the bakers, in the basement of Orwasher's. Twelve hours before the flour truck rumbles up, shapers can be seen throwing raw loaves onto a long maple workbench with a smack. Four-hundred-pound slabs of dough sit in metal tubs near the mixers from which they have emerged, looking like nothing so much as the remains of a tea party in a giant's kitchen. LAUREN C. PORCARO


GRAPHIC: Photo: Delivery day at Orwasher's bread bakery on the Upper East Side. (Photo by Shiho Fukada for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAKERIES (93%); BAKED GOODS (78%); SPECIAL FREIGHT TRUCKING (71%); RETAIL PROPERTY (69%); WHOLESALERS (66%) Bakeries and Baked Products; Flour; Delivery Services

ORGANIZATION: Orwasher's Bakery (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2006



377 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2480 words

HEADLINE: Coming to Terms With the Men on the Corner

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

DATELINE: MAMARONECK, N.Y. 

 BODY:
WHETHER they live in homes they own or in rented rooms, the working men here follow similar routines. They rise early, which these days means long before the sun, then shower, shave and walk toward the train station at the edge of Columbus Park, a speck of green amid a cluster of clapboard houses.
 The men in suits march up the station steps, headed for the Metro-North trains to Manhattan. The men wearing paint-speckled pants trudge a few yards to the corner of Jefferson Avenue and Van Ranst Place, then pace the sidewalks, coffee cup in hand, waiting for jobs that often do not materialize.
''It's Thursday, and I haven't worked one day this week,'' said Jaime Martinez, 38, a stout Salvadoran, one recent morning, his dark eyes trained on a landscaping truck that pulled up and quickly drove away, carrying two men. 
 Unpredictability permeates the lives of these men, day laborers who gather at open-air job markets that spring up, without sanction or warning, at busy intersections, by gas stations and outside home improvement stores, here and in dozens of communities across the region, from Farmingville on Long Island to Lakewood in New Jersey to Danbury in Connecticut. Invariably, their presence yields passionate responses from residents and local officials, often torn between those who embrace the workers and those who want to see them go.
 While the number of Hispanic immigrants in the region increased by 21 percent in the last five years, it is difficult to tell how many work as day laborers. What is known is that most day laborers are undereducated, undocumented men from the Latin American countryside, lured here by the prospect of a better life. Lacking skills and legal status -- strictly speaking, under federal law, illegal immigrants are not allowed to work, and employers are not allowed to hire them -- they end up looking for work in landscaping and construction. They earn an average of $10 an hour and are sometimes subjected to abuse by employers, who deny them food, water or breaks, or refuse to pay them at day's end.
 Even though many union members oppose illegal immigration, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and several individual unions have thrown their support behind day laborers, seeing them as exploited workers who do not earn enough and undercut wages for other workers. Organized labor has embraced them as part of its broader strategy to attract immigrants to the labor movement.
 Still, their presence has sparked concerns among townspeople, who say day laborers litter and urinate and loiter in the streets. Some Farmingville residents say their presence hurts real estate values. They have even proposed creating a separate village so prices of homes to the west of Nicolls Road, a north-south highway, do not suffer because of laborers gathered to the east.
 ''The real estate brokers have a hard time selling homes here because most people associate Farmingville with day laborers,'' said Ken Kellaher, 58, who is leading the effort to create the new village, to be called Oak Hills. Mr. Kellaher lives to the west of Nicolls Road, in a quaint, wealthier section of Farmingville, a hamlet within the town of Brookhaven. ''We feel that we need to redefine our community,'' he said.
 Local officials, for their part, find themselves in a bind, trying to balance the pressure from residents, who demand that something be done about men who they say are destroying their quality of life, with the workers' right to convene.
 Now, with a recent federal court ruling on the response by police and municipal officials in Mamaroneck to concerns about day laborers, towns are hoping for guidance from the courts. Last month, Judge Colleen McMahon of Federal District Court ruled on behalf of a group of day laborers who had sued the village of Mamaroneck, in southern Westchester County, saying its officials and police officers harassed them because they are Hispanic. The judge gave the town and the laborers until Jan. 5 to come up with a solution, a development that is being closely watched by municipal leaders elsewhere. 
 The ruling in New York came just a few weeks before borough officials in Freehold, in Monmouth County, settled a three-year-old federal lawsuit filed by day laborers. The settlement stipulates that laborers would no longer be fined for soliciting work in public places. It also prevents building inspectors and police officers from entering laborers' homes without consent, in what immigration advocates said was the selective persecution of Latinos. 
 In a few cases, municipal governments and community groups have compromised by designating a place -- often a building or an empty lot -- where workers and contractors can link up. At least 63 hiring sites operate in 17 states, including about 10 seasonal and year-round sites in the region, according to local officials and a national survey of 2,600 day laborers released earlier this year. 
 Thomas R. Suozzi, the Nassau County executive, said hiring sites ''are a matter of common sense.'' 
 ''You get the problem off the streets, so that it's not a visual issue or a littering issue or a urinating-in-public issue,'' he said. ''And at the same time, you help these men who are just trying to live the American dream and give them a safe place to assemble.''
 In 1994, as mayor of Glen Cove, N.Y., Mr. Suozzi spearheaded the creation of the first hiring site on the East Coast, muffling the brewing discontent about the growing number of men who had been assembling outside a deli and along roadways. Since then, upward of 40 men convene at a sprawling ground-floor office on Sea Cliff Avenue every morning, where the walls are lined with posters, each depicting a letter of the alphabet and a corresponding tool -- P for pliers, T for tape measure, W for wrench. 
 Twice a week, a volunteer offers English lessons. Recently, the men pooled their money to buy a coffeemaker and a Christmas tree.
 ''If we're not on the streets, we don't bother anybody and the police don't bother us,'' said a 44-year-old Argentine laborer, who said he shows up every morning, usually finding work. 
 Other communities have considered similar sites, but not all have been successful. In some towns, they have chosen places that are too isolated, as in Lakewood, where the site is four miles from the commercial district and thus hard to reach for workers, who rarely have cars. Other towns have declined to devote municipal dollars to help these sites get started, saying it is not a local mandate to back enterprises that help mostly illegal immigrants find work.
 ''We've been very clear that we're not going to spend any taxpayer money to create a facility for the day laborers, but we're certainly going to be supportive if any community group tries to resolve the situation on their own,'' Mayor Mark Boughton of Danbury said in an interview. ''Local government has to walk a very fine line here because federal law is clear: you can't aid or abet somebody who is here illegally and help them find work.'' 
 The response in a number of communities has been to step up enforcement, through ordinances, increased police patrols or a combination of both. Often, the police will cite workers and the contractors who pull up to hire them for small infractions -- from littering to loitering to impeding traffic. But in the eyes of the court, some communities have pushed too far. 
 In the Mamaroneck case, the plaintiffs told the court that police cruisers followed them, lights flashing. At times, officers used words or harsh gestures to order them off sidewalks; other times, officers just stared, the plaintiffs said.
 Steve Garcia, one contractor who testified, said in an interview that he had hired laborers in Mamaroneck. But after he was ticketed in August for pulling away from a curb without signaling, right after picking up a few workers, he began hiring workers elsewhere. ''I wanted to help the guys,'' he said, but ''I didn't need the trouble.'' 
 The decision in Mamaroneck caught the attention of many municipal officials. Mayor Paul F. Rickenbach Jr. of East Hampton, the affluent village on the east end of Long Island, said he read it several times, trying to figure out what impact, if any, it might have on his community. 
 For months, police officers have been posted near the East Hampton railroad station, watching day laborers and contractors to make sure no one breaks local laws, Mayor Rickenbach said. In November 2005, the police ran a sting operation of sorts, jotting down the license plate numbers of cars that picked up workers, then shipping the information to the Internal Revenue Service and federal immigration authorities. 
 ''We were not targeting any particular ethnic group,'' said Mayor Rickenbach, a former East Hampton police detective who has been in office since 1992. ''We were just being mindful of the number of individuals who were there and making certain that the people who were hiring these individuals were aware of their responsibilities, such as withholding taxes on the wages they were paying these workers and hiring people who are authorized to work.''
 ''In no way do we intend to be discriminatory,'' he added. ''We don't go out soliciting documentation from the workers.''
 The nation's day-laborer phenomenon traces its roots to the 18th century, when European immigrants gathered on city streets, seeking work as chimney sweeps, wood cutters and dock hands. In the mid-1800s, in port cities in the Northeast, foremen picked the day's dock help from a pool of workers gathered around him. Irish men and black women found jobs at New York's hiring sites in the early 20th century, while in California, the sites attracted Mexicans looking for seasonal farm work. 
 The laborers who arrived in the last 10 years come mostly from Mexico, Guatemala, El Salvador and Honduras, often bypassing traditional ports of entry like New York City, Chicago and Los Angeles and settling, instead, in the suburbs, where jobs abound, according to a national survey of day laborers released in January.
 These men, many of whom send part of their earnings to the families they left behind, worked on farms or in factories in their home countries, the survey says. Most had not heard about the day-laborer market until arriving and joined this line of work as a way of gaining a foothold here.
 Abel Valenzuela Jr., a co-author of the national survey, ''On the Corner: Day Labor in the United States,'' noted that employers rarely withhold taxes on wages or pay Social Security and workers' compensation benefits, making a day laborer a lot cheaper to hire. In short, he said, day laborers are as much a byproduct of immigration as they are of the economy.
 ''Day labor is part of a larger national trend, but it just happens to be at the low end of this trend, since these men are looking for work on street corners, as opposed to temp staffing agencies or through the part-time job ads they see in the newspaper,'' said Mr. Valenzuela, director of the Center for the Study of Urban Poverty at the University of California, Los Angeles.
 The survey estimates the number of day laborers nationwide at 120,000, a tiny fraction of the estimated 11 million illegal immigrants. About half the day laborers are in the West, about 20 percent in the East and Southwest, 12 percent in the South and 4 percent in the Midwest, according to the survey, based on interviews with 2,600 day laborers in 139 municipalities. 
 MR. MARTINEZ, the Salvadoran immigrant, used to plant corn, rice and potatoes in a small plot behind his family's home in the impoverished village of Sonsonate. One of his uncles came to Mamaroneck in the 1990s and wrote to him that there were jobs that would pay him enough to support his elderly parents.
 In 2001, Mr. Martinez moved to Mamaroneck, finding a busboy job at a restaurant in nearby Harrison. Two years later, the restaurant closed and Mr. Martinez was unemployed, so he joined the ranks of men who line the sidewalks near Columbus Park every morning from 6 to 11. 
 ''I know how to paint walls, do carpentry, clean and landscape,'' he said. ''We're not office people, like the people who take the train every day. But we're intelligent, and we work hard.'' 
 Day laborers will tell you they earn about $10 an hour, which would make for a decent living -- if work were not so scarce. In the summer, they work three or four days a week, earning up to $1,400 a month. But once it turns cold, the laborers are lucky to work five or six days a month.
 To make ends meet, they share apartments with other men, sometimes in unsafe, overcrowded homes. They often take turns performing household tasks, like cooking and cleaning. 
 ''Most of us are alone here, so our roommates become our family,'' said Juan Garcia, 40, a Mexican day laborer with a neat goatee.
 If they are not hired, they spend the day at home or, if it is warm, sitting on a park bench with a Spanish-language newspaper or an American magazine, trying to make sense of a language few of them know. On Sundays, some go to church, while others walk the streets. Mr. Martinez enjoys strolling along Fordham Avenue in the Bronx. Mr. Garcia buys a phone card and talks for hours to his wife and three children in Tenancingo, Mexico, where he used to eke out a living growing sugar cane and raising livestock.
 ''I used to go home every year, around this time of the year, and come back in March,'' he said. ''But I haven't earned enough this year.''
 This spring and summer were unusually difficult for day laborers in Mamaroneck and in other places where increased enforcement has driven contractors away, according to at least a dozen workers and contractors interviewed in Westchester, New Jersey and Long Island.
 In Danbury, laborers have avoided gathering at Kennedy Park since 11 undocumented Ecuadoreans were arrested in September by federal immigration officials posing as contractors.
 ''If among us immigrants there are criminals, then let the judicial process take over,'' said Wilson Hernandez, the vice president of the Ecuadorean Civic Center in Danbury. 
 ''But it's not fair that undocumented immigrants are lumped together with terrorists,'' he said. ''It's not fair that someone who risked life and limb to come to this country, to cross the border, be considered a criminal solely because he came here to work.''
 The few men who still gather at the park have been so scared since the raid that they walked away from a reporter without a word, like children taught not to talk to strangers.
 The civic center and other groups are working together to build a hiring site behind the house occupied by the Hispanic Center of Greater Danbury, a few blocks from City Hall, on West Street. They hope to have it ready by spring, when crews will begin constructing 500 luxury condos across from Kennedy Park, displacing the day laborers.


CORRECTION-DATE: December 24, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about day laborers in the region misstated the name of a street in the Bronx where one of the laborers enjoys strolling. It is Fordham Road, not Fordham Avenue.

GRAPHIC: Photos: READY AND WILLING -- Day laborers seeking work in Mamaroneck, N.Y., and, at right, some who found it. Some residents complain about them, others defend them. (Photographs by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
AN UNCERTAIN LIFE -- In Mamaroneck, N.Y., above, a judge intervened after accusations of police harassment of day laborers who gather on the streets. At a hiring site in Glen Cove, N.Y., right, a wall is lined with letters and English words to improve the vocabularies of workers, many of whom are Hispanic and speak little English. In Stamford, Conn., bottom left, laborers gather in an area that is designated as a hassle-free zone. (Photos by Above and below, Librado Romero/The New York Times)
 (Photos by Left and above, Janet Durrans for The New York Times)(pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEN (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); TRAINS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); CITIES (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (72%); GAS STATIONS (72%); LOITERING & VAGRANCY (72%); HOME CENTERS (71%); REFUGEES (66%) Labor; Day Laborers; Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Immigrants; Organized Labor; Wages and Salaries; Labor

PERSON: Fernanda Santos

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2006



378 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: Children's Books

BYLINE: By Robert Sullivan. 
Robert Sullivan is the author, most recently, of ''Cross Country,'' a book about the history of the roads and highways of America.

 BODY:
INTO THE WEST
 From Reconstruction to the Final
 Days of the American Frontier.
 By James M. McPherson.
 Illustrated. 96 pp.
 A Byron Preiss Visual Publications Book/Atheneum Books for Young
 Readers. $22.95.
 (Ages 9 to 14)
Something else they don't tell you in school is that life can be a lot like a textbook. It's a slog mostly, and it's tough to tell the difference between what's important and what's the Warren G. Harding administration. Currently, the teaching of the past for people in the middle school years relies heavily on the use of terms like ''Shays' Rebellion'' and ''checks and balances,'' terms you memorize and explain. It's history as checklist -- which is what makes James M. McPherson's ''Into the West'' seem so brilliantly serene, with slow considerations of an era of American history that is as important as it is overlooked. 
 Reconstruction is usually a blip on the screen of young people's history classes, a quick stop in the race from the Civil War to World War I. But in the non-semester-based world, Reconstruction is a hotbed of historical scholarship. Industrial America was in its infancy, and the West was being won, as well as lost, mined and marketed, by the railroads, the interstates of their day. Racism continued to pull the United States apart at the seams while the war-modernized Northern economy began pushing the country west -- and pushing an idea of the West that still shows up in car commercials.
 ''As a boy I watched dozens of western movies starring Gene Autry, Roy Rogers and Hopalong Cassidy, which were filled with myths,'' writes McPherson, the Pulitzer-winning author. ''When I grew up and became a historian, it was surprising to learn the realities of the West, which I have tried to present to you in this book.'' 
 The realities are about development and politics, starting with the Homestead Act, one of Lincoln's most far-reaching legislative measures. Before the Civil War, the government had been hindered in its attempts to settle the land Thomas Jefferson bought; Northern states wanted to limit the expansion of slavery in the new territory, but the South did not. After the war, federal troops were an occupying force in the war-devastated cities south of the Mason-Dixon line, and into the vacuum of political power came the anarchist Ku Klux Klan (whose members dressed up as ghosts of Confederate soldiers) and the carpetbaggers, mostly former Union officers who, according to McPherson, were not what the Southerners who understandably hated them said they were. ''Most carpetbaggers and scalawags proved to be men of great bravery and idealism, who possessed the courage of their convictions to promote necessary social changes.'' 
 Like good newspaper stories, McPherson's chapters convey big ideas with the details of people's lives, national trends with local notes. ''The prejudice against colored soldiers seems to be without foundation,'' a Montana newspaper reported on the Buffalo Soldiers, the African-American military units nicknamed by Native Americans who likened their hair to that of the buffalo. ''There are no better troops in the service.'' (Indeed, the Buffalo Soldiers had a lower desertion rate than white soldiers and a higher re-enlistment rate.) 
 There might have been a chapter about the beginning of the exploitation of the territories (for mining and logging, among other things) or another about how the 14th Amendment became the protector of corporations. But McPherson gets extra credit for highlighting the idea throughout that labor made the West. ''Little Baz can run all over, fetch up cows out of the stock fields, or oxen, carry in stove wood and climb in the corn crib and feed the hogs and go on errands down at his grandma's,'' writes a Kansas settler. Little Baz, McPherson notes, was 2. 
 The photographs in this book deliver the reality of the times with a devastating sepia-toned IMAX punch. See the sod house in Nebraska, with leather-skinned father, a row of precious watermelons, a mother holding a squirming kid. See the glint in the real-life eye of Robert LeRoy Parker, a k a Butch Cassidy, with his bowler hat and gold watch and chain. See the fugitive slaves fording a stream, led by four ill-fed oxen and a barefoot boy on horseback, who stares warily into the camera as the men work the oxen that pull a wagon filled with barrels and women hiding from the sun. See the blur of headdresses and moccasins as Indians perform a ghost dance before the Battle of Wounded Knee. Read the caption on Page 86: ''Big Foot, leader of the Sioux, lies frozen in the battlefield where he died.''


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Library of Congress/From ''Into the West'') 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); HISTORY (90%); CHILDREN (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); CIVIL WAR (89%); LITERATURE (78%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (78%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (72%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); SLAVERY (69%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (67%); FILM GENRES (67%); WORLD WAR I (66%); RACE & RACISM (64%); POLITICS (60%) Books and Literature; Reviews; Children and Youth

COMPANY: CHILDREN'S BOOKS & TOYS INC (58%); ATHENEUM BOOKS FOR YOUNG READERS (58%); BYRON PREISS VISUAL PUBLICATIONS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: LIBRARY OF CONGRESS (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (58%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (58%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (58%)

PERSON: Robert Sullivan; James M Mcpherson

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2006



379 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: In Housing Contest, Cities Take the Lead

BYLINE: By ANTOINETTE MARTIN

 BODY:
IF the residential real estate market were a competitive sport, the two contenders in the 2006 Big Game would be the Suburban Single-Family Home team versus the Urban Village Condominiums.
 This year, the sideline report on the contest might go something like this: At this point in the season, the Suburbans seem to have lost the edge. They look a little lackluster now against the big-city crew, which has shown surprising resilience during a tough summer and fall. The Urbans are muscling ahead, and their fan base is building, as more and more seem to enjoy a metropolitan style of play.
 All right, blow a whistle on the analogy. Still, a number of developers and home builders seem to think there is not enough demand in New Jersey these days for both suburban and urban markets to prosper, and most are betting on city living. 
 For example, Joyce D. Skarka of the Lennar Corporation said, ''Desire for the urban product continues to come up very impressive for us right now.''
 Benjamin D. Jagodnik of Toll Brothers, a company once best known for its McMansions, said his City Living division ''is really hitting it with our projects.'' He added, ''They are hot, hot, hot.'' 
 Executives from other major home building companies active in New Jersey like Tarragon Properties, K. Hovnanian Homes and the Pinnacle Companies also talked of urban projects as strong performers despite a general market malaise. 
 Ms. Skarka is a vice president at Lennar Urban Northeast, a division of the national company that is a partner in developing Port Imperial, a $2.1 billion mixed-use project spanning nearly two miles on the Hudson waterfront in Weehawken, West New York and Guttenberg, all a short ferry ride from Manhattan. Lennar is also completing two projects in the Morristown town center and starting one in downtown Atlantic City.
 ''The suburban market is still moving along'' in New Jersey, Ms. Skarka said, despite the severely slowed sales pace and falling prices of the last six months. People are still buying single-family homes, she said, ''but as a company, we've been focusing on our urban division for a while now because that's where things are going really well,'' and home values are holding up better, too.
 At Port Imperial, Lennar and its partner, the Roseland Property Company, converted a rental building to add 344 condos to the mix this year, and most have been sold. Construction also began on 158 new condos: 94 tower residences and 64 four-level town homes. More than half sold before the framing was finished.
 ''We have done detailed research with focus groups at Port Imperial to see what lifestyle people are looking for,'' Ms. Skarka said. ''We found that cities are drawing them like a magnet. People don't want to feel isolated. They want the ability to interact, and to have city lifestyle amenities.''
 Next year, work will begin on the Artesian at Port Imperial, designed as a sleek all-glass structure to house 196 high-end condo units. Lennar will also start building Reflections in Atlantic City, a six-story building with 179 ''ultraluxurious'' condos featuring balconies overlooking the ocean, but those units are most likely to be second homes, Ms. Skarka said.
 She also said there was a long waiting list for two smaller projects opening now in downtown Morristown: one that created 36 condominiums in the former Vail Mansion, and another featuring nine town homes.
 This fall, K. Hovnanian Homes, which for decades specialized in building suburban subdivisions, made national news by announcing it had a 33 percent rate of cancellations of preconstruction sales contracts, a record high for the company. At the same time, its executives talked of ''excelling'' in its multifamily urban development projects.
 The same basic situation has played out for Toll Brothers: a sharply higher rate of cancellations, but a relatively vital sales pace in resurgent cities.
 The City Living division of Toll Brothers, established four years ago, has three major projects in Hoboken and Jersey City now opening for occupancy or for sales. 
 The first tenants are moving into the first tower of Maxwell Place, a high-end condo complex on the waterfront in Hoboken, built in partnership with Pinnacle; it sold out quickly more than a year ago. Sales have begun on the second tower.
 In addition, sales opened recently for 116 loft units in another Hoboken structure, long known as the ''skeleton building'' -- it was vacant and made of white brick -- and within a few days, there were signed contracts for a third of the units in the building, which is to be called Harborside Lofts, Mr. Jagodnik said.
 At 700 Grove, a huge new amenity-laden complex going up near a train station in Jersey City, the sales pace may not be quite that spectacular, he said, but continues to be very strong.
 Bill Friedman, chief executive of Tarragon in New York, said he thought sales in Hoboken, in particular, were being stoked by the fact that ''virtually no quality rental units are available in that city.'' The Sovereign, perhaps the last large rental building that can rise on Hoboken's built-up waterfront, opened six months ago, Mr. Friedman noted, and it is fully leased.
 On Hoboken's west side, Tarragon is developing the Upper Grand complex, which will encompass 1,160 condos and 240 rental units in nine buildings covering eight blocks.
 ''The lack of rental units is provoking people who might otherwise have waited to buy to move ahead with purchases,'' Mr. Friedman said. 
 He said he also thought that slow sales of single-family suburban homes might be beginning to sap the strength of the condo market.
 For example, in Edgewater, where Tarragon is opening One Hudson Park, a glass condo tower, sales have been slower than expected. Young professionals are signing contracts in the numbers expected, Mr. Friedman said, but not empty-nesters.
 ''The empty-nesters have to sell the houses they have,'' he said, ''and they're having trouble doing that.''


CORRECTION-DATE: December 24, 2006

 CORRECTION:
The ''In the Region'' article in New Jersey and Manhattan copies last Sunday about the strength of the urban residential market in New Jersey misspelled the surname of an executive at the City Living division of Toll Brothers, which is opening three projects in Hoboken and Jersey City. He is Benjamin D. Jogodnik, not Jagodnik.

GRAPHIC: Photos: URBAN LIVING -- Tenants are moving into the first tower of Maxwell Place in Hoboken, above. Next year, work will begin on the Artesian at Port Imperial. (Photos by Timothy Ivy for The New York Times, above
 Handel Architects, below)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (91%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); SUBURBS (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); FERRIES (64%); FOCUS GROUPS (60%) Housing; Suburbs; Housing

COMPANY: LENNAR CORP (86%); HOVNANIAN ENTERPRISES INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Hovnanian Enterprises Inc; Toll Brothers Inc

TICKER: LEN (NYSE) (86%); HOV (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (86%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (86%)

PERSON: Antoinette Martin

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) New Jersey

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2006



380 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 653 words

HEADLINE: Letting Your Paycheck Work for You

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
FOR borrowers who cannot face the prospect of paying more interest than principal over the course of a loan, mortgage lenders have begun to offer alternatives more aggressively.
 Companies like Macquarie Mortgages USA, CMG Financial Services and others have unveiled mortgage products in the past year that allow borrowers with good credit and above-average incomes to accelerate their payoff schedule and reduce their overall interest liability, all without increasing their monthly mortgage payment.
''These aren't for everyone,'' said Tom LaMalfa, founding partner of Wholesale Access Research and Consulting, a financial industry consulting firm based in Columbia, Md. ''But for those who are reasonably affluent and good savers, it makes a good deal of sense and reduces the overall loan cost.'' 
 Indeed, Mr. LaMalfa said, banks generally offer these loans, known as first-lien home equity lines of credit, to those with credit scores ''comfortably in the 700s,'' which is well above average. Those who qualify for such loans typically deposit their paychecks directly with the lender until they need to pay their bills. That money, in the meantime, reduces the amount of principal on which mortgage interest is charged.
 For instance, a homeowner with a $400,000 mortgage might face a $2,528 monthly payment, if he or she followed a conventional 30-year payoff schedule with a 6.5 percent fixed interest rate. If, however, on the first day of the first month the borrower deposited checks of $10,000 into the mortgage account, interest would be charged on just $390,000 until the borrower withdrew money to pay bills.
 Assuming the borrower waited until the 21st of the month to pay, say, $5,000 in nonmortgage bills and left the remaining money in the account, the loan amount at the end of the month would be $397,092. (The bank would automatically deduct the mortgage interest amount of $2,092 from the account.)
 By contrast, the total on a 30-year fixed-rate loan at the end of the first month would be $399,639, because in the early years of a loan a borrower's payment is weighted toward paying off interest. The first month's interest on the 30-year loan would, in this case, be $2,167.
 Borrowers with a first-lien home equity line can pay off loans much more quickly than they would otherwise, and reduce their overall interest burden. They may also gain access to that equity by writing a check, rather than executing a cash-out refinance.
 These loans have been popular in Australia for decades, partly because Australians cannot deduct mortgage interest payments from their income taxes and are therefore eager to pay off their loans quickly.
 In the United States, borrowers retain the tax advantages -- albeit at lower levels, since they generally pay less interest -- but they may give up some other options. For some banks, like Macquarie, borrowers must transfer money into their checking accounts to pay their bills, an additional step that some consumers may find burdensome.
 A changing interest rate is another, possibly significant, downside. These mortgages are adjustable-rate products, and as such are tied to short-term interest rates. CMG has an interest rate cap of 9 percent to 11 percent, depending on how much a borrower pays for the loan. If short-term interest rates rise from their current level of about 5.35 percent to 11 percent and remain there, borrowers with a $400,000 loan will pay off the loan in 29 years, but they will pay nearly $500,000 more in interest than someone with a 30-year loan and a 6 percent fixed-interest rate.
 But if interest rates remain on par with industry averages since the late 1980s, that same borrower will pay $300,000 less in overall interest ($175,000 total) and pay off the loan in just under 13 years. That payoff assumes the borrower has about 10 percent of his or her $10,000 in net income left each month to reduce the loan's principal. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE LOANS (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HOME EQUITY CREDIT LINES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%) Housing; Mortgages; Wages and Salaries

COMPANY: WHOLESALE ACCESS (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (57%)

PERSON: Bob Tedeschi

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (72%) AUSTRALIA (90%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2006



381 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 3; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1358 words

HEADLINE: They Bought but Never Built

BYLINE: By FRED A. BERNSTEIN

DATELINE: WaterSound Beach, Fla. 

 BODY:
IN 2002, when the St. Joe Company, one of Florida's largest real estate developers, began selling parcels in a new neighborhood here, it was inundated by potential buyers. 
 With as many as 10 applicants for every lot, the company put numbered balls into a fishbowl, then had an agent draw the balls at random, to decide who would be allowed to buy the home sites.
Four years later, you can hear a pin drop at the gated community of WaterSound Beach. Most of the lots sit empty, and even Thanksgiving weekend brought only a handful of visitors.
 After the dire hurricane season of 2005, the real estate market along the Florida Panhandle ground to a virtual halt. 
 But WaterSound Beach and WaterColor, another St. Joe development eight miles west, are meant to be New Urbanist communities, modeled on Seaside (their neighbor on Route 30A). And New Urbanism requires density. That is why, when it sold the lots, St. Joe had a requirement that buyers break ground on their houses within three years.
 Homeowners who did not meet the ''build-out deadline'' had two options: to begin paying a penalty, as much as $2,500 a month, or to sell the land back to St. Joe at the original price.
 As it turns out, many of the landowners were speculators who had no intention of building. ''They thought they'd sell after six months, and make a killing,'' said Lew Belote, an executive of Move Inc., which provides online services to buyers and sellers, and the owner of a house in WaterColor. 
 Some did manage to sell. Chris Martin, a local builder, bought a lot in WaterColor in 2003 for $215,000. He sold it in early 2005, he said, for $750,000. In WaterSound, several lots have sold for more than $2 million apiece.
 But after Hurricane Dennis hit the Panhandle in July 2005, most of the planned flips turned to flops.
 ''People got caught day-trading lots,'' said Marc Levy, who operates a flooring company in New Orleans and owns a house in Rosemary Beach, a community near WaterColor. Those who did not want to sell their lots at a loss, but had no plans to build, were stuck. After years of double-digit appreciation, the market was so bad that ''some of them would have been happy to sell back to St. Joe at the original price,'' Mr. Belote observed. 
 But St. Joe ''wasn't interested in buying back people's lots,'' said Jerry Ray, the company's vice president for corporate communications. ''Our goal is to build towns.'' 
 So last May, St. Joe issued a statement that caught many of the owners by surprise: They would have an extra two years in which to begin building their houses.
 For some property owners, the decision, effective June 1, was a welcome reprieve. Debora Usher, who with her husband, John, had bought a lot in WaterColor, said the decision made her ''happy, happy, happy.'' 
 The Ushers, who live in Central Florida and own a weekend house in Seaside, now have two more years to decide whether to sell or build in WaterColor. Though other parts of WaterColor are ''built out,'' their lot is in a section that shows only two signs of development: sewer hookup pipes emerging from the ground, and signs touting the names of the owners and their children (a homey touch meant to create community, but these days seeming spectral).
 Some people who have already built houses in the St. Joe communities are unhappy about the extension, claiming that the company changed the rules in the middle of the game.
 Pat Spafford, a neonatologist from Atlanta, bought a lot in WaterSound Beach at the end of 2002, began building within the three-year window and moved in with his family late last month.
 But the lot alongside his is empty, and now, with the extension, there is no telling when its owners will break ground. So instead of living in a finished community, he said, he could end up living next to a construction site. 
 Dr. Spafford said he was ''not too happy'' about the extension. ''The speculators,'' he said, ''put pressure on St. Joe.''
 Mr. Belote, who divides his time between homes in Atlanta and WaterColor, said he ''kind of took a proactive approach.''
 ''I got tired of people complaining and nothing happening,'' he said. So he helped organize an e-mail group on Yahoo. ''I got us communicating more effectively with each other and with St. Joe,'' he said. ''I think we influenced the company.'' 
 Still, Mr. Belote conceded, some owners ''were adamantly opposed to this. I got a lot of people mad at me.''
 But without the build-out extension, many lots would have come up for sale, almost certainly sending prices downward. It was ''in the best interest of St. Joe and the homeowners to control the inventory in a buyer's market,'' said Nikki Nickerson, an agent with Keller Williams Realty in Seagrove Beach.
 Other proponents of the extension say the company's original deadline never made sense. Both WaterColor and WaterSound Beach have very strict building codes, designed to ensure aesthetic harmony. Simply getting plans approved has taken some homeowners as long as 18 months, according to Ms. Nickerson and others.
 Some observers said that if it intended to see communities built quickly, St. Joe should have limited each buyer to one lot. Instead, it allowed the purchase of multiple lots; Mr. Belote said he knows at least three people who own three lots or more. 
 According to local agents, there was so much demand before 2005 that St. Joe could have had a ''one lot per buyer'' limit and still sold every home site. But Mr. Ray defended the company's policy. ''You can't know in advance what a buyer is going to do,'' he said. He added that the company ''could institute better procedures in the future -- we're always learning.''
 Mr. Ray said that in the 1920s, St. Joe, then a paper company, bought nearly 2,000 square miles in Florida for a few dollars an acre. ''For all intents and purposes, it's free land,'' he said. 
 That explains why, with Panhandle real estate booming, St. Joe got out of the paper business, and into the development business, in 1997. A publicly held company based in Jacksonville, St. Joe now has 16 communities at various stages of development statewide. WaterColor and WaterSound Beach, which cater to wealthy vacationers from places like Atlanta and Dallas, are the most expensive of the 16, Mr. Ray said.
 But Hurricane Dennis changed everything.
 ''There was a group panic after the hurricane,'' Mr. Usher said.
 Nonetheless, Hilary Farnum, a sales agent for St. Joe, said the company had not lowered the prices on the lots that it still owns. Doing so, she said, ''could compromise the value of the lots that we've already sold.'' People buy into St. Joe communities, she said, because they know the company is in a financial position to ride out any storm.
 But some people believe St. Joe's two-year extension has undermined its attempt to create community. Sally Shushan, a federal magistrate who owns a condominium in neighboring Rosemary Beach, said Rosemary had become a real community because the developers ''stuck to their guns on the build-out schedule.'' Rosemary, whose homeowners include the White House aide Karl Rove, is almost complete, eight years after the first house there was finished.
 It is now likely that the St. Joe communities will take much longer to complete. 
 But not everyone who bought land from St. Joe is concerned about the extension. Barry Richard, a lawyer from Tallahassee, built one house in WaterColor, then moved to a bigger one and put the first one on the market. He said he was not worried about how quickly thecommunity is finished, ''because I didn't buy the houses for investment.'' 
 Eight miles east, at WaterSound Beach, Jim Andros, a lawyer from Atlanta, said he was not affected by the issue either.
 Mr. Andros, who spends weekends in a condo in WaterSound Beach, said he bought a lot as an investment. Under the original build-out deadline, he would have been required to break ground on a house this month, he said.
 Despite the two-year reprieve, Mr. Andros said, he is likely to start building soon. ''I'm ready, and I may just go ahead,'' he said, adding, ''The market goes up and the market goes down.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: WELCOME REPRIEVE -- Debora and John Usher are happy about the deadline extension for building on their lot. (Photo by Fred A. Bernstein for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
EMPTY LOTS -- Buyers snapped up parcels in St. Joe developments several years ago, many with the idea of flipping them for a quick profit. Chris Martin, above, bought a lot in WaterColor in 2003 for $215,000 and sold it early last year for $750,000. But many other lots remain vacant, prompting the developer to extend a building deadline by two years. (Photographs by Steven Frame for The New York Times
 top left, Fred A. Bernstein for The New York Times)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); TROPICAL STORMS (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); HURRICANES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); WEATHER (75%); CITY LIFE (73%); THANKSGIVING (70%); CITIES (68%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%) Housing; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Dennis (Storm); Housing

COMPANY: ST JOE CO (93%); MOVE INC (66%)

ORGANIZATION: St Joe Company

TICKER: JOE (NYSE) (93%); MOVE (NASDAQ) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713910 GOLF COURSES & COUNTRY CLUBS (93%); NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (93%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (93%); NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (93%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (66%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (66%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (66%)

PERSON: Fred A Bernstein

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Florida 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2006



382 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk; UPDATE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: Yonkers Raceway Casino Rises to Top Earner 

BYLINE: By JULI STEADMAN CHARKES

DATELINE: YONKERS 

 BODY:
THE casino at Yonkers Raceway opened for business in mid-October amid unfinished construction and a dispute between management and horse owners. Eight weeks later, the gambling site appears to have hit the jackpot. Figures released by the State Lottery Division show that the raceway is the top earner of the eight racetracks with slot machines in the state. 
 Empire City Gaming at Yonkers Raceway earned $35.6 million from Oct. 11, the day the casino opened, through Dec. 8, well above the other seven tracks that offer electronic casino games. The second-highest amount earned was $19.2 million at Saratoga Gaming and Raceway. A portion of the Yonkers earnings, $19.2 million, will be allotted to state education under the conditions set forth by the State Legislature when it approved electronic gambling at racetracks in 2001. Saratoga's education portion will be $10.2 million.
''We're happy that things seem to be off to a good start,'' said Timothy Rooney Jr., the raceway's general counsel and son of the owner, Timothy J. Rooney.
 The opening of the $240 million casino transformed the Yonkers Raceway from an outdated harness track that faced closing into an increasingly popular destination for gamblers eager to try their luck on the 3,679 video-lottery machines housed over two floors. With a second building scheduled to be completed by the end of this month, the casino will eventually have 5,500 machines.
 On a recent late Saturday afternoon, the casino was filled with visitors playing video-lottery-game machines like Big Money and Alien Attack, which provide electronic versions of popular casino games like poker, before heading to an area called Redemption to cash in their earnings.
 Toni Ricciardi, a Yonkers native who was playing the machines with her mother-in-law and adult daughter, said that when she was a child, it was horses that drew families to the track.
 ''I remember coming to the races and it would be absolutely packed, but nowadays this is what appeals to me more,'' she said, pointing to the rows of video-lottery machines lined up behind her, with their cacophony of bells, chimes and rattles.
 Others said they were tempted by proximity. ''Who wants to sit behind the wheel of your car and drive to Atlantic City?'' asked Joe Gentile, a Yonkers resident and former croupier in Las Vegas and elsewhere.
 Mr. Rooney said he hoped that the casino's success would rekindle interest in harness racing, which resumed Nov. 17 after the racetrack was closed for 510 days to rebuild it. The shutdown angered the Standardbred Owners Association, which claimed the extended delays led to economic hardship for the hundreds of jockeys and horse owners forced to compete at other tracks during the interim. But ''that's all water under the bridge now,'' Mr. Rooney said.
 Two floors above the casino, horse-racing fans gathered to watch the trotters and pacers compete. Among those watching was Carmelo Calderon, of Mount Vernon, who said he had been coming to the track for decades. Mr. Calderon said he was neither interested in nor tempted by the frenzied activity below.
 ''I come for the horses,'' he said. ''If they don't have horses, they won't see me, and my money will stay in the bank.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: TRYING THEIR LUCK -- Patrons work the video-lottery-game machines at Yonkers Raceway. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (91%); LOTTERIES (90%); HORSES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (78%); HORSE RACING (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); POKER (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); LAWYERS (68%); FAMILY (67%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (67%) Gambling; Casinos; Yonkers Raceway; Slot Machines

ORGANIZATION: Empire City (Casino)

PERSON: Juli Steadman Charkes

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) New York State

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2006



383 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2474 words

HEADLINE: Coming to Terms With the Men on the Corner

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

DATELINE: MAMARONECK 

 BODY:
WHETHER they live in homes they own or in rented rooms, the working men here follow similar routines. They rise early, which these days means long before the sun, then shower, shave and walk toward the train station at the edge of Columbus Park, a speck of green amid a cluster of clapboard houses.
 The men in suits march up the station steps, headed for the Metro-North trains to Manhattan. The men wearing paint-speckled pants trudge a few yards to the corner of Jefferson Avenue and Van Ranst Place, then pace the sidewalks, coffee cup in hand, waiting for jobs that often do not materialize.
''It's Thursday, and I haven't worked one day this week,'' said Jaime Martinez, 38, a stout Salvadoran, one recent morning, his dark eyes trained on a landscaping truck that pulled up and quickly drove away, carrying two men. 
 Unpredictability permeates the lives of these men, day laborers who gather at open-air job markets that spring up, without sanction or warning, at busy intersections, by gas stations and outside home improvement stores, here and in dozens of communities across the region, from Farmingville on Long Island to Lakewood in New Jersey to Danbury in Connecticut. Invariably, their presence yields passionate responses from residents and local officials, often torn between those who embrace the workers and those who want to see them go.
 While the number of Hispanic immigrants in the region increased by 21 percent in the last five years, it is difficult to tell how many work as day laborers. What is known is that most day laborers are undereducated, undocumented men from the Latin American countryside, lured here by the prospect of a better life. Lacking skills and legal status -- strictly speaking, under federal law, illegal immigrants are not allowed to work, and employers are not allowed to hire them -- they end up looking for work in landscaping and construction. They earn an average of $10 an hour and are sometimes subjected to abuse by employers, who deny them food, water or breaks, or refuse to pay them at day's end.
 Even though many union members oppose illegal immigration, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and several individual unions have thrown their support behind day laborers, seeing them as exploited workers who do not earn enough and undercut wages for other workers. Organized labor has embraced them as part of its broader strategy to attract immigrants to the labor movement.
 Still, their presence has sparked concerns among townspeople, who say day laborers litter and urinate and loiter in the streets. Some Farmingville residents say their presence hurts real estate values. They have even proposed creating a separate village so prices of homes to the west of Nicolls Road, a north-south highway, do not suffer because of laborers gathered to the east.
 ''The real estate brokers have a hard time selling homes here because most people associate Farmingville with day laborers,'' said Ken Kellaher, 58, who is leading the effort to create the new village, to be called Oak Hills. Mr. Kellaher lives to the west of Nicolls Road, in a quaint, wealthier section of Farmingville, a hamlet within the town of Brookhaven. ''We feel that we need to redefine our community,'' he said.
 Local officials, for their part, find themselves in a bind, trying to balance the pressure from residents, who demand that something be done about men who they say are destroying their quality of life, with the workers' right to convene.
 Now, with a recent federal court ruling on the response by police and municipal officials in Mamaroneck to concerns about day laborers, towns are hoping for guidance from the courts. Last month, Judge Colleen McMahon of Federal District Court ruled on behalf of a group of day laborers who had sued the village, saying its officials and police officers harassed them because they are Hispanic. The judge gave the town and the laborers until Jan. 5 to come up with a solution, a development that is being closely watched by municipal leaders elsewhere. 
 The ruling in New York came just a few weeks before borough officials in Freehold, in Monmouth County, N.J., settled a three-year-old federal lawsuit filed by day laborers. The settlement stipulates that laborers would no longer be fined for soliciting work in public places. It also prevents building inspectors and police officers from entering laborers' homes without consent, in what immigration advocates said was the selective persecution of Latinos. 
 In a few cases, municipal governments and community groups have compromised by designating a place -- often a building or an empty lot -- where workers and contractors can link up. At least 63 hiring sites operate in 17 states, including about 10 seasonal and year-round sites in the region, according to local officials and a national survey of 2,600 day laborers released earlier this year. 
 Thomas R. Suozzi, the Nassau County executive, said hiring sites ''are a matter of common sense.'' 
 ''You get the problem off the streets, so that it's not a visual issue or a littering issue or a urinating-in-public issue,'' he said. ''And at the same time, you help these men who are just trying to live the American dream and give them a safe place to assemble.''
 In 1994, as mayor of Glen Cove, N.Y., Mr. Suozzi spearheaded the creation of the first hiring site on the East Coast, muffling the brewing discontent about the growing number of men who had been assembling outside a deli and along roadways. Since then, upward of 40 men convene at a sprawling ground-floor office on Sea Cliff Avenue every morning, where the walls are lined with posters, each depicting a letter of the alphabet and a corresponding tool -- P for pliers, T for tape measure, W for wrench. 
 Twice a week, a volunteer offers English lessons. Recently, the men pooled their money to buy a coffeemaker and a Christmas tree.
 ''If we're not on the streets, we don't bother anybody and the police don't bother us,'' said a 44-year-old Argentine laborer, who said he shows up every morning, usually finding work. 
 Other communities have considered similar sites, but not all have been successful. In some towns, they have chosen places that are too isolated, as in Lakewood, where the site is four miles from the commercial district and thus hard to reach for workers, who rarely have cars. Other towns have declined to devote municipal dollars to help these sites get started, saying it is not a local mandate to back enterprises that help mostly illegal immigrants find work.
 ''We've been very clear that we're not going to spend any taxpayer money to create a facility for the day laborers, but we're certainly going to be supportive if any community group tries to resolve the situation on their own,'' Mayor Mark Boughton of Danbury said in an interview. ''Local government has to walk a very fine line here because federal law is clear: you can't aid or abet somebody who is here illegally and help them find work.'' 
 The response in a number of communities has been to step up enforcement, through ordinances, increased police patrols or a combination of both. Often, the police will cite workers and the contractors who pull up to hire them for small infractions -- from littering to loitering to impeding traffic. But in the eyes of the court, some communities have pushed too far. 
 In the Mamaroneck case, the plaintiffs told the court that police cruisers followed them, lights flashing. At times, officers used words or harsh gestures to order them off sidewalks; other times, officers just stared, the plaintiffs said.
 Steve Garcia, one contractor who testified, said in an interview that he hadhired laborers in Mamaroneck. But after he was ticketed in August for pulling away from a curb without signaling, right after picking up a few workers, he began hiring workers elsewhere. ''I wanted to help the guys,'' he said, but ''I didn't need the trouble.'' 
 The decision in Mamaroneck caught the attention of many municipal officials. Mayor Paul F. Rickenbach Jr. of East Hampton, the affluent village on the east end of Long Island, said he read it several times, trying to figure out what impact, if any, it might have on his community. 
 For months, police officers have been posted near the East Hampton railroad station, watching day laborers and contractors to make sure no one breaks local laws, Mayor Rickenbach said. In November 2005, the police ran a sting operation of sorts, jotting down the license plate numbers of cars that picked up workers, then shipping the information to the Internal Revenue Service and federal immigration authorities. 
 ''We were not targeting any particular ethnic group,'' said Mayor Rickenbach, a former East Hampton police detective who has been in office since 1992. ''We were just being mindful of the number of individuals who were there and making certain that the people who were hiring these individuals were aware of their responsibilities, such as withholding taxes on the wages they were paying these workers and hiring people who are authorized to work.''
 ''In no way do we intend to be discriminatory,'' he added. ''We don't go out soliciting documentation from the workers.''
 The nation's day-laborer phenomenon traces its roots to the 18th century, when European immigrants gathered on city streets, seeking work as chimney sweeps, wood cutters and dock hands. In the mid-1800s, in port cities in the Northeast, foremen picked the day's dock help from a pool of workers gathered around him. Irish men and black women found jobs at New York's hiring sites in the early 20th century, while in California, the sites attracted Mexicans looking for seasonal farm work. 
 The laborers who arrived in the last 10 years come mostly from Mexico, Guatemala, El Salvador and Honduras, often bypassing traditional ports of entry like New York City, Chicago and Los Angeles and settling, instead, in the suburbs, where jobs abound, according to a national survey of day laborers released in January.
 These men, many of whom send part of their earnings to the families they left behind, worked on farms or in factories in their home countries, the survey says. Most had not heard about the day-laborer market until arriving and joined this line of work as a way of gaining a foothold here.
 Abel Valenzuela Jr., a co-author of the national survey, ''On the Corner: Day Labor in the United States,'' noted that employers rarely withhold taxes on wages or pay Social Security and workers' compensation benefits, making a day laborer a lot cheaper to hire. In short, he said, day laborers are as much a byproduct of immigration as they are of the economy.
 ''Day labor is part of a larger national trend, but it just happens to be at the low end of this trend, since these men are looking for work on street corners, as opposed to temp staffing agencies or through the part-time job ads they see in the newspaper,'' said Mr. Valenzuela, director of the Center for the Study of Urban Poverty at the University of California, Los Angeles.
 The survey estimates the number of day laborers nationwide at 120,000, a tiny fraction of the estimated 11 million illegal immigrants. About half the day laborers are in the West, about 20 percent in the East and Southwest, 12 percent in the South and 4 percent in the Midwest, according to the survey, based on interviews with 2,600 day laborers in 139 municipalities. 
 MR. MARTINEZ, the Salvadoran immigrant, used to plant corn, rice and potatoes in a small plot behind his family's home in the impoverished village of Sonsonate. One of his uncles came to Mamaroneck in the 1990s and wrote to him that there were jobs that would pay him enough to support his elderly parents.
 In 2001, Mr. Martinez moved to Mamaroneck, finding a busboy job at a restaurant in nearby Harrison. Two years later, the restaurant closed and Mr. Martinez was unemployed, so he joined the ranks of men who line the sidewalks near Columbus Park every morning from 6 to 11. 
 ''I know how to paint walls, do carpentry, clean and landscape,'' he said. ''We're not office people, like the people who take the train every day. But we're intelligent, and we work hard.'' 
 Day laborers will tell you they earn about $10 an hour, which would make for a decent living -- if work were not so scarce. In the summer, they work three or four days a week, earning up to $1,400 a month. But once it turns cold, the laborers are lucky to work five or six days a month.
 To make ends meet, they share apartments with other men, sometimes in unsafe, overcrowded homes. They often take turns performing household tasks, like cooking and cleaning. 
 ''Most of us are alone here, so our roommates become our family,'' said Juan Garcia, 40, a Mexican day laborer with a neat goatee.
 If they are not hired, they spend the day at home or, if it is warm, sitting on a park bench with a Spanish-language newspaper or an American magazine, trying to make sense of a language few of them know. On Sundays, some go to church, while others walk the streets. Mr. Martinez enjoys strolling along Fordham Avenue in the Bronx. Mr. Garcia buys a phone card and talks for hours to his wife and three children in Tenancingo, Mexico, where he used to eke out a living growing sugar cane and raising livestock.
 ''I used to go home every year, around this time of the year, and come back in March,'' he said. ''But I haven't earned enough this year.''
 This spring and summer were unusually difficult for day laborers in Mamaroneck and in other places where increased enforcement has driven contractors away, according to at least a dozen workers and contractors interviewed in Westchester, New Jersey and Long Island.
 In Danbury, laborers have avoided gathering at Kennedy Park since 11 undocumented Ecuadoreans were arrested in September by federal immigration officials posing as contractors.
 ''If among us immigrants there are criminals, then let the judicial process take over,'' said Wilson Hernandez, the vice president of the Ecuadorean Civic Center in Danbury. 
 ''But it's not fair that undocumented immigrants are lumped together with terrorists,'' he said. ''It's not fair that someone who risked life and limb to come to this country, to cross the border, be considered a criminal solely because he came here to work.''
 The few men who still gather at the park have been so scared since the raid that they walked away from a reporter without a word, like children taught not to talk to strangers.
 The civic center and other groups are working together to build a hiring site behind the house occupied by the Hispanic Center of Greater Danbury, a few blocks from City Hall, on West Street. They hope to have it ready by spring, when crews will begin constructing 500 luxury condos across from Kennedy Park, displacing the day laborers.


CORRECTION-DATE: December 24, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about day laborers in the region misstated the name of a street in the Bronx where one of the laborers enjoys strolling. It is Fordham Road, not Fordham Avenue.

GRAPHIC: Photos: READY AND WILLING -- Day laborers seeking work in Mamaroneck and, at right, some who found it. Some residents complain about them, others defend them. (Photographs by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
AN UNCERTAIN LIFE -- In Mamaroneck, above, a judge intervened after accusations of police harassment of day laborers who gather on the streets. At a hiring site in Glen Cove, N.Y., right, a wall is lined with letters and English words to improve the vocabularies of workers, many of whom are Hispanic and speak little English. In Stamford, Conn., bottom left, laborers gather in an area that is designated as a hassle-free zone. (Photos by Above and below, Librado Romero/The New York Times)
 (Photos by Left and above, Janet Durrans for The New York Times)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEN (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); TRAINS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); CITIES (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (72%); GAS STATIONS (72%); LOITERING & VAGRANCY (72%); HOME CENTERS (71%); REFUGEES (66%) Labor; Day Laborers; Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Immigrants; Organized Labor; Wages and Salaries; Labor

PERSON: Fernanda Santos

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2006



384 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; IDEAS & TRENDS: Correspondence Rough Cuts; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 979 words

HEADLINE: Measuring a Diamond's True Price

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.

 BODY:
IN 1997, while covering the election of Charles Taylor -- a warlord who had raised whole armies of child soldiers -- as president of Liberia, I half-jokingly suggested to an aid worker that her group design a poster.
 It would show a young woman displaying the stump of her chopped-off arm. Below, it would say to American brides, ''I can't wear a wedding ring so that you can.'' 
 Someone in Leonardo DiCaprio's new movie, ''Blood Diamond,'' has stolen my line. A character says, ''People back home wouldn't buy a ring if they knew it would cost someone else their hand.'' 
 I still feel strongly about this. I got married this month, and my long-suffering bride was kind enough to go along with my refusal to buy a diamond: she has an opal engagement ring and a sapphire wedding ring. 
 (As a result, one of my better-read buddies gave me grief about exploiting the child laborers who polish sapphires in India and mine emeralds in Brazil. I should have bought a flawless industrial diamond at $80 a carat.)
 But the truth is, the situation is more complicated. I'm right; my buddy is right; Global Witness, the human rights group, is right; Russell Simmons is right; and Nelson Mandela is right. 
 Mr. Simmons, the hip-hop mogul, and Mr. Mandela, the living saint, have both defended the diamond industry in the face of ''Blood Diamond.'' 
 Mr. Simmons, who owns a jewelry company, has started a Diamond Empowerment Fund to teach Africans to polish rough stones so that value-adding step can be done there instead of in Israel, Belgium or India.
 They argue, correctly, that 99 percent of all diamonds come from places that are not presently at war: South Africa, Namibia, Botswana, Tanzania, Russia, Canada, Australia, even Arkansas. Countries where diamonds fueled grotesque atrocities in the 1990's -- Sierra Leone, Liberia and Angola -- are at peace, although eastern Congo and Ivory Coast are not.
 Of all those countries, Namibia and Botswana are as dependent on diamonds as Kuwait is on oil, and even mighty South Africa would be badly shaken if prices plummeted. 
 Moreover, many miners in AIDS-ravaged southern Africa, who get relatively good pay and decent health care, would be thrown out of work.
 The paradox is that all that human welfare, like all that spilled blood, flows from a carefully constructed fantasy. 
 I once visited Namibia's ''Forbidden Zone,'' the 180-mile-long beach where the DeBeers company sifts diamonds out of the sand where the Orange River sweeps the diamond pipes of Lesotho and Kimberley out to sea. The clean, well-run mining town is the engine of Namibia's economy.
 It is an eerie place. Since 1936, no vehicle has ever left, in case diamonds are hidden in it. Pet pigeons are forbidden, because they have been caught with gems sewn into tiny jackets. No visitor leaves without a full-body X-ray. Mine detected gravel in my boot soles, so a guard picked out each speck. If one had been a diamond, I could have spent 10 years in jail.
 The lust for that glittering gravel, extending unbroken from African thieves to British royals to domestic Bridezillas -- is manufactured. Hard carbon, as even Nicky Oppenheimer, the charming chairman of DeBeers, has admitted, has no intrinsic value except as grit. DeBeers, which manages the cartel that has kept diamond prices up far more efficiently than OPEC ever did with oil, fosters that romance. It has run the ''A Diamond Is Forever'' ads since 1948 and still quietly advises gullible grooms that it is ''customary'' to spend two months' salary on a ring. 
 Creating new markets is the genius of DeBeers. Getting African-American men to wear bling works for them as well as their 1950's campaigns to get Japanese brides to demand solitaires. To my mind, bling shootings and pre-marital tiffs over the rock just prove that any diamond can aspire to be a conflict diamond.
 But true blood diamonds do offend the world's conscience. While it is possible to laser-etch each stone with an invisible license number, as some Canadian mines do, it is expensive. Instead, the industry has faced the issue with the Kimberley Process: shipments of rough diamonds get certificates of origin. In 2003, Congress passed the Clean Diamond Trade Act, making it illegal to import rough diamonds without certificates.
 However, said Corina Gilfillan of Global Witness, the process is flawed.
 Diamonds from war-torn areas get mixed in with others. Corrupt officials can forge certificates. Diamonds are easily smuggled.
 Most damning, many buyers and many jewelers do not care. Ms. Gilfillan described a documentary in which British film-makers took an actor posing as an African military man into Manhattan dealerships offering diamonds without certificates. He found ready buyers. 
 In September, the Government Accountability Office reported that the law was not enforced. ''Because of weaknesses of the system,'' it said, ''the United States cannot ensure that illicit rough diamonds are not traded.''
 Mr. Oppenheimer has spoken very sharply on the topic, asking the World Diamond Congress in Tel Aviv in June to ''drive out, isolate and eject from our business those who refuse to accept and embrace the absolute imperative to operate in an ethical and morally responsible manner.''
 A cynic would note that his company also dislikes illegal competition. But Mr. Oppenheimer, like his father Harry, has often pointed out that the industry owes its very life to the Africans who are grinding out of their own continent the baubles that so please the rest of the world.
 Diamonds, by the way, are not a part of traditional African weddings. In those, the bride is paid for in cows or camels. And Mr. Oppenheimer must be worried more about his industry's image than its future: diamond sales in China are soaring as post-Mao brides demand white weddings. Fortunately, Leonardo DiCaprio is a big star there.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Blessing and Curse -- In Sierra Leone, a young diamond miner holds in his palm what he believes is a diamond at a mining pit near Koidu. Diamonds have financed bloody civil wars in which child soldiers have disfigured civilians by hacking off their hands. Elsewhere, they allow companies to offer wages and health care that would otherwise not be affordable. (Photo by Yannis Kontos/Polaris) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); CHILD SOLDIERS (89%); DIAMOND MARKETS (89%); CHILD LABOR (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); SMUGGLING (76%); MARRIAGE (76%); FINE JEWELRY (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); RAP MUSIC (65%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (65%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%) Diamonds; Smuggling

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (52%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (52%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (52%)

PERSON: LEONARDO DICAPRIO (55%) Donald G Jr Mcneil

GEOGRAPHIC: NAMIBIA (94%); LIBERIA (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (93%); BOTSWANA (93%); INDIA (92%); SIERRA LEONE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (92%); AFRICA (91%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (79%); ISRAEL (79%); CANADA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); COTE D'IVOIRE (79%); ANGOLA (79%); LESOTHO (79%); BELGIUM (57%) South Africa; Namibia ; Botswana; Tanzania

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2006



385 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION: The Foreign Service Exam; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: Rarely Win at Trivial Pursuit? An Embassy Door Opens 

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN

 BODY:
THE path to the Foreign Service has always been straight and narrow: the first step is the written test, perhaps the nation's leading smarty-pants exam. Since 1932, hundreds of thousands of applicants have grappled with a half-day of questions on geography, English usage, history, math, economics, culture and more.
 ''It's like being on a golf course,'' said Justin Norton, a 26-year-old who flunked the test this year and last, but wants to take it again. ''You've got all the sand traps, the water hazards. I remember I didn't understand the question about economies of scale. I remember something about Langston Hughes and the Harlem Renaissance. And sometimes even when I knew it, like a question about George Kennan and containment policy, I got it wrong anyway.'' 
It is not an easy exam to study for. The State Department suggests reading a good daily newspaper for a year. There are prep books, and at places with lots of applicants, like the Fletcher School at Tufts University, maybe even a study group. But mostly, people prepare on their own, looking through a world atlas, the Constitution or the word problems they did on the SAT.
 Still, the exam gets rid of most applicants. More than three-quarters of the 17,000 to 20,000 who take the exam each year flunk. Even those who pass often remember for years the lacunae in their general knowledge exposed by the test. Where, exactly, are the pampas? What countries neighbor Tunisia?
 The test is more about breadth than depth. So for a question about Etruscan vases, the applicant might need to know that the Etruscans preceded the Romans in Italy, but nothing more.
 Those who pass the exam go on to an oral interview, where they are hammered with questions and situations by several Foreign Service officers, and the best performer gets the job.
 But now, the State Department wants to try a new approach, a bit less quantifiable. At the suggestion of McKinsey & Company, the management consultants, it plans to revamp the process to evaluate what it calls ''the Total Candidate,'' The Washington Post disclosed last week. The written exam will stay largely the same, although streamlined and given by computer, instead of bubble-sheet and bluebook. Online, the exam will be given more often, to speed the recruitment process, one of the State Department's main goals.
 As applicants register for the exam, they will submit an online ''structured resume'' describing their work experience, foreign residence, leadership experience and language abilities, among other things. Then, on the basis of the test results and resume, combined in some undisclosed metric, a screening committee will decide who goes on to the oral assessment.
 Some Foreign Service officers, past and present, applaud the new approach:
 ''Testing people on their general knowledge, their ability to parse questions, is a poor standard for bringing people into the Foreign Service,'' said Mark Van Fleet, who was posted in Thailand for five years. ''You get people who are well educated, and understand the relationship of inflation and interest rates. But the test doesn't measure more important things, like good judgment.''
 But the change raises concerns. Some worry that adding more nonquantitative factors could open the door to political considerations, or applicants with family connections. (Note to State Department: to understand the possible complications, talk to the admissions officers at Harvard or Princeton.) 
 Anthony Holmes, president of the American Foreign Service Association, said he was not worried, because the factors to be considered are things like foreign experience and language ability.
 ''Whether you gave to a political party is not in the paradigm,'' Mr. Holmes said. ''And experience living in a different country is important. McKinsey was just astounded that we didn't consider anything but test results.''
 Others, though, are troubled by the proposed revamping, given that the Foreign Service is already so prestigious and so competitive.
 ''Since it's working really quite well, why make such a major change?'' said Robert Gelbard, a former ambassador to Indonesia. ''I have great confidence in Condoleezza Rice, but what about the law of unintended consequences? Who knows whether, some years down the road, political factors could creep in?''
 And will the Foreign Service be dumbed down, given that adding factors will mean that some candidates could qualify with lower scores?
 Not to worry, said Marianne Myles, director of the State Department's office of recruitment, examination and employment. There will still be a failing score, and the passing score won't drop all that much.
 ''The population that applies is so large -- and so many of them are so qualified and smart and capable and have so many skills and abilities -- that we can't take them all,'' she said. ''Rather than sorting by one criterion, we're going to use more factors. But the very small percentage we take will still be the smartest, most qualified people representing America.''


GRAPHIC: Photos (Photo by Lance Cpl. Zachary Frank/U.S. Marine Corps, via Reuters)Chart/Photos: ''Until Now, You Were Foreign Service Material If...''1. You had taken college-level courses in these subjects:English composition/rhetoricAmerican historyAmerican studies (includingcultural and social history)American political thoughtAmerican political systemAmerican economic historyIntroduction to economics (micro- and macro-)World historyWorld geographyWorld religionsInternational economicsIntroduction to statisticsIntroduction to management principlesIntercultural communicationMass communicationPsychology2. You had read texts like these, from a list of more than 150 recommended books and other publications:Cultural Literacy: What Every American Needs to KnowThe Abolitionist LegacySupervisor's Big Book of ListsThe Elements of StylePsychology and LifeKosovo: A Short HistoryTwilight of Amateur Diplomacy: The American Foreign Service and Its Senior Officers in the 1890s3. You could answer dozens of questions like the following:1. Which of the following authorized Congress to legislate against slavery?A. Thirteenth AmendmentB. Emancipation ProclamationC. Cessation of War PowersD. Nineteenth Amendment2. All of the following are examples of United States products that would typically fail to be produced to optimal output without government intervention EXCEPT:A. National defense products.B. Light provided by lighthouses.C. New automobiles.D. New highways.3. Which sub-Saharan African countries were independent at the end of World War II in 1945?A. Nigeria and Kenya.B. Senegal and Ghana.C. Mozambique, Ghana and Somalia.D. Liberia, Ethiopia and South Africa.4. The Monroe Doctrine of 1823 was expanded by President:A. Theodore Roosevelt to assert a U.S. right to intervene in Latin America to preserve law and order.B. Woodrow Wilson to support Great Britain against German aggression.C. Franklin Roosevelt to extend U.S. influence in the Pacific..D Lyndon Johnson to protect U.S. interests in southeast Asia.5. The War Powers Resolution specifies that U.S. troops:A. cannot be sent into combat without prior Congressional approval.B. must be withdrawn from combat within 90 days unless Congress approves their deployment.C. can only be sent into combat by order of the president in a national emergency.D. cannot be sent into combat unless Congress declares war.6. Which of the following is considered the most important contribution of the ancient Greeks to modern Western civilization?A. Their systematic approach to knowledge.B. Their invention of double-entry bookkeeping.C. The invention of coinage as a means of exchange.D. The conquest of Persia and Northern India.Answers: 1, A
2, C
3, D
4, A
5, B
 6, A.Map of Africa highlights the aforementioned countries(Source by The Foreign Service)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); WORLD WAR II (79%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); INTERVIEWS (72%); GOLF (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (61%) United States Foreign Service; Tests and Testing; Hiring and Promotion; United States Foreign Service

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (55%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%)

PERSON: Tamar Lewin

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); GHANA (92%); AFRICA (92%); ETHIOPIA (79%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); SOMALIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ASIA (79%); INDIA (79%); LIBERIA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); KENYA (79%); SENEGAL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2006



386 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: A Push to Fix the Fix on Wall Street 

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
AFTER Enron and then WorldCom foundered amid multibillion-dollar accounting scandals, exposing layers of corporate malfeasance that are still coming to light now, Washington moved belatedly but forcefully to stiffen regulations, toughen enforcement and improve corporate audits.
 The goal was to shore up confidence in Wall Street, particularly among individual investors who had been pushed more than ever into the stock and bond markets by the decline of company pension and health-insurance plans, along with soaring college costs. Tales from thousands of investors who lost their life savings were a powerful indictment of lax government oversight.
Is the pendulum swinging back, to less federal oversight and more self regulation? 
 The question arises because prosecutors and regulators in Washington took steps last week -- almost exactly five years after Enron filed for bankruptcy -- to roll back some of the tough new measures adopted in that first blush of scandal.
 The Justice Department started by saying it would restrict prosecutors in corporate corruption cases. The Securities and Exchange Commission followed a day later by proposing looser auditing standards for thousands of smaller public companies.
 The timing was somewhat jarring. Fannie Mae, the nation's largest mortgage finance company, was suing its auditors last week for claiming they were negligent in helping to prepare financial statements that led to a $6.3 billion restatement of earnings, and The Wall Street Journal was uncovering a new scandal involving the improper back-dating of executive stock options.
 Some investor groups and outside experts criticized the proposals, saying they open loopholes in the law that unscrupulous companies are likely to exploit, effectively defanging the post-Enron changes. But others said that the adjustments by the Justice Department and the commission did not represent a wholesale retreat.
 Indeed, they suggested that the changes announced last week could actually benefit small investors by taking pressure off the new Congress to go much further in rolling back the post-Enron rules, as the United States Chamber of Commerce and other groups advocate. They are seeking to curtail shareholder lawsuits and cap the liability of accounting firms.
 ''We still are living under the shadow of Enron and WorldCom and that has tempered the business community's attempts at more precipitous action,'' said Joel Seligman, a securities law expert and authority on the history of the S.E.C. who is also the president of the University of Rochester.
 Mr. Seligman and others also said that the commission's action on small companies, an interpretation of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, was an appropriate trimming of a rule that was being applied to excess. That section requires public companies to assess their internal financial controls, a process that became a lightening rod for criticism because of its costs.
 The Sarbanes-Oxley law was approved in 2002 as lawmakers grew concerned that they might be swept out of office by millions of middle- and lower-income investors who owned their share of the marketplace through mutual funds, I.R.A.'s, 401 (k)'s, and 529 college-savings programs.
 Since then, as the scandals and trials have receded to the back pages, investors have poured even more money into the markets and a new and deregulatory-minded mood has taken hold in Washington. This Thursday, that movement will be on full display in a federal district court here, where a judge will consider a case that challenges the validity of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, a new agency created by the Sarbanes-Oxley law to oversee auditors.
 Some business groups, as well as the treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson, have raised concerns that more companies are listing their stock overseas because of the regulatory climate in the United States.
 Last month, a committee of academics and businessmen headed by R. Glenn Hubbard, the former chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers and now dean of the Columbia Business School, and John L. Thornton, a former president and co-chief operating officer of the Goldman Sachs Group and the current chairman of the Brookings Institution, proposed a series of measures they said would address this problem. The remedies include protecting corporations from criminal and civil cases, imposing new restrictions on shareholder lawsuits, and capping the liability of accounting firms.
 AT the core of critics' arguments is the idea that American laws make foreign markets more attractive than domestic ones.
 But some experts discount that link and point to other reasons why more companies are seeking out foreign markets. Listing and underwriting fees are significantly lower in many countries, and a number of companies that have recently listed in Europe and elsewhere overseas would never have met the disclosure or financial standards of American markets, even with the latest changes.
 ''You can reduce American regulations to zero and overseas markets would still be attractive to some companies,'' said Richard C. Breeden, a former chairman of the S.E.C. ''The proportion of offerings in the United States is going down. But India is getting richer and China is getting richer, and these trends reflect that.''
 Wall Street firms like Goldman Sachs are also posting record earnings, Mr. Breeden added, a sign that American underwriters have not suffered.
 Barbara Roper, director of investor protection at the Consumer Federation of America, said it was also incorrect to blame shareholder lawsuits for the growing appeal of foreign markets, or to assert that such litigation has been unduly burdensome. 
 The number of securities lawsuits has steadily and dramatically declined in recent years, Ms. Roper said, with a 45 percent drop in the first six months of this year. On an annualized basis, she added, the number of cases are at the lowest level in 10 years. 
 Ms. Roper attributed the trend to better corporate governance and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Moreover, only five shareholder lawsuits cited accounting firms in 2005; in the first half of this year, only one.
 Other experts said that last week's actions could represent the high water mark for the retrenchment.
 ''Given the significant amount of change that took place, I'm not surprised that there is this counterrevolution,'' said Charles M. Elson, director of the John L. Weinberg Center for Corporate Governance at the University of Delaware. ''What is significant is that there is no attempt here to throw the piano out the window. What we are seeing instead is simply a movement of the furniture around the room. The changes being made are really at the margins and there remains a broad consensus that the bigger changes that were made were reasonable ones.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Shocking Shreds -- News that Enron documents were being shredded even as the company denied wrongdoing touched off a burst of regulatory changes. Now government officials are reconsidering some of those rules. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)Chart: ''After Tougher Regulations''Because of corporate accounting scandals, government oversight of business was strengthened. Two results:RESTATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTSby U.S. public companies, to correct their errors, have soared.'97: 116'98: 158'99: 216'00: 233'01: 270'02: 330'03: 513'04: 627'05: 1,250CLASS-ACTION LAWSUITS against U.S. companies have dropped in recent years. 2006 figure is an estimate based on the pace of suits in the first half of the year.'96: 111'97: 174'98: 240'99: 208'00: 216'01: 180'02: 229'03: 187'04: 213'05: 179'06: 123(Sources by Glass, Lewis & Co.
 Stanford Law School Securities Class-Action Clearinghouse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING (92%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (92%); MISCONDUCT (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); BONDS (90%); SCANDALS (90%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (89%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (78%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (78%); ETHICS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); AUDITS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (77%); STUDENT EXPENSES (76%); LITIGATION (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); CORRUPTION (73%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (72%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (72%); FINANCIAL RESTATEMENTS (72%); NEGLIGENCE (71%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (71%); BACKDATED STOCK OPTIONS (71%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); STOCK OPTIONS (71%); BOND MARKETS (71%); INDICTMENTS (70%); APPROVALS (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); HEALTH INSURANCE (56%) Stocks and Bonds; Ethics; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry ; Law and Legislation; Accounting and Accountants

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (68%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (68%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (68%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%)

PERSON: Stephen Labaton

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%) United States

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2006



387 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: This Age Of Anxiety

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
The Sidney Awards, named for Sidney Hook, are a nice way to honor the best magazine essays of the year and to pass along a few nutritious holiday reading recommendations. But if you spend a few weeks poring over the highlights from a year's worth of magazines, you also get a window on the spirit of the times.
 And 2006, let it be said, felt to many like the year of losing ground. There was a general sense that the forces of moderation in the Middle East were losing ground to the forces of radical Shiism. (The folks at Time are crazy if they don't name Nasrallah, Ahmadinejad and Sadr People of the Year.) 
 There was also a sense that we were losing ground in Iraq. One of the best magazine writers on that story, George Packer of The New Yorker, tended to profile American dissidents who were trying to change the way we fight that war. 
 In an April essay, ''The Lesson of Tal Afar,'' Packer followed Col. H. R. McMaster, who argued that the Iraq war was as much a psychological and anthropological problem as a military and political one. Then, in December, his ''Knowing the Enemy'' appeared, about freethinkers in the Pentagon and elsewhere who were studying how Hezbollah and the Iraqi insurgents create narratives that demoralize their enemies, energize believers and create a sense of historical momentum.
 One gets the feeling from his articles that America's enemies are playing a different game. They're waging an open-source campaign for cultural symbols, while we're oblivious to anything we can't drive over or kill. 
 The next great source of anxiety in 2006 was economic. The most influential article on this subject was Alan Blinder's essay ''Offshoring: The Next Industrial Revolution'' in Foreign Affairs. Blinder undermined many moderate Democrats' faith in free trade by arguing the negative effects of globalization will be much broader than previously thought. It's not just the unskilled who will lose jobs, but also people who provide ''impersonal services'' that can be delivered over the Internet: radiologists, accountants, even college professors. 
 Two or three times more Americans work at these sorts of jobs, Blinder observed, than work at manufacturing jobs. 
 Then there was a series of articles propelled by parental anxiety. In The Atlantic, Caitlin Flanagan wrote ''Are You There God? It's Me, Monica,'' a sharp look at the way fellatio is supposedly becoming a casual element in teenage friendships. 
 ''I'm not, however, terrified by the oral-sex craze,'' Flanagan wrote. ''If I were to learn that my children had engaged in oral sex -- outside a romantic relationship, and as young adolescents -- I would be sad. But I wouldn't think that they had been damaged by the experience; I wouldn't think I had failed catastrophically as a mother, or that they would need therapy. Because I don't have daughters, I have sons.''
 Political writers offered policy prescriptions to parents who were falling behind. Karen Kornbluh wrote ''Families Valued,'' in Democracy: A Journal of Ideas, on ways Democrats could make life easier for busy ''juggler families.'' Yuval Levin had a parallel essay called ''Putting Parents First'' in The Weekly Standard, urging Republicans to face up to the tensions between free market dynamism and healthy family stability.
 Finally, there was the sense the forces of decency were losing ground to primordial ugliness, especially anti-Semitism. John Mearsheimer and Stephen Walt wrote a fevered essay on the power of the Israel Lobby, which cleared ground for a million anti-Semitic rants. Jimmy Carter has just published a book intended to make Israelis look like racists. 
 I'm not sure the classic essay on this latest recrudescence has been written, but Anne Applebaum had a useful piece in Slate called ''Holocaust Denial Is No Joke,'' and Adam Garfinkle has a comprehensive look at ''The Madness of Jewcentricity'' in The American Interest. 
 It all adds up to quite a gloomy -- though well-crafted -- collection of essays, culminating in a National Journal piece by Paul Starobin called ''Beyond Hegemony'' on life in an age of declining American power. 
 I have to say, I'm as pessimistic about the Middle East as the next guy, but most of this broader existential gloom about America is absurd. The U.S. is in extraordinarily strong shape economically and socially. And whatever their short-term strengths, the Sadrs of the world simply do not have a social model that large numbers of people will want to live under. 
 Buck up, but stay informed. Links to these essays are available in the online version of this column. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (72%); HEZBOLLAH (69%); ADOLESCENTS (68%); GLOBALIZATION (67%); FACTORY WORKERS (67%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (66%); OFFSHORING (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) Writing and Writers; Awards, Decorations and Honors

ORGANIZATION: HEZBOLLAH (54%)

PERSON: David Brooks; Sidney (1902-1989) Hook

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (93%); MIDDLE EAST (77%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2006



388 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2481 words

HEADLINE: Coming to Terms With the Men on the Corner

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

DATELINE: MAMARONECK, N.Y. 

 BODY:
WHETHER they live in homes they own or in rented rooms, the working men here follow similar routines. They rise early, which these days means long before the sun, then shower, shave and walk toward the train station at the edge of Columbus Park, a speck of green amid a cluster of clapboard houses.
 The men in suits march up the station steps, headed for the Metro-North trains to Manhattan. The men wearing paint-speckled pants trudge a few yards to the corner of Jefferson Avenue and Van Ranst Place, then pace the sidewalks, coffee cup in hand, waiting for jobs that often do not materialize.
''It's Thursday, and I haven't worked one day this week,'' said Jaime Martinez, 38, a stout Salvadoran, one recent morning, his dark eyes trained on a landscaping truck that pulled up and quickly drove away, carrying two men. 
 Unpredictability permeates the lives of these men, day laborers who gather at open-air job markets that spring up, without sanction or warning, at busy intersections, by gas stations and outside home improvement stores, here and in dozens of communities across the region, from Farmingville on Long Island to Lakewood in New Jersey to Danbury in Connecticut. Invariably, their presence yields passionate responses from residents and local officials, often torn between those who embrace the workers and those who want to see them go.
 While the number of Hispanic immigrants in the region increased by 21 percent in the last five years, it is difficult to tell how many work as day laborers. What is known is that most day laborers are undereducated, undocumented men from the Latin American countryside, lured here by the prospect of a better life. Lacking skills and legal status -- strictly speaking, under federal law, illegal immigrants are not allowed to work, and employers are not allowed to hire them -- they end up looking for work in landscaping and construction. They earn an average of $10 an hour and are sometimes subjected to abuse by employers, who deny them food, water or breaks, or refuse to pay them at day's end.
 Even though many union members oppose illegal immigration, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and several individual unions have thrown their support behind day laborers, seeing them as exploited workers who do not earn enough and undercut wages for other workers. Organized labor has embraced them as part of its broader strategy to attract immigrants to the labor movement.
 Still, their presence has sparked concerns among townspeople, who say day laborers litter and urinate and loiter in the streets. Some Farmingville residents say their presence hurts real estate values. They have even proposed creating a separate village so prices of homes to the west of Nicolls Road, a north-south highway, do not suffer because of laborers gathered to the east.
 ''The real estate brokers have a hard time selling homes here because most people associate Farmingville with day laborers,'' said Ken Kellaher, 58, who is leading the effort to create the new village, to be called Oak Hills. Mr. Kellaher lives to the west of Nicolls Road, in a quaint, wealthier section of Farmingville, a hamlet within the town of Brookhaven. ''We feel that we need to redefine our community,'' he said.
 Local officials, for their part, find themselves in a bind, trying to balance the pressure from residents, who demand that something be done about men who they say are destroying their quality of life, with the workers' right to convene.
 Now, with a recent federal court ruling on the response by police and municipal officials in Mamaroneck to concerns about day laborers, towns are hoping for guidance from the courts. Last month, Judge Colleen McMahon of Federal District Court ruled on behalf of a group of day laborers who had sued the village of Mamaroneck, in southern Westchester County, saying its officials and police officers harassed them because they are Hispanic. The judge gave the town and the laborers until Jan. 5 to come up with a solution, a development that is being closely watched by municipal leaders elsewhere. 
 The ruling in New York came just a few weeks before borough officials in Freehold, in Monmouth County, N.J., settled a three-year-old federal lawsuit filed by day laborers. The settlement stipulates that laborers would no longer be fined for soliciting work in public places. It also prevents building inspectors and police officers from entering laborers' homes without consent, in what immigration advocates said was the selective persecution of Latinos. 
 In a few cases, municipal governments and community groups have compromised by designating a place -- often a building or an empty lot -- where workers and contractors can link up. At least 63 hiring sites operate in 17 states, including about 10 seasonal and year-round sites in the region, according to local officials and a national survey of 2,600 day laborers released earlier this year. 
 Thomas R. Suozzi, the Nassau County executive, said hiring sites ''are a matter of common sense.'' 
 ''You get the problem off the streets, so that it's not a visual issue or a littering issue or a urinating-in-public issue,'' he said. ''And at the same time, you help these men who are just trying to live the American dream and give them a safe place to assemble.''
 In 1994, as mayor of Glen Cove, N.Y., Mr. Suozzi spearheaded the creation of the first hiring site on the East Coast, muffling the brewing discontent about the growing number of men who had been assembling outside a deli and along roadways. Since then, upward of 40 men convene at a sprawling ground-floor office on Sea Cliff Avenue every morning, where the walls are lined with posters, each depicting a letter of the alphabet and a corresponding tool -- P for pliers, T for tape measure, W for wrench. 
 Twice a week, a volunteer offers English lessons. Recently, the men pooled their money to buy a coffeemaker and a Christmas tree.
 ''If we're not on the streets, we don't bother anybody and the police don't bother us,'' said a 44-year-old Argentine laborer, who said he shows up every morning, usually finding work. 
 Other communities have considered similar sites, but not all have been successful. In some towns, they have chosen places that are too isolated, as in Lakewood, where the site is four miles from the commercial district and thus hard to reach for workers, who rarely have cars. Other towns have declined to devote municipal dollars to help these sites get started, saying it is not a local mandate to back enterprises that help mostly illegal immigrants find work.
 ''We've been very clear that we're not going to spend any taxpayer money to create a facility for the day laborers, but we're certainly going to be supportive if any community group tries to resolve the situation on their own,'' Mayor Mark Boughton of Danbury said in an interview. ''Local government has to walk a very fine line here because federal law is clear: you can't aid or abet somebody who is here illegally and help them find work.'' 
 The response in a number of communities has been to step up enforcement, through ordinances, increased police patrols or a combination of both. Often, the police will cite workers and the contractors who pull up to hire them for small infractions -- from littering to loitering to impeding traffic. But in the eyes of the court, some communities have pushed too far. 
 In the Mamaroneck case, the plaintiffs told the court that police cruisers followed them, lights flashing. At times, officers used words or harsh gestures to order them off sidewalks; other times, officers just stared, the plaintiffs said.
 Steve Garcia, one contractor who testified, said in an interview that he had hired laborers in Mamaroneck. But after he was ticketed in August for pulling away from a curb without signaling, right after picking up a few workers, he began hiring workers elsewhere. ''I wanted to help the guys,'' he said, but ''I didn't need the trouble.'' 
 The decision in Mamaroneck caught the attention of many municipal officials. Mayor Paul F. Rickenbach Jr. of East Hampton, the affluent village on the east end of Long Island, said he read it several times, trying to figure out what impact, if any, it might have on his community. 
 For months, police officers have been posted near the East Hampton railroad station, watching day laborers and contractors to make sure no one breaks local laws, Mayor Rickenbach said. In November 2005, the police ran a sting operation of sorts, jotting down the license plate numbers of cars that picked up workers, then shipping the information to the Internal Revenue Service and federal immigration authorities. 
 ''We were not targeting any particular ethnic group,'' said Mayor Rickenbach, a former East Hampton police detective who has been in office since 1992. ''We were just being mindful of the number of individuals who were there and making certain that the people who were hiring these individuals were aware of their responsibilities, such as withholding taxes on the wages they were paying these workers and hiring people who are authorized to work.''
 ''In no way do we intend to be discriminatory,'' he added. ''We don't go out soliciting documentation from the workers.''
 The nation's day-laborer phenomenon traces its roots to the 18th century, when European immigrants gathered on city streets, seeking work as chimney sweeps, wood cutters and dock hands. In the mid-1800s, in port cities in the Northeast, foremen picked the day's dock help from a pool of workers gathered around him. Irish men and black women found jobs at New York's hiring sites in the early 20th century, while in California, the sites attracted Mexicans looking for seasonal farm work. 
 The laborers who arrived in the last 10 years come mostly from Mexico, Guatemala, El Salvador and Honduras, often bypassing traditional ports of entry like New York City, Chicago and Los Angeles and settling, instead, in the suburbs, where jobs abound, according to a national survey of day laborers released in January.
 These men, many of whom send part of their earnings to the families they left behind, worked on farms or in factories in their home countries, the survey says. Most had not heard about the day-laborer market until arriving and joined this line of work as a way of gaining a foothold here.
 Abel Valenzuela Jr., a co-author of the national survey, ''On the Corner: Day Labor in the United States,'' noted that employers rarely withhold taxes on wages or pay Social Security and workers' compensation benefits, making a day laborer a lot cheaper to hire. In short, he said, day laborers are as much a byproduct of immigration as they are of the economy.
 ''Day labor is part of a larger national trend, but it just happens to be at the low end of this trend, since these men are looking for work on street corners, as opposed to temp staffing agencies or through the part-time job ads they see in the newspaper,'' said Mr. Valenzuela, director of the Center for the Study of Urban Poverty at the University of California, Los Angeles.
 The survey estimates the number of day laborers nationwide at 120,000, a tiny fraction of the estimated 11 million illegal immigrants. About half the day laborers are in the West, about 20 percent in the East and Southwest, 12 percent in the South and 4 percent in the Midwest, according to the survey, based on interviews with 2,600 day laborers in 139 municipalities. 
 MR. MARTINEZ, the Salvadoran immigrant, used to plant corn, rice and potatoes in a small plot behind his family's home in the impoverished village of Sonsonate. One of his uncles came to Mamaroneck in the 1990s and wrote to him that there were jobs that would pay him enough to support his elderly parents.
 In 2001, Mr. Martinez moved to Mamaroneck, finding a busboy job at a restaurant in nearby Harrison. Two years later, the restaurant closed and Mr. Martinez was unemployed, so he joined the ranks of men who line the sidewalks near Columbus Park every morning from 6 to 11. 
 ''I know how to paint walls, do carpentry, clean and landscape,'' he said. ''We're not office people, like the people who take the train every day. But we're intelligent, and we work hard.'' 
 Day laborers will tell you they earn about $10 an hour, which would make for a decent living -- if work were not so scarce. In the summer, they work three or four days a week, earning up to $1,400 a month. But once it turns cold, the laborers are lucky to work five or six days a month.
 To make ends meet, they share apartments with other men, sometimes in unsafe, overcrowded homes. They often take turns performing household tasks, like cooking and cleaning. 
 ''Most of us are alone here, so our roommates become our family,'' said Juan Garcia, 40, a Mexican day laborer with a neat goatee.
 If they are not hired, they spend the day at home or, if it is warm, sitting on a park bench with a Spanish-language newspaper or an American magazine, trying to make sense of a language few of them know. On Sundays, some go to church, while others walk the streets. Mr. Martinez enjoys strolling along Fordham Avenue in the Bronx. Mr. Garcia buys a phone card and talks for hours to his wife and three children in Tenancingo, Mexico, where he used to eke out a living growing sugar cane and raising livestock.
 ''I used to go home every year, around this time of the year, and come back in March,'' he said. ''But I haven't earned enough this year.''
 This spring and summer were unusually difficult for day laborers in Mamaroneck and in other places where increased enforcement has driven contractors away, according to at least a dozen workers and contractors interviewed in Westchester, New Jersey and Long Island.
 In Danbury, laborers have avoided gathering at Kennedy Park since 11 undocumented Ecuadoreans were arrested in September by federal immigration officials posing as contractors.
 ''If among us immigrants there are criminals, then let the judicial process take over,'' said Wilson Hernandez, the vice president of the Ecuadorean Civic Center in Danbury. 
 ''But it's not fair that undocumented immigrants are lumped together with terrorists,'' he said. ''It's not fair that someone who risked life and limb to come to this country, to cross the border, be considered a criminal solely because he came here to work.''
 The few men who still gather at the park have been so scared since the raid that they walked away from a reporter without a word, like children taught not to talk to strangers.
 The civic center and other groups are working together to build a hiring site behind the house occupied by the Hispanic Center of Greater Danbury, a few blocks from City Hall, on West Street. They hope to have it ready by spring, when crews will begin constructing 500 luxury condos across from Kennedy Park, displacing the day laborers.


CORRECTION-DATE: December 24, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about day laborers in the region misstated the name of a street in the Bronx where one of the laborers enjoys strolling. It is Fordham Road, not Fordham Avenue.

GRAPHIC: Photos: READY AND WILLING -- Day laborers seeking work in Mamaroneck and, at right, some who found it. Some residents complain about them, others defend them. (Photographs by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
AN UNCERTAIN LIFE -- In Mamaroneck, above, a judge intervened after accusations of police harassment of day laborers who gather on the streets. At a hiring site in Glen Cove, N.Y., right, a wall is lined with letters and English words to improve the vocabularies of workers, many of whom are Hispanic and speak little English. In Stamford, Conn., bottom left, laborers gather in an area that is designated as a hassle-free zone. (Photos by Above and below, Librado Romero/The New York Times)
 (Photos by Left and above, Janet Durrans for The New York Times)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEN (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); TRAINS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); CITIES (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (72%); GAS STATIONS (72%); LOITERING & VAGRANCY (72%); HOME CENTERS (71%); REFUGEES (66%) Labor; Day Laborers; Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Immigrants; Organized Labor; Wages and Salaries; Labor

PERSON: Fernanda Santos

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2006



389 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2006
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2481 words

HEADLINE: Coming to Terms With the Men on the Corner

BYLINE: By FERNANDA SANTOS

DATELINE: MAMARONECK, N.Y. 

 BODY:
WHETHER they live in homes they own or in rented rooms, the working men here follow similar routines. They rise early, which these days means long before the sun, then shower, shave and walk toward the train station at the edge of Columbus Park, a speck of green amid a cluster of clapboard houses.
 The men in suits march up the station steps, headed for the Metro-North trains to Manhattan. The men wearing paint-speckled pants trudge a few yards to the corner of Jefferson Avenue and Van Ranst Place, then pace the sidewalks, coffee cup in hand, waiting for jobs that often do not materialize.
''It's Thursday, and I haven't worked one day this week,'' said Jaime Martinez, 38, a stout Salvadoran, one recent morning, his dark eyes trained on a landscaping truck that pulled up and quickly drove away, carrying two men. 
 Unpredictability permeates the lives of these men, day laborers who gather at open-air job markets that spring up, without sanction or warning, at busy intersections, by gas stations and outside home improvement stores, here and in dozens of communities across the region, from Farmingville on Long Island to Lakewood in New Jersey to Danbury in Connecticut. Invariably, their presence yields passionate responses from residents and local officials, often torn between those who embrace the workers and those who want to see them go.
 While the number of Hispanic immigrants in the region increased by 21 percent in the last five years, it is difficult to tell how many work as day laborers. What is known is that most day laborers are undereducated, undocumented men from the Latin American countryside, lured here by the prospect of a better life. Lacking skills and legal status -- strictly speaking, under federal law, illegal immigrants are not allowed to work, and employers are not allowed to hire them -- they end up looking for work in landscaping and construction. They earn an average of $10 an hour and are sometimes subjected to abuse by employers, who deny them food, water or breaks, or refuse to pay them at day's end.
 Even though many union members oppose illegal immigration, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and several individual unions have thrown their support behind day laborers, seeing them as exploited workers who do not earn enough and undercut wages for other workers. Organized labor has embraced them as part of its broader strategy to attract immigrants to the labor movement.
 Still, their presence has sparked concerns among townspeople, who say day laborers litter and urinate and loiter in the streets. Some Farmingville residents say their presence hurts real estate values. They have even proposed creating a separate village so prices of homes to the west of Nicolls Road, a north-south highway, do not suffer because of laborers gathered to the east.
 ''The real estate brokers have a hard time selling homes here because most people associate Farmingville with day laborers,'' said Ken Kellaher, 58, who is leading the effort to create the new village, to be called Oak Hills. Mr. Kellaher lives to the west of Nicolls Road, in a quaint, wealthier section of Farmingville, a hamlet within the town of Brookhaven. ''We feel that we need to redefine our community,'' he said.
 Local officials, for their part, find themselves in a bind, trying to balance the pressure from residents, who demand that something be done about men who they say are destroying their quality of life, with the workers' right to convene.
 Now, with a recent federal court ruling on the response by police and municipal officials in Mamaroneck to concerns about day laborers, towns are hoping for guidance from the courts. Last month, Judge Colleen McMahon of Federal District Court ruled on behalf of a group of day laborers who had sued the village of Mamaroneck, in southern Westchester County, saying its officials and police officers harassed them because they are Hispanic. The judge gave the town and the laborers until Jan. 5 to come up with a solution, a development that is being closely watched by municipal leaders elsewhere. 
 The ruling in New York came just a few weeks before borough officials in Freehold, in Monmouth County, N.J., settled a three-year-old federal lawsuit filed by day laborers. The settlement stipulates that laborers would no longer be fined for soliciting work in public places. It also prevents building inspectors and police officers from entering laborers' homes without consent, in what immigration advocates said was the selective persecution of Latinos. 
 In a few cases, municipal governments and community groups have compromised by designating a place -- often a building or an empty lot -- where workers and contractors can link up. At least 63 hiring sites operate in 17 states, including about 10 seasonal and year-round sites in the region, according to local officials and a national survey of 2,600 day laborers released earlier this year. 
 Thomas R. Suozzi, the Nassau County executive, said hiring sites ''are a matter of common sense.'' 
 ''You get the problem off the streets, so that it's not a visual issue or a littering issue or a urinating-in-public issue,'' he said. ''And at the same time, you help these men who are just trying to live the American dream and give them a safe place to assemble.''
 In 1994, as mayor of Glen Cove, N.Y., Mr. Suozzi spearheaded the creation of the first hiring site on the East Coast, muffling the brewing discontent about the growing number of men who had been assembling outside a deli and along roadways. Since then, upward of 40 men convene at a sprawling ground-floor office on Sea Cliff Avenue every morning, where the walls are lined with posters, each depicting a letter of the alphabet and a corresponding tool -- P for pliers, T for tape measure, W for wrench. 
 Twice a week, a volunteer offers English lessons. Recently, the men pooled their money to buy a coffeemaker and a Christmas tree.
 ''If we're not on the streets, we don't bother anybody and the police don't bother us,'' said a 44-year-old Argentine laborer, who said he shows up every morning, usually finding work. 
 Other communities have considered similar sites, but not all have been successful. In some towns, they have chosen places that are too isolated, as in Lakewood, where the site is four miles from the commercial district and thus hard to reach for workers, who rarely have cars. Other towns have declined to devote municipal dollars to help these sites get started, saying it is not a local mandate to back enterprises that help mostly illegal immigrants find work.
 ''We've been very clear that we're not going to spend any taxpayer money to create a facility for the day laborers, but we're certainly going to be supportive if any community group tries to resolve the situation on their own,'' Mayor Mark Boughton of Danbury said in an interview. ''Local government has to walk a very fine line here because federal law is clear: you can't aid or abet somebody who is here illegally and help them find work.'' 
 The response in a number of communities has been to step up enforcement, through ordinances, increased police patrols or a combination of both. Often, the police will cite workers and the contractors who pull up to hire them for small infractions -- from littering to loitering to impeding traffic. But in the eyes of the court, some communities have pushed too far. 
 In the Mamaroneck case, the plaintiffs told the court that police cruisers followed them, lights flashing. At times, officers used words or harsh gestures to order them off sidewalks; other times, officers just stared, the plaintiffs said.
 Steve Garcia, one contractor who testified, said in an interview that he had hired laborers in Mamaroneck. But after he was ticketed in August for pulling away from a curb without signaling, right after picking up a few workers, he began hiring workers elsewhere. ''I wanted to help the guys,'' he said, but ''I didn't need the trouble.'' 
 The decision in Mamaroneck caught the attention of many municipal officials. Mayor Paul F. Rickenbach Jr. of East Hampton, the affluent village on the east end of Long Island, said he read it several times, trying to figure out what impact, if any, it might have on his community. 
 For months, police officers have been posted near the East Hampton railroad station, watching day laborers and contractors to make sure no one breaks local laws, Mayor Rickenbach said. In November 2005, the police ran a sting operation of sorts, jotting down the license plate numbers of cars that picked up workers, then shipping the information to the Internal Revenue Service and federal immigration authorities. 
 ''We were not targeting any particular ethnic group,'' said Mayor Rickenbach, a former East Hampton police detective who has been in office since 1992. ''We were just being mindful of the number of individuals who were there and making certain that the people who were hiring these individuals were aware of their responsibilities, such as withholding taxes on the wages they were paying these workers and hiring people who are authorized to work.''
 ''In no way do we intend to be discriminatory,'' he added. ''We don't go out soliciting documentation from the workers.''
 The nation's day-laborer phenomenon traces its roots to the 18th century, when European immigrants gathered on city streets, seeking work as chimney sweeps, wood cutters and dock hands. In the mid-1800s, in port cities in the Northeast, foremen picked the day's dock help from a pool of workers gathered around him. Irish men and black women found jobs at New York's hiring sites in the early 20th century, while in California, the sites attracted Mexicans looking for seasonal farm work. 
 The laborers who arrived in the last 10 years come mostly from Mexico, Guatemala, El Salvador and Honduras, often bypassing traditional ports of entry like New York City, Chicago and Los Angeles and settling, instead, in the suburbs, where jobs abound, according to a national survey of day laborers released in January.
 These men, many of whom send part of their earnings to the families they left behind, worked on farms or in factories in their home countries, the survey says. Most had not heard about the day-laborer market until arriving and joined this line of work as a way of gaining a foothold here.
 Abel Valenzuela Jr., a co-author of the national survey, ''On the Corner: Day Labor in the United States,'' noted that employers rarely withhold taxes on wages or pay Social Security and workers' compensation benefits, making a day laborer a lot cheaper to hire. In short, he said, day laborers are as much a byproduct of immigration as they are of the economy.
 ''Day labor is part of a larger national trend, but it just happens to be at the low end of this trend, since these men are looking for work on street corners, as opposed to temp staffing agencies or through the part-time job ads they see in the newspaper,'' said Mr. Valenzuela, director of the Center for the Study of Urban Poverty at the University of California, Los Angeles.
 The survey estimates the number of day laborers nationwide at 120,000, a tiny fraction of the estimated 11 million illegal immigrants. About half the day laborers are in the West, about 20 percent in the East and Southwest, 12 percent in the South and 4 percent in the Midwest, according to the survey, based on interviews with 2,600 day laborers in 139 municipalities. 
 MR. MARTINEZ, the Salvadoran immigrant, used to plant corn, rice and potatoes in a small plot behind his family's home in the impoverished village of Sonsonate. One of his uncles came to Mamaroneck in the 1990s and wrote to him that there were jobs that would pay him enough to support his elderly parents.
 In 2001, Mr. Martinez moved to Mamaroneck, finding a busboy job at a restaurant in nearby Harrison. Two years later, the restaurant closed and Mr. Martinez was unemployed, so he joined the ranks of men who line the sidewalks near Columbus Park every morning from 6 to 11. 
 ''I know how to paint walls, do carpentry, clean and landscape,'' he said. ''We're not office people, like the people who take the train every day. But we're intelligent, and we work hard.'' 
 Day laborers will tell you they earn about $10 an hour, which would make for a decent living -- if work were not so scarce. In the summer, they work three or four days a week, earning up to $1,400 a month. But once it turns cold, the laborers are lucky to work five or six days a month.
 To make ends meet, they share apartments with other men, sometimes in unsafe, overcrowded homes. They often take turns performing household tasks, like cooking and cleaning. 
 ''Most of us are alone here, so our roommates become our family,'' said Juan Garcia, 40, a Mexican day laborer with a neat goatee.
 If they are not hired, they spend the day at home or, if it is warm, sitting on a park bench with a Spanish-language newspaper or an American magazine, trying to make sense of a language few of them know. On Sundays, some go to church, while others walk the streets. Mr. Martinez enjoys strolling along Fordham Avenue in the Bronx. Mr. Garcia buys a phone card and talks for hours to his wife and three children in Tenancingo, Mexico, where he used to eke out a living growing sugar cane and raising livestock.
 ''I used to go home every year, around this time of the year, and come back in March,'' he said. ''But I haven't earned enough this year.''
 This spring and summer were unusually difficult for day laborers in Mamaroneck and in other places where increased enforcement has driven contractors away, according to at least a dozen workers and contractors interviewed in Westchester, New Jersey and Long Island.
 In Danbury, laborers have avoided gathering at Kennedy Park since 11 undocumented Ecuadoreans were arrested in September by federal immigration officials posing as contractors.
 ''If among us immigrants there are criminals, then let the judicial process take over,'' said Wilson Hernandez, the vice president of the Ecuadorean Civic Center in Danbury. 
 ''But it's not fair that undocumented immigrants are lumped together with terrorists,'' he said. ''It's not fair that someone who risked life and limb to come to this country, to cross the border, be considered a criminal solely because he came here to work.''
 The few men who still gather at the park have been so scared since the raid that they walked away from a reporter without a word, like children taught not to talk to strangers.
 The civic center and other groups are working together to build a hiring site behind the house occupied by the Hispanic Center of Greater Danbury, a few blocks from City Hall, on West Street. They hope to have it ready by spring, when crews will begin constructing 500 luxury condos across from Kennedy Park, displacing the day laborers.


CORRECTION-DATE: December 24, 2006

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about day laborers in the region misstated the name of a street in the Bronx where one of the laborers enjoys strolling. It is Fordham Road, not Fordham Avenue.

GRAPHIC: Photos: READY AND WILLING -- Day laborers seeking work in Mamaroneck, N.Y., and, at right, some who found it. Some residents complain about them, others defend them. (Photographs by Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg. 1)
AN UNCERTAIN LIFE -- In Mamaroneck, N.Y., above, a judge intervened after accusations of police harassment of day laborers who gather on the streets. At a hiring site in Glen Cove, N.Y., right, a wall is lined with letters and English words to improve the vocabularies of workers, many of whom are Hispanic and speak little English. In Stamford, bottom left, laborers gather in an area that is designated as a hassle-free zone. (Photos by Above and below, Librado Romero/The New York Times)
 (Photos by Left and above, Janet Durrans for The New York Times)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEN (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); TRAINS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); CITIES (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (72%); GAS STATIONS (72%); LOITERING & VAGRANCY (72%); HOME CENTERS (71%); REFUGEES (66%) Labor; Day Laborers; Immigration and Refugees; Illegal Immigrants; Organized Labor; Wages and Salaries; Labor

PERSON: Fernanda Santos

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2006



390 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: From the Lips of Children, Tips To the Ears of Venture Capitalists

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Dec. 16 

 BODY:
Wanted: investment adviser, the younger the better.
 In a nod to the wisdom of youth, many wealthy, highly connected and well-educated technology investors are taking counsel and investment tips from their children, summer interns and twentysomething receptionists.
These venture capital investors say there is good reason to ask young people to help them assess new technology: as the investors themselves are aging, the technology -- including social networking Web sites and mobile gadgets -- is designed for, used by and sometimes built by people half their age. 
 ''Children are a secret weapon in my arsenal for making investment decisions,'' said Heidi Roizen, a managing director at Mobius Venture Capital, a Silicon Valley firm.
 Last year, Ms. Roizen asked her daughters, Niki and Marleyna Mohler, ages 13 and 11, to check out a handheld video player she was thinking about backing. The daughters quickly tired of the gadget, so Ms. Roizen did not invest. 
 And this year, Ms. Roizen bought Niki a subscription to World of Warcraft, the popular online role-playing game. The idea was to get her daughter familiar with the genre so she could offer advice about an investment Ms. Roizen had made in another game company.
 ''I was a guinea pig, a lab rat,'' Niki said of the experience, in a tone that suggested she was also experimenting with sarcasm. 
 While the idea of testing products on consumers is hardly new, its emergence in the world of venture capitalists is something of a sea change. After all, this is an industry of independent-minded investors who have historically made decisions by trusting their knowledge of engineering, strict analytics and their own gut instincts -- along with a bit of the herd mentality. 
 Unlike the formal consumer tests and focus groups at large companies like Procter & Gamble, these inquiries are taking place closer to home, with friends and family. But their impact can be broad, because venture capitalists not only help steer the development of new ideas but also invest billions of dollars in those ideas on behalf of investment groups and wealthy individuals. 
 To some, the approach looks like a product of the desperation felt by investors trying to identify the next YouTube or iPod.
 ''There is something comical, and maybe silly, about relying on kids,'' said Paul Romer, a professor of economics at the Stanford Graduate School of Business. ''It seems risky.''
 But Mr. Romer noted that it was getting tougher to pick the winners among start-ups. Young people, Mr. Romer said, may be better equipped than investors, who tend to be in their 30s or older, to see nuances and identify trends.
 ''The people making the decisions may not appreciate some of the small differences that might be apparent to end users,'' he said.
 Those end users include Mariana and Tatiana Megevand, who live in Geneva. Last year, Neil Rimer, their uncle, heard the girls, 14 and 12, talking about one of their favorite Web sites, Stardoll.com.
 The site lets visitors create and dress up virtual paper dolls. Mr. Rimer is not just an uncle but also a venture capitalist, a partner with Index Ventures, based in Geneva. He decided that his nieces' interest constituted one of the better tips he had heard in a while. 
 ''The next Monday I went in and talked about it with my partners,'' he said, ''and that week we were on the phone to the company.''
 Index and other firms, including the venerable Sequoia Capital, have invested more than $10 million in Stardoll this year, and the company has moved to Geneva from Finland. Mr. Rimer says he still talks to the girls about what they like and what they would improve. He has given them some incentive, too: a small stake in Stardoll that could be valuable if the company prospers.
 Other firms have started surveying groups of children. IDG Ventures, a Boston firm, recently asked one of its associates to visit its partners' homes and ask their children to assess a new social networking site.
 The trend may indicate the rise of something new in the venture capital industry itself: humility. A notoriously self-assured bunch, these investors are admitting that some innovations may be lost on their g-g-generation.
 ''The funniest thing is when we sit around and say, 'I'm not sure because I would never use this,' '' said Jeff Fagnan, 36, a general partner with Atlas Ventures. 
 The investors said consulting with younger people would have been unheard of in the dot-com boom of the 1990s. Then, investors were immersed in the very technology they were financing, ordering books on Amazon, downloading music from Napster and buying and selling on eBay. But now, in the so-called Web 2.0 era, venture capitalists' personal interests have strayed from the sweet spot of innovation: Web sites like MySpace intended to connect people, free Internet calling tools like Skype or software for mobile phones.
 And people now in junior high and high school have spent their lives with technology. ''This is the first generation for whom the computer is a native language,'' said Jim Gauer, managing director of Palomar Ventures, a Los Angeles firm. ''We're all going to have to get re-educated and learn that language.'' 
 Or they can do what Palomar and others have: hire a native speaker. Last summer, the firm had an intern, Adam Gottesfeld, 21, who was heading into his senior year as an international studies major at Princeton. Mr. Gottesfeld so impressed the firm with his technological knowledge that it has offered him a job as an associate when he graduates. 
 After Niki, Ms. Roizen's daughter, became proficient at World of Warcraft, her mother took her to visit Perpetual Entertainment, a game company in San Francisco she had invested in. Niki had some criticisms of the company's game, a role-playing epic called Gods and Heroes, telling its developers that it seemed unpolished and choppy. The game makers, taking advice from Niki and others, improved the product by the time she visited again.
 ''When she picked me up, she said, 'Did you like it? Was it more fun?' And I said yes, the whole car ride home,'' Niki said. 
 Niki is not only teaching, it seems, but also learning about business. A couple of years ago, Ms. Roizen said, her daughter was looking at Neopets.com, a Web site where people play with virtual pets.
 ''She said, 'I don't get their business model,' '' Ms. Roizen recalled. ''She was 11.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Heidi Roizen, above left, of Mobius Venture Capital, has solicited the opinions of her daughters, Marleyna and Niki Mohler. Below, Marleyna with a product she likes, the Ecast broadband-connected jukebox. (Photographs by Jessica Brandi Lifland for The New York Times)(pg. 47)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (91%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); TEST MARKETING (87%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); AFFLUENT MARKET (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); SOCIAL MEDIA (76%); ONLINE COMPUTER GAMES (76%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (76%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (76%); HERD BEHAVIOR (73%); ANIMAL EXPERIMENTS (70%); MARKET RESEARCH (69%); FOCUS GROUPS (69%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (68%); RODENTS (65%); TRENDS (64%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) Venture Capital; Children and Youth; Computers and the Internet

COMPANY: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (53%)

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (53%); PG (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (53%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (53%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (53%)

PERSON: Matt Richtel

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2006



391 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1663 words

HEADLINE: Late in Life, Finding a Bonanza in Life Insurance

BYLINE: By CHARLES DUHIGG; Jenny Anderson contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Marvin Margolis, an 80-year-old Manhattan financial consultant, is looking for investors willing to bet on when he will die.
 Two years ago, Mr. Margolis bought a large life insurance policy. Now, he's considering selling it to a group of investors, a deal that should give him as much as $2 million to enjoy in his final years. In return, the investors will get the policy's $7 million payout when he dies -- which they hope will be soon, so they can stop paying his premiums.
''This is a wonderful opportunity to use my body as an asset,'' Mr. Margolis said. ''I deserve to be able to benefit in some way from my age.''
 Trading in life insurance policies held by wealthy seniors has quietly become a big business. Hedge funds, financial institutions like Credit Suisse and Deutsche Bank, and investors like Warren E. Buffett are spending billions to buy life insurance policies from the elderly. Other investors are paying seniors to apply for life insurance, lending them money to buy the policies, and then reselling them to speculators. 
 This nascent market illustrates one way that investors are hoping to make money from a large and wealthy generation of Americans as they reach retirement age. These aging baby boomers and those even older offer both opportunities and risks for many companies, investors and swindlers seeking to capitalize on their final years.
 Insurance executives, for instance, say transactions like Mr. Margolis's may cripple their industry and make it harder for the average senior to buy life insurance in the first place. Insurers are worried because they count on many customers canceling their policies before they die, usually because their children grow up and no longer need the financial protection, their pensions kick in or premiums become too expensive. If far more policies result in payouts, the insurance business becomes much less profitable. 
 Indeed, industry analysts say they expect the cost of life insurance to rise as companies prepare to pay out more claims.
 ''If payouts increase, the cost of insuring people is effectively going up, and that will definitely increase the price of policies,'' said J. David Cummins, a professor at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania.
 While that may be the case, many people have come to rely on selling their policies to provide urgently needed money for medical care and living expenses when their bank accounts run dry. However, insurance executives say that the market that has emerged could be ruinous. 
 ''Life insurance is a way for individuals to protect their families,'' said C. Robert Henrikson, the chief executive of MetLife. ''If someone profits from a stranger's death, it stands the whole purpose of life insurance on its head. Anything that disrupts the economic processes underlying this industry will drive the cost of life insurance through the ceiling.''
 Policies like Mr. Margolis's cause particular concern. It was originally paid for with a loan from speculators who will get their money back, plus a profit, if it is sold to another group of investors, according to public documents. Even if Mr. Margolis does not sell, the loan will be repaid from the death benefit when he dies.
 Such policies are known as speculator-initiated life insurance, or ''spin-life'' policies. Investors estimate that spin-life policies worth as much as $13 billion will change hands next year. 
 The deals are so lucrative that older people are being wooed in every fathomable way. In Florida, investors have sponsored free cruises for seniors willing to undergo physical exams and apply for life insurance while onboard.
 For insurers, such cruises are a financial Titanic. Over the next decade, the insurance industry could be forced to pay out unexpectedly more than $100 billion in death benefits as spin-life policies come to maturity, investors estimate. 
 In Minnesota, according to lawsuits brought by insurers, an 82-year-old named John R. Paulson bought life policies worth $120 million from seven companies and resold many of them before insurance companies realized what was going on and sued, saying that Mr. Paulson had lied on his applications.
 Life insurance companies, in particular, rely on policies lapsing before the policyholder dies. Last year, for instance, insurance companies reduced their financial exposure by $1.1 trillion when 19.8 million policyholders stopped paying premiums, according to the Insurance Information Institute. In comparison, the industry paid death benefits on only 2.2 million policies.
 If those lapsed policies had been sold to investors rather than canceled, insurance companies could have eventually paid out as much as a trillion dollars, say analysts. 
 In an attempt to mitigate such risk, some insurance companies are trying to make policies for seniors harder to buy. The biggest insurer in the United States, American International Group, earlier this year increased prices on some universal life policies for buyers more than 70 years old in an effort to thwart spin-life deals.
 ''We don't want this business, and we're taking steps to discourage those purchasers from coming through our doors,'' an A.I.G. spokesman said. 
 But such moves may be too late. The market for purchasing life insurance policies from seniors is an outgrowth of the so-called viatical industry that began in the 1980s, when investors bought up life insurance policies of AIDS patients. In the last two years, as interest rates and stock market returns have declined, the number of buyers seeking seniors' policies has soared. 
 That growth was fueled this year when the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued rules permitting investors to record purchases of policies immediately as a profit, rather than forcing them to wait until the policyholder died. 
 Critics contend the industry punishes the young and healthy, by driving up prices, but many people who have sold their policies say it offered their only way to avoid calamity.
 ''If I hadn't been able to sell this policy we would have lost our house, all of our savings, everything,'' said Andrew Schneider of Kaysville, Utah. Seven years ago his wife, Karen, learned she had breast cancer. Her expenses exceeded the Schneiders' medical insurance by half a million dollars. Mrs. Schneider sold her life insurance policy for about $250,000 and used the money to buy medicine and pay bills, he said. The investors who bought her policy received a $500,000 death benefit when she died last year.
 ''Selling that policy extended her life for years,'' said Mr. Schneider. ''If this market hadn't existed, we would have become financially destitute.''
 Finding enough life insurance policies to satisfy investor hunger has proved difficult. So, in addition to the free cruises in Florida, investors including one large hedge fund have hired a California telemarketing company to call elderly citizens and ask if they would apply for life insurance in exchange for a paycheck.
 The insurance industry has begun to fight back. Legislatures in New Jersey, New York and nine other states have proposed laws intended to outlaw spin-life investments or make it more difficult for investors to get payouts, according to the Life Insurance Settlement Association. 
 Insurance companies have also sued to cancel policies, contending that payouts benefiting outside investors violate the legal requirement that beneficiaries have an ''insurable interest'' in the policyholder's life.
 But many advocates for the elderly and industry insiders worry that seniors will lose their legitimateability to sell life insurance policies they have held for years.
 ''We've put billions of dollars in the hands of seniors who were getting thrown out of their homes or needed medication, and their only asset was a life insurance policy,'' said Scott Page, chief executive of the Lifeline Program, a company that helps investors buy life insurance policies from the elderly and infirm. ''If you make it harder to sell these policies, you're taking money out of the hands of people who have nothing else.'' 
 Another risk is that seniors hoping to sell their life insurance policies will be stuck in bad deals. In October, the New York attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, filed a lawsuit accusing one life insurance speculator, Coventry Financial, of bid-rigging and other fraud in acquiring more than $3.6 billion in life insurance policies. Coventry said it would fight the suit.
 A lawyer who has helped the elderly set up spin-life arrangements worth more than $300 million said that often the terms of the deals prevented his clients from profiting.
 ''Investors say, 'I'll loan you money to buy a new policy, and in a few years I'll buy it from you,' '' said Larry Brody, a partner at the law firm Bryan Cave. But a few years later, when the seniors sell the policy, they owe so much in interest and fees on the loan, he said, ''it eats up all the profit. And what's more, they can't buy another insurance policy, because insurers are unwilling to give them more coverage.''
 But those risks are worth the trouble, according to some buyers and sellers. In 2004, Irene Randall, a life-settlement broker in Albuquerque, N.M., set up an $8 million spin-life policy for her 82-year-old uncle with investors who agreed to lend him money for the premiums. In return, she said, the company hopes to buy the policy next year, paying her uncle $1.5 million.
 Ms. Randall called it a great deal and said she was setting up a similar arrangement for her 82-year-old mother. She expects both her mother and uncle will live long enough to enjoy the windfall. ''The one thing we know is that everyone is going to die at some point,'' said Ms. Randall. ''If someone is willing to pay you because you're old, why not try and live it up before then?''

 Articles in this series will examine how businesses and investors seek to profit from the soaring number of older Americans, in ways helpful and harmful.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Andrew Schneider at home in Kaysville, Utah. He and his wife sold her policy to pay her medical expenses. (Photo by George Frey for The New York Times)(pg. 46)Chart: ''How Spin-Life Works''In 2004, a senior citizen buys a $6 million life insurance policy with a loan from Investor A. The yearly premium is $400,000.If he died in 2005, his family would receive $6 million, which it would use to repay the $400,000 owed Investor A, plus interest.However, if he is alive in 2006, the senior sells his policy to Investor B for $2 million from which he repays Investor A. Each additional year that the senior lives, Investor B pays the yearly premium.If the senior dies in 2007, Investor B, not his family, will receive the death benefit of $6 million. Investor B would pocket $3.2 million ($6 million less $2 million less $800,000 paid in premiums during 2006 and 2007), a 114 percent return in two years.(pg. 46)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIFE INSURANCE (94%); INSURANCE POLICIES (91%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INSURANCE (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (77%); FAMILY (77%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (73%); AGING (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); RETIREMENT AGE (72%); ETHICS (72%); BABY BOOMERS (72%); CHILDREN (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%); PRICE INCREASES (61%); PRICE CHANGES (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) Life Insurance; Aged; Hedge Funds; Ethics; Finances; Life Insurance

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (90%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (90%); CS (NYSE) (90%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%)

PERSON: ROB HENRIKSON (57%); WARREN BUFFETT (52%) Charles Duhigg

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2006



392 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: Offering Support for a Menorah, Unofficially

BYLINE: By MARTIN FORSTENZER

DATELINE: FORT COLLINS, Colo., Dec. 16 

 BODY:
For the second year in a row, this normally serene university town at the eastern base of the Rocky Mountains is embroiled in a dispute over holiday symbols. 
 The controversy, similar to recent wrangling over Christmas trees at Seattle-Tacoma International Airport, centers on the refusal by Fort Collins to allow a menorah to be displayed downtown during Hanukkah, near a Christmas tree and other Christmas displays.
In November 2005, Rabbi Yerachmiel Gorelik of the Chabad Jewish Center of Northern Colorado asked the city to place a nine-foot menorah near a Santa's workshop display in Old Town Square, a popular gathering spot surrounded by shops, art galleries, restaurants and bars. 
 The Downtown Development Authority, a quasi-governmental agency that owns the square, allowed a menorah-lighting ceremony but refused Rabbi Gorelik's request to leave the menorah there for the eight days of Hanukkah. He then asked the city if he could place it with a Christmas tree display in Oak Street Plaza nearby. The City Council refused that request, saying it would have to study the issue. 
 All six members of the Council later voted against allowing a menorah on city property. This month, the development agency, whose board the Council appoints, again decided to turn down the rabbi's request to place the menorah in Old Town Square during Hanukkah. The Fort Collins city attorney, Stephen J. Roy, said the city relied on several court rulings as the legal basis for its decision, including one by the United States Supreme Court in a 1989 Pennsylvania case. 
 ''In the courts' view,'' Mr. Roy said, ''a Christmas tree is a secular symbol, while a menorah has both secular and religious significance.'' 
 But Nathan Lewin, the lawyer who represented Rabbi Gorelik's organization and who argued before the Supreme Court in the 1989 case, wrote the city last year saying that its refusal to allow the menorah in Old Town Square violated the First Amendment rights of the rabbi and the Chabad group.
 Rabbi Gorelik said the Council was ''not being fair.'' ''They were saying that the Christmas tree and Christmas were American,'' he said, ''but that Hanukkah and the menorah were something that doesn't belong.''
 Several Council members said they were concerned that allowing a menorah display would open the door for other religious groups and organizations to request that their displays also be included.
 ''Someone said there are 79 recognized religions in the world,'' said one member, Karen Weitkunat. ''Where do you draw the line?'' Another member, Diggs Brown, said: ''If we were to open it up to a menorah, then everyone wants to get involved. You're going to get sued if you allow religious displays, and you're going to be sued if you don't have them.'' 
 The mayor of Fort Collins, Doug Hutchinson, who cast the lone dissenting vote last summer to allow the menorah for the duration of Hanukkah, said he was ''very disappointed'' by the Council's decision. 
 ''Great cities are inclusionary, and I believe Fort Collins is inclusionary,'' Mayor Hutchinson said. ''I thought it was a step backwards.'' 
 Phil Koster, chaplain at the Poudre Valley Hospital and a member of the Inter Faith Dialogue Group, a local organization, called the decision ''discriminatory.''
 ''It communicates to all those who are members of minority communities that you don't have the same rights if you live here as the dominant culture does,'' Mr. Koster said 
 Many residents of Fort Collins, the home of Colorado State University, were angered by the city's decision and have responded with a campaign of support for the city's Jewish residents, who number only a few thousand in a total population of about 137,000. In a show of solidarity, some non-Jewish residents and a growing list of businesses are displaying menorahs in their windows. 
 ''I think the City Council is trying to cover themselves legally, but they're shortsighted about the long-term implications of how this impacts groups,'' said Jill Kuhn, a psychologist here who is not Jewish. ''We're going to put a menorah in our window, and we're going to light it. We hope other people do that too.'' 
 This year, as it did last year, CooperSmith's Pub and Brewing, which sits on Old Town Square, has allowed the rabbi to move the menorah to its grounds, where it will remain for the duration of Hanukkah. 
 ''We're not in agreement with the City Council's decisions,'' said Ted Devitt, managing partner of CooperSmith's. ''It's not what we thought the community stands for.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Rabbi Yerachmiel Gorelik assembles a menorah in Fort Collins, Colo. (Photo by Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HANUKKAH (93%); CHRISTMAS (92%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RELIGION (89%); CHURCH & STATE (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITIES (78%); RESTAURANTS (74%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); LITIGATION (70%); LAWYERS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); VERDICTS (69%); DRINKING PLACES (69%); AIRPORTS (57%) Jews; Menorahs; Hanukkah; Discrimination; Decisions and Verdicts; Church-State Relations; Jews

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (54%) CooperSmith's Pub and Brewing (Fort Collins, Colo)

PERSON: Martin Forstenzer; Yerachmiel (Rabbi) Gorelik

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT COLLINS, CO, USA (96%); TACOMA, WA, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%) COLORADO, USA (96%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (92%) UNITED STATES (96%) Fort Collins (Colo)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2006



393 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; The Neediest Cases; Pg. 54

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: Amid a Hectic Daily Routine, a Mother Gets By on Love 

BYLINE: By KARI HASKELL

DATELINE: YONKERS 

 BODY:
As fast as the race car emblazoned on his backpack, Alberto Lopez, 6, dashed up the three flights of stairs. His autistic brother, Jose, 8, took a good while longer, jerking back between forward and reverse, prodded along by his mother, Peggy Lopez.
 At the door of their one-bedroom apartment in Yonkers, north of New York City, Ms. Lopez flipped and twisted the locks and latches on her door on this recent afternoon, using a key tethered to a reel clipped to her belt loop to unlock the final deadbolt lock. ''I sleep with this key,'' Ms. Lopez said, dangling it from her fingers and looking at Jose.
Last year, the boy undid all the latches and locks and ran outside and down the middle of the street. Still not toilet-trained, he was wearing only a diaper. A fire truck, perhaps returning from a call, happened to be passing by, and firefighters chased the boy down. They soon found a frantic Ms. Lopez running their way.
 On this afternoon, once Ms. Lopez and the boys were inside the apartment, Jose stayed at the door and began wildly flipping the latches back and forth. Above the clicking and clacking sounds, he screamed, ''Iwannawannago!'' Then he began running around the apartment, still yelling, ''Iwannawannago! Iwannawannago.'' 
 Many people tell Ms. Lopez what a big job she has caring for Jose, but she says, ''I am used to it.'' 
 ''I just keep hoping he gets better,'' she added, ''but it's O.K. if he stays like this.''
 His brother does not seem to mind at all. While Jose screamed and ran, Alberto plopped down on the linoleum living room floor and turned on the television to a deafening volume to watch SpongeBob SquarePants. 
 Jose's autism was diagnosed when he was 2. Autism is a brain disorder that can have symptoms mild enough to allow children to remain in regular classrooms or severe enough to require institutionalization.
 In Jose's case, the disorder traps him into a world of his own peculiarities. Tags on his shirts and soap on his skin irritate him. Besides the door latches, he is obsessed with music, especially that of the hip-shaking singer Shakira. Mention her, and Jose's mantra changes from ''Iwannawannago!'' to ''Sha-sha-kra!''
 Jose is prone to frequent tantrums, and the apartment walls are bare because he has repeatedly torn the pictures down. All the dishes are plastic because he often throws them when it is time to eat.
 Amid the chaos, Ms. Lopez, 30, tries to impose a daily routine, an important step in dealing with an autistic child. The predawn ritual of getting him, with his brother, to the bus stops a block away requires planning and some trickery. It may begin by her running with him to the end of the block or giving him some sort of a snack to distract him until he is safely bound for Hawthorne Country Day School, a nonprofit school for children with disabilities a half-hour bus ride from the apartment. 
 Alberto goes to another public school about 15 minutes away.
 After picking the boys up at the bus stops in the afternoon, she takes the same route home every day. 
 Once locked in, the three of them usually remain cloistered until morning. ''I rarely leave the apartment,'' she said. 
 Last year, a stretch of misfortune threatened to disrupt the bit of normalcy she has been able to provide Jose and Alberto. 
 She was laid off as a bus monitor for a private school bus company in Yonkers, leaving her with only $600 in Supplemental Security Income for Jose and $107 a month in unemployment to get by. And, with expenses like $320 a month for the special, extra-large diapers for Jose, she was unable to come up with the $800 for rent. 
 She had few places to turn. Her parents, immigrants from Peru, are dead. The boys' father was still jailed on a theft charge. Finally, she went to the State Department of Social Services and was put into contact with the Catholic Charities of Community Service of Yonkers.
 The agency is a subsidiary of Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York, one of seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.
 In September 2005, Ms. Lopez poured out her troubles to Michelle Molina, a Catholic Charities caseworker.
 ''I told her, 'I can't be on the streets,' '' Ms. Lopez said.
 Ms. Molina gave her $500 from the Neediest Cases fund to help pay the rent, and asked the Big Brothers and Big Sisters organization to pass along clothes, shoes and coats for the boys. She explained how Ms. Lopez could better use Medicaid, telling her, for example, that the agency would help pay for Jose's diapers. 
 ''She basically was placed in a situation that was beyond control, she lost her job, and knew her unemployment was running out,'' Ms. Molina said. 
 Ms. Lopez also was able to finish software training made available by the unemployment office. She put her new skills to use as an office clerk at a hospital in White Plains, but had to quit when her schedule changed to weekends, and she was unable to find someone capable of taking care of her sons for those days.
 ''I want to work,'' she said. ''Once I find a job, I want to be able to keep it.'' 
 As Ms. Lopez talked, Jose kept screaming and running around the apartment. She didn't seem to mind.

HOW TO HELP

Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245, or any of these organizations:

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF
COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street
Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE
OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street
Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE
ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue
New York, N.Y. 10022

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22nd Street
New York, N.Y. 10010

COMMUNITY SERVICE
SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22nd Street
New York, N.Y. 10010

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT
WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South
New York, N.Y. 10010

UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station
P.O. Box 4100
New York, N.Y. 10261-4100

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.

Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (800) 381-0075 or online, courtesy of NYCharities.org, an Internet donations service, at www.nytimes.com/neediest or www.nycharities.org/neediest. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556-4450.

The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.

Contributions to the fund are deductible on federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.

To delay may mean to forget.

Previously recorded: $2,962,012.49
Recorded: $90,560.79
Total: $3,052,573.28
Last year to date: $3,216,835.41


GRAPHIC: Photo: Peggy Lopez, with her sons, Alberto, 6, left, and Jose, 8, who is autistic, in their apartment in Yonkers. (Photo by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTISM (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); CHARITIES (74%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (73%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (62%); RELIGION (61%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (60%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (59%) New York Times Neediest Cases Fund

ORGANIZATION: Catholic Charities

PERSON: Kari Haskell; Peggy Lopez

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2006



394 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1286 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: December 17, 2006

 BODY:


	 	 	 			Weeks		This	Last	On		Week	Week	List	FICTION		 	 	 	1	1	3	CROSS, by James Patterson. (Little, Brown, $27.99.) Alex Cross, retired from the F.B.I., has a chance to track a rapist who may have murdered his wife.		 	 	 	2		1	NEXT, by Michael Crichton. (HarperCollins, $27.95.) The author of ''Jurassic Park'' describes a not-too-distant future when genetic engineering runs amok.		 	 	 	3	2	10	FOR ONE MORE DAY, by Mitch Albom. (Hyperion, $21.95.) A troubled man gets a last chance to reconnect and restore his relationship with his dead mother.		 	 	 	4	3	5	DEAR JOHN, by Nicholas Sparks. (Warner, $24.99.) An unlikely romance between a soldier and an idealistic young woman is tested in the aftermath of 9/11.		 	 	 	5		1	TREASURE OF KHAN, by Clive Cussler and Dirk Cussler. (Putnam, $27.95.) In his 19th adventure, Dirk Pitt confronts a murderous Mongolian tycoon who manipulates the oil market and knows the secret of Genghis Khan .		 	 	 	6		1	BROTHER ODD, by Dean Koontz. (Bantam, $27.) With his ability to see the spirits of the dead, Odd Thomas, a character in two previous novels by Koontz, heads off a catastrophe at a monastery .		 	 	 	7	7	4	WILD FIRE, by Nelson DeMille. (Warner, $26.99.) Detective John Corey and his wife, an F.B.I. agent, help to foil a nuclear plot against the United States.		 	 	 	8*	5	3	NATURE GIRL, by Carl Hiaasen. (Knopf, $25.95.) A single mother takes revenge on her lecherous ex-boss and an annoying telemarketer in the Florida Keys.		 	 	 	9	4	2	THE SHAPE SHIFTER, by Tony Hillerman. (HarperCollins, $26.95.) Lt. Joe Leaphorn, a tribal detective, tracks down an antique Navajo rug with a complicated history.		 	 	 	10	6	6	LISEY'S STORY, by Stephen King. (Scribner, $28.) A widow's journey through grief after the death of her husband, a famous novelist with terrible memories.		 	 	 	11	8	3	SANTA CRUISE, by Mary Higgins Clark and Carol Higgins Clark. (Scribner, $22.) Passengers on a Christmas cruise for charity, including an amateur sleuth, manage to foil two escaping felons.		 	 	 	12	9	7	THE COLLECTORS, by David Baldacci. (Warner, $26.99.) The members of the Camel Club reunite to solve a murder at the Library of Congress.		 	 	 	13	12	5	H.R.H., by Danielle Steel. (Delacorte, $27.) An American-educated European princess faces unexpected challenges when she works at an African Red Cross camp.		 	 	 	14*	11	6	FIRST IMPRESSIONS, by Nora Roberts. (Silhouette, $17.95.) Seeking peace, a wealthy businessman retreats to a small town but his lovely and charitable neighbor won't stay away; reprint of a 1984 novel.		 	 	 	15	15	9	THIRTEEN MOONS, by Charles Frazier. (Random House, $26.95.) A man raised in the North Carolina wilderness travels America in defense of his adopted Indian people and broods over an elusive woman.		 	 	 			Weeks			 	 	 	This	Last	On			 	 	 	Week	Week	List	NONFICTION		 	 	 	1	1	8	THE INNOCENT MAN, by John Grisham. (Doubleday, $28.95.) Grisham's first nonfiction book concerns a man sentenced to death for a crime he did not commit.		 	 	 	2	2	7	THE AUDACITY OF HOPE, by Barack Obama. (Crown, $25.) The Illinois junior senator proposes that Americans move beyond their political divisions.		 	 	 	3	3	10	CULTURE WARRIOR, by Bill O'Reilly. (Broadway, $26.) The host of ''The O'Reilly Factor'' describes a culture war between traditionalists and secular-progressives.		 	 	 	4	4	59	MARLEY & ME, by John Grogan. (Morrow, $29.95 and $21.95.) A newspaper columnist and his wife learn some life lessons from their neurotic dog.		 	 	 	5	6	18	I FEEL BAD ABOUT MY NECK, by Nora Ephron. (Knopf, $19.95.) A witty look at aging from a novelist and screenwriter (''When Harry Met Sally'').		 	 	 	6	5	11	THE GOD DELUSION, by Richard Dawkins. (Houghton Mifflin, $27.) An Oxford scientist asserts that belief in God is irrational.		 	 	 	7		2	PALESTINE PEACE NOT APARTHEID, by Jimmy Carter. (Simon & Schuster, $27.) The former president calls for revitalizing the peace process.		 	 	 	8	10	7	I LIKE YOU, by Amy Sedaris. (Warner, $27.99.) The actress's wacky approach to entertaining.		 	 	 	9	7	7	THE MR. AND MRS. HAPPY HANDBOOK, by Steve Doocy. (Morrow, $23.95.) Humorous observations on marriage and family life.		 	 	 	10	16	7	THE LIFE AND TIMES OF THE THUNDERBOLT KID, by Bill Bryson. (Broadway, $25.) A memoir of growing up in mid-America at midcentury by the author of ''A Short History of Nearly Everything.''		 	 	 	11	8	10	STATE OF DENIAL, by Bob Woodward. (Simon & Schuster, $30.) The third ''Bush at War'' volume by the longtime Washington Post reporter and editor describes the inept conduct of the invasion and occupation of Iraq.		 	 	 	12	9	6	THUNDERSTRUCK, by Erik Larson. (Crown, $25.95.) Intertwined stories of early-20th-century murder and scientific intrigue; from the author of ''The Devil in the White City.''		 	 	 	13	15	87	THE WORLD IS FLAT, by Thomas L. Friedman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $30.) A columnist for The Times analyzes 21st-century economics and foreign policy. 		 	 	 	14	14	82	FREAKONOMICS, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Morrow, $27.95.) A maverick scholar and a journalist apply economic theory to almost everything.		 	 	 	15		1	IT'S OKAY TO MISS THE BED ON THE FIRST JUMP, by John O'Hurley. (Hudson Street, $19.95.) The enduring wisdom of dogs, from a ''Dancing With the Stars'' champion and TV dog show host.		 	 	 	16*	13	2	A PHOTOGRAPHER'S LIFE, by Annie Leibovitz. (Random House, $75.) More than 300 images, 1990-2005, mixing Leibovitz's trademark celebrity photos with intensely personal work.		 	 	 	Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended Dec. 2, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers, statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger () indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books.Editors' Choice
 Other recent books of particular interestTHE BEST INTENTIONS: Kofi Annan and the UN in the Era of American World Power, by James Traub. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $25.) A picture of a well-meaning, indeed noble figure not up to contending with the schemers of the world.
 CARRIED AWAY: A Selection of Stories, by Alice Munro. (Everyman's Library, $25.) Seventeen of the incisive stories that built the author's reputation; they make novel-writing look superfluous.
 THE VIEW FROM CASTLE ROCK: Stories, by Alice Munro. (Knopf, $25.95.) This new collection holds unusually explicit reflections of Munro's life. 
 THE LIVES OF ROCKS: Stories, by Rick Bass. (Houghton Mifflin, $23.) Several of these tales find grace and beauty amid the blight of Houston. 
 LEONARD WOOLF: A Biography, by Victoria Glendinning. (Free Press, $30.) Glendinning shows Virginia Woolf's accomplished husband as passionate, reserved and, above all, stoical.
 THE OLD WAY: A Story of the First People, by Elizabeth Marshall Thomas. (Sarah Crichton/ Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.) A heartbreaking elegy for the lost culture of the Kalahari Bushmen, whom Thomas knew in better times. 
 THE LAW OF DREAMS, by Peter Behrens. (Steerforth, $24.95.) Behrens's first novel follows an Irish boy fleeing the potato famine of the 1840s. 
 OOGA-BOOGA, by Frederick Seidel. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $24.) Poems as beguiling as any the septuagenarian motorcyclist has ever written.
 THE MAN WHO SAVED BRITAIN: A Personal Journey Into the Disturbing World of James Bond, by Simon Winder. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $25.) A study of 007 through the lens of geopolitics and postwar British psychology. 
 LEAP DAYS: Chronicles of a Midlife Move, by Katherine Lanpher. (Springboard, $23.99.) At 44, the author left a reasonably happy life in Minnesota for a job in alluring but lonely Manhattan.
 HOLLYWOOD STATION, by Joseph Wambaugh. (Little, Brown, $24.99.) This sharply funny police procedural has all the compassion, outrage and authority of Wambaugh's great early novels. 
 The full reviews of these and other recent books are on the Web: nytimes.com/books. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); MURDER (89%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); WRITERS (89%); SINGLE PARENTS (74%); LIBRARIES (73%); FELONIES (72%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (64%); CHRISTMAS (61%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (56%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%)

PERSON: JAMES PATTERSON (73%); STEPHEN KING (58%); MITCH ALBOM (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2007



395 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: Russian Roulette

BYLINE: By MARK ATWOOD LAWRENCE. 
Mark Atwood Lawrence teaches history at the University of Texas at Austin and is the author of ''Assuming the Burden: Europe and the American Commitment to War in Vietnam.''

 BODY:
KHRUSHCHEV'S COLD WAR
 The Inside Story of an American Adversary.
 By Aleksandr Fursenko and Timothy Naftali.
 Illustrated. 670 pp. 
 W. W. Norton & Company. $35.
NEARLY five years after becoming the United States ambassador to Moscow in 1957, Llewellyn Thompson had made little headway in penetrating the mysteries of decision-making inside the Kremlin. ''It is frustrating not to know what is really going on,'' he lamented in 1962 amid escalating cold war tensions. ''It's like dealing with a bunch of bootleggers and gangsters.'' 
 Thompson was not alone in his exasperation. American leaders throughout the cold war struggled mightily -- and usually unsuccessfully -- to understand what made their rivals tick. And for many years historians, working with the benefit of hindsight, did little better. Only recently have answers started to emerge, thanks to the partial opening of Soviet records. 
 With their deeply researched ''Khrushchev's Cold War,'' Aleksandr Fursenko and Timothy Naftali lift the veil of secrecy further than ever, exposing how Moscow made foreign policy decisions during Nikita Khrushchev's tempestuous reign as leader of the Soviet Union from 1955 to 1964. The book is indispensable for anyone hoping to understand the cold war's most dangerous phase, and how the world managed to survive it. 
 Fursenko, a member of the Russian Academy of Sciences in Moscow, and Naftali, the newly appointed director of the Nixon presidential library in Yorba Linda, Calif., covered some of this ground in a 1997 book on the Cuban missile crisis, one of the first studies to make extensive use of Soviet records. This time, they draw on a much larger trove of Kremlin material declassified in 2003, notably the records of the Presidium of the Central Committee, the key decision-making body during the Khrushchev era.
 These documents shed new light on one of the cold war's most puzzling questions: Why would Khrushchev, the leader who denounced Stalin's barbarism, spoke of ''peaceful coexistence'' with the West and delighted in bathroom humor, be willing to risk nuclear Armageddon by repeatedly trying to oust the United States from West Berlin and, most menacing of all, installing nuclear weapons in Cuba? How could he simultaneously be, as Richard Nixon once said, ''a man of great warmth and totally belligerent''? 
 Rejecting those who have dismissed Khrushchev as a reckless buffoon, Fursenko and Naftali see logic in his erratic behavior. They contend that the Soviet leader wanted to ease tensions and to focus on raising his country's abysmal standard of living. ''Khrushchev,'' they write, ''imagined a grand settlement with the United States that would demilitarize the cold war, allowing him to redirect resources to the Soviet civilian economy and restrict the East-West struggle to the ideological and economic level, where he was convinced history would ultimately prove him right.'' 
 What changed repeatedly, Fursenko and Naftali say, was Khrushchev's strategy for attaining such a settlement. Sometimes he tried to seduce Washington with gentle words and offers to negotiate, the likes of which would not be heard again until Mikhail Gorbachev came to power in the 1980s. At other times he sought to scare the United States to deter it from exploiting its considerable advantages, and ultimately to force concessions at the bargaining table. 
 The decision to place nuclear arms in Cuba provides the quintessential example of the latter approach. Fursenko and Naftali emphasize that Khrushchev had no desire for war. Rather, by positioning missiles so close to the United States, he hoped to offset a huge American advantage in nuclear weaponry and to intimidate Kennedy into negotiating with Moscow as an equal. It seemed a quick, cheap way to gain American respect, which Khrushchev desperately craved. Even after backing down, Khrushchev found solace in the fact that Washington had taken him seriously, vowing not to invade Cuba in exchange for a Soviet promise to withdraw the missiles. ''We are members of the World Club,'' he boasted before his Presidium colleagues. 
 Perhaps he was right. But Fursenko and Naftali shrewdly point out that any success Khrushchev may have had came at an enormous cost. His risk-taking not only put the world through hair-raising crises but also played straight into the hands of American hawks, who demanded a major arms buildup and denounced any politician who dared advocate a relaxation of tensions. 
 Still, Fursenko and Naftali never really say whether the Americans, if they had recognized Khrushchev's basic interest in peace, might have been able to strike a deal to end the cold war -- or at least ease it drastically. The authors sometimes criticize American policy makers for failing to recognize Khrushchev's basic desire for coexistence. At other points, they blame the Soviet leader himself for obscuring his basic desires in a cloud of unnecessary posturing.
 But Fursenko and Naftali are certain of one thing: the failure to achieve a breakthrough during Khrushchev's rule meant the cold war would continue for a long time. Khrushchev's unimaginative successors had none of his interest in an overall settlement. Only Gorbachev's emergence would bring Khrushchev's boldness, stripped of its brinkmanship, back into play.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Erik T. Johnson)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); HISTORY (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); SCIENCE NEWS (70%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (70%); LIBRARIES (66%); MILITARY WEAPONS (64%); LIVING STANDARDS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (91%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); GERMANY (79%); CUBA (68%)

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2006



396 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: We Will Clog You

BYLINE: By Bruce Schaller and Hope Cohen. 
Bruce Schaller is a transportation policy consultant. Hope Cohen is the deputy director of the Manhattan Institute's Center for Rethinking Development.

 BODY:
LAST week Mayor Michael Bloomberg highlighted traffic congestion as one of the key challenges facing the city. He identified improving travel times for residents, visitors and workers as one of his 10 goals for a ''sustainable'' New York.
 And he's right to do so. Indeed, New York City is choking on its own traffic. Unpredictable travel times, noise, truck and auto exhaust and the stress -- and sometimes, the deadly peril -- of traversing traffic-clogged streets combine to make the city and the region less livable. Moreover, street congestion makes delivering goods and services in New York City difficult and expensive. The metropolitan area's transportation planning organization estimates that traffic delays annually waste more than $8 billion in man hours and double the cost of freight shipments. 
Recent polls and studies by transportation, planning and environmental groups point to the public's frustration with traffic congestion. Besides the Manhattan central business district, traffic is a major problem in downtown Brooklyn; Queens; nearby city and suburban neighborhoods in Connecticut, Long Island, New Jersey and Westchester County; and the highways that link them together. 
 Within New York City, transportation officials have tried ways to loosen the gridlock: they've switched major avenues to one-way operation, prohibited curbside parking during rush hour; established ''thru streets'' to restrict turns off major crosstown routes; and instituted reversible tunnel and bus lanes to accommodate rush-hour traffic. Nonetheless, the flood of cars and trucks continues unabated, and the city's traffic ''peak period'' now lasts seven or eight hours a day and could grow to 12 by 2030 if we don't take action. 
 So what else can we do?
 For 50 years, economists have argued that road-use charges can reduce traffic congestion: since road space is a limited commodity, there should be a price on it. It doesn't take an economics degree to recognize that when something is free, people tend to use more of it.
 In congestion-charging programs, drivers pay a fee to enter certain districts or to use certain roads at times when traffic is heaviest. In high-occupancy/toll lane programs, special ''express'' highway lanes are reserved for buses and other vehicles with at least two passengers, as well as for solo drivers who are willing to pay a toll to speed their trip. Modern technologies like electronic toll collection have made the various pricing schemes far more feasible in recent years. 
 Other congested cities, including London, Singapore and Stockholm, have benefited from such road-pricing mechanisms. But the idea has never gotten much traction here. Drivers strongly object to proposals for additional bridge tolls or for a London-style congestion charge for entering Manhattan's central business district. Recent polls have shown that even transit users are skeptical of these ideas.
 But with the city's population expected to grow by 1 million people over the next 20 years, our traffic problem promises to only worsen, and we need to find a solution that we can all live with. 
 With that in mind, we set out to find some answers. Through focus groups representing various metropolitan-area constituencies -- motorists, transit users, retailers, restaurateurs, businesses that make deliveries in Manhattan, residents of all boroughs and the suburbs -- we learned that people would accept road pricing if they were convinced that it is really meant to ease traffic instead of raising revenue and is part of a broader transportation program that includes measures to provide traffic relief without fees. 
 Drivers in the city and around the region would support congestion charges, high-occupancy/toll lanes or other road-pricing solutions calibrated to the times and places of worst congestion. They are willing to let road pricing work the market's magic as long as the plan minimizes the impact on motorists who are not really part of the problem. One option to discourage unnecessary driving that is likely to have wide support would be the elimination of free street parking for government employees. 
 Most important, the people we spoke to believe that road pricing must be part of a comprehensive plan to improve transportation -- one that also employs measures like tighter enforcement of rules against double parking, zoning requirements for off-street truck loading to prevent delivery vehicles from clogging traffic and exclusive lanes and traffic-signal priority for buses. 
 They also favor increased transit options like new express bus routes, improved commuter rail service, and additional park-and-ride sites to entice motorists from their cars. Revenue from fees and tolls would need to be used to improve both public transportation and roads. Beginning such improvements before any road charges were introduced would assure people that the program's purpose really is to reduce traffic congestion and not simply to raise revenue.
 Traffic jams are a New York City problem that has a domino effect on the region. They affect not just future sustainability but also our quality of life and economy today. The mayor is right to identify traffic relief as one of his top 10 goals, and leaders in Long Island, Connecticut, New Jersey and Westchester should do the same.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VEHICLE TRAFFIC (92%); TRANSPORTATION PLANNING (91%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (89%); PRODUCT PRICING (89%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (88%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); SUBURBS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (72%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (69%) Roads and Traffic; Tolls; Transportation; Delays (Transportation) ; Roads and Traffic

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (88%) Bruce Schaller; Hope Cohen; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); LONDON, ENGLAND (87%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; New York City Metropolitan Area

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2006



397 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 4; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: We Will Clog You

BYLINE: By Bruce Schaller and Hope Cohen. 
Bruce Schaller is a transportation policy consultant. Hope Cohen is the deputy director of the Manhattan Institute's Center for Rethinking Development.

 BODY:
LAST week Michael Bloomberg, the mayor of New York City, highlighted traffic congestion as one of the key challenges facing the city, and by extension, the region. He identified improving travel times for residents, visitors and workers as one of his 10 goals for a ''sustainable'' New York.
 And he's right to do so. Indeed, the metropolitan region, especially New York City, is choking on its own traffic. Unpredictable travel times, noise, truck and auto exhaust and the stress -- and sometimes, the deadly peril -- of traversing traffic-clogged streets combine to make the city and the region less livable. Moreover, street congestion makes delivering goods and services in New York City difficult and expensive. The metropolitan area's transportation planning organization estimates that traffic delays annually waste more than $8 billion in man hours and double the cost of freight shipments. 
Recent polls and studies by transportation, planning and environmental groups point to the public's frustration with traffic congestion. Besides the Manhattan central business district, traffic is a major problem in downtown Brooklyn; Queens; nearby city and suburban neighborhoods in Connecticut, Long Island, New Jersey and Westchester County; and the highways that link them together. 
 Within New York City, transportation officials have tried ways to loosen the gridlock: they've switched major avenues to one-way operation, prohibited curbside parking during rush hour; established ''thru streets'' to restrict turns off major crosstown routes; and instituted reversible tunnel and bus lanes to accommodate rush-hour traffic. Nonetheless, the flood of cars and trucks continues unabated, and the city's traffic ''peak period'' now lasts seven or eight hours a day and could grow to 12 by 2030 if we don't take action. 
 So what else can we do?
 For 50 years, economists have argued that road-use charges can reduce traffic congestion: since road space is a limited commodity, there should be a price on it. It doesn't take an economics degree to recognize that when something is free, people tend to use more of it.
 In congestion-charging programs, drivers pay a fee to enter certain districts or to use certain roads at times when traffic is heaviest. In high-occupancy/toll lane programs, special ''express'' highway lanes are reserved for buses and other vehicles with at least two passengers, as well as for solo drivers who are willing to pay a toll to speed their trip. Modern technologies like electronic toll collection have made the various pricing schemes far more feasible in recent years. 
 Other congested cities, including London, Singapore and Stockholm, have benefited from such road-pricing mechanisms. But the idea has never gotten much traction here. Drivers strongly object to proposals for additional bridge tolls or for a London-style congestion charge for entering Manhattan's central business district. Recent polls have shown that even transit users are skeptical of these ideas.
 But with the city's population expected to grow by 1 million people over the next 20 years, our traffic problem promises to only worsen, and we need to find a solution that we can all live with. 
 With that in mind, we set out to find some answers. Through focus groups representing various metropolitan-area constituencies -- motorists, transit users, retailers, restaurateurs, businesses that make deliveries in Manhattan; residents of all boroughs and the suburbs -- we learned that people would accept road pricing if they were convinced that it is really meant to ease traffic instead of raising revenue and is part of a broader transportation program that includes measures to provide traffic relief without fees. 
 Drivers in the city and around the region would support congestion charges, high-occupancy/toll lanes or other road-pricing solutions calibrated to the times and places of worst congestion. They are willing to let road pricing work the market's magic as long as the plan minimizes the impact on motorists who are not really part of the problem. One option to discourage unnecessary driving that is likely to have wide support would be the elimination of free street parking for government employees. 
 Most important, the people we spoke to believe that road pricing must be part of a comprehensive plan to improve transportation -- one that also employs measures like tighter enforcement of rules against double parking, zoning requirements for off-street truck loading to prevent delivery vehicles from clogging traffic and exclusive lanes and traffic-signal priority for buses. 
 They also favor increased transit options like new express bus routes, improved commuter rail service, and additional park-and-ride sites to entice motorists from their cars. Revenue from fees and tolls would need to be used to improve both public transportation and roads. Beginning such improvements before any road charges were introduced would assure people that the program's purpose really is to reduce traffic congestion and not simply to raise revenue.
 Traffic jams are a New York City problem that has a domino effect on the region. They affect not just future sustainability but also our quality of life and economy today. The mayor is right to identify traffic relief as one of his top 10 goals, and leaders in Long Island, Connecticut, New Jersey and Westchester should do the same. That back-up on the West Side Highway could lead to the Garden State Parkway.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRANSPORTATION PLANNING (91%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (89%); PRODUCT PRICING (88%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (76%); SUBURBS (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (70%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (69%) Roads and Traffic; Tolls; Transportation; Delays (Transportation); Roads and Traffic

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (88%) Bruce Schaller; Hope Cohen; Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); LONDON, ENGLAND (87%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; New York City Metropolitan Area 

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2006



398 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 267 words

HEADLINE: China's African Adventure

 BODY:
As James Traub's article (Nov. 19) makes clear, the United States should be taking a close look at China's energetic campaign of engagement with Africa, both for what it tells us about Chinese intentions and what it means for our interests. 
The visible signs of Chinese engagement in Africa -- from new soccer stadiums to better roads -- are clear to any traveler to the continent. Unfortunately, in places like Angola, Zimbabwe and Sudan, China has also shown a willingness to support authoritarian or corrupt governments and ignore human rights violations.
 China's willingness to do business with some of Africa's most repressive regimes is not only bad for Africa -- it is also self-defeating. Corrupt African regimes harbor terrorists, mismanage economies and often generate regional instability that isn't in any nation's interest. As we learned during the cold war, American strategic interests in Africa will be advanced by sticking to our principles and by supporting good governance, democratic institutions and human rights. We should treat China's growing engagement in Africa not as a threat but as a reminder of the strategic significance of a part of the world too often ignored. In the vast and diverse continent of Africa, critically important partners, markets, and leaders -- as well as real security threats -- are emerging. The United States should ensure that our efforts and investments pay off for the people of Africa and international security.

Russ Feingold
 United States Senate
 (Incoming Chairman, the 
 Senate Foreign Relations Committee's Subcommittee on Africa)
 Washington

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); COLD WAR (78%); CORRUPTION (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (75%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (71%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (70%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (64%); TERRORISM (54%) United States International Relations

PERSON: RUSS FEINGOLD (78%) Russell D (Sen) Feingold; James Traub

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); SUDAN (79%); ANGOLA (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%) Africa; China

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2006



399 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine; Pg. 58

LENGTH: 5869 words

HEADLINE: What Should a Billionaire Give - and What Should You?

BYLINE: By Peter Singer. 
Peter Singer is the Ira W. DeCamp professor of bioethics at the Center for Human Values at Princeton University. He is the author of many books, including most recently ''The Way We Eat: Why Our Food Choices Matter.''

 BODY:
What is a human life worth? You may not want to put a price tag on a it. But if we really had to, most of us would agree that the value of a human life would be in the millions. Consistent with the foundations of our democracy and our frequently professed belief in the inherent dignity of human beings, we would also agree that all humans are created equal, at least to the extent of denying that differences of sex, ethnicity, nationality and place of residence change the value of a human life.
With Christmas approaching, and Americans writing checks to their favorite charities, it's a good time to ask how these two beliefs -- that a human life, if it can be priced at all, is worth millions, and that the factors I have mentioned do not alter the value of a human life -- square with our actions. Perhaps this year such questions lurk beneath the surface of more family discussions than usual, for it has been an extraordinary year for philanthropy, especially philanthropy to fight global poverty. 
 For Bill Gates, the founder of Microsoft, the ideal of valuing all human life equally began to jar against reality some years ago, when he read an article about diseases in the developing world and came across the statistic that half a million children die every year from rotavirus, the most common cause of severe diarrhea in children. He had never heard of rotavirus. ''How could I never have heard of something that kills half a million children every year?'' he asked himself. He then learned that in developing countries, millions of children die from diseases that have been eliminated, or virtually eliminated, in the United States. That shocked him because he assumed that, if there are vaccines and treatments that could save lives, governments would be doing everything possible to get them to the people who need them. As Gates told a meeting of the World Health Assembly in Geneva last year, he and his wife, Melinda, ''couldn't escape the brutal conclusion that -- in our world today -- some lives are seen as worth saving and others are not.'' They said to themselves, ''This can't be true.'' But they knew it was.
 Gates's speech to the World Health Assembly concluded on an optimistic note, looking forward to the next decade when ''people will finally accept that the death of a child in the developing world is just as tragic as the death of a child in the developed world.'' That belief in the equal value of all human life is also prominent on the Web site of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, where under Our Values we read: ''All lives -- no matter where they are being led -- have equal value.''
 We are very far from acting in accordance with that belief. In the same world in which more than a billion people live at a level of affluence never previously known, roughly a billion other people struggle to survive on the purchasing power equivalent of less than one U.S. dollar per day. Most of the world's poorest people are undernourished, lack access to safe drinking water or even the most basic health services and cannot send their children to school. According to Unicef, more than 10 million children die every year -- about 30,000 per day -- from avoidable, poverty-related causes. 
 Last June the investor Warren Buffett took a significant step toward reducing those deaths when he pledged $31 billion to the Gates Foundation, and another $6 billion to other charitable foundations. Buffett's pledge, set alongside the nearly $30 billion given by Bill and Melinda Gates to their foundation, has made it clear that the first decade of the 21st century is a new ''golden age of philanthropy.'' On an inflation-adjusted basis, Buffett has pledged to give more than double the lifetime total given away by two of the philanthropic giants of the past, Andrew Carnegie and John D. Rockefeller, put together. Bill and Melinda Gates's gifts are not far behind. 
 Gates's and Buffett's donations will now be put to work primarily to reduce poverty, disease and premature death in the developing world. According to the Global Forum for Health Research, less than 10 percent of the world's health research budget is spent on combating conditions that account for 90 percent of the global burden of disease. In the past, diseases that affect only the poor have been of no commercial interest to pharmaceutical manufacturers, because the poor cannot afford to buy their products. The Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization (GAVI), heavily supported by the Gates Foundation, seeks to change this by guaranteeing to purchase millions of doses of vaccines, when they are developed, that can prevent diseases like malaria. GAVI has also assisted developing countries to immunize more people with existing vaccines: 99 million additional children have been reached to date. By doing this, GAVI claims to have already averted nearly 1.7 million future deaths.
 Philanthropy on this scale raises many ethical questions: Why are the people who are giving doing so? Does it do any good? Should we praise them for giving so much or criticize them for not giving still more? Is it troubling that such momentous decisions are made by a few extremely wealthy individuals? And how do our judgments about them reflect on our own way of living?
 Let's start with the question of motives. The rich must -- or so some of us with less money like to assume -- suffer sleepless nights because of their ruthlessness in squeezing out competitors, firing workers, shutting down plants or whatever else they have to do to acquire their wealth. When wealthy people give away money, we can always say that they are doing it to ease their consciences or generate favorable publicity. It has been suggested -- by, for example, David Kirkpatrick, a senior editor at Fortune magazine -- that Bill Gates's turn to philanthropy was linked to the antitrust problems Microsoft had in the U.S. and the European Union. Was Gates, consciously or subconsciously, trying to improve his own image and that of his company? 
 This kind of sniping tells us more about the attackers than the attacked. Giving away large sums, rather than spending the money on corporate advertising or developing new products, is not a sensible strategy for increasing personal wealth. When we read that someone has given away a lot of their money, or time, to help others, it challenges us to think about our own behavior. Should we be following their example, in our own modest way? But if the rich just give their money away to improve their image, or to make up for past misdeeds -- misdeeds quite unlike any we have committed, of course -- then, conveniently, what they are doing has no relevance to what we ought to do.
 A famous story is told about Thomas Hobbes, the 17th-century English philosopher, who argued that we all act in our own interests. On seeing him give alms to a beggar, a cleric asked Hobbes if he would have done this if Christ had not commanded us to do so. Yes, Hobbes replied, he was in pain to see the miserable condition of the old man, and his gift, by providing the man with some relief from that misery, also eased Hobbes's pain. That reply reconciles Hobbes's charity with his egoistic theory of human motivation, but at the cost of emptying egoism of much of its bite. If egoists suffer when they see a stranger in distress, they are capable of being as charitable as any altruist.
 Followers of the 18th-century German philosopher Immanuel Kant would disagree. They think an act has moral worth only if it is done out of a sense of duty. Doing something merely because you enjoy doing it, or enjoy seeing its consequences, they say, has no moral worth, because if you happened not to enjoy doing it, then you wouldn't do it, and you are not responsible for your likes and dislikes, whereas you are responsible for your obedience to the demands of duty. 
 Perhaps some philanthropists are motivated by their sense of duty. Apart from the equal value of all human life, the other ''simple value'' that lies at the core of the work of the Gates Foundation, according to its Web site, is ''To whom much has been given, much is expected.'' That suggests the view that those who have great wealth have a duty to use it for a larger purpose than their own interests. But while such questions of motive may be relevant to our assessment of Gates's or Buffett's character, they pale into insignificance when we consider the effect of what Gates and Buffett are doing. The parents whose children could die from rotavirus care more about getting the help that will save their children's lives than about the motivations of those who make that possible.
 Interestingly, neither Gates nor Buffett seems motivated by the possibility of being rewarded in heaven for his good deeds on earth. Gates told a Time interviewer, ''There's a lot more I could be doing on a Sunday morning'' than going to church. Put them together with Andrew Carnegie, famous for his freethinking, and three of the four greatest American philanthropists have been atheists or agnostics. (The exception is John D. Rockefeller.) In a country in which 96 percent of the population say they believe in a supreme being, that's a striking fact. It means that in one sense, Gates and Buffett are probably less self-interested in their charity than someone like Mother Teresa, who as a pious Roman Catholic believed in reward and punishment in the afterlife. 
 More important than questions about motives are questions about whether there is an obligation for the rich to give, and if so, how much they should give. A few years ago, an African-American cabdriver taking me to the Inter-American Development Bank in Washington asked me if I worked at the bank. I told him I did not but was speaking at a conference on development and aid. He then assumed that I was an economist, but when I said no, my training was in philosophy, he asked me if I thought the U.S. should give foreign aid. When I answered affirmatively, he replied that the government shouldn't tax people in order to give their money to others. That, he thought, was robbery. When I asked if he believed that the rich should voluntarily donate some of what they earn to the poor, he said that if someone had worked for his money, he wasn't going to tell him what to do with it. 
 At that point we reached our destination. Had the journey continued, I might have tried to persuade him that people can earn large amounts only when they live under favorable social circumstances, and that they don't create those circumstances by themselves. I could have quoted Warren Buffett's acknowledgment that society is responsible for much of his wealth. ''If you stick me down in the middle of Bangladesh or Peru,'' he said, ''you'll find out how much this talent is going to produce in the wrong kind of soil.'' The Nobel Prize-winning economist and social scientist Herbert Simon estimated that ''social capital'' is responsible for at least 90 percent of what people earn in wealthy societies like those of the United States or northwestern Europe. By social capital Simon meant not only natural resources but, more important, the technology and organizational skills in the community, and the presence of good government. These are the foundation on which the rich can begin their work. ''On moral grounds,'' Simon added, ''we could argue for a flat income tax of 90 percent.'' Simon was not, of course, advocating so steep a rate of tax, for he was well aware of disincentive effects. But his estimate does undermine the argument that the rich are entitled to keep their wealth because it is all a result of their hard work. If Simon is right, that is true of at most 10 percent of it.
 In any case, even if we were to grant that people deserve every dollar they earn, that doesn't answer the question of what they should do with it. We might say that they have a right to spend it on lavish parties, private jets and luxury yachts, or, for that matter, to flush it down the toilet. But we could still think that for them to do these things while others die from easily preventable diseases is wrong. In an article I wrote more than three decades ago, at the time of a humanitarian emergency in what is now Bangladesh, I used the example of walking by a shallow pond and seeing a small child who has fallen in and appears to be in danger of drowning. Even though we did nothing to cause the child to fall into the pond, almost everyone agrees that if we can save the child at minimal inconvenience or trouble to ourselves, we ought to do so. Anything else would be callous, indecent and, in a word, wrong. The fact that in rescuing the child we may, for example, ruin a new pair of shoes is not a good reason for allowing the child to drown. Similarly if for the cost of a pair of shoes we can contribute to a health program in a developing country that stands a good chance of saving the life of a child, we ought to do so.
 Perhaps, though, our obligation to help the poor is even stronger than this example implies, for we are less innocent than the passer-by who did nothing to cause the child to fall into the pond. Thomas Pogge, a philosopher at Columbia University, has argued that at least some of our affluence comes at the expense of the poor. He bases this claim not simply on the usual critique of the barriers that Europe and the United States maintain against agricultural imports from developing countries but also on less familiar aspects of our trade with developing countries. For example, he points out that international corporations are willing to make deals to buy natural resources from any government, no matter how it has come to power. This provides a huge financial incentive for groups to try to overthrow the existing government. Successful rebels are rewarded by being able to sell off the nation's oil, minerals or timber. 
 In their dealings with corrupt dictators in developing countries, Pogge asserts, international corporations are morally no better than someone who knowingly buys stolen goods -- with the difference that the international legal and political order recognizes the corporations, not as criminals in possession of stolen goods but as the legal owners of the goods they have bought. This situation is, of course, beneficial for the industrial nations, because it enables us to obtain the raw materials we need to maintain our prosperity, but it is a disaster for resource-rich developing countries, turning the wealth that should benefit them into a curse that leads to a cycle of coups, civil wars and corruption and is of little benefit to the people as a whole.
 In this light, our obligation to the poor is not just one of providing assistance to strangers but one of compensation for harms that we have caused and are still causing them. It might be argued that we do not owe the poor compensation, because our affluence actually benefits them. Living luxuriously, it is said, provides employment, and so wealth trickles down, helping the poor more effectively than aid does. But the rich in industrialized nations buy virtually nothing that is made by the very poor. During the past 20 years of economic globalization, although expanding trade has helped lift many of the world's poor out of poverty, it has failed to benefit the poorest 10 percent of the world's population. Some of the extremely poor, most of whom live in sub-Saharan Africa, have nothing to sell that rich people want, while others lack the infrastructure to get their goods to market. If they can get their crops to a port, European and U.S. subsidies often mean that they cannot sell them, despite -- as for example in the case of West African cotton growers who compete with vastly larger and richer U.S. cotton producers -- having a lower production cost than the subsidized producers in the rich nations.
 The remedy to these problems, it might reasonably be suggested, should come from the state, not from private philanthropy. When aid comes through the government, everyone who earns above the tax-free threshold contributes something, with more collected from those with greater ability to pay. Much as we may applaud what Gates and Buffett are doing, we can also be troubled by a system that leaves the fate of hundreds of millions of people hanging on the decisions of two or three private citizens. But the amount of foreign development aid given by the U.S. government is, at 22 cents for every $100 the nation earns, about the same, as a percentage of gross national income, as Portugal gives and about half that of the U.K. Worse still, much of it is directed where it best suits U.S. strategic interests -- Iraq is now by far the largest recipient of U.S. development aid, and Egypt, Jordan, Pakistan and Afghanistan all rank in the Top 10. Less than a quarter of official U.S. development aid -- barely a nickel in every $100 of our G.N.I. -- goes to the world's poorest nations.
 Adding private philanthropy to U.S. government aid improves this picture, because Americans privately give more per capita to international philanthropic causes than the citizens of almost any other nation. Even when private donations are included, however, countries like Norway, Denmark, Sweden and the Netherlands give three or four times as much foreign aid, in proportion to the size of their economies, as the U.S. gives -- with a much larger percentage going to the poorest nations. At least as things now stand, the case for philanthropic efforts to relieve global poverty is not susceptible to the argument that the government has taken care of the problem. And even if official U.S. aid were better-directed and comparable, relative to our gross domestic product, with that of the most generous nations, there would still be a role for private philanthropy. Unconstrained by diplomatic considerations or the desire to swing votes at the United Nations, private donors can more easily avoid dealing with corrupt or wasteful governments. They can go directly into the field, working with local villages and grass-roots organizations. 
 Nor are philanthropists beholden to lobbyists. As The New York Times reported recently, billions of dollars of U.S. aid is tied to domestic goods. Wheat for Africa must be grown in America, although aid experts say this often depresses local African markets, reducing the incentive for farmers there to produce more. In a decision that surely costs lives, hundreds of millions of condoms intended to stop the spread of AIDS in Africa and around the world must be manufactured in the U.S., although they cost twice as much as similar products made in Asia. 
 In other ways, too, private philanthropists are free to venture where governments fear to tread. Through a foundation named for his wife, Susan Thompson Buffett, Warren Buffett has supported reproductive rights, including family planning and pro-choice organizations. In another unusual initiative, he has pledged $50 million for the International Atomic Energy Agency's plan to establish a ''fuel bank'' to supply nuclear-reactor fuel to countries that meet their nuclear-nonproliferation commitments. The idea, which has been talked about for many years, is widely agreed to be a useful step toward discouraging countries from building their own facilities for producing nuclear fuel, which could then be diverted to weapons production. It is, Buffett said, ''an investment in a safer world.'' Though it is something that governments could and should be doing, no government had taken the first step. 
 Aid has always had its critics. Carefully planned and intelligently directed private philanthropy may be the best answer to the claim that aid doesn't work. Of course, as in any large-scale human enterprise, some aid can be ineffective. But provided that aid isn't actually counterproductive, even relatively inefficient assistance is likely to do more to advance human wellbeing than luxury spending by the wealthy. 
 The rich, then, should give. But how much should they give? Gates may have given away nearly $30 billion, but that still leaves him sitting at the top of the Forbes list of the richest Americans, with $53 billion. His 66,000-square-foot high-tech lakeside estate near Seattle is reportedly worth more than $100 million. Property taxes are about $1 million. Among his possessions is the Leicester Codex, the only handwritten book by Leonardo da Vinci still in private hands, for which he paid $30.8 million in 1994. Has Bill Gates done enough? More pointedly, you might ask: if he really believes that all lives have equal value, what is he doing living in such an expensive house and owning a Leonardo Codex? Are there no more lives that could be saved by living more modestly and adding the money thus saved to the amount he has already given?
 Yet we should recognize that, if judged by the proportion of his wealth that he has given away, Gates compares very well with most of the other people on the Forbes 400 list, including his former colleague and Microsoft co-founder, Paul Allen. Allen, who left the company in 1983, has given, over his lifetime, more than $800 million to philanthropic causes. That is far more than nearly any of us will ever be able to give. But Forbes lists Allen as the fifth-richest American, with a net worth of $16 billion. He owns the Seattle Seahawks, the Portland Trailblazers, a 413-foot oceangoing yacht that carries two helicopters and a 60-foot submarine. He has given only about 5 percent of his total wealth. 
 Is there a line of moral adequacy that falls between the 5 percent that Allen has given away and the roughly 35 percent that Gates has donated? Few people have set a personal example that would allow them to tell Gates that he has not given enough, but one who could is Zell Kravinsky. A few years ago, when he was in his mid-40s, Kravinsky gave almost all of his $45 million real estate fortune to health-related charities, retaining only his modest family home in Jenkintown, near Philadelphia, and enough to meet his family's ordinary expenses. After learning that thousands of people with failing kidneys die each year while waiting for a transplant, he contacted a Philadelphia hospital and donated one of his kidneys to a complete stranger. 
 After reading about Kravinsky in The New Yorker, I invited him to speak to my classes at Princeton. He comes across as anguished by the failure of others to see the simple logic that lies behind his altruism. Kravinsky has a mathematical mind -- a talent that obviously helped him in deciding what investments would prove profitable -- and he says that the chances of dying as a result of donating a kidney are about 1 in 4,000. For him this implies that to withhold a kidney from someone who would otherwise die means valuing one's own life at 4,000 times that of a stranger, a ratio Kravinsky considers ''obscene.''
 What marks Kravinsky from the rest of us is that he takes the equal value of all human life as a guide to life, not just as a nice piece of rhetoric. He acknowledges that some people think he is crazy, and even his wife says she believes that he goes too far. One of her arguments against the kidney donation was that one of their children may one day need a kidney, and Zell could be the only compatible donor. Kravinsky's love for his children is, as far as I can tell, as strong as that of any normal parent. Such attachments are part of our nature, no doubt the product of our evolution as mammals who give birth to children, who for an unusually long time require our assistance in order to survive. But that does not, in Kravinsky's view, justify our placing a value on the lives of our children that is thousands of times greater than the value we place on the lives of the children of strangers. Asked if he would allow his child to die if it would enable a thousand children to live, Kravinsky said yes. Indeed, he has said he would permit his child to die even if this enabled only two other children to live. Nevertheless, to appease his wife, he recently went back into real estate, made some money and bought the family a larger home. But he still remains committed to giving away as much as possible, subject only to keeping his domestic life reasonably tranquil.
 Buffett says he believes in giving his children ''enough so they feel they could do anything, but not so much that they could do nothing.'' That means, in his judgment, ''a few hundred thousand'' each. In absolute terms, that is far more than most Americans are able to leave their children and, by Kravinsky's standard, certainly too much. (Kravinsky says that the hard part is not giving away the first $45 million but the last $10,000, when you have to live so cheaply that you can't function in the business world.) But even if Buffett left each of his three children a million dollars each, he would still have given away more than 99.99 percent of his wealth. When someone does that much -- especially in a society in which the norm is to leave most of your wealth to your children -- it is better to praise them than to cavil about the extra few hundred thousand dollars they might have given. 
 Philosophers like Liam Murphy of New York University and my colleague Kwame Anthony Appiah at Princeton contend that our obligations are limited to carrying our fair share of the burden of relieving global poverty. They would have us calculate how much would be required to ensure that the world's poorest people have a chance at a decent life, and then divide this sum among the affluent. That would give us each an amount to donate, and having given that, we would have fulfilled our obligations to the poor. 
 What might that fair amount be? One way of calculating it would be to take as our target, at least for the next nine years, the Millennium Development Goals, set by the United Nations Millennium Summit in 2000. On that occasion, the largest gathering of world leaders in history jointly pledged to meet, by 2015, a list of goals that include:
 Reducing by half the proportion of the world's people in extreme poverty (defined as living on less than the purchasing-power equivalent of one U.S. dollar per day).
 Reducing by half the proportion of people who suffer from hunger.
 Ensuring that children everywhere are able to take a full course of primary schooling.
 Ending sex disparity in education.
 Reducing by two-thirds the mortality rate among children under 5.
 Reducing by three-quarters the rate of maternal mortality.
 Halting and beginning to reverse the spread of H.I.V./AIDS and halting and beginning to reduce the incidence of malaria and other major diseases.
 Reducing by half the proportion of people without sustainable access to safe drinking water.
 Last year a United Nations task force, led by the Columbia University economist Jeffrey Sachs, estimated the annual cost of meeting these goals to be $121 billion in 2006, rising to $189 billion by 2015. When we take account of existing official development aid promises, the additional amount needed each year to meet the goals is only $48 billion for 2006 and $74 billion for 2015. 
 Now let's look at the incomes of America's rich and superrich, and ask how much they could reasonably give. The task is made easier by statistics recently provided by Thomas Piketty and Emmanuel Saez, economists at the Ecole Normale Superieure, Paris-Jourdan, and the University of California, Berkeley, respectively, based on U.S. tax data for 2004. Their figures are for pretax income, excluding income from capital gains, which for the very rich are nearly always substantial. For simplicity I have rounded the figures, generally downward. Note too that the numbers refer to ''tax units,'' that is, in many cases, families rather than individuals.
 Piketty and Saez's top bracket comprises 0.01 percent of U.S. taxpayers. There are 14,400 of them, earning an average of $12,775,000, with total earnings of $184 billion. The minimum annual income in this group is more than $5 million, so it seems reasonable to suppose that they could, without much hardship, give away a third of their annual income, an average of $4.3 million each, for a total of around $61 billion. That would still leave each of them with an annual income of at least $3.3 million.
 Next comes the rest of the top 0.1 percent (excluding the category just described, as I shall do henceforth). There are 129,600 in this group, with an average income of just over $2 million and a minimum income of $1.1 million. If they were each to give a quarter of their income, that would yield about $65 billion, and leave each of them with at least $846,000 annually.
 The top 0.5 percent consists of 575,900 taxpayers, with an average income of $623,000 and a minimum of $407,000. If they were to give one-fifth of their income, they would still have at least $325,000 each, and they would be giving a total of $72 billion.
 Coming down to the level of those in the top 1 percent, we find 719,900 taxpayers with an average income of $327,000 and a minimum of $276,000. They could comfortably afford to give 15 percent of their income. That would yield $35 billion and leave them with at least $234,000.
 Finally, the remainder of the nation's top 10 percent earn at least $92,000 annually, with an average of $132,000. There are nearly 13 million in this group. If they gave the traditional tithe -- 10 percent of their income, or an average of $13,200 each -- this would yield about $171 billion and leave them a minimum of $83,000.
 You could spend a long time debating whether the fractions of income I have suggested for donation constitute the fairest possible scheme. Perhaps the sliding scale should be steeper, so that the superrich give more and the merely comfortable give less. And it could be extended beyond the Top 10 percent of American families, so that everyone able to afford more than the basic necessities of life gives something, even if it is as little as 1 percent. Be that as it may, the remarkable thing about these calculations is that a scale of donations that is unlikely to impose significant hardship on anyone yields a total of $404 billion -- from just 10 percent of American families. 
 Obviously, the rich in other nations should share the burden of relieving global poverty. The U.S. is responsible for 36 percent of the gross domestic product of all Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development nations. Arguably, because the U.S. is richer than all other major nations, and its wealth is more unevenly distributed than wealth in almost any other industrialized country, the rich in the U.S. should contribute more than 36 percent of total global donations. So somewhat more than 36 percent of all aid to relieve global poverty should come from the U.S. For simplicity, let's take half as a fair share for the U.S. On that basis, extending the scheme I have suggested worldwide would provide $808 billion annually for development aid. That's more than six times what the task force chaired by Sachs estimated would be required for 2006 in order to be on track to meet the Millennium Development Goals, and more than 16 times the shortfall between that sum and existing official development aid commitments.
 If we are obliged to do no more than our fair share of eliminating global poverty, the burden will not be great. But is that really all we ought to do? Since we all agree that fairness is a good thing, and none of us like doing more because others don't pull their weight, the fair-share view is attractive. In the end, however, I think we should reject it. Let's return to the drowning child in the shallow pond. Imagine it is not 1 small child who has fallen in, but 50 children. We are among 50 adults, unrelated to the children, picnicking on the lawn around the pond. We can easily wade into the pond and rescue the children, and the fact that we would find it cold and unpleasant sloshing around in the knee-deep muddy water is no justification for failing to do so. The ''fair share'' theorists would say that if we each rescue one child, all the children will be saved, and so none of us have an obligation to save more than one. But what if half the picnickers prefer staying clean and dry to rescuing any children at all? Is it acceptable if the rest of us stop after we have rescued just one child, knowing that we have done our fair share, but that half the children will drown? We might justifiably be furious with those who are not doing their fair share, but our anger with them is not a reason for letting the children die. In terms of praise and blame, we are clearly right to condemn, in the strongest terms, those who do nothing. In contrast, we may withhold such condemnation from those who stop when they have done their fair share. Even so, they have let children drown when they could easily have saved them, and that is wrong. 
 Similarly, in the real world, it should be seen as a serious moral failure when those with ample income do not do their fair share toward relieving global poverty. It isn't so easy, however, to decide on the proper approach to take to those who limit their contribution to their fair share when they could easily do more and when, because others are not playing their part, a further donation would assist many in desperate need. In the privacy of our own judgment, we should believe that it is wrong not to do more. But whether we should actually criticize people who are doing their fair share, but no more than that, depends on the psychological impact that such criticism will have on them, and on others. This in turn may depend on social practices. If the majority are doing little or nothing, setting a standard higher than the fair-share level may seem so demanding that it discourages people who are willing to make an equitable contribution from doing even that. So it may be best to refrain from criticizing those who achieve the fair-share level. In moving our society's standards forward, we may have to progress one step at a time.
 For more than 30 years, I've been reading, writing and teaching about the ethical issue posed by the juxtaposition, on our planet, of great abundance and life-threatening poverty. Yet it was not until, in preparing this article, I calculated how much America's Top 10 percent of income earners actually make that I fully understood how easy it would be for the world's rich to eliminate, or virtually eliminate, global poverty. (It has actually become much easier over the last 30 years, as the rich have grown significantly richer.) I found the result astonishing. I double-checked the figures and asked a research assistant to check them as well. But they were right. Measured against our capacity, the Millennium Development Goals are indecently, shockingly modest. If we fail to achieve them -- as on present indications we well might -- we have no excuses. The target we should be setting for ourselves is not halving the proportion of people living in extreme poverty, and without enough to eat, but ensuring that no one, or virtually no one, needs to live in such degrading conditions. That is a worthy goal, and it is well within our reach. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOUNDATIONS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); CHILDREN (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (87%); VIRUSES (78%); PHILANTHROPY (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (70%); VACCINES (68%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (55%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); SWITZERLAND (53%)

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2006



400 of 683 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2006 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 17, 2006
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; THE WORLD; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1849 words

HEADLINE: How Iran's Leader Keeps the West Off Balance

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

 BODY:
A POPULAR joke in Iran has someone asking the conservative former president, Hashemi Rafsanjani, what the superhighway under construction north from the capital Tehran to the border will be called.
 ''Shaheed Ahmadinejad Highway,'' he responds.
Now President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad is very much alive, while shaheed, or ''martyr,'' is the Islamic honor bestowed on anyone who dies fighting for God and country. The joke is one small indication that the factions which govern Iran, riven by endlessly bitter rivalries, are finding the bellicose president tiresome. 
 There are other, more significant signs. 
 In the days before the general election last Friday for the Assembly of Experts, an 86-member council that might well choose Iran's next supreme leader, some candidates allied with Mr. Ahmadinejad's clerical mentor were eliminated as unqualified. In addition, when the president visited Amir Kabir University in Tehran last week, a small group of students burned his picture and chanted ''Death to the Dictator!'' 
 The protest was less important than the way it was reported. It was featured on the evening news on state television, which is controlled by the Islamic Republic's powerful, but possibly ailing, supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. Conservative newspapers and the Web site run by the former commander of the Revolutionary Guards also reported it. 
 In the tea leaves used to assess the murky, shifting alliances among the mullahs, such publicity seemed to signal that someone fairly senior is less than enchanted with Mr. Ahmadinejad. 
 ''There is dissent in Iran,'' said Vali Nasr, author of ''The Shiite Revival'' and a professor of Middle Eastern politics at the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, Calif. ''The perspective the U.S. has of Iran being a monolithic country under this demagogue is not correct.''
 The first fissures in Mr. Ahmadinejad's popular image come at a potentially significant moment. The Iraq Study Group recommended that the United States open a dialogue with Iran. 
 Other voices in Washington deplored the idea. Many Israelis, including Prime Minister Ehud Olmert, liken Mr. Ahmadinejad to Hitler and the Islamic Republic to the Third Reich, and Mr. Ahmadinejad often seems to validate the comparison by playing to the anti-Semitic gallery. Last week, Tehran hosted Holocaust deniers from around the world, and he repeated his threat that Israel would soon disappear.
 Being seen confronting the West burnishes Mr. Ahmadinejad's populist image at home and adds to his aura on the Arab street, feeding the mullahs' dreams of leading the world's Muslims. 
 ''They say Ahmadinejad is standing up to the Americans, he is standing up to the Israelis, and he is defending our rights,'' Akhbar Ganji, Iran's leading dissident, said in a talk at Stanford University this fall. But Mr. Ganji and a number of other Iranian analysts say that the West falls into a trap when it lets Mr. Ahmadinejad set the parameters of any dialogue or even interviews. 
 ''Nobody asked him questions about democracy and human rights in Iran,'' said Mr. Ganji, referring to recent exchanges the president had with Western questioners. ''Nobody asked why they kill and imprison dissidents. This is the country's Achilles' heel, and they have no answer.''
 Most Iranian analysts and academics in American universities and research institutes said in interviews that they emphatically supported negotiating with Iran. Some question the wisdom of such talks right now, however, suggesting that the United States needs a long-term strategy for confronting the repressive regime rather than ad hoc discussions based on a need to extract American troops from Iraq. 
 First, the Iranian experts reject the comparison with Hitler. President Ahmadinejad, they point out, does not control the armed forces, which lack an air force and a navy anyway. The economy is so decrepit that Iran, a leading oil producer, has to import an estimated 40 percent of its gasoline. 
 ''It's time for a reality check -- Iran is a third world power,'' said Ervand Abrahamian, an expert at Baruch College on Iranian opposition movements. 
 The correct reaction to the Holocaust denial would be to ridicule it as rank stupidity, he and other Iranian experts say. To compare Mr. Ahmadinejad to Hitler is to assume wrongly ''that he is in charge of Iran and that he is the country,'' Mr. Nasr added. 
 It is true that the president was once a Revolutionary Guard officer, and courts the military with important patronage, like allowing its business wing to branch into the oil construction sector. Over all, though, he faces limitations akin to those faced by former President Mohamed Khatami: the main levers of power -- the 450,000-man armed forces, the judiciary and the state-run broadcasting service -- all report to the supreme leader, Ayatollah Khamenei. 
 There has been a strange reversal in American perceptions, Mr. Nasr said. When the somewhat moderate Ayatollah Khatami was president, talking to him was dismissed as wasting time because the supreme leader was the real power. Now that Mr. Ahmadinejad inhabits the same office, with the supreme leader still holding the same key powers, Mr. Ahmadinejad is being portrayed as the crux. 
 Mr. Ganji, who recently emerged from six years in jail, expressed amazement that American institutions like the Council on Foreign Relations and ''60 Minutes'' on CBS News let Holocaust denial completely overshadow the government's repression. 
 During a 90-minute September meeting with council members in New York, for example, participants said they could only recall a single question put to Mr. Ahmadinejad about limited elections and shuttering the opposition press. 
 He was not pressed on rising unemployment, nor on the violent suppression of striking bus drivers protesting low wages, nor on arresting bloggers and confiscating satellite dishes to stifle debate, nor about censoring classical literature. Nobody asked about rioting by beleaguered Iranian earthquake survivors who resented giving money to Hezbollah supporters in Lebanon to rebuild houses destroyed by Israel. Mr. Ahmadinejad could have written the questions himself, the Iranian analysts argued.
 Myriad voices in the United States suggest hitting Iran hard. ''We must bomb Iran,'' began an op-ed article in The Los Angeles Times last month by Joshua Muravchik, a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, arguing that diplomacy was ineffective. 
 But Iranian analysts interviewed in America mostly view a military strike as the surest means to cement the regime in power. Some question the wisdom of negotiating now, arguing that the West has so demonized Mr. Ahmadinejad and Iran as threats to peace that the Islamic Republic will believe in its own superpower ratings and not feel pressed to make concessions. ''It is very optimistic to believe that in this situation any real negotiations can take place,'' said Mehdi Khaliji, a visiting fellow at The Washington Institute. 
 With Iran, the United States needs to become both more confrontational in private, and less bellicose publicly, he said. For example, rather than threatening regime change and not doing much to back it up, he said, the American military should have come down hard on Iranian interference in Iraq while sounding more diplomatic in public. That approach would make Iran more amenable to compromise, he said. 
 Azar Nafisi, the author of ''Reading Lolita in Tehran,'' quoted a former colleague in Tehran who compared dealing with the Islamic Republic to playing chess with a monkey. ''In the middle of the game, the monkey picks up your queen and swallows it,'' she said. ''Then what are you going to do? You are dealing with a country that is not going to follow your rules.''
 For the United States, Europe and especially Israel, the most troubling issue is Iran's nuclear program. Tehran will probably not be persuaded to stop its efforts to enrich uranium, but, the Iranian analysts say, before it develops bomb-making capability, some years of wiggle room remain to champion those within Iran who oppose nuclear weapons. 
 As for Iraq, Americans and Iranians now share various interests, said Reza Aslan, an Iranian-American academic and author of ''No God but God: The Origins, Evolution and Future of Islam.''
 Iran has been far more supportive of Iraq's democratically elected government -- not least because it is controlled by Shiite Muslims -- than neighboring Sunni Arab states, he and other analysts note. 
 Moreover, these experts say, Iran abhors the prospect of Iraq imploding. It wants neither an extremist Sunni rump state near its borders, nor a Kurdish one that might seed unrest amid its own Kurdish minority. And it fears that a civil war would drive millions of poor Shiites into Iran. Finally, it wants the American soldiers to go home. 
 ''In the end America can pack up and go home, but Iran is stuck there and they will have to deal with any instability and chaos for decades to come,'' Mr. Aslan said. 
 Aside from talking to Iran to seek common ground on Iraq, the United States could do two other things to help hobble the radical impulses within the Islamic Republic, the analysts say. 
 First, they suggest making a greater distinction between individual Iranians and their government. They cite the treatment of about 120 prominent Iranian academics who tried to enter the United States last summer to attend a reunion of alumni from Sharif Industrial University, Iran's most prestigious scientific university. They all had valid visas, but American border agents, alarmed by a sudden rise in Iranian arrivals, deported about half of them. 
 Second, Mr. Ganji said, Washington could concentrate on settling the Israeli-Palestinian dispute, which he said is fodder for religious extremism. As long as that rages, he said, Iran's rulers will try to exploit it to distract people from their domestic mess. 
 ''We say that the Jews have the right to live, they have the right to a democratic state, but the same rights must be afforded to the Palestinians,'' he said. ''If the U.S. wants to promote democracy in this region, if it wants to fight fundamentalism and terrorism in the region, it must find a just solution to the question of Palestine.''
 THE regime survives by fostering a crisis atmosphere, he said, but would be hard pressed to create one from a peace deal that most Palestinians accept. 
 Die-hards like Mr. Ahmadinejad are bound to continue to provoke the United States since anti-Americanism was a cornerstone of the 1979 revolution. But the Iranian analysts say that the best way to deflate such a position is to focus undiluted attention on what the regime has done for its people lately. 
 ''When Mr. Ahmadinejad makes these points we should remind him that he has no right to say anything because look at your system -- this is a system where stoning is still legal,'' Ms. Nafisi said. ''All the talk is about Mr. Ahmadinejad, he's become the George Clooney of the political world. I think he's having the best time of his life.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Protests -- Students expressing anger at President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad last week at a university in Tehran. Their demonstration was reported on state television. (Photo by Hasan Sarbakhshian/Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (71%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (68%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (68%); HOLOCAUST (67%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (66%); WRITERS (65%) Public Opinion; Demonstrations and Riots; United States International Relations

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (94%); HASHEMI RAFSANJANI (73%); EHUD OLMERT (58%); ALI KHAMENEI (58%) Neil Macfarquhar; Mahmoud (Pres) Ahmadinejad

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); ISRAEL (93%); IRAN (91%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%) Iran; Iran

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2006

 
