

1 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1628 words

HEADLINE: Free School Lunch Isn't Cool, So Some Students Go Hungry

BYLINE: By CAROL POGASH

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
Although Francisco Velazquez, a 14-year-old freshman with spiky hair and sunglasses, qualifies for a free lunch at Balboa High School here, he was not eating. 
 He scanned the picnic table full of his friends in a school courtyard one day a few weeks ago, and said, ''I'm not hungry.'' 
 On another day, a group of classmates who also qualify for federally subsidized lunches sat on a bench. One ate a slice of pizza from the line where students pay for food; the rest went without. 
 Lunchtime ''is the best time to impress your peers,'' said Lewis Geist, a senior at Balboa and its student body president. Being seen with a subsidized meal, he said, ''lowers your status.'' 
 San Francisco school officials are looking at ways to encourage more poor students to accept government-financed meals, including the possibility of introducing cashless cafeterias where all students are offered the same food choices and use debit cards or punch in codes on a keypad so that all students check out at the cashier in the same manner.
 Only 37 percent of eligible high school students citywide take advantage of the subsidized meal program. But the stigma of accepting a government lunch, while others are paying for food from a different menu, is not unique to San Francisco. It is a problem many school districts across the country have been quietly confronting with mixed results, education and school nutrition officials said. 
 ''We all struggle with it one way or another,'' said Eric Goldstein, chief executive of school support services for New York City's public schools, where 860,000 free or subsidized meals are served daily.
 The New York schools conduct regular promotions, including inviting players from the Mets, Giants and the Jets -- and high school football players and girls' softball players -- to eat the subsidized fare in their jerseys.
 Ann Cooper, director of nutrition services for the public schools in Berkeley, Calif., said that attention to school cafeterias had traditionally focused on nutrition, but that the separation of students who pay and those who receive free meals was an important ''social justice issue.''
 ''Fewer people know about it,'' said Ms. Cooper, whose lunch program offers the same food to students who pay and those who have subsidized meals. 
 Many districts have a dual system like the one at Balboa: one line, in the cafeteria, for government-subsidized meals (also available to students who pay) and another line for mostly snacks and fast-food for students with cash, in another room, down the hall and around the corner. Most of the separation came into being in response to a federal requirement that food of minimal nutritional value not be sold in the same place as subsidized meals -- which have to meet certain nutritional standards. 
 But in part because of the fallout from having separate lines, some districts have eliminated a la carte foods, and many have gone the debit-card route.
 Mary Hill, president of the School Nutrition Association, a national group of school food providers, said students who receive free meals were ''very sensitive'' about being singled out.
 ''We want their participation so it's important for us to deal with the stigma,'' said Ms. Hill, who is also executive director of food services for the public schools in Jackson, Miss., where students who pay are required to buy the subsidized meal before they are allowed to buy a la carte items.
 Federal school lunch programs began during the Great Depression to assist desperate farmers. By 1946, the National School Lunch Act was passed ''to safeguard the health and well-being of the nation's children,'' a concern that arose after many Army recruits during World War II were found to be malnourished.
 Today, the United States Department of Agriculture spends $8.3 billion a year to provide free and reduced-priced lunches for 30.6 million children whose families are at or below 130 percent of the national poverty level, about $26,845 for a family of four. The program also provides reduced-priced meals for students who are between 130 percent and 185 percent of the poverty level, or $38,203 for a family of four. 
 Some schools use money raised from a la carte foods to support their subsidized lunch program, often adding choices to the federally financed menu. A Government Accountability Office report found that 90 percent of public schools in 2004 sold a la carte foods. While many have quit selling sodas and sweets, the separate lines remain. 
 ''Anywhere you sell a la carte foods, that automatically means kids who can't afford to purchase them are being identified,'' said Kate Adamick, a lawyer, chef and food systems consultant based in New York.
 Most elementary-school children like free lunches, school officials say, but by the time they enter middle school, social status intervenes. And at lunchtime, as students choose with whom to associate, many students from poor families either pay cash or go hungry if they do not bring lunches from home.
 ''I know kids need to eat but they don't want to be identified with free food,'' said Kenneth Block, a track coach and security guard who oversees the lunch shift at Balboa High.
 Attention to the matter in San Francisco came almost by chance.
 Last year, Dr. Rajiv Bhatia, director of occupational and environmental health for the San Francisco Department of Public Health, was campaigning to improve the nutritional value of food in schools when he encountered the two-tier system.
 Dr. Bhatia grew up in Oklahoma City, where he said he experienced and observed discrimination in the public schools, including students hurling insults at his Indian heritage. He said he was shocked to find that students in San Francisco were facing similar challenges in the lunch line.
 ''Here in San Francisco, which has such a commitment to equality, this kind of segregation is occurring very blatantly,'' Dr. Bhatia said. ''Good and committed people trying to improve student food were blind to it.''
 Dr. Bhatia said he decided that ''somebody has to speak up,'' and began pressing the school district to make changes. ''There were feasible alternatives,'' he said.
 Dr. Bhatia proposes giving the same food to all students and having them pay with debit cards, a change that could cost the school district an estimated $1 million.
 Colleen Kavanagh, executive director of Campaign for Better Nutrition, a local nonprofit group, joined Dr. Bhatia's campaign and tried to make a legal case against the current system. She sought help from Public Advocates, a law firm in San Francisco. They determined that the city's school cafeteria practices resulted in ''overt identification and physical segregation'' of students and appeared to violate state and federal laws. 
 The National School Lunch Act prohibits the segregating of students, ''or any overt identification of any child.''
 Nancy Montanez Johner, the under secretary for food, nutrition and consumer services for the Department of Agriculture, described the legal claims against the San Francisco system as ''unfounded.'' 
 Ms. Johner said that she had looked into the lunch programs here and determined that there was ''no overt identification'' because students were allowed to use any line they pleased and the schools did not post signs identifying the lines as free or paying. 
 But Carlos Garcia, San Francisco's superintendent of schools since July, said the system needed to change. The separate lunch lines should be combined, Mr. Garcia said, and, despite cutbacks in school financing from the state, the district should spend the money to wire its cafeterias to accept debit cards.
 ''We have a problem here,'' Mr. Garcia said. ''We need to fix it.''
 Mr. Geist, the Balboa High student president, does not qualify for a subsidized meal. But he said he was struck by how many of his Hispanic and African-American friends who could benefit from the program avoid it. It ''is meant to help them,'' Mr. Geist said. 
 At Balboa High and other schools, students and officials say, one group has fewer problems accepting free food: foreign-born students. At noon one day at Balboa, bubbly teenagers from Thailand, India, Myanmar and Hong Kong (as well as a table of girls who identified themselves as ''ABC's,'' or American-Born Chinese) ate chicken teriyaki in the cafeteria and said they appreciated the free lunch. 
 Sitting with a friend from Myanmar, Amruta Bhavsar, a senior from India, said she felt no stigma.
 ''It doesn't really matter,'' she said. ''The food is good.''
 Down the hall and around the corner in another room the school sells an a la carte menu of pizza, turkey sandwiches, Caesar salad wraps and cookies to students who pay.
 In New York, Mr. Goldstein said he also found that recent immigrants -- including students from the Dominican Republic, Mexico, Central America, Russia and China -- relished the free meals. 
 To lure other students, Mr. Goldstein and his staff members engage in micromarketing by, for example, offering more vegetable dishes in Pakistani neighborhoods. Yet even with the efforts, Mr. Goldstein estimates that only 40 percent of eligible high school students citywide participate in New York's program.
 Mr. Goldstein said he believed more eligible students would eat if all school cafeterias offered free meals to everyone, regardless of economic status, but that is generally too expensive. In New York, some schools offer free meals to everyone, he said, but the program runs a $35 million deficit. 
 Mr. Geist, the Balboa senior, said the problem boiled down to an issue of fitting in.
 ''Kids who wear nice shoes and nice clothes,'' he said, ''don't want to be associated with food that says 'I'm not able to provide for myself.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The cafeteria at Balboa High, where some students prefer not to be seen with a subsidized meal. Lewis Geist, the student body president, said being seen with one ''lowers your status.'' At Balboa High School in San Francisco, students who pay for lunch do so in a room, above, that is down the hall and around the corner from the cafeteria offering federally subsidized meals. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); SCHOOL MEAL PROGRAMS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); NUTRITION (89%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); FOOD CHARITIES (76%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (69%); SOFTBALL (62%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (56%); DEBIT CARDS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2008



2 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WHAT'S OFFLINE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: Un-Naming Rights

BYLINE: By PAUL B. BROWN

 BODY:
IF the University of Wisconsin business school ever writes a case study about itself, the lesson may be that some things are more valuable unsold.
 Conde Nast Portfolio reports that the school persuaded alumni to donate $85 million in exchange for a promise that it would not sell its name for the next 20 years.
 To convince potential donors that they were getting a good deal, the school's dean, Michael M. Knetter, sent out a mathematical proof showing that naming rights of business schools like Wisconsin's have been increasing in value at about 8 percent a year, Genevieve Smith writes. 
 The University of Washington School of Business renamed itself the Michael G. Foster School of Business at the University of Washington last year in exchange for a $50 million donation.
 If that is the going rate, and if Mr. Knetter's math is right, the University of Wisconsin's name would be worth more than $233 million 20 years from now.
 According to Mr. Knetter's calculations, ''the value of the school's name has already appreciated by about $2 million'' since the deal was announced in October, Ms. Smith writes.
 NOT YET ''With financial firms losing almost 30 percent'' of their value, and ''home builders falling more than 50 percent since June, it's hard not to be tempted by apparent bargains'' in those sectors of the stock market, SmartMoney writes.
 Still, it appears that is too early to be buying, Reshma Kapadia writes. 
 Analysts quoted in the article are still worried about the backlog of unsold homes, and say it may not be until next year before the fundamentals of home building companies improve and their stocks rebound.
 Bank shares could improve before that, but there is still the worry that a ''deeper economic slowdown, or a steeper drop in home prices could result in further write- downs,'' Ms. Kapadia writes.
 One potential buying signal, the experts say, is a string of bank takeovers. Ms. Kapadia points out, ''if industry players are willing to buy rivals, they must believe that nothing will come out of the woodwork.''
 D-I-Y INSURANCE Given the rising cost of property insurance -- because of fires, hurricanes and other disasters -- a growing number of people who own their second homes outright are considering self-insurance, Robb Report Vacation Homes reports.
 ''Self-insurance is more or less synonymous with non-insurance and appeals to those who are wealthy enough to bear the risk of loss themselves, rather than pay high monthly premiums that could end up costing more than the home is worth,'' John Morell wrote.
 Obviously, the plan is not without risk. As one financial adviser quoted in the article points out, ''Self-insuring in a place like Florida, where every home is threatened during hurricane season, is considered gambling.''
 Homeowners who have a mortgage on their property invariably are required by their lender to carry insurance. So self-insurance is not an option for them.
 LESS LUXURY? It is not caviar at the cost of hamburger, but Bloomberg Markets reports that Saks, Neiman Marcus and Nordstrom are ''cutting prices to keep their least affluent shoppers -- those who might spring for a $1,200 Coach handbag when flush with cash'' buying at their stores. ''These shoppers, who have an annual average household income of $75,000, are discouraged by the worst housing downturn in 26 years,'' Cotton Timberlake writes.
 One expert said: ''Americans are feeling less wealthy. In 2008, the effect of the housing market is going to be more apparent.'' 
 FINAL TAKE About 30 percent of men who are 18 to 34 years old are still living with a parent, Cosmopolitan reports, citing a University of Pennsylvania study.
 That is, of course, bad news for both the housing industry -- and the parents. 
 PAUL B. BROWN 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); SELF INSURANCE (85%); MAJOR GIFTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); TAKEOVERS (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); MATHEMATICS (75%); HOUSING MARKET (75%); HOME PRICES (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (73%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (70%); REAL ESTATE INSURANCE (70%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (63%); WEATHER (60%); HURRICANES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (93%); UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2008



3 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 445 words

HEADLINE: Dangerous Neighborhood

 BODY:
Turkey's anger at cross-border attacks by Kurdish rebels is understandable. But its decision to send what the Turkish news media said were thousands of troops into Northern Iraq last week was risky, verging on foolhardy. The last thing Iraq, Turkey or the United States need is more chaos in the region. 
 Before the situation gets any worse, the United States must draw the Turks and the Iraqi Kurds -- both close Washington allies -- into a serious dialogue about how they can jointly deal with the insurgents and avoid a wider conflict. Washington will also need to press Turkey's leaders to do more to address the legitimate grievances of their country's Kurdish minority. 
 President Bush and Defense Secretary Robert Gates on Thursday insisted that Turkey withdraw its troops as quickly as possible, and as of Friday night that appeared to be under way.
 What neither man acknowledged is that for months the United States had provided Turkey with vital intelligence for air strikes against guerrillas of the Kurdistan Workers' Party, known as the P.K.K. Washington considers the P.K.K. a terrorist group.
 Administration officials apparently hoped to forestall a full-scale ground operation, but Ankara clearly read Washington's support very differently. As rebel attacks mounted in recent months, Turkey's military and public demanded that the government retaliate. Turkey's leaders have been further unnerved by the growing confidence and relative prosperity of Iraq's largely autonomous Kurdish region. If the region were to someday declare independence, they fear Turkey's own Kurdish population would follow suit. 
 Iraqi Kurds, meanwhile, suspect Ankara is using the incursions to undermine their autonomy. Adding to tensions, Iraqi Kurdish leaders -- unwilling to anger their constituents -- have not done enough to curb P.K.K. activities or drive the rebels out of their territory. 
 Washington must now press the Iraqi Kurds to immediately close off rebel escape routes. It must also press the Turks and the Iraqi Kurds to begin a serious discussion on how they can secure the border, expand commerce and live peacefully side by side. The Bush administration might have more luck keeping both sides at the table if it offered to host those talks. 
 Washington must also encourage Ankara to do a lot more to undermine the P.K.K.'s appeal by engaging its Kurdish population in dialogue, expanding their rights and increasing economic development in their villages. Prolonged cross-border conflict would only add to Iraq's chaos. It would also do major damage to Turkey's international standing, including jeopardizing its bid for European Union membership.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); TERRORISM (78%); BORDER CONTROL (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); EUROPEAN UNION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: KONGRA-GEL (55%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANKARA, TURKEY (93%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (99%); TURKEY (95%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2008



4 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: Drumbeat of Grim Reports Sends Markets Tumbling

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ and MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
An outpouring of negative economic and financial reports soured the mood on Wall Street Friday as banks and other lenders further tightened credit in their struggle to contain damage from losses on mortgages, business loans and related debt.
 Shares sank, and investors fled to the safety of Treasuries as the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 2.71 percent and the Dow Jones industrial average dropped 315.79 points, or 2.51 percent, to 12,266.39. Both indexes capped their worst four months since 2002. 
 Prices of municipal bonds, bank loans and high-yield debt all fell as well.
 The markets for ultrasafe debt backed by the federal government and other nations were alone in posting gains. Some commodities, including gold, were also up. 
 ''The drumbeat of economic news has been unrelentingly bad,'' said Edward Yardeni, a normally upbeat investment strategist. ''The recession scenario is looking more and more credible.''
 Like so many days since the credit troubles erupted in August, Friday dawned on the East Coast with ominous financial signals. A.I.G., the large insurer, had reported its worst loss ever the evening before. Reports out of London overnight suggested that a large hedge fund, Peloton Partners, was being forced to sell nearly $2 billion in mortgage-related securities after it lost the backing of its lenders. 
 By the time traders in New York were at their desks, economic reports issued in Washington showed consumer spending was flat in January after adjusting for inflation. Then a bellwether report on Midwestern business activity unexpectedly fell to its lowest level in more than six years, and a survey showed consumer confidence declined to a 16-year low.
 If that was not pessimistic enough, Wall Street's attention was soon riveted by a report from analysts at UBS that estimated losses to the financial system from securities backed by mortgages and other debts would total $600 billion. Until recently, many analysts had been forecasting losses in the neighborhood of $400 billion -- a figure that the dwindling band of optimists in the financial markets once dismissed as vastly overblown.
 ''There is not any one news item that I can point to,'' said Douglas Peta, chief investment strategist at J. W. Seligman & Company in New York. ''We know that there is paper out there that we can't trust. We don't know exactly who owns it and how much. And we don't know how they are valuing it.''
 The S.& P. fell 37.05 points, to 1,330.63, and the Nasdaq composite index declined 60.09 points, or 2.58 percent, to 2,271.48.
 For Mr. Peta and many others, the current turmoil in the financial system is at its core a crisis of faith and confidence. 
 Problems are now appearing even in markets that were considered to be safe and staid like municipal bonds.
 Adding to the worries, hedge funds that borrowed billions of dollars through complicated transactions to invest in tax-exempt debt have been forced in the last few days to sell securities to meet margin calls from their banks, said Douglas A. Dachille, chief executive of First Principles Capital Management, a bond firm based in New York.
 An index that tracks the municipal bond market fell sharply in February. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction of the price, has jumped to 5.42 percent, from 4.81 percent at the start of February, according to The Bond Buyer, which compiles an index of 40 municipal bonds.
 ''I have never seen anything like this in the 15 to 20 years that I have been involved in muni investing,'' said Mr. Dachille, who said he was encouraging clients to buy at these prices.
 The problems in the municipal bond market highlight the increasing reluctance of banks to lend. Burned by their laxity during the housing boom and large losses from securities that were backed by subprime mortgages, lenders are tightening up and shutting out any borrower with a taint, real or perceived.
 For their part, lenders and investors are reluctant to stake their dwindling capital on new ventures or to roll over debts that are coming due because they are unsure if they will get their money back. Defaults and losses continue to rise in many corners of the credit market.
 In January, 23.4 percent of outstanding subprime mortgages were either 60 days' delinquent, in foreclosure or had already had the home repossessed, up 9 percent from December, according to Rod Dubitsky and other analysts at Credit Suisse.
 He noted that in California, which is suffering more than most states, mortgage companies are holding 10 times the number of foreclosed homes as they were at the start of last year, because more borrowers are falling behind and it is taking longer to sell homes given the glut of properties on the market.
 The debacle in the housing market has taken a toll on the broader economy, and in particular on consumer spending, which accounts for about 70 percent of overall economic activity. For the second consecutive month, spending was flat in January when adjusted for inflation, the Commerce Department said on Friday.
 ''You can almost draw it out in a diagram,'' said Bernard Baumohl, managing director at the Economic Outlook Group in Princeton, N.J. ''With home prices going down, consumers cut back on spending. If consumers cut back on spending, the economy weakens further. If the economy weakens further, fewer people are able to afford mortgages so home foreclosures increase.''
 On a nominal basis, Americans spent more in January, as spending outlays increased 0.4 percent after rising 0.3 percent in December. But, on average, the products they bought went up in price equally fast, too. In January, prices were up 3.7 percent from a year ago, the fastest rate of growth in more than two years. 
 Much of the increase comes from the cost of food and gasoline, which has risen sharply in recent months. But prices have risen across the board for products ranging from clothes and medicine to computers and washing machines. Excluding energy and food, prices are up 2.2 percent from January 2007. 
 Rising prices are leaving many Americans financially exposed. 
 ''We know that incomes are growing more slowly, and they're growing more slowly because of a weakening job market,'' said Jared Bernstein, a senior economist at the Economic Policy Institute in Washington.
 Still, other economists note that most Americans should be able to weather the problems in the housing market if they keep their jobs. While the unemployment rate has been creeping up, it remains relatively low at 4.9 percent. But the number of jobless claims has moved up in recent weeks and is flirting with the kind of numbers that often signal a recession is imminent. The Labor Department will next publish the closely watched monthly employment report on Friday.
 ''From here,'' said Jane Caron, chief economic strategist at Dwight Asset Management, a bond trading firm, ''the key thing to watch is what happens on the employment front.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 37.05 points, to 1,330.63, in trading Friday on the New York Stock Exchange. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO TAMA/GETTY IMAGES) (pg. A14) GRAPHS: Tired Consumers . . .: There has been little change in consumer spending, adjusted for inflation, in recent months. . . . And Falling Stocks: The Dow Jones industrial average has dropped four months in a row, its worst performance since 2002. (Sources: Bureau of Economic Analysis
 Bloomberg) (pg. A1) Graphs showing consumer spending with little change and falling stocks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (78%); BONDS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (77%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (77%); RECESSION (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); CONSUMER SPENDING (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2008



5 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: As Kenya Bleeds, Tourism Also Suffers in Land of Safaris

BYLINE: By JEFFREY GETTLEMAN; Reuben Kyama contributed reporting from Nairobi, Kenya.

DATELINE: KEEKOROK, Kenya 

 BODY:
Nancy Holan just had the safari of her life. She and a friend flew to Kenya from Detroit and as they cruised the wide open plains, they had the lions, zebras and elephants all to themselves.
 ''It was wonderful,'' she said.
 Not far away, Isaac Rotich, a high-end safari guide, paced an empty game lodge in freshly polished safari boots. He can spot a six-inch lizard 50 feet away, and tell you the name -- in Kiswahili, English and Latin -- of the plant it is sitting on. He has spent years building this career and was making $30,000 a year, a king's ransom in these parts.
 Now he is afraid of losing it all.
 ''We're hurting, big time,'' Mr. Rotich said. 
 This is what Kenya's legendary safari business has become: wonderful for tourists, disastrous for just about everyone else.
 Tourism is one of Kenya's biggest industries, but the violence that exploded after a flawed election in December has eviscerated the business, with bookings down 80 to 90 percent in most areas. Even after a peace deal was signed Thursday, government and tourism officials worried that it could take months -- if not years -- to recover. 
 Kenya's rival politicians have agreed to share power, and on Friday many people here praised them for finally calming the country down. But the long-term economic consequences are just beginning to sink in. ''We will work very hard to see what we can salvage,'' said Rose Musonye Kwena, an official at the Kenya Tourist Board, who estimated that even if there was no more major violence this year business would still be down 50 percent.
 The images of machete-wielding mobs caused a tourist stampede, and the lingering uncertainty over the country's direction has caused a wave of cancellations, leaving dozens of hotels closed and thousands of guides, drivers, cooks, waiters, masseuses, wood carvers and bead stringers out of work. Many of them support a vast network of relatives. A continued tourism meltdown could push millions of Kenyans toward poverty, which was one of the underlying causes of the violence in the first place.
 The downturn also threatens to reverse the momentum that Kenya has made in recent years to protect land and animals. Government officials are worried about out-of-work guides and trackers poaching game. Village elders in animal-rich areas who had been persuaded that conservation and tourism would be profitable have been re-examining this equation and considering selling off their land. 
 Sales mean farms, and farms mean fences, which could block the millions of zebra, wildebeest and antelope that migrate across the famous Masai Mara game reserve each year, possibly endangering one of the most spectacular gatherings of animal life on the planet. ''It's absolutely catastrophic,'' said Calvin Cottar, the owner of an upscale safari camp. 
 Kenya's billion-dollar tourism industry, which injects critically needed foreign exchange into the economy, is hardly the only victim. The election crisis, which started when Kenya's election commission declared the incumbent president, Mwai Kibaki, the winner of a closely contested race, despite widespread evidence of vote rigging, has killed more than 1,000 people and balkanized Kenya, with hundreds of thousands fleeing their homes and resettling in ethnically homogenous zones. 
 The violence punched a hole through the economy, disrupting coffee and tea production, knocking down the stock market's value and bruising transport, manufacturing, construction and nearly every other industry -- except maybe the funeral trade.
 Tourism could take among the longest to bounce back, because it is especially sensitive to perceptions, and the well-publicized bloodshed of the past two months has badly dented Kenya's image. Last year, the country had more than two million tourists. In January, there were only 55,000 new arrivals, well below projections. The truth is that most of the violence has subsided and it never really touched the tourist areas, like the Masai Mara.
 But many Western governments seem to think otherwise. Australia is still warning its citizens traveling to Kenya to stay indoors, not exactly the greatest plug for game watching.
 ''These warnings are a real problem for us,'' Mr. Cottar said. Even if the game lodges have been perfectly safe, he said, people have not wanted to come to Kenya if they think ''they will be drinking Champagne while somebody is getting hacked to death over the hill.''
 His resort is as good an example as any. Cottars 1920s Mara Safari Camp is one of the most luxurious lodges in Kenya, charging up to $710 a night per person, and is usually booked solid at this time of year. Now it is deserted.
 It is nestled in an especially picturesque corner of the Masai Mara, overlooking the green hills of Africa that inspired Ernest Hemingway and so many others. The lodge plays up the old-school theme, decked out with leather trunks, brass telescopes and pith helmets. On Sunday, the only guests were a couple from Kenya who paid cut-rate local prices, which allow the lodges to stay open -- but just barely.
 The couple, James and Lel Cartwright, arrived in their own plane. For once, the air over the Masai Mara was clear as glass. ''It was stunning,'' Mrs. Cartwright said. ''There's usually a wall of dust from all the minibuses.''
 The staff at Cottars threw on their fezzes and best smiles. But underneath they seemed down. Their salaries have been halved. The tips have dried up. Daniel Lanke, a waiter at Cottars, just enrolled his ninth child in private school but now, he said, ''I can't even buy him socks.''
 In the villages around the lodge, it is the same story. At the sound of a truck, Masai women dash in from the fields and set up tables full of souvenirs. Some have not sold a necklace for months. ''We are going to go hungry,'' said one woman, Nalarame Noloswesh, who has seven children.
 Many lodges have teamed up with local communities, sharing a slice of their profits in exchange for using the communities' land. The whole point was to make tourism more profitable than agriculture, so villagers would have an incentive to set aside their land for animals. 
 Kenya's tourism officials seem to appreciate the stakes. They are planning to begin a huge marketing campaign to reassure potential visitors that Kenya is safe. Mr. Cottar says that he will donate some of his proceeds to the Kenyan Red Cross to emphasize that ''if you go on safari now, you'll be helping the country.'' But those with the means may not wait.
 Mr. Rotich, the safari guide, is fully aware of his skills. He is an expert game spotter, speaks impeccable English and seems genuinely interested in every form of life on the veldt, from the towering giraffe to the lowly dung beetle. ''This is all I know,'' he said.
 The other day, he found a herd of 150 elephants eating grass in a clearing. Babies wrestled with one another as their enormous mothers lumbered past. 
 The elephant train was headed south to Tanzania, where the safari industry is booming because many tourists are flocking there instead. Mr. Rotich said he might join them. ''I love Kenya,'' he said. ''But I have my dreams.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lel Cartwright, a tourist, with Isaac Rotich, a safari guide, at the Cottars 1920s Mara Safari Camp in Kenya's Masai Mara. An elephant and giraffes in the Masai Mara game reserve. Tourists have been avoiding it because of Kenya's recent violence. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GUILLAUME BONN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Keekorok is part of Kenya's billion-dollar tourist industry. Map of Keekorok in Kenya. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSES (89%); MAMMALS (89%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (88%); ANIMALS (84%); HOTELS & MOTELS (76%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (73%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (73%); ELECTION FRAUD (67%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (64%); PEACE PROCESS (53%); MASSAGE SERVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) KENYA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2008



6 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: For a Leap Day Wedding, That Special Something

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ

DATELINE: As is sorely known, many marriages 

 BODY:
at least two out of five -- end in divorce.
 But if a couple is married on Feb. 29, which disappears from the calendar three years out of four, will that help or hurt the marriage?
 And when to celebrate anniversaries? Must the couple be married four times longer than other couples to celebrate, say, the tin, or 10-year, anniversary?
 Such were the higher, perplexing, mathematics of marriage that confronted the 97 couples who tied the knot at the Municipal Building in Manhattan on Friday. 
 Citywide, 246 couples were married in civil ceremonies, 55.7 percent more than the daily average of 158 clocked last year, according to the city clerk's office, which oversees such marriages.
 For the giddy couples shivering in the morning cold before entering the Municipal Building, such facts were merely quotidian.
 ''He can only forget our anniversary every four years,'' said Elizabeth Little, 27, a writer from Queens, smiling at the groom, Dylan Kidd, 38, a filmmaker. ''It's good for forgetful couples.''
 While Feb. 29, along with Valentine's Day, is a popular wedding day, most couples get married on a day that the ceremony can be fit in with their busy lives, rather than because of any calendrical glamour, said Michael McSweeney, first deputy city clerk.
 The Friday before Labor Day weekend, for example, is one of the busiest days for the clerk's office, he said.
 But those who do marry on Feb. 29 see significance in it. One bride at the clerk's office, Jessica Godden, 27, a research assistant from Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, said, ''Every four years we can have way more fun than we would every year,'' by having a big quadrennial party.
 Ms. Godden's father was especially enamored of Feb. 29, she said. ''My dad said: 'So you'll have your one-year anniversary in four years, right? So really, it's like you're stretching out time! So really, you're spending more time with each other this way.' ''
 Was her father a hippie? ''He totally was a hippie!'' Ms. Godden exclaimed. ''How could you tell?''
 Ms. Godden's groom, Peter Speer, 27, a secretary, said he doubted that their future children would be vexed by their parents' disappearing anniversary. ''Kids grow stronger when they're challenged!'' he said. 
 Conor Doyle, 27, an executive recruiter, saw an economic benefit from the date. ''It saves me money on anniversary presents,'' he said. ''I find it difficult to remember my own birthday.''
 The future children of Mr. Doyle and Susan Donahue, 35, a public relations consultant, will benefit, as well. ''It saves them money, too,'' he said.
 Feb. 29 is designed to correct a defect in the Western calendar, which would go out of sync with Easter and other religious holidays and the seasons without the use of the leap day, said Geoff Chester, a spokesman for the United States Naval Observatory, the government's timekeeper.
 The Earth's orbit around the sun lasts 365.2422 days and the calendar is exactly 365 days. A leap day every four years (mostly) corrects for that, said Mr. Chester, whose great-grandfather, Rear Adm. Colby Chester, was born on Feb. 29, 1844.
 But doesn't time disappear if it's not on the calendar?
 ''Not exactly,'' Mr. Chester said, not laughing. ''We're confusing a calendar, which is a set of rules put in place for the fixing of chronological events of a celebratory nature, with the actual passage of time.''
 All in all, would Feb. 29 help or hurt a nascent marriage?
 Carley Roney, editor in chief of the Knot, a Web site devoted to all things matrimonial, said, ''If it makes the anniversary special, it can make the marriage special. And you can never underestimate Americans' desire to be special on their wedding day.''
 Pablo Conde, 31, a businessman from Staten Island, and his bride, Bernice Santiago, 25, an accountant from Queens, agreed with that sentiment as they sat outside the city wedding chapel at 1 Centre Street on Friday morning.
 Their children, Mr. Conde said, are ''going to tell everybody at school how cool we are. How many parents do you know who got married on Feb. 29?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Susan Donahue and Conor Doyle at the Municipal Building. ''We won't have the seven-year itch for 28 years,'' Mr. Doyle said.
 At the Municipal Building in Manhattan, 97 couples were united in civil ceremonies on Friday, 246 citywide. Feb. 29 is a popular wedding day, an official with the city clerk's office said.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRISTIAN HANSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANNIVERSARIES (91%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); MARRIAGE (90%); CHILDREN (89%); US LABOR DAY (72%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2008



7 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: In Parts of U.S., Foreclosures Top Sales

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments in his blog at norris.blogs.nytimes.com.

 BODY:
Mortgage foreclosure notices are going out so fast that in some states the number of new foreclosure proceedings each month is greater than the number of homes sold that month.
 The foreclosure problem appears to be greatest in the West, particularly in Nevada, where home prices soared in the housing boom and are now falling rapidly.
 Worries about foreclosures have led to a variety of legislative proposals in Washington and in state capitals, as well as to a voluntary plan organized by the Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., that seeks to delay foreclosures while homeowners and lenders try to work out agreements. But so far, no consensus has emerged on legislation, and the volume of foreclosure notices continues to rise. 
 During January, it was reported this week by RealtyTrac, there were 153,745 initial foreclosure notices sent out in the United States. That dwarfed the 43,000 total sales of newly built single-family homes and amounted to nearly half the total sales figure, which includes sales of existing homes and condominiums.
 In the West, however, the picture was much worse. There the number of sales was barely higher than the number of foreclosure notices. It appears that in the most heavily affected states the sales totals lagged behind the number of foreclosure notices.
 Moreover, the volume of foreclosures is especially high in some states. In California, RealtyTrac reports, nearly a quarter-million properties were subject to some legal action related to foreclosure in 2007. Not all those foreclosures were completed, of course, either because the process dragged into this year or because the homeowner managed to sell the house or come up with money to make the missed payments. But those foreclosure moves affected 1.9 percent of the living units in the state -- or 1 in 52 homes.
 California led the country in number of properties affected by foreclosure moves, but was only fourth in terms of the percentage of homes affected. Nevada led in that dubious category, with 3.4 percent -- or 1 in 30 -- of the housing units affected. It was followed by Michigan, which missed out on the housing boom but is playing a large role in the bust, and by Florida, which like Nevada experienced a wave of speculative building amid rapidly rising prices.
 Those foreclosures, of course, represent dislocation for the homeowners being forced out of their homes and losses for the lenders. But they also represent an alternative supply of homes for buyers, providing competition for other sellers.
 That can be particularly true because sales of homes that have been foreclosed, or are about to be foreclosed if they cannot be sold quickly, are made by sellers who are in no position to wait for better prices. Those sales can help to push prices lower for everyone.
 For new-home builders, one result has been growing inventories of completed homes without buyers. The number of such houses across the country hit a record 197,000 in December, and slipped only to 195,000 in January, the Census Bureau reported this week. Moreover, the median age of such houses is up to 6.7 months, nearly twice the age of such houses when the housing market was peaking in the fall of 2006.
 The states with the lowest rates of foreclosures tend to be states that missed the boom in housing prices and now have reasonably good economies. In South Dakota, there were only 50 homes involved in foreclosures last year, a minuscule 0.007 percent of homes in the state. Vermont, Maine, West Virginia and North Dakota also turned in rates below 0.1 percent.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: There were 153,745 initial foreclosure notices sent out in the United States in January, according to RealtyTrac. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. C1) GRAPH: AS HOME SALES SAG, FORECLOSURES SOAR (Sources: RealtyTrac
 Census Bureau, National Association of Realtors, via Haver Analytics) (pg. C3) Graph showing a rise in foreclosures as opposed to a decline in home sales. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (79%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); EXISTING HOME SALES (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2008



8 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 308 words

HEADLINE: Education Cuts in California

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 The California State University, with 23 campuses, is the largest and most diverse four-year higher education system in the United States. At least 53 percent of our students are ethnic minorities (more than twice the national average), and 40 percent come from households where English is not the primary language. 
 We C.S.U. faculty, students and administrators have been experiencing firsthand the reverse in economic mobility you reported this week (''Study Says Education Gap Could Further Limit Poor,'' news article, Feb. 20). 
 C.S.U.'s budget was slashed by more than half a billion dollars in 2003 and 2004. Now, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger proposes a 10 percent across-the-board cut in state financing that would leave our state university $386 million deeper in the hole. These cuts would directly affect California's economy and people.
 Campuses have already made application dates earlier to stem enrollment. If the cuts are carried out, C.S.U. will be forced to turn away qualified students, eliminate class offerings and cut student services that help guide students to graduation.
 Student fees, which have doubled since 2002, would be raised yet again. The most disturbing part of this is that we know that college provides a solid path into the middle class, thereby allowing our graduates to contribute more to society, to the economy and to states' revenues.
 In a state like California that depends on innovation to support its economy, cutting C.S.U. is shooting us all in our collective foot. We hope that in the coming weeks, the governor will change his mind about slashing the higher education budget and crushing the hopes of the people of California. 
 Lillian Taiz Los Angeles, Feb. 21, 2008
 The writer is president of the California Faculty Association and a professor of history at Cal State Los Angeles.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); ETHNICITY (78%); BUDGET CUTS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); STUDENT EXPENSES (73%); WRITERS (73%); HISTORY (72%); ETHNIC GROUPS (72%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2008



9 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1165 words

HEADLINE: Frugality Can Be Acquired, but It Can't Be Bought

BYLINE: By CAITLIN KELLY

 BODY:
Consumers, long held up as the saviors of the American economy as it rose, are taking some of the blame for its fall. Consumers, their critics now say, were too eager to buy big, expensive houses and to fill them with the latest electronic gadgets. Consumers used their houses as piggy banks, these critics go on, to pay for their profligate ways. The question is, How do consumers learn how to deal with their finances? How do they learn how to save, invest and manage their money? 
 While some life skills, like learning to drive or how to roast a chicken, seem pretty straightforward, a lot of people remain in the dark when it comes to managing their personal finances. 
 ''Money remains the elephant in the room,'' says Manisha Thakor, a financial adviser and co-author with Sharon Kedar of ''On My Own Two Feet: A Modern Girl's Guide to Personal Finance'' (Adams Business, 2007). ''Personal finance, like parenting, is something we all are expected to just pick up as we go along.'' This is true, she said, across the economic spectrum, with even the best-educated high-earning adults often financially illiterate. 
 Those eager to learn often face a tidal wave of information, Ms. Thakor said. ''It's too much and they give up.''
 Lena West, founder and chief executive of xynoMedia, a company in Hastings, N.Y., that builds blogs and online communities, acknowledged that she learned about finances the hard way.
 ''When you're in serious debt in your 20s you have to learn pretty quickly,'' she said in a recent interview. ''Sink or swim. I won't go into the specifics about my debt, but it was hefty -- enough for it to still be affecting my life 10 years later. I dug out by educating myself, doing loads of work on my self-esteem and, most importantly, changing my relationship with money.'' 
 Richard Andrews, 62, a former financial journalist living in Springfield, Vt., said he learned the most useful lessons about handling money from his family.
 ''My parents weren't particularly sophisticated about finances, but all of us had small allowances beginning when we started school,'' he said. His father made him and his sister ''compute how much money we would need for a year, using the Sears, Roebuck catalog to price clothing, and adding in items like school lunches and bus fare.''
 ''What I learned from the clothing allowance was that if you want to save money, you can,'' he said. 
 Mr. Andrews said he applied that lesson later in life. By choosing to live in rural Vermont, and without the costs of raising children, Mr. Andrews and his wife, Stephanie, a former schoolteacher, lived below their means, thereby saving enough for early retirement and lifelong world travel.
 Neither of them ever earned large incomes, he said. 
 ''I have always thought of money as freedom,'' he said. ''It seems to me that other people think of it as something else: power, status. The freedom for me is from having to work or to take the job you really want.''
 In a culture constantly bombarding consumers with advertising coupled with peer pressure to buy the biggest, best and latest version of everything, resisting these messages is crucial, Mr. Andrews added. ''Be Jones instead of trying to keep up with him.'' 
 Parents are not the only source of knowledge about financial matters. In some cases, people will follow their friends' lead or be swayed by broader economic conditions, like the generation that grew up in the Depression.
 Ralph and Mildred Pascucci, 73, both freely admit that the lessons of the Depression have powerfully affected how cautiously they have handled their finances for decades.
 Now retirees, they moved from Long Island to Hampstead, N.C., to reduce their cost of living.
 ''We spend time chasing C.D. rates from one bank to another. Bonds and investments we leave to others,'' Mrs. Pascucci said.
 ''Conservative -- which is a much nicer word than frugal or thrifty -- best exemplifies our attitude about finances since the day we were married, almost 49 years ago, until today,'' she said. ''In the early years, no matter how tight the budget, there was always a savings plan involved. Always.''
 Mr. Pascucci said their three children ''have learned from us that a home is their best investment,'' though, he added, ''They seem to be more sophisticated in refinancing their mortgages to their advantage.'' 
 Others were always thrifty.
 Sally Chiappa, a 30-year-old administrative secretary in Baltimore, said she began handling her own money when she was 5, with her first bank account. Whatever funds she received in gifts, baby-sitting and pet-sitting jobs, went into savings. 
 ''I just knew that saving my money was something that I could do and that I enjoyed watching my balance grow,'' she said. 
 Ms. Chiappa said she remains fiscally conservative. ''I spend no more money than I keep in the bank and don't use credit cards. I have had absolutely no debt for at least five years and my credit rating is also around 800, and I'm proud of that.'' She saves $2,400 a year from a salary in the low $30's, hoping to buy a house.
 Brian Geldin, 31, who works in public relations, said he learned to save money by watching the careful spending decisions of his mother, a speech teacher, and father, an audiologist. 
 ''Ever since I can remember, I've always had a savings account, and they did teach me that I would earn interest by putting money into savings,'' said Mr. Geldin, who lives in Queens. ''I wouldn't consider myself financially savvy, just that I'm frugal in my purchase decisions and try my best to save money for something really important.''
 Unlike many young graduates who find themselves drowning in credit card debt on top of student loans, Mr. Geldin said he avoided this trap by watching what happened to college friends. 
 ''Several of them took out credit cards and seemed to get pretty high finance charges for not being able to make their payments on time. Knowing that I wasn't earning very much money with part-time work, I didn't want to get myself into debt by missing credit card payments, so I skipped the opportunity.''
 Fernanda Echavarri, 22, a recent graduate of the University of Arizona who moved away from home at 19, credits her father, a project manager for a construction firm, with teaching her to save. 
 ''Even when I was 16 and making baby-sitting money, Dad would force me to put it in the bank. He always gave me the 'what if's' -- if I got a flat tire or my car needed repairs.''
 Ms. Echavarri said her father also made clear that living on her own included financial self-sufficiency.
 She works in a clothing store, where customers easily spend $700 on a dress while she buys her clothes second-hand. ''I'm used to it by now. I'm very aware of the money I have.''
 As she began to earn what she calls ''real paychecks,'' Ms. Echavarri said she saved $20 or $50 from each one, no matter how small.
 ''I'm used to it by now,'' she said. ''It's been hard, but it feels good.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ralph and Mildred Pascucci in their home in Hampstead, N.C., where they moved to lower their cost of living. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT BORN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); PARENTING (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); CHILDREN (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (64%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (64%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (64%)

COMPANY: SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2008



10 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 60 words

HEADLINE: QUOTATION OF THE DAY

BYLINE: BERNARD BAUMOHL,

 BODY:
You can almost draw it out in a diagram. With home prices going down, consumers cut back on spending. If consumers cut back on spending, the economy weakens further. If the economy weakens further, fewer people are able to afford mortgages so home foreclosures increase.
 BERNARD BAUMOHL, a managing director at the Economic Outlook Group in Princeton, N.J. [A14] 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Quote

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); HOME PRICES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); FORECLOSURE (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2008



11 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: In Tennessee, 2 Endangered Groups Meet by Chance

BYLINE: By PETER WHITE

DATELINE: BELLS BEND, Tenn. 

 BODY:
Two unexpected guests showed up over the winter at George West's farm here, rare whooping cranes that landed in Mr. West's rich, boggy turnip field five miles from Nashville and were spotted by local birders during the annual Audubon count.
 ''They couldn't believe their eyes,'' said the president of the Tennessee Ornithological Society, Richard Connors. 
 The cranes had been bred as part of an $11 million effort by an international partnership that includes the United States Geological Survey to re-establish a flock along the Eastern Flyway between Wisconsin and Central Florida.
 The birds' touchdown in Middle Tennessee was all the more surprising because the area is the 11th fastest-growing region in the United States, according to a study by the Natural Resources Defense Council, with subdivisions sprouting like weeds in every direction. The effect of the current economic downturn and the subprime mortgage crisis has been felt in the greater Nashville area, but not to the extent as in many other places. 
 Much of the building has come at the expense of farmland. Today, Tennessee has 84,000 farms, down from 127,000 in 1970, according to the United States Department of Agriculture. The American Farmland Trust, a group working to stop the loss of productive farmland and promote healthier farming practices, estimates that Tennessee is losing 42,000 acres of farmland each year, much of it to development. The United States Forest Service says one quarter of the state's 14.4 million acres of forests will be gone in 30 years.
 Bells Bend is a 22,000-acre U-shaped tract accessible only by a winding two-lane road. Sod farmers here have been growing fescue, a type of grass, to supply the local builders, and that business has helped them hang on to a rural way of life that has all but disappeared elsewhere in Davidson County. It was the best sanctuary the cranes could find within 50 miles.
 Mr. West has spent all but about two of his 67 years on the farm. Like many other family farmers in the South, he worked a full-time job -- in his case, reading meters for the local electric company for 23 years -- while raising cattle and growing hay and other crops. 
 As he hauls his lank frame onto his 1952 Farmall tractor, Mr. West looks like something from a Norman Rockwell magazine cover. The tractor fits him like an old shoe, and it starts with the first crank. 
 Mr. West took up the fiddle six years ago and writes songs about lost love and the farming life.
 ''I remember the river, the hills, and the trees,'' he said. ''I remember the hollyhocks and the bumble bees. We slept on the front porch in the warm summer breeze. I remember the screen door full of cottonwood seeds.'' 
 But characters like George West are becoming as rare in Tennessee as the cranes in his turnip field. The average age of a Tennessee farmer is 56 and rising. Surgery has impaired Mr. West 's balance, and he no longer feels safe driving his tractor. He is a bachelor and has no children to take over the farm.
 Developers have been knocking at Mr. West's door, begging him to sell. Last year, he said, the country-western star George Strait offered to buy his 118-acre farm for $1.6 million, but he turned him down.
 ''I just see so many other farms destroyed and now here I am,'' he said. ''I don't want to see mine like that. I'd love for it to remain like it is -- one big piece of property.'' The Tennessee Land Trust buys development rights that allow people to stay on their land, use it, sell it, or even give it away. But the conservation agreement the trust makes with the landowner stays with the deed forever. 
 ''In the last three months, we've protected 20 working farms,'' the trust's president, Jeanie Nelson, said. In eight years, it has preserved 107 properties, totaling 30,000 acres, she said.
 Mr. West's neighbors say they hope he will strike such a deal. ''We don't have suburban sprawl here,'' said Barry Sulkin, who lives nearby. ''Just farms, forest and open space, and I'm hopeful most people would want to keep it that way.''
 In 1989, a plan to build a dump on Bells Bend prompted a rousing fight from the community. The city eventually bought 800 acres and turned it into a park. But residents were unable to stop a new sewage treatment plant from being built here to service Bellevue, a suburb across the Cumberland River. This was an especially bitter pill since Bells Bend residents all have septic tanks and want to keep it that way. 
 Rather than fight City Hall over every building permit, Mr. West's neighbors are working with the Tennessee Land Trust and the local planning department to develop a conservation plan. 
 Last year, though, developers bought 1,500 acres about a mile from Mr. West's farm for $18 million. They have filed plans to build condominiums and a commercial center on 600 acres and leave 900 acres undeveloped. The new construction would connect to the nearby sewer plant and increase Nashville's tax revenues.
 The plan also calls for construction of a $50 million bridge that would connect Interstate 40 and Bells Bend, which is opposed by most residents. 
 If he does not sell the farm by spring, Mr. West said, he will climb onto his Farmall, and with steady compelling pleasure, plow his fields once more. He plans watermelons, pumpkins and, later, a crop of turnips -- hoping the cranes will return next winter.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In the midst of rapid development, farmers like Mr. West are becoming as rare in Tennessee as the cranes in his field. Two rare whooping cranes were spotted by birders at George West's farm five miles from Nashville, in one of the fastest-growing regions in the United States. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOHN C. FELTS) MAP: Building in the greater Nashville area threatens farmland. Map of Bells Bend in Tennessee. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIRDS (91%); NURSERY & TREE PRODUCTION (78%); BIRDING (78%); FAMILY FARMS (78%); ORNITHOLOGY (78%); AGRICULTURE & ENVIRONMENT (78%); HAY FARMING (78%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (73%); NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (68%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (53%); SUBPRIME LENDING (53%); SONG WRITING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (57%); NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (55%); AMERICAN FARMLAND TRUST (55%); FOREST SERVICE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (94%) TENNESSEE, USA (98%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2008



12 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1318 words

HEADLINE: U.S.-EUROPE TEAM BEATS OUT BOEING ON BIG CONTRACT

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE; David M. Herszenhorn contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Air Force, in a stunning upset against the Boeing Company, awarded a $40 billion contract for aerial refueling tankers on Friday to a partnership between Northrop Grumman and the European parent of Airbus, putting a critical military contract partly into the hands of a foreign company. 
 The contract, one of the largest at the Pentagon, is initially valued at $40 billion but has the potential to grow to $100 billion. It is also a sign of the growing influence of foreign suppliers within the Pentagon and breaks a relationship that has lasted decades with Boeing, which had built the bulk of the existing tanker fleet and had fought hard to land the new contract. 
 Under the contract, Northrop and the European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company would build a fleet of 179 planes, based on the existing Airbus 330, to provide in-air refueling to military aircraft, from fighter jets to cargo planes. It gives a huge lift to Airbus, whose commercial aviation program has suffered a number of setbacks in recent years. While final assembly of the craft would take place at an Airbus plant near Mobile, Ala., parts would come from suppliers across the globe. 
 At a news conference, Air Force officials said that the creation of domestic jobs was not a factor in the decision. In response to questions about possible negative reaction to the deal in Congress, Gen. Arthur J. Lichte, head of the Air Force's Air Mobility Command, said, ''This will be an American tanker, flown by American airmen with an American flag on its tail and, every day, it will be saving American lives.'' 
 Reaction from some in Congress, however, was swift. 
 ''We are outraged that this decision taps European Airbus and its foreign workers to provide a tanker to our American military,'' the Washington State delegation said in a joint statement. Boeing planes are assembled outside of Seattle. ''This is a blow to the American aerospace industry, American workers and America's men and women in uniform,'' the statement added.
 For its part, Boeing, which had been considered the strong favorite to retain the contract, said it was ''very disappointed'' in the outcome. But it did not say whether it would file a formal protest -- something that Gen. T. Michael Moseley, chief of staff of the Air Force, has said that he hoped the losing bidder would not do because it would only further delay the tanker replacement program. 
 In its statement, Boeing said, ''We believe that we offered the Air Force the best value and lowest-risk tanker for its mission.'' The company added that only after a debriefing by the Pentagon would the company ''make a decision concerning our possible options, keeping in mind at all times the impact to the warfighter and the nation.''
 A Boeing victory was considered so certain that many Wall Street analysts had already factored the contract into their economic forecasts for the company. One senator, Kay Bailey Hutchison, Republican of Texas, sent out a press release prematurely praising Boeing for its victory. 
 ''This isn't an upset,'' said Loren B. Thompson, a military analyst at the Lexington Institute, a Washington-area research group. ''It's an earthquake.'' 
 The Air Force decision is also a surprise ending to a protracted contracting process that went on for nearly a decade and became mired in scandal and international politics. 
 Senator John McCain, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, scuttled an earlier attempt by the Air Force to award the contract to Boeing, opening the door for the Northrop-Airbus bid. 
 Senator McCain's campaign spokeswoman referred calls to his Senate office, which could not be reached for comment. 
 Representative Norm Dicks, a member of the defense subcommittee of the House Appropriations Committee and a Democrat from Washington State, said he was attending an anticipated victory party at Boeing's offices in Washington when the mood suddenly darkened. 
 Mr. Dicks added: ''Here we are in the middle of a recession, and we give this to Airbus? That is not going to go down well.''
 Ronald D. Sugar, the chief executive of Northrop Grumman, said in a telephone interview that he expected members of Congress would have a ''variety of views'' depending on whether their districts would be gaining or losing jobs under the deal. 
 Mr. Sugar said that 60 percent of the content of the new tanker would come from the United States and that it would create 2,000 jobs in Mobile and 25,000 over all in the United States. 
 ''This is more about the capability that we will give to the kids fighting the wars and the cost to the taxpayer,'' Mr. Sugar said. 
 Backing Mr. Sugar's view was Senator Richard C. Shelby, an Alabama Republican who hailed the decision as ''great news for Alabama.'' 
 The Alabama and Mississippi delegations had lobbied hard in Congress to polish the image of Airbus. In Paris, at the annual air shows, Airbus officials and these politicians proudly displayed the proposed European tanker offering and made the argument that if the United States wanted to sell its weapons to European countries, it should also open its doors to foreign suppliers. 
 In terms of the craft itself, the Airbus 330 is far larger than the 767 that Boeing proposed using. The Air Force said it was attracted by the plane's larger fuel capacity, its cost and its ability to also carry cargo and passengers. 
 The deal is the first phase of a multidecade program to replace the aging aerial tanker fleet, which dates to the Kennedy and Eisenhower eras. The fleet, which now numbers about 535 refitted Boeing 707s and DC-10s is one of the largest but oldest fleets of jets in the world. 
 Replacing these tankers has been the Air Force's top priority since 1996, when the government first proposed obtaining new planes. The first 179 tankers will be acquired at a pace of about 15 a year. But it is expected that over time, nearly 400 new refueling planes will be needed, which could bring the program's total cost to $100 billion. 
 For more than a decade the Air Force's effort to modernize the fleet has been thwarted by global politics, Washington scandals and an aggressive attack by Mr. McCain, a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee. 
 In the end, a procurement scandal led to the departure of Philip M. Condit, the chief executive of Boeing; the resignation of James G. Roche, the Air Force secretary; and the imprisonment of two Boeing executives, one of whom had worked on the program as a Pentagon acquisition official. 
 The Air Force, short on cash and wanting to acquire the planes as fast as possible, proposed an arrangement to Congress in late 2001 under which the Pentagon would lease the Boeing 767s in a sole-source contract that would keep Boeing's aging 767 production line alive. 
 But just as the Air Force was about to sign that deal, it came under sharp attack from Senator McCain, a former Navy pilot. He denounced the deal as a sweetheart arrangement between Boeing and the Air Force that would shortchange the taxpayer and that was arranged with insufficient scrutiny and oversight. 
 Soon afterward, it was reported that the Air Force's No. 2 weapons buyer, Darleen A. Druyun, had been promised jobs for herself, her daughter and son-in-law in return for steering the tanker contract and billions of dollars of other Air Force business to Boeing. 
 Soon after she joined the company in a $250,000-a-year post, Ms. Druyun and Michael M. Sears, Boeing's former chief financial officer, pleaded guilty and received prison terms. 
 The weight of the scandal caused the Boeing deal to collapse in 2004 and opened the door to competition from Boeing's archrival EADS, which teamed up with Northrop. 
 Each side spent millions to sharpen its proposal, hire lobbyists and former generals to argue its case and wage extensive advertising efforts in Washington and at military gatherings. 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 8, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article last Saturday about a decision by the Air Force to award a contract for aerial refueling tankers to a partnership between Northrop Grumman and the European parent of Airbus referred imprecisely to the site of the plant where final assembly of the planes will take place. It is in Mobile, Ala., not ''near'' it.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A depiction by Northrop Grumman of a proposed new Air Force tanker. The Air Force awarded a tanker contract to Northrop Grumman and the European aircraft maker EADS on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NORTHROP GRUMMAN, VIA AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (pg. A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR FORCES (91%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (90%); CONTRACT AWARDS (89%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (78%); SPACE INDUSTRY (78%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (78%); BULK SHIPPING (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); JOB CREATION (65%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (58%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (96%); AIRBUS SAS (92%); EUROPEAN AERONAUTIC DEFENCE & SPACE CO EADS NV (91%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (94%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (96%); BAB (BRU) (96%); BA (NYSE) (96%); EAD (PAR) (91%); EAD (MCE) (91%); NOC (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (96%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (92%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (58%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (58%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (58%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (58%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); MOBILE, AL, USA (55%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2008



13 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1391 words

HEADLINE: The Art of the Save, for Goalie and Investor

BYLINE: By PATRICIA COHEN

 BODY:
When it comes to choosing what to do, sometimes the best thing is nothing.
 Consider Radek Cerny, the No. 1 goalkeeper for Tottenham Hotspur, who was facing off against Manchester United's exuberant young midfielder, Cristiano Ronaldo, for a penalty kick during the recent fourth round of the Football Association Cup in Britain. As Ronaldo's foot swung back for the kick, Cerny leapt to the left expecting a sharp shot to that corner. The ball barreled into the lower right.
 Goal! 
 Cerny's mistake, in Ofer H. Azar's eyes, is that he moved to one side instead of remaining in the center, where he would have had a greater chance of stopping the ball. 
 Mr. Azar is not a coach or a goalie. Actually, he does not even play soccer. He's a lecturer in the School of Management at Ben-Gurion University of the Negev in Israel. Mr. Azar, however, is interested in decision-making, and the split-second response of goalies to penalty kicks struck him and several of his colleagues as a perfect real-life test case of why people sometimes make irrational decisions.
 Classical economists often criticize experiments on how emotions influence financial decisions because they do not involve meaningful monetary rewards. Examining professional soccer players seems to solve that problem.
 ''Incentives are huge,'' Mr. Azar and his collaborators argue in a paper that appeared not long ago in The Journal of Economic Psychology. What's more, ''goalkeepers face penalty kicks regularly, so they are not only high-motivated decision-makers, but also very experienced ones.''
 The Israeli scholars are not looking to break into the Premier League. Their point is that a preference for action over inaction can play a significant role in all kinds of economic choices.
 When the economy has been doing poorly, officials are more likely to ''be tempted to 'do something,' '' they argue, even if the risks outweigh the possible gains. ''If things turn bad, at least they will be able to say that they tried to do something, whereas if they choose not to change anything and the situation continues to be poor (or becomes worse), it may be hard to avoid the criticism that despite the warning signs they 'didn't do anything.' ''
 That sort of thinking can affect whether managers stick with their firm's current strategy or change course. And, apparently, whether goalkeepers stand still or take a leap.
 The soccer field has turned out to be a popular laboratory among economists, with penalty kicks a particular favorite. 
 Awarded after certain kinds of fouls, or sometimes to decide a championship match, a penalty kick pits one player against the goalkeeper. (Mano a pie instead of mano a mano, though, since the goalie is allowed to use his hands.) 
 Standing just 36 feet away, the kicker sends the ball hurtling at the goal at 60 to 80 m.p.h., giving the goalie just 0.2 to 0.3 second to respond. Given the speed, the goalkeeper has to decide what to do even before observing the direction of the kick. Stopping a penalty kick is considered one of the most difficult challenges in sports. Not surprisingly, 80 percent of all penalty kicks score. 
 For their study, Mr. Azar, along with Michael Bar-Eli, a sports psychologist; Ilana Ritov, a psychologist; and two graduate students, scanned the top leagues in the world, collecting data on 311 penalty kicks. Then they computed the probability of stopping different kicks (to the left, the right or center) with different actions (jumping left, right, or staying put) to see which one ''maximizes his chance of stopping the ball.''
 According to their calculations, staying in the center gives the goalkeeper the best shot at halting a penalty kick -- 33.3 percent, instead of 14.2 percent on the left and 12.6 percent on the right. 
 Yet when the group analyzed how the goalkeepers had actually reacted to these penalty kicks, they discovered the goalies remained in the center just 6.3 percent of the time.
 The reason, Mr. Azar contends, is rooted in how the players feel after failing to block the ball. 
 Their soccer speculations build on the work of Amos Tversky and the Nobel Prize winner Daniel Kahneman, who explored the idiosyncrasies of decision-making. In a landmark study, the two psychologists found that people had more regrets when they lost $1,200 because they chose to act, (in this case, change an investment), than people who lost $1,200 because they left their investments untouched. 
 What Mr. Azar and his collaborators wanted to show was that in certain situations, those results could be reversed: when acting was the standard response -- like a goalkeeper's jumping to one side on a penalty kick -- not acting would make someone feel a deeper emotional pang. The result is an unconscious bias toward action.
 To check, they asked 32 goalkeepers in Israel's Premier League and National League to rate how bad they felt on a scale of 1 to 10 after missing penalty kicks. As it turned out, about half of the group said ''10'' no matter where they stood.
 Of the remaining 15, 11 felt worse when they remained in the center instead of jumping to the side. Nothing definitive, the authors acknowledge, but it does at least suggest ''that goalkeepers feel worse about a goal being scored when it follows from inaction (staying in the center) than from action (jumping).''
 Outside the stadium, Mr. Azar and company argue that ''action bias'' can influence not just goalies but also investors as they decide to sell their stocks (action) or leave their portfolio untouched (inaction) during a downturn, and whether a worker chooses to look for a better job or stay put.
 Marcel Zeelenberg, a social psychologist at Tilburg University in the Netherlands, has found that a bias toward action or inaction often depends on whether a previous result was good or bad. After a team has a big loss, for example, the expectation is that the coach should replace the starting players, whereas after winning, leaving the lineup unchanged is considered the normal response.
 In an e-mail message, Mr. Zeelenberg said he thought the Israelis' ''paper is convincing because it uses real, already existing data to test a theory that was recently developed and tested only in the lab.''
 Paul Romer, an economist at the Graduate School of Business at Stanford University, said the study illustrated an important point about economic decision-making.
 ''How people feel about various kinds of activities means a lot about what they decide to do,'' Mr. Romer said. ''In many situations, we just look at the narrow monetary payoffs and we forget about the effects of preference or feelings.''
 For instance, going to school for an extra year will mean higher wages in the long run, Mr. Romer said, but ''going to school can be very rewarding and satisfying for some, and very painful for others.'' By looking solely at the financial rewards, ''you might miss the single most important factor in determining that decision.''
 Shame, humiliation, feelings about one's competence -- all of these emotions play a huge role in decision-making.
 ''There is a very large social component to feelings,'' Mr. Romer said. ''Economists typically assume that people understand what makes them feel good,'' but ''people actually don't always understand what makes them happy.''
 So what do the men on the field think? 
 Danny Cepero, a goaltender with the New York Red Bulls, said he could understand the emotional downside of doing nothing. If you stay put because you think a ball is coming straight up the middle and miss, he said, ''you look like a fool. 
 ''Definitely it's more acceptable to pick a side and just go.'' 
 Still, Mr. Cepero was skeptical that staying in the center makes the most sense. ''You rarely see a goalkeeper stand in the middle and make a save,'' he insisted.
 To Des McAleenan, the Bulls' goaltending coach, no computer analysis can capture the complexity of players' responses. ''Now, everybody's got extensive dossiers on the opposition,'' he said. 
 The journal article does point out that the center strategy is not an absolute rule; if goalkeepers spend more time in the middle, penalty kickers would undoubtedly shift their strategy and their aim. 
 But for the moment, Mr. Azar's team would advise those who play soccer or the market that nothing is sometimes better than something.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''You rarely see a goalkeeper stand in the middle and make a save,'' said Danny Cepero, a New York Red Bulls goaltender. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GETTY IMAGES) (pg. C4)
 Goalie Radek Cerny missed this shot during a Premiership match in January in London. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADRIAN DENNIS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETES (91%); SOCCER (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION (68%)

COMPANY: MANCHESTER UNITED PLC (58%)

TICKER: MANU (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (58%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (58%)

PERSON: CRISTIANO RONALDO (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) ISRAEL (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2008



14 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; THE SATURDAY PROFILE; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: A Lawmaker Whose Nation Dislikes Her Friends

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: Caracas, Venezuela 

 BODY:
 THOSE in search of a glimpse of the Casablancaesque feel of this city might go to the lobby of the Hotel Melia these days. Jet-lagged Iranians arrive on the flight from Tehran. Commandos in red berets from the elite presidential guard stand by the piano. Businessmen from Belarus discuss deals over glasses of whiskey.
 And of course, Piedad Cordoba, the Colombian senator at the center of negotiations here with Colombia's largest rebel group, livens up this scene when she is in town. In neighboring Colombia, and now here in Venezuela, few politicians generate as much emotion or controversy. 
 Ms. Cordoba dines with guerrillas and dons their berets for photos. Shuttling between Bogota and Caracas, she dances at salsa spots here like El Mani es Asi. She wears turbans evoking her African roots, a rare distinction in a country like Colombia where politicians are often expected to be light-skinned men from the moneyed classes.
 And, eliciting accusations of treason in Colombia, she has vociferously declared herself a supporter of President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela at a time when Mr. Chavez and President Alvaro Uribe, a close Bush administration ally, are rhetorically at each other's throats.
 ''I suppose I'm somewhat unique,'' Ms. Cordoba, 53, said in an interview on the Melia's terrace. ''But Colombia will just have to get used to me because I'm not going away.''
 IT is taking many people in Colombia time to get used to that idea. Flying in and out, for instance, has become troublesome for her. Fellow passengers showered Ms. Cordoba with insults and threats before she boarded a flight from Bogota to Caracas in January. Airline personnel and customs police officers intervened to shield her from more aggression.
 ''It is evident that when a person expresses herself against her country, as Senator Piedad Cordoba has done, well, naturally someone will react,'' Carlos Holguin, Colombia's justice minister, said after the episode.
 Semana, the respected Colombian news magazine, called Ms. Cordoba ''the most controversial woman in Colombia,'' comparing her guerrilla diplomacy to Jane Fonda's overtures to North Vietnam in the early 1970s. Ms. Cordoba's disapproval rating surged in January to 63 percent, the highest such rating in the country. Two months earlier it had been only 32 percent.
 Much of the ire directed at Ms. Cordoba is related to her efforts to arrive at a negotiated solution to Colombia's long internal war. She is working alongside Mr. Chavez to secure the release of dozens of captives, including three American military contractors, held by the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC.
 They have had some success. The FARC, which is seeking the release of hundreds of its own jailed rebels, delivered two high-profile hostages in January to Ms. Cordoba in the Colombian jungle. They freed four other lawmakers, held for more than six years, to her and other emissaries of Mr. Chavez this week.
 But Ms. Cordoba's support for a proposal by Mr. Chavez to remove the FARC from terrorism lists has proved to be too much for many Colombians, who are weary of the group's tactics. In four decades of war, it has financed itself largely through abductions and cocaine trafficking.
 Still, Ms. Cordoba knows there are no innocents in this long war. In 1999, she was kidnapped by members of a right-wing paramilitary death squad in the heart of Medellin, her home. After her release she went into exile with her four children in Montreal, a period she defines as one of the most painful in her life.
 Navigating the bureaucracy of Canada's system for political refugees was daunting, she said, as was starting anew in such a different society. ''There was no house with a pool and a car in the garage waiting for us,'' she said. After about two years in Montreal, she returned to politics in Colombia.
 As a senator, Ms. Cordoba seems to revel in saying things in public that many other Colombians can only whisper in private. ''Every Colombian has a little paramilitary soldier in their heart,'' she said with brio at the Hotel Melia as guests and passers-by sipped their espressos and stared.
 The statement was a jab at her society's tolerance for the same kinds of private armies that kidnapped her. In a slow-burning scandal, these militias have drawn support from backers of President Uribe in Colombia's Congress and within his main intelligence agency.
 Like Mr. Uribe, Ms. Cordoba is a lawyer; both are from Antioquia, the economically vibrant province that has Medellin as its capital. But the similarities end there, with Ms. Cordoba emerging as one of the most outspoken critics of Mr. Uribe, the scion of a powerful landholding family.
 Ms. Cordoba said her propensity to speak out originated during her childhood in Medellin as the daughter of a black man and a white woman, both teachers.
 ''My family and I were considered extraterrestrials,'' she said. ''I understand what it's like to be different, which is why I defend homosexuals, women, blacks, anyone I can.''
 While at college in Medellin, Ms. Cordoba said she was attracted to the theater and revolutionary ideas, but she avoided the guerrilla groups gaining momentum at the time, defining herself as a pacifist. Later, she got her start in politics as the private secretary of a former mayor of Medellin, William Jaramillo Gomez, emerging as his protegee.
 YET while Ms. Cordoba has won recognition for supporting Colombia's minorities, her warm ties with the country's leftist guerrillas go too far for many Colombians, even if they privately acknowledge she may be one of the only people who can win the release of the FARC's captives.
 Ernesto Samper, the former Colombian president, said he got a sense of the emotions Ms. Cordoba elicits when he recently entered a barber shop in Bogota where two women were arguing about politics. One of the women hated Ms. Cordoba, Mr. Samper said, while the other one loved her.
 ''It's a mistake to think her political career is over,'' Mr. Samper said in a telephone interview.
 And so Ms. Cordoba presses ahead with this new phase, which has her spending about as much time in Caracas, in the corridors of Mr. Chavez's palace and the Melia, as she does in Bogota. Asked about comments in Colombia that she should simply stay in Venezuela, Ms. Cordoba flashed a smile and said she had no plan to do so.
 ''It's not surprising,'' she said, laughing. ''In Colombia, with my face, my turban, my words, I'm Public Enemy No. 1.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT DALTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (89%); AIRLINES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); HOSTAGE TAKING (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (73%); TREASON (67%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (67%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (60%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (60%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (74%); ALVARO URIBE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (90%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%) COLOMBIA (99%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); BELARUS (90%); IRAN (73%); VIET NAM (52%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2008



15 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 405 words

HEADLINE: Bush Official Lends Support To Corzine's Plan for Tolls

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
He may have won zero legislative support for a proposal that would raise fees on toll roads 800 percent by 2022 to support a multibillion-dollar transportation bond issue, a plan he admits needs rethinking. 
 He may be smarting from polls indicating that the more New Jersey residents hear about his plan, the less they like it -- and him.
 But at least Gov. Jon S. Corzine can take some solace from the endorsement of an unexpected ally: the Bush administration.
 At a conference on Friday, James S. Simpson, administrator of the Federal Transit Administration, praised Mr. Corzine as courageous for trying to prevent New Jersey from ''being hamstrung by crushing debt and crumbling infrastructure.''
 ''Many view the governor's plan to introduce the new toll-road charges and create a public company to issue the necessary bonds as controversial,'' Mr. Simpson said. ''But we can't expect 20th-century solutions to solve 21st-century problems.''
 When asked afterward if he had come to praise and not to bury Mr. Corzine's plan, Mr. Simpson said, ''Absolutely.''
 Mr. Simpson explained that the administration favored raising user fees like tolls -- and not increasing taxes on gasoline -- because people who do not use the toll roads should not have to pay extra. 
 ''There aren't too many other solutions,'' said Mr. Simpson, a former commissioner with the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. ''This is one that works, and we're behind it.''
 It remains to be seen how much traction Mr. Corzine, whose approval ratings have dropped in recent weeks, can gain from the support of an unpopular administration. But clearly, Mr. Corzine was grateful. ''Jim,'' he said, ''I like all of the things you said.''
 Originally, Mr. Corzine proposed to raise tolls by large amounts on three highways on four occasions from 2010 to 2022, along with annual inflationary increases, to generate enough revenue to support a $38 billion bond offering.
 His plan won the support of academics, former Republican officials and key business groups, including the New Jersey Alliance for Action, which sponsored Friday's conference, but the public expressed its disdain, often to Mr. Corzine's face, in town hall meetings and at protest rallies.
 Still, Mr. Corzine said on Friday that he was as determined as ever to come up with a viable alternative.
 ''To not do that is a bad-news story,'' he said, prompting a rare sound these days: applause.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (90%); BONDS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); BOND ISSUES (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (70%); FUEL TAX (51%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRANSIT ADMINISTRATION (57%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2008



16 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: Corzine Defies a History Of Failed Buyout Packages

BYLINE: By JO CRAVEN McGINTY; David W. Chen contributed reporting.

 BODY:
A year ago, the Corzine administration expressed reservations about using early retirement incentives to reduce state spending. With good reason: New Jersey had tried it at least five times, and it worked so poorly each time, actually costing the state money, that a special commission advised against ever doing it again.
 But this week, Gov. Jon S. Corzine announced that he would offer an early retirement incentive intended to reduce the state payroll by up to 3,500 people. He said that his plan would include provisions to guarantee the savings that have eluded previous administrations. And unlike past administrations, his aides say they will have the discipline to follow through. 
 ''We've been reducing headcount since the beginning of the administration,'' said Bradley I. Abelow, Mr. Corzine's chief of staff who previously was the state treasurer. 
 ''We are less afraid of an early retirement incentive ourselves than people might have been in the past because, from our perspective, we have more than demonstrated our ability to keep from rehiring.''
 By driving up pension and retiree health care costs, past early retirement programs cost the state more money than they saved. To have any chance at success, Mr. Corzine's proposal would require strict oversight. 
 ''Someone at the central level has to be a strong enforcer,'' said Scott Pattison, executive director of the National Association of State Budget Officers. ''They have to make sure agencies are not, in a very quiet way, filling those vacancies or bringing back people in a contractual way.''
 That is what happened with surprising speed in 2002, when New Jersey last offered an early retirement package. More than 5,500 state workers took it, and the McGreevey administration pledged to keep half of those jobs open for three years. But by the end of the next fiscal year, only 210 state-financed vacancies remained, producing little, if any, savings.
 Early retirement incentives lure older, higher-paid employees to retire by boosting the value of their pensions. The benefits may include cash payments, more generous retirement health benefits, or credits for additional years of service, which can increase a pension by thousands of dollars a year. Mr. Abelow said the administration was considering offering each of these options to select groups.
 The plans are expensive up front, but if the vacated positions remain open for several years, they can produce real savings. However, keeping public-sector jobs vacant is extremely difficult, and few states have been able to make the gamble pay off.
 ''The up-front costs take a good one to three years to recoup,'' Mr. Pattison said. 
 ''You really have to keep the vacancies for several years to recoup the cost before you start saving money.''
 In 2005, a task force convened by acting Gov. Richard J. Codey found that New Jersey's previous early retirement plans generated hidden costs to the pension system and did not provide long-term savings, nor even short-term savings at the levels promised. The task force -- which was led by Philip D. Murphy, a friend and former Goldman Sachs colleague of Mr. Corzine's -- urged the state to declare a permanent moratorium on the incentives. 
 As recently as last summer, Mr. Abelow said that he was ''highly skeptical'' of such plans. And Mr. Corzine has also noted that the plans had not worked in the past.
 ''The real reason they haven't worked well is there's been tremendous backfilling,'' Mr. Corzine said on Thursday. ''That's just doubling up future obligations.'' 
 But faced with an estimated budget shortfall of $2.7 billion to $3.2 billion this year, and the likelihood of shrinking revenues because of a slowdown in the economy, the administration felt compelled to entertain options to shrink the size of the state payroll. 
 Mr. Corzine said he also expected to reduce staff through attrition and layoffs. 
 ''This was the best of a bad lot of alternatives that we could come up with,'' Mr. Abelow said.
 In an effort to avoid the pitfalls that eroded or erased the savings promised by past plans, the administration identified three problem areas: refilling the vacated jobs, offering packages to too many people, and not paying for the additional benefits up front.
 To address these issues, Mr. Corzine plans to allow only 10 percent of the vacancies created by his plan to be refilled, a cap he intends to write into law. He expects to use $300 million to finance the early retirement and pension liabilities up front. And he intends to make the incentives available only to a limited number of state employees who are already eligible to retire. 
 For example, Mr. Abelow said, direct care positions like hospital employees whose positions are critical and cannot be held vacant will not be included. 
 Mr. Corzine has estimated that his plan will save roughly $200 million a year, although the exact savings cannot be determined until it is known how many employees accept, what their salaries are and the cost of providing the benefit.
 Mr. Corzine must also win over legislators, some of whom said that they considered the proposal a tough sell because of opposition from labor and concerns from lawmakers about the long-term pension risks.
 ''A lot of legislators haven't spoken to me about this yet,'' Mr. Corzine said. ''So we'll have to see what they have to say. They've actually been quiet.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EARLY RETIREMENT (92%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); RETIREE HEALTH PLANS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2008



17 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: Cuba Signs Two Treaties On Rights

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

DATELINE: HAVANA 

 BODY:
Just days after Raul Castro took office as president of Cuba, its Communist government signed two important international human rights treaties that Fidel Castro had long opposed, another sign the new administration may be willing to set a new course.
 It remains to be seen whether the government will live up to the accords and what the signing of the two pacts will mean for political prisoners on the island. The foreign minister, Felipe Perez Roque, said after a signing ceremony in New York on Thursday that the government still had reservations about some provisions. 
 Elizardo Sanchez, head of the Cuban Commission for Human Rights and National Reconciliation, a nongovernmental group, said the signing was ''positive news because the signing of these pacts is an old demand from inside Cuba and from the international community.''
 ''I hope Cuba honors the letter and spirit of the law of these pacts, but I am not sure it will,'' Mr. Sanchez told The Associated Press. 
 In a statement published here on Friday, Mr. Perez Roque maintained that the Cuban government had always upheld the rights outlined in the two international agreements, since the moment Fidel Castro seized power in 1959 and then established a one-party totalitarian state.
 ''This signing formalizes and reaffirms the rights protected by each agreement, which my country has systematically been upholding since the triumph of the revolution,'' he said.
 One of the pacts, the Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, guarantees ''civil and political freedom,'' including the right to self-determination, peaceful assembly, freedom of religion, privacy, freedom to leave a country, and equal protection before the law. Cuba severely restricts the travel of its citizens, bans any political parties other than the Communist Party and prohibits independent political meetings. 
 Mr. Sanchez's rights group estimates there are at least 230 political prisoners in Cuba's network of 200 jails and detention centers. Amnesty International has said there are at least 58 ''prisoners of conscience'' on the island, making Cuba one of the most repressive governments in the world regarding free speech. 
 The other pact signed Thursday, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, requires countries to ensure the right to work, fair wages, freedom to form and join trade unions, social security, education and the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health.
 In 2001, Fidel Castro criticized that covenant, saying it ''could serve as a weapon and a pretext for imperialism to try to divide and fracture the workers, create artificial unions, and decrease their political and social power and influence.''
 Mr. Perez Roque said Cuba had not dropped its opposition to independent labor unions. He said the country was signing the covenants now because the old United Nations Human Rights Commission had been replaced by a new Human Rights Council in 2006. The new council dropped Cuba last year from the list of countries whose rights records warranted investigation, a move the United States opposed.
 The Cuban foreign minister accused the United States of having used the old commission for ''brutal pressure and blackmail'' against Cuba. 
 While human rights advocates say it is premature to tell whether Raul Castro will liberate political prisoners, there have been some small signs that the new president favors greater freedom of speech. 
 Raul Castro, Fidel's younger brother, has openly encouraged more debate and criticism in society. Some free-speech advocates took it as a good sign that the government held back in punishing a group of students who sharply questioned the president of the National Assembly recently over the travel ban.
 In February, Cuba released four human rights activists who had been imprisoned in 2003 during a crackdown in which 73 people were arrested, and allowed them to migrate to Spain. 
 Though human rights advocates welcomed the prisoners' release, most said Cuba had a long way to go before people could speak their minds freely.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EQUAL PROTECTION (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (84%); FREEDOM OF ASSEMBLY & ASSOCIATION (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: RAUL CASTRO (90%); FIDEL CASTRO (89%); PEREZ ROQUE (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) CUBA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2008



18 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: Buffett's State of the World: There's Folly in Wonderland

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
The billionaire investor Warren E. Buffett disclosed Friday that he had earned profits for shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway by speculating in the Brazilian currency, the real, and by buying a large stake in a French pharmaceutical company, Sanofi-Aventis.
 He also complained that many other companies were overstating earnings, and he expressed puzzlement that their auditors let them get away with it. 
 Mr. Buffett's annual letter to shareholders, which was released Friday, has become something of a business institution, with the certainty that he will offer caustic comments and the hope that he will shed light on his investments.
 This year, his scorn was aimed at the ''financial folly'' of lenders who financed the housing boom, since vanished, and at companies that use rosy assumptions of investment success to raise reported profits.
 The comments, which were released after the market closed, came as Berkshire reported that fourth-quarter profit fell 18 percent, in part because of falling insurance rates. Net income decreased to $2.95 billion, or $1,904 a share, from $3.58 billion, or $2,323, a year earlier. 
 Mr. Buffett offered no commentary on Berkshire's foray into the municipal bond insurance business, and no explanation of why he spent $1.5 billion to buy a 1.3 percent stake in Sanofi-Aventis.
 But he was willing to say, in effect, ''I told you so,'' in recalling his warning a year ago about ''weakened lending practices'' in the mortgage market.
 ''Just about all Americans came to believe that house prices would forever rise,'' he wrote. ''That conviction made a borrower's income and cash equity seem unimportant to lenders, who shoveled out money, confident that H.P.A. -- house price appreciation -- would cure all problems. Today, our country is experiencing widespread pain because of that erroneous belief. As house prices fall, a huge amount of financial folly is being exposed. You only learn who has been swimming naked when the tide goes out -- and what we are witnessing at some of our largest financial institutions is an ugly sight.''
 His criticism of other companies was based on the fact that many assume their pension funds will earn 8 percent a year from investments, a return he deems unlikely given the low level of interest rates, but one that lets them report higher profits now.
 He compared money managers who promise double-digit returns to the queen in ''Alice in Wonderland,'' who proclaimed, ''Why, sometimes I've believed as many as six impossible things before breakfast.'' Mr. Buffett added, ''Beware the glib helper who fills your head with fantasies while he fills his pockets with fees.''
 Mr. Buffett pointed out that some companies with pension plans in both Europe and the United States assume better returns on the American plans than the European ones. 
 ''This discrepancy is puzzling,'' he said. ''Why should these companies not put their U.S. managers in charge of the non-U.S. pension assets and let them work their magic on these assets as well? I've never seen this puzzle explained. But the auditors and actuaries who are charged with vetting the return assumptions seem to have no problem with it.'' 
 ''What is no puzzle, however, is why C.E.O.s opt for a high investment assumption: It lets them report higher earnings. And if they are wrong, as I believe they are, the chickens won't come home to roost until long after they retire.''
 Mr. Buffett also had harsh words for state and local governments. ''Public pension promises are huge and, in many cases, funding is woefully inadequate. Because the fuse on this time bomb is long, politicians flinch from inflicting tax pain, given that problems will only become apparent long after these officials have departed. Promises involving very early retirement -- sometimes to those in their low 40s -- and generous cost-of-living adjustments are easy for these officials to make. In a world where people are living longer and inflation is certain, those promises will be anything but easy to keep.''
 He did not discuss why he wanted to insure municipal bonds issued by governments making such promises.
 Mr. Buffett also warned of lower profits ahead for the insurance industry, which has benefited from two years without major disasters.
 ''That party is over,'' he said. ''It's a certainty that insurance-industry profit margins, including ours, will fall significantly in 2008. Prices are down, and exposures inexorably rise.''
 Berkshire's investment in Sanofi-Aventis showed a profit of $109 million at the end of the year, but that profit has since vanished as the share price fell 23 percent in the first two months of 2008 amid concerns over possible generic competition for its best-selling drug.
 Berkshire's other major new stock investment in 2007, which was previously disclosed, was Burlington Northern Santa Fe, the railroad. On a $4.7 billion investment, Berkshire is now ahead by about $600 million.
 Mr. Buffett said the company's only direct foreign currency exposure last year was in the Brazilian real, an investment he conceded might seem odd. ''After all, during the past century, five versions of the Brazilian currency have, in effect, turned into confetti,'' he said. But the real position earned $100 million in 2007, according to the report.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Warren Buffett's overview of Berkshire Hathaway's investments included disclosure of a position in Brazil's currency. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES) (pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); COMPANY PROFITS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (88%); HOUSING MARKET (88%); HOME PRICES (88%); INSURANCE (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (78%); BONDS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%)

COMPANY: SANOFI SA (93%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (58%)

TICKER: SNY (NYSE) (93%); SANF (BIT) (93%); SAN (PAR) (93%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (93%); BRK.B (NYSE) (58%); BRK.A (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (58%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (58%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2008



19 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Questions Role Of Obama in a Crisis

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE and JEFF ZELENY; Katharine Q. Seelye reported from Waco, and Jeff Zeleny from Houston; Elisabeth Bumiller contributed from Round Rock, Tex.

DATELINE: WACO, Tex. 

 BODY:
With four days to go before voters in Texas and Ohio could determine the fate of her presidential bid, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton on Friday all but declared Senator Barack Obama unprepared to serve as commander in chief.
 Mrs. Clinton has stopped short of asserting outright that he is not qualified, lest it come back to haunt her and the Democratic Party. But she released an advertisement Friday that used the symbolic ''red phone'' in the White House to cast doubt on his ability to respond to a crisis at 3 a.m. And she made a withering speech here in which she pronounced him ''missing in action'' when he had a chance to assert himself on international matters.
 ''It's 3 a.m. and your children are safe and asleep,'' says the narrator in her commercial, while ominous music surges over dark black-and-white images. An undefined world crisis is brewing, and the red phone -- a relic of the hot line to Moscow during the cold war -- rings. 
 ''Your vote will decide who answers that call,'' the narrator says. ''Whether it's someone who already knows the world's leaders, knows the military -- someone tested and ready to lead in a dangerous world.''
 The commercial drew an immediate response from Mr. Obama, as the campaign released a similar red phone advertisement highlighting Mr. Obama's opposition to the Iraq war.
 Speaking in Houston before veterans, he said, ''We've seen these ads before. They're the kind that play on people's fears to try to scare up votes.'' 
 ''In fact, we have had a red phone moment,'' he said. ''It was the decision to invade Iraq. And Senator Clinton gave the wrong answer, George Bush gave the wrong answer, John McCain gave the wrong answer,'' voting to authorize force in Iraq. (Mr. Obama was not in the Senate at the time.) 
 Polls suggest that Mrs. Clinton's reservoir of strength with voters lies in her image as a strong leader. In these days before Tuesday's primaries in Texas and Ohio, she is drawing on those reserves to put forth what her campaign considers its most effective argument against Mr. Obama -- his lack of experience. 
 Her red phone advertisement is only being broadcast in Texas; aides said the campaign wanted to keep the focus in Ohio on the economy.
 The advertisement falls in a long tradition of 11th-hour political sirens warning the nation against electing someone new to the world stage and untested in a national crisis. Its most famous progenitors are the 1964 ''Daisy'' advertisement against Barry Goldwater in the 1964 race with Lyndon Johnson and Walter Mondale's similar 1984 red phone commercial against Gary Hart.
 ''I don't think these ads will work this time, because the question is not about picking up the phone,'' Mr. Obama said. ''The question is what kind of judgment will you exercise when you pick up that phone?''
 In an announcement later -- timed to counter Mrs. Clinton's barrage and scripted off Obama campaign talking points -- Mr. Obama was endorsed by Senator John D. Rockefeller IV, Democrat of West Virginia and chairman of the Intelligence Committee. 
 ''What matters most in the Oval Office is sound judgment and decisive action,'' Mr. Rockefeller said. ''It's about getting it right on crucial national security questions the first time -- and every time.''
 Mrs. Clinton released her commercial in the morning and drilled home her message in an afternoon rally here. It was a rare day, of late, when she drove the news cycle as opposed to trying to squeeze into it; Mr. Obama, the Democratic front-runner, has increasingly turned his attention to Senator John McCain of Arizona, the likely Republican nominee, treating Mrs. Clinton as an afterthought.
 At the rally, she belittled the idea that Mr. Obama's 2002 speech ''at an antiwar rally'' prepared him to serve as commander in chief. She said he was ''missing in action'' on the recent Senate vote on Iran and as chairman of a subcommittee responsible for NATO policy in Afghanistan.
 Contrasting that with her own experience, she evoked foreign battlefields, recalling a trip to Bosnia as first lady, when the welcoming ceremony ''had to be moved inside because of sniper fire.'' She said she had traveled to more than 80 countries and was ''on the front lines'' as the United States made peace in Bosnia and Northern Ireland and helped save refugees from ethnic cleansing in Kosovo. She has served on the Armed Services Committee for five years and was also part of a Pentagon committee to plan for the military of the future.
 On the Republican side, Mr. McCain defended his endorsement from the Rev. John C. Hagee, an evangelical pastor in Texas. On Thursday, the president of the Catholic League, Bill Donohue, released a statement calling on Mr. McCain to repudiate the endorsement for what Mr. Donohue said was Mr. Hagee's war on the Catholic Church in calling it the ''anti-Christ'' and ''a false cult system.'' 
 Mr. McCain responded that he was proud of Mr. Hagee's spiritual leadership and his commitment to Israel, and that ''when he endorses me, it does not mean that I embrace everything that he stands for or believes in.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gen. Wesley K. Clark, left, with Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton at a veterans' rally at the Waco Convention Center on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); COLD WAR (67%); IRAQ WAR (66%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (73%) TEXAS, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2008



20 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: A Nominee? Or A Debacle?

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
When does a dandy fight become an ugly brawl?
 For the Democrats, perhaps on Tuesday.
 If Barack Obama wins in either Texas or Ohio, the race for the nomination will effectively be over. At that point the Clintons, if they have any regard for the fortunes of the party, will be duty-bound to graciously fold their tents and try to rally their supporters behind a candidate who will be stepping into a firestorm of hostility from the other side.
 If Hillary Clinton wins both Texas and Ohio, the Democrats will need a trainload of aspirin and a shrink. 
 The superdelegates currently sprinting toward Obama would suddenly look over their shoulders and wonder what happened to his O-mentum. The Clintons would declare themselves (yet again) the Comeback Kids, although they would still be behind in delegates. They would continue their push to have the Michigan and Florida delegations seated. They would step up their attacks on the Obama forces with understandable glee. And they would use whatever persuasive powers they could muster to push the idea with party regulars that Senator Obama is unelectable.
 That is a scenario guaranteed to infuriate the Obama true-believers. If Senator Clinton managed to secure the nomination under those circumstances, it would open deep wounds in the party that would be very difficult to heal.
 There is a third scenario: Senator Clinton wins just one of the big ones on Tuesday but decides to hang on rather than gracefully step aside, hoping that some blunder, or some other unforeseen force -- a news event, a scandal -- causes the Obama effort to implode. That would also cause bad feelings that would be difficult to assuage. 
 (If Senator Obama wins Ohio and Texas, there's nothing more to talk about. He's the nominee.)
 The Republicans, who had nothing going for them in this election, who had a weak field of candidates and were on the wrong side of virtually every major issue, are beginning to feel a bit like Lazarus. Democratic voters were courageous enough to put two candidates at the head of their line of potential nominees who have built-in political disadvantages. Party unity and a strong message are essential to overcoming those disadvantages. The longer the Clinton-Obama fight goes on, and the more bitter it gets, the better it is for the G.O.P.
 In recent days both Clinton and Obama supporters have been predicting a long and possibly brutal fight if Senator Obama does not lock up the nomination on Tuesday. A Clinton advocate, who asked not to be identified because he didn't want to be seen as wavering in public, said: ''I don't see how this gets resolved if she wins both Ohio and Texas. She needs blowouts to overcome Obama's lead in delegates, but I don't see that happening.
 ''On the other hand, she has a case to make if she heads toward the convention having won New York, California, New Jersey, Texas, Ohio and maybe Pennsylvania. But if she's still behind in the delegates, how do you give her the nomination?''
 The danger for the Democrats is a standoff steeped in rancor. The Republicans, assuming Senator Obama will be the nominee, are already having a field day. Those claiming the high road are mocking his foreign policy positions while the lowlifes are making sport of his name, suggesting he is unpatriotic, inferring that he is a Muslim and trying to drive a wedge between him and Jewish voters.
 Mr. Obama seems at the moment like someone standing alone against the attacks. Since he hasn't secured the nomination, he doesn't have the biggest names in the party rallying to his defense. His supporters are busy battling the Clintons. (The same would be the case for Senator Clinton if she were the front-runner but hadn't wrapped up the nomination.)
 A further complication for the Democrats is the possibility that the results in Texas -- which has a ridiculously complex primary-caucus setup -- will be unclear. If Senator Clinton wins Ohio and there's a battle royal in Texas (both sides are prepared for a legal fight), the McCain forces will pop the corks on another round of Champagne.
 Democratic voters are tremendously excited about this presidential election. In addition to the obvious concerns about war and the economy, voters in both the Clinton and Obama camps believe that some of the fundamental values of the United States are at risk. They are worried, for example, about the undermining of governmental checks and balances, the erosion of civil liberties and the makeup of the Supreme Court.
 Tuesday's elections may decide the nominee. But if they don't, the wisest heads in the party will be faced with the awesome task of preventing a train wreck that would ruin what was supposed to have been a banner year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); SUPERDELEGATES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2008



21 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 1, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 534 words

HEADLINE: Petraeus to Seek to Limit Pause in Pullout to 6 Weeks

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The top American military commander in Iraq will recommend that President Bush order a brief pause in troop reductions from Iraq this summer, but the White House expects that the withdrawals will resume before Mr. Bush leaves office, a senior administration official said Friday. 
 The official, speaking on condition of anonymity to give a more candid picture of the administration's plans for Iraq, said that the commander, Gen. David H. Petraeus, envisioned a pause in troop withdrawals that would last from about four to six weeks.
 That pause in drawdowns would begin in July, after five combat brigades ordered to Iraq last year are fully withdrawn. At that point, about 140,000 American troops are projected to be in Iraq, down from a high of more than 160,000 late last year, but still about 8,000 more than were in place at the beginning of 2007.
 The administration official described the emerging American plan as ''a pause with the intent to continue the drawdown,'' and said the aim was simply to give General Petraeus enough time to assess the situation on the ground after the current round of reductions is complete. 
 The pause -- how long it will last, and whether or when withdrawals will resume -- has been a source of debate in the administration as General Petraeus and the ambassador to Iraq, Ryan C. Crocker, prepare to report to Congress in April on the situation in the country. 
 General Petraeus has indicated that he would favor a pause, though he has not been specific about the timetable, and Mr. Bush has said he is likely to go along with the general's recommendation. Earlier this week, the commander of American forces in the Middle East, Adm. William J. Fallon, said in an interview that any halt in the troop drawdown should be temporary and brief -- just long enough to allow ''all the dust to settle.''
 The comments by the senior official on Friday seemed to endorse Admiral Fallon's point of view. And they seemed to represent an evolution of thinking inside the White House, where officials had said previously that they could envision a much longer pause, through the end of Mr. Bush's presidency.
 But on Friday, the administration official said the White House and General Petraeus were encouraged by what they regard as economic and political progress in Iraq, especially the recent passage of three laws that have the potential to reconcile Sunni and Shiite factions. 
 The status of one of those laws is in doubt, however, after Iraq's Presidency Council vetoed it this week. But Mr. Bush cited the veto as evidence of political progress.
 ''It was a very interesting moment in Iraqi constitutional history,'' the president said at a White House news conference on Thursday. He added, ''I thought it was a healthy sign that people are thinking through the legislation that's passed, and they're worrying about making sure that laws are constitutional.''
 Still, the official said the White House wanted to be careful not to erode security gains in Iraq by withdrawing troops too quickly. So while more troop pullouts may be announced before Mr. Bush leaves office, it is possible that those troops would not come home until the next president is inaugurated.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VETO (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ARMED FORCES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%)

PERSON: DAVID PETRAEUS (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (95%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2008



22 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2167 words

HEADLINE: In a New Era At Harvard, New Questions Of Standards

BYLINE: By PETE THAMEL; Adam Himmelsbach contributed reporting from Norfolk, Va., and Washington.

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
Harvard has never won an Ivy League title in men's basketball and has not reached the N.C.A.A. tournament since 1946. This season, the team won only 8 of its first 28 games. Like all the universities in the Ivy League, Harvard does not award athletic scholarships. 
 Yet the group of six recruits expected to join the team next season is rated among the nation's 25 best. This is partly because Harvard Coach Tommy Amaker, who starred at Duke and coached in the Big East and Big Ten conferences, has set his sights on top-flight recruits. It is also because Harvard is willing to consider players with a lower academic standing than previous staff members said they were allowed to. Harvard has also adopted aggressive recruiting tactics that skirt or, in some cases, may even violate National Collegiate Athletic Association rules.
 Harvard's efforts in basketball underscore the increasingly important role that success in high-profile sports plays at even the most elite universities. In the race to become competitive in basketball, Harvard's new approach could tarnish the university's sterling reputation. 
 Two athletes who said they had received letters from Harvard's admissions office saying they would most likely be accepted have described tactics that may violate N.C.A.A. rules, including visits from a man who worked out with them shortly before he was hired by Harvard to be an assistant coach. 
 An N.C.A.A. spokesman, Erik Christianson, said the organization's rules state, ''Should a coach recruit on behalf of a school but not be employed there, he or she is then considered a booster and that recruiting activity is not allowed.''
 In another case, Amaker approached the parents of an athlete in a grocery store and urged that their son visit Harvard, even though N.C.A.A. rules limit contact with potential players to happenstance at certain times of the year. That athlete ended up not considering Harvard.
 Yale Coach James Jones said he had seen an academic change at Harvard. ''It's eye-opening because there seems to have been a drastic shift in restrictions and regulations with the Harvard admissions office,'' he said.
 ''We don't know how all this is going to come out, but we could not get involved with many of the kids that they are bringing in.''
 Harvard's athletic director, Bob Scalise, acknowledged that Amaker's staff had recruited some players with lower academic profiles than the previous staff had, but he stressed that no athletes had yet been admitted. 
 ''It's also a willingness to basically say, 'O.K., maybe we need to accept a few more kids and maybe we need to go after a few more kids in the initial years when Tommy is trying to change the culture of the program,' '' Scalise said last week. ''It's a willingness to say that we really do want to compete for the Ivy championship.''
 To be sure, programs at larger universities would be delighted to have players with the academic standing of Amaker's new recruits. Scalise said that other Ivy League programs also considered Harvard's recruits. 
 Harvard, he said, has chosen to remake its basketball program into a perennial contender for the Ivy title and the automatic berth in the N.C.A.A. tournament that goes with it. 
 Scalise said he was made aware of ''three or four'' complaints of recruiting incidents from rivals and sat down with Amaker last November for ''a teaching moment.'' He said he told Amaker that he and his staff needed to act in ways ''beyond reproach.''
 But Scalise said he was not aware until told by The New York Times that Amaker's top assistant, Kenny Blakeney, had traveled a long distance to play pickup basketball with a recruit during periods when the N.C.A.A. does not allow contact with prospective players. Blakeney said he had not been officially hired by Harvard when he visited that recruit and another prospective player.
 Even if Harvard did not break any N.C.A.A. rules, many in the coaching community said Amaker's staff had behaved unethically. 
 On Friday, Alan J. Stone, a spokesman for the university, said: ''We can say that any statement about someone being admitted to Harvard who is not qualified would be absolutely inaccurate, as is any suggestion that our standards have been lowered for basketball. Harvard's admission criteria are -- and remain -- very high. They have not changed at all.''
 To understand Harvard's apparent change in philosophy, it is necessary to appreciate the complicated tap dance of Ivy League recruiting. Nearly every prospective Ivy player must meet a minimum on the Academic Index, a measuring tool that uses grade-point average, class rank and standardized test scores. 
 For example, a student with a 3.1 grade-point average and just over 1,560 out of a possible 2,400 on the SAT would register roughly a 171 on the Academic Index, the minimum score allowed by the Ivy League for athletes. 
 Two former Harvard assistant coaches, Bill Holden and Lamar Reddicks, said they adhered to even tougher standards under Coach Frank Sullivan. Last season's team, they said, had an average of 206, the highest in the league by a significant margin. Sullivan, who in his 16 seasons won and lost more games than any other Harvard basketball coach, was fired after the season. Amaker did not rehire Holden and Reddicks. 
 Holden and Reddicks said that Harvard's team index had to be 202. They said that essentially meant they could not recruit a player whose index was lower than 195, and they characterized Harvard's standards as tougher than those of other Ivy programs.
 Scalise said he expected Harvard to still have the highest index average among the Ivy members. It is not certain that all six of Amaker's recruits will land on campus, and other recruits with better credentials could raise the index average.
 A Sign of Change
 The 6-foot-10 center Frank Ben-Eze from Bishop O'Connell High School in Arlington, Va., embodies the change in Harvard's basketball recruiting. He orally committed to Harvard over traditional powers like Marquette, West Virginia, Virginia and Penn. Although he and the rest of the recruited athletes have yet to be admitted to Harvard, Ben-Eze is considered Amaker's biggest coup, one Amaker proudly mentions to other potential players.
 Ben-Eze, a native of Nigeria, has yet to receive what is called a likely letter from the admissions office, a written assurance that a player will be accepted, because he has not attained the 171 index minimum. 
 Like all of Harvard's applicants, none of Amaker's recruits have been admitted yet.
 But Max Kenyi, a 6-3 shooting guard from Gonzaga College High School in Washington, D.C., and Keith Wright, a 6-7 forward at Norfolk Collegiate in Virginia, said that they had each received a likely letter. They were well below index levels that the previous staff members said they had adhered to. 
 ''There are guys that we couldn't touch that other schools in our league could recruit,'' said Reddicks, who is now an assistant at Boston University. ''It makes a huge difference.'' 
 Scalise said the comments of Reddicks and Holden reflected the bitterness of not having their contracts renewed. He added that the previous coaching staff could not lure such a talented class because it did not have the connections, charisma and work ethic of Amaker and his assistants. 
 ''Sounds like there's a lot of jealousy and also sounds like people are trying to protect the status quo for their programs,'' Scalise said. 
 Sullivan, who signed a confidentiality agreement when he was fired by Harvard, declined to comment.
 Emphasis on Recruiting
 Amaker, 42, was fired by Michigan last spring after failing to produce a single N.C.A.A. tournament appearance in his six seasons there. But in his previous job, as coach at Seton Hall, he and his staff had great success in recruiting. Amaker beat out other well-established coaches for the Harvard job. 
 Among them were Pete Gillen, a former coach at Xavier, Providence and Virginia, and Mike Jarvis, whose St. John's program ended up on N.C.A.A. probation after he was fired. Harvard also interviewed Mike Gillian, coach at Longwood University in Virginia, and John O'Connor, an assistant coach at Georgia Tech, in person. 
 Those four coaches said in telephone interviews that they had been assured they would not be at a disadvantage among their Ivy League peers in recruiting. 
 ''The bottom line was that they wanted to win,'' O'Connor said of Harvard. ''They also thought in that room that times had changed and the big boys had come back to the pack. Now was the time to make the move.'' 
 The recruiting analyst Dave Telep of Scout.com called Amaker's potential class the best in Harvard history and, perhaps, in Ivy League history. 
 Kenyi is a solid midmajor player who picked Harvard over other Ivy League members as well as Holy Cross, Virginia Commonwealth and George Mason. 
 Wright received interest from Illinois, Davidson and other Ivy League members before committing to Harvard. 
 Wright said that Blakeney had visited him when in-person contact between coaches and recruits was not allowed. Kenyi said Blakeney, a former Duke player, played basketball with him ''a couple of times'' at his high school last June or July, which is against N.C.A.A. contact rules. Harvard announced Blakeney's hiring on July 2, 2007.
 Kenyi said that at first he did not realize who Blakeney was. But the man soon turned into his lead Harvard recruiter.
 Two weeks ago, Blakeney said his trips to Gonzaga were to visit the basketball coach, Steve Turner, whom he has known for 20 years, and to stay in shape by playing. 
 The visits made an impression on Kenyi. 
 ''He was someone I could relate to,'' Kenyi said, ''someone I could talk to about anything.'' 
 Meanwhile, coaches from other teams recruiting Wright and Kenyi were allowed to call only once a month. 
 ''He actually got to play with us, because he wasn't actually on Harvard's staff,'' Wright said, adding that Blakeney had gone to Norfolk for one of his summer basketball team's practices. ''He didn't sign anything yet, so he got to play with us, and we talked and exchanged numbers.''
 The practice of recruiting in person before being officially hired is becoming more prevalent among the more high-profile basketball programs. ''Assuming the coach knows exactly what he's doing, it's unethical,'' said Jim Haney, the executive director of the National Association of Basketball Coaches. 
 Blakeney denied he was recruiting Kenyi and Wright then. ''I was unemployed,'' he said, repeating: ''I was unemployed. I don't know if it's a gray area or anything like that. I hadn't signed a contract. I didn't have any type of agreement with anybody. How could I recruit them to Harvard if I'm not employed?''
 Craig Robinson, the coach at Brown, said ''wow'' when told of Blakeney's pickup games with high school athletes. 
 He laughed before saying, ''I would say that would give them an advantage.''
 Robinson added that it was understandable if Blakeney happened to run across a player in his native Washington but that traveling to Norfolk, about 190 miles away, was a different story. 
 ''If he travels across a state line to play with a kid he's going to be recruiting, that smacks a little bit of breaking the rules,'' Robinson said.
 He added: ''It would not be the way that we would conduct business. In the long run, that hurts you. There's nothing wrong with pushing the envelope, but if your attempt is to get around the rules, there's an issue.'' 
 Amaker, who declined to respond to specific questions in person, released a statement Friday through a university spokesman. 
 ''Harvard adheres to austere standards in every area of the university and I am honored to labor within that framework,'' the statement said. ''Individuals with knowledge of our staff understand the high principles under which we operate. We work within the spirit of Harvard and the Ivy League.''
 Another issue arose with the recruiting of Zack Rosen, a 6-1 point guard bound for Penn and sought by universities like Rutgers and Virginia Tech. Amaker saw Rosen's father, Les, in a grocery store in Trenton during the Eastern Invitational tournament last summer. At the time, coaches were restricted only to watching recruits and saying hello to them or their parents if they bumped into each other. 
 Les Rosen remembered Amaker saying, ''We really have to get Zack up to Harvard.'' 
 Les Rosen said he thought to himself: Who goes to ShopRite in the middle of a basketball tournament?
 ''It was suspicious,'' he said, ''but as much as it seemed obvious, he wouldn't be found guilty in court.'' 
 Harvard looked into the Rosen situation and determined that no violations occurred. 
 Scalise said he and his athletic staff would look into Blakeney's actions during the recruiting of Kenyi and Wright.
 ''Now that I'm aware of it, we'll talk and try and find out what went on,'' he said. ''I would like our programs to be totally above the board.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The first-year Harvard coach Tommy Amaker, top right, with the assistant Kenny Blakeney. There are questions about the manner in which Blakeney recruited Keith Wright, above, a 6-foot-7 forward at Norfolk Collegiate in Virginia.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON M. HIRSCHFELD/VIRGINIAN-PILOT)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. SP6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); SPORTS (89%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (78%); TOURNAMENTS (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (77%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (57%); NATIONAL COLLEGIATE ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION (56%)

PERSON: JAMES L JONES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2008



23 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: Skeptics on Human Climate Impact Seize on Cold Spell

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN

 BODY:
The world has seen some extraordinary winter conditions in both hemispheres over the past year: snow in Johannesburg last June and in Baghdad in January, Arctic sea ice returning with a vengeance after a record retreat last summer, paralyzing blizzards in China, and a sharp drop in the globe's average temperature.
 It is no wonder that some scientists, opinion writers, political operatives and other people who challenge warnings about dangerous human-caused global warming have jumped on this as a teachable moment. 
 ''Earth's 'Fever' Breaks: Global COOLING Currently Under Way,'' read a blog post and news release on Wednesday from Marc Morano, the communications director for the Republican minority on the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee. 
 So what is happening? 
 According to a host of climate experts, including some who question the extent and risks of global warming, it is mostly good old-fashioned weather, along with a cold kick from the tropical Pacific Ocean, which is in its La Nina phase for a few more months, a year after it was in the opposite warm El Nino pattern.
 If anything else is afoot -- like some cooling related to sunspot cycles or slow shifts in ocean and atmospheric patterns that can influence temperatures -- an array of scientists who have staked out differing positions on the overall threat from global warming agree that there is no way to pinpoint whether such a new force is at work. 
 Many scientists also say that the cool spell in no way undermines the enormous body of evidence pointing to a warming world with disrupted weather patterns, less ice and rising seas should heat-trapping greenhouse gases from burning fossil fuels and forests continue to accumulate in the air.
 ''The current downturn is not very unusual,'' said Carl Mears, a scientist at Remote Sensing Systems, a private research group in Santa Rosa, Calif., that has been using satellite data to track global temperature and whose findings have been held out as reliable by a variety of climate experts. He pointed to similar drops in 1988, 1991-92, and 1998, but with a long-term warming trend clear nonetheless. 
 ''Temperatures are very likely to recover after the La Nina event is over,'' he said.
 Mr. Morano, in an e-mail message, was undaunted, saying turnabout is fair play: ''Fair is fair. Noting (not hyping) an unusually harsh global winter is merely pointing out the obvious. Dissenters of a man-made 'climate crisis' are using the reality of this record-breaking winter to expose the silly warming alarmism that the news media and some scientists have been ceaselessly promoting for decades.''
 More clucking about the cold is likely over the next several days. The Heartland Institute, a public policy research group in Chicago opposed to regulatory approaches to environmental problems, is holding a conference in Times Square on Monday and Tuesday aimed at exploring questions about the cause and dangers of climate change.
 The event will convene an array of scientists, economists, statisticians and libertarian commentators holding a dizzying range of views on the changing climate -- from those who see a human influence but think it is not dangerous, to others who say global warming is a hoax, the sun's fault or beneficial. Many attendees say it is the dawn of a new paradigm. But many climate scientists and environmental campaigners say it is the skeptics' last stand.
 Michael E. Schlesinger, an atmospheric scientist at the University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign, said that any focus on the last few months or years as evidence undermining the established theory that accumulating greenhouse gases are making the world warmer was, at best, a waste of time and, at worst, a harmful distraction. 
 Discerning a human influence on climate, he said, ''involves finding a signal in a noisy background.'' He added, ''The only way to do this within our noisy climate system is to average over a sufficient number of years that the noise is greatly diminished, thereby revealing the signal. This means that one cannot look at any single year and know whether what one is seeing is the signal or the noise or both the signal and the noise.''
 The shifts in the extent and thickness of sea ice in the Arctic (where ice has retreated significantly in recent summers) and Antarctic (where the area of floating sea ice has grown lately) are similarly hard to attribute to particular influences.
 Interviews and e-mail exchanges with half a dozen polar climate and ice experts last week produced a rough consensus: Even with the extensive refreezing of Arctic waters in the deep chill of the sunless boreal winter, the fresh-formed ice remains far thinner than the yards-thick, years-old ice that dominated the region until the 1990s. 
 That means the odds of having vast stretches of open water next summer remain high, many Arctic experts said.
 ''Climate skeptics typically take a few small pieces of the puzzle to debunk global warming, and ignore the whole picture that the larger science community sees by looking at all the pieces,'' said Ignatius G. Rigor, a climate scientist at the Polar Science Center of the University of Washington in Seattle. 
 He said the argument for a growing human influence on climate laid out in last year's reports from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, or I.P.C.C., was supported by evidence from many fields. 
 ''I will admit that we do not have all the pieces,'' Dr. Rigor said, ''but as the I.P.C.C. reports, the preponderance of evidence suggests that global warming is real.'' As for the Arctic, he said, ''Yes, this year's winter ice extent is higher than last year's, but it is still lower than the long-term mean.''
 Dr. Rigor said next summer's ice retreat, despite the regrowth of thin fresh-formed ice now, could still surpass last year's, when nearly all of the Arctic Ocean between Alaska and Siberia was open water. 
 Some scientists who strongly disagree with each other on the extent of warming coming in this century, and on what to do about it, agreed that it was important not to be tempted to overinterpret short-term swings in climate, either hot or cold.
 Patrick J. Michaels, a climatologist and commentator with the libertarian Cato Institute in Washington, has long chided environmentalists and the media for overstating connections between extreme weather and human-caused warming. (He is on the program at the skeptics' conference.)
 But Dr. Michaels said that those now trumpeting global cooling should beware of doing the same thing, saying that the ''predictable distortion'' of extreme weather ''goes in both directions.''
 Gavin A. Schmidt, a climatologist at NASA's Goddard Institute for Space Studies in Manhattan who has spoken out about the need to reduce greenhouse gases, disagrees with Dr. Michaels on many issues, but concurred on this point. 
 ''When I get called by CNN to comment on a big summer storm or a drought or something, I give the same answer I give a guy who asks about a blizzard,'' Dr. Schmidt said. ''It's all in the long-term trends. Weather isn't going to go away because of climate change. There is this desire to explain everything that we see in terms of something you think you understand, whether that's the next ice age coming or global warming.''

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: An Unusually Cold Winter: Climate experts say that this winter's drop in average global temperature is probably due to normal weather variation and cooling in the tropical Pacific Ocean, which is in its La Nina phase for a few more months. Chart details 3 different line graphs for annual temperatures, monthly temperatures and El Nino and La Nina events.(Sources: University of East Anglia Climatic Research Unit
 National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); EL NINO & LA NINA (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); WEATHER (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (89%); OCEANOGRAPHY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); GREENHOUSE GASES (76%); TRENDS (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (70%); INFRASTRUCTURE (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%) PACIFIC OCEAN (92%); ARCTIC OCEAN (92%); EARTH (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (92%); ARCTIC (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2008



24 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; THE WEEK AHEAD TELEVISION; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 223 words

HEADLINE: Television

BYLINE: By MIKE HALE

 BODY:
Television
 Mike Hale
 Part of the networks' reaction to their industry's changing -- i.e., steadily worsening -- economics has been to go global: CBS and NBC plan to show us Canadian-made series in the near future. Of course this has been going on for years in the cable and public-television realms, where the Canadian offerings have ranged from the ridiculous (''The Red Green Show'') to the sublime (''Slings and Arrows''). A new import on the SUNDANCE CHANNEL falls somewhere in between. 
''TERMINAL CITY'' (9 p.m. Thursday) is a 10-week mini-series, much loved by Canadian critics, about a housewife who finds she has breast cancer and almost simultaneously stumbles into the leading role on a low-rated reality show. It has been universally labeled as the Canadian ''Six Feet Under,'' a comparison that may apply most strongly to the dirgelike opening credits; the humor appears to lie somewhere between the Alan Ball of ''Six Feet Under'' and the David E. Kelley of ''Ally McBeal,'' an impression reinforced by the presence in the cast of the ''McBeal'' star Gil Bellows. He plays Ari Sampson, the very, very patient husband of the tightly wound cancer patient and budding celebrity Katie Sampson, played by Maria del Mar. (American audiences may remember her as the C.T.U. agent Rachel Forrester, from the first season of ''24.'')

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Maria del Mar in ''Terminal City,'' a Canadian series starting this week on the Sundance Channel. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUNDANCE CHANNEL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (79%); CELEBRITIES (79%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (74%); REALITY TELEVISION (74%); CANCER (73%); BREAST CANCER (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2008



25 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1243 words

HEADLINE: I WRITE IN BROOKLYN. GET OVER IT.

BYLINE: By COLSON WHITEHEAD. 
COLSON WHITEHEAD IS A FELLOW AT THE CULLMAN CENTER FOR SCHOLARS AND WRITERS. HIS NOVEL ''SAG HARBOR'' WILL BE PUBLISHED NEXT YEAR.

 BODY:
I live in Brooklyn. I moved here 14 years ago for the cheap rent. It was a little embarrassing because I was raised in Manhattan, and so I was a bit of a snob about the other boroughs. At the time there was a big buzz about the ''Black Renaissance'' of Fort Greene. It was one big house party thrown by Spike Lee and Branford Marsalis, Rosie Perez swinging from the chandelier. I wanted to be part of the vibrant cultural scene. Who doesn't want to be part of a vibrant cultural scene? That didn't happen, but it was cheap, and I grew to love it and it's my home. 
 It's changed a lot. As you may have heard, all the writers are in Brooklyn these days. It's the place to be. You're simply not a writer if you don't live here. Google ''brooklyn writer'' and you'll get, Did you mean: the future of literature as we know it? People are coming in from all over. In fact, the physical act of moving your possessions from Manhattan to Brooklyn is now the equivalent of a two-year M.F.A. program. When you get to the other side, they hand you three Moleskine notebooks and a copy of ''Blogging for Dummies.'' You're good to go.
 I have a hard time understanding all the hype. I dig it here and all, but it's just a place. It does not have magical properties. In interviews, I get asked a lot, ''What's it like to write in Brooklyn?'' I get invited to do panels with other Brooklyn writers to discuss what it's like to be a writer in Brooklyn. I expect it's like writing in Manhattan, but there aren't as many tourists walking very slowly in front of you when you step out for coffee. It's like writing in Paris, but there are fewer people speaking French. What do they expect me to say? ''Instead of ink, I write in mustard from Nathan's Famous, a Brooklyn institution since 1916.'' ''I built my desk out of wooden planks taken from the authentic rubble of Ebbets Field. Have I mentioned how I still haven't forgiven the Dodgers for moving to Los Angeles?'' 
 Occasionally you hear the Brooklyn legends that feed the mystique. There was the one about the young post-postmodernist who was sitting on the Promenade in Brooklyn Heights one day when the ghost of Thomas Wolfe approached him, mumbling, ''Where are today's Maxwell Perkinses?'' The young man pulled the earbuds from his iPhone and, recognizing this specter from the David Levine caricature on his grandma's New York Review of Books tote bag, asked, ''Does anybody actually read you anymore?'' The apparition disappeared in a puff of brimstone and nerve tonic.
 I see people wandering beneath the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway, sniffing the pilings because they've heard that the fumes from once controversial public works projects ''open the mind to mystical realms.'' That's why you keep seeing those ''TYRM'' T-shirts in the windows of Smith Street boutiques. 
 I'm told it stands for ''Thank You, Robert Moses.''
 There was the famous case of the language poet from Red Hook who grew despondent when the Shift key on her MacBook broke. She couldn't write for weeks. Overcome by melancholy humors, she jumped into the enchanted, glowing waters of the Gowanus Canal, her pockets full of stones. And ... she was cured! The metaphors came rushing back. With eccentric spacing between the letters, but still. Now you see people jumping off the Union Street Bridge all the time. They scramble out in a hurry, trying to get home before they forget the first lines of their memoirs. Their hair falls out, but that's the price you pay for artistic creation.
 Is there some sort of borough-specific inspiration feeding the work of this fresh crop of writers? Frankly, the idea of a muse goes against most New York customs. What's the point of splurging on those new security locks if some tart in a toga is going to break in and start complaining, ''You know what Carver said about commas.'' When, in this city, has a stranger's coming up to whisper in your ear led to anything good? So rarely. But suppose the whole muse thing does work out. There are practicalities. You spend that much time in my apartment, your butt better be paying rent. And put some clothes on, this ain't the Miami Book Fair. I don't care if Zeus is your daddy. 
 In some ways, the new community is awesome. Never before have we enjoyed such a bounty of villanelles about waiting for the F train. The Brooklyn Book Festival is great. Glad to participate. But if Cadman Plaza really wants to get serious about supporting its writers, it has to start investing in infrastructure. I'm not talking about reading series and WiFi-enabled cafes; we have enough of those. I'm talking shrinks. We need more Brooklyn-based shrinks for our artistically capable but mentally delicate scriveners. Do you know how much writing time is lost while taking the subway into Manhattan for a weekly tuneup? Who cries for these stillborn sestinas?
 A lot of my writer friends live near me, and that makes people think we just hang around with one another in cafes, trading work and discussing Harper's and what not. But I rarely see them. We're home working. I mean, sure, when I was feeling a bit stabby I could always ring up Norm Mailer and he'd talk me down (I miss you, brudda), but that was the exception. Every couple of years, I'll ask a friend or two to read a manuscript, and it happens. You can see it in their eyes. ''I hope it's better than his last one. Or at least shorter.'' I know what they're thinking because that's what I'm thinking when they ask me. ''How much is this friendship worth, in terms of page count?'' It would be swell if it were otherwise -- if there were some sort of unified Brooklyn vision. But you'd have to be a bit dense to confuse a geographical and economic accident with an aesthetic movement, no matter how sick you are of hearing about how green the grass is over here, no matter how much you long for that nurturing Elysium of your dreams.
 What's it like to be a writer in Brooklyn? It's hard. The way it is everywhere. Which is why the only truly Brooklyn-like thing about writing is when it resembles the movie ''The Warriors.'' In case you haven't seen it, it's about a movement to unite all the gangs in the city against The Establishment. At the historic summit in the Bronx, the Moses of gangland is assassinated and the Brooklyn-based gang the Warriors is framed. They have to battle every other gang in the city in order to get back to Coney Island. It's a glorious B-movie version of ''The Odyssey.'' 
 Because it's the '70s and things were just plain off in the '70s, in New York especially, each gang has a nutty theme and oddball costumes. The High Hats wear top hats and mime makeup; the Boppers favor fedoras and purple satin vests. They are demons, you see, and I don't get muses, but I understand demons. Surely the Baseball Furies personify Sloth, with their Louisville Sluggers and Kiss-style face paint. Sloth wants to smash your kneecaps and keep you on the couch in front of the TV all day. The Punks, quite natty in their farmers' overalls, brightly-colored striped shirts and roller skates, are Self-Doubt made flesh, running circles around you on polyurethane wheels, vexing and distracting. Fear, Envy, Bitterness. The Electric Eliminators, the Savage Huns, the Turnbull ACs. There are demons out to keep you from working, and they have switchblades, bicycle chains and adventuresome tailors. That's what it's like to write in Brooklyn.
 I never did meet Spike Lee. He lives in Manhattan now.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY FOGELSON-LUBLINER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (79%); INTERVIEWS (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (65%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (56%); NATHAN'S FAMOUS INC (52%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (56%); NATH (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (52%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (75%); PARIS, FRANCE (67%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (96%); FRANCE (67%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2008



26 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 238 words

HEADLINE: Bring It Back to the Home

BYLINE: By BILL RICHARDSON

 BODY:
THE mortgage crisis has paralyzed the nation's economy and threatens to force millions of Americans from homes they can no longer afford. 
 In New Mexico in 2003, I signed into law strict regulations on the use of high-cost, subprime loans. As a result, many of the subprime lenders either cleaned up their practices or pulled out of New Mexico altogether.
 It's true that some people do not have the income it takes to purchase and maintain a home. But with conventional fixed-rate mortgages, low-income buyers repay their loans nearly as well as higher-income buyers. The mortgage crisis was not caused by the people who purchased homes but by how homes were financed. 
 Congress should pass comprehensive reform of the mortgage industry. We should outlaw loans that don't require borrowers to document their income. 
 We need a national campaign to promote financial education. Poor credit histories are the result of poor financial behavior, not income or ethnicity, and they can be changed by good financial behavior. A 2001 study showed that buyers who received individual financial counseling were 34 percent less likely to become delinquent on their mortgage. 
 With leadership from Washington, a dose of reform in the mortgage industry and a national initiative that educates homebuyers and rewards them for being prudent, homeownership can once again be the bedrock of financial security for America's middle class. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY GREGORY NEMEC) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2008



27 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; BROWSING BOOKS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: PAPERBACK ROW

BYLINE: BY ELSA DIXLER

 BODY:
CHRISTINE FALLS, by Benjamin Black. (Picador, $14.) In a fog-draped 1950s Dublin, a pathologist named Quirke is conducting an autopsy on the corpse of a young woman (''well named,'' as he says) called Christine Falls. When the body disappears and it develops that Quirke's adoptive brother, also a doctor, has tampered with the death certificate, Quirke is forced to become a detective; many of the other characters are also keeping secrets. Writing in The Times, Janet Maslin praised the ''cool precision and contemplative allure'' of Black's debut -- not surprising, since Black is the Irish author John Banville. This is ''crossover fiction of a very high order,'' Maslin said.
 THE COLLECTED POEMS, 1956-1998, by Zbigniew Herbert. Translated by Alissa Valles. (Ecco/HarperCollins, $16.95.) Herbert, who died in 1998, was one of the major figures in postwar Polish poetry -- a competitive field considering that the country has had two Nobel Prize-winning poets since 1980 -- but his lucid, ironic work has been difficult for American readers to find. For them, David Orr wrote in the Book Review, this new translation is ''the likeliest path to this poet's achievement.'' 
 THE WILD TREES: A Story of Passion and Daring, by Richard Preston. (Random House, $16.) Before 1987, scientists believed that redwoods, among the earth's oldest and tallest trees, had no life at their tops. But then a 19-year-old Reed College student climbed 300 feet into a California coast redwood and discovered a giant canopy filled with plant and animal life: ''earth's secret ocean,'' Preston calls it. He introduces us to this midair world and the oddball characters who explore it, and even describes a wedding 30 stories up. 
 TWENTY-EIGHT ARTISTS AND TWO SAINTS: Essays, by Joan Acocella. (Vintage, $15.95.) In these 31 essays, written mostly for The New Yorker over the past 15 years, Acocella mixes biography and criticism to illuminate lives in the arts. Her subjects include Mikhail Baryshnikov, Philip Roth, Susan Sontag and Dorothy Parker. ''Those who end up having sustained artistic careers are not necessarily the most gifted,'' Acocella writes. ''The ones who survived combined brilliance with more homely virtues: patience, resilience, courage.''
 CAESAR: Life of a Colossus, by Adrian Goldsworthy. (Yale University, $18.) ''The story of Julius Caesar is an intensely dramatic one,'' Goldsworthy, a British military historian, tells us, as he presents Caesar's ''skill as an orator and writer, as framer of laws and as political operator ... his talent as soldier and general.'' He evokes the ''charm that so often won over the crowd in Rome ... and the many women whom he seduced.'' Never losing sight of the ancient sources, Goldsworthy has produced ''an authoritative and exciting portrait not only of Caesar but of the complex society in which he lived,'' our reviewer, Steve Coates, said.
 LOST CITY RADIO, by Daniel Alarcon. (Harper Perennial, $13.95.) In this first novel, set in an unnamed Latin American country 10 years after the end of a brutal civil war, the most popular radio program attempts to reunite families separated by the conflict. The program's host resumes her search for her missing husband when she receives word that he may be alive. 
 WAITING FOR DAISY: A Tale of Two Continents, Three Religions, Five Infertility Doctors, an Oscar, an Atomic Bomb, a Romantic Night, and One Woman's Quest to Become a Mother, by Peggy Orenstein. (Bloomsbury, $14.95.) Orenstein, a journalist who writes about family issues, unsparingly revisits her sojourn in the community of the subfertile. In his memoir of new fatherhood, ALTERNADAD (Anchor, $14.95), Neal Pollack describes his experience of raising a child while attempting to remain a hipster.
 INHERITANCE, by Natalie Danford. (St. Martin's Griffin, $13.95.) This first novel moves between the perspectives of an Italian immigrant in America and his daughter, who travels to his hometown in Italy in the 1990s after his death. The deed to a country villa she discovered in her father's bedside table turns out to have belonged to a Jewish family who entrusted it to him for the duration of the war; he betrayed them. The father succumbs to Alzheimer's, his Italian friends and family to amnesia about the Fascist past.
 HITLER'S BENEFICIARIES: Plunder, Racial War, and the Nazi Welfare State, by Gotz Aly. Translated by Jefferson Chase. (Metropolitan/Holt, $18.) The provocative thesis of Aly, a German historian, is that the German people embraced Nazism not because of Hitler's charisma or their anti-Semitism but out of economic self-interest -- they enjoyed the plundered items sent home by soldiers and the chance to swipe goods and real estate from murdered Jews. In the Book Review, Dagmar Herzog called the book ''a fresh model for grasping how the Nazis gained such broad support.'' 
 STEALING BUDDHA'S DINNER: A Memoir, by Bich Minh Nguyen. (Penguin, $14.) Nguyen was a baby when most of her family fled Vietnam in April 1975. Here she recalls the strains of growing up Vietnamese and American in the Midwest and struggling to achieve an identity of her own. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); POETRY (90%); AUTOPSIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); PATHOLOGY (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (75%); HISTORY (69%); NOBEL PRIZES (67%); AWARDS & PRIZES (67%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (66%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) IRELAND (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (75%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2008



28 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2419 words

HEADLINE: Winning That One In a Million

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY

 BODY:
MOST New Yorkers would greet the prospect of a $51,000 two-bedroom co-op in Chelsea with slack-jawed wonder, since the average price for an apartment in the city now exceeds $1.4 million.
 They might react the same way to a three-story house in Park Slope priced at $255,000 or to a one-bedroom in a brand-new Harlem condominium for $147,500.
 But these types of deals do exist. They are offered through city housing programs intended to provide affordable homes to middle-income New Yorkers. The programs set income restrictions for buyers, and most of the homes can be had only by entering lotteries, which carry odds that are barely better than those for most casino jackpots. 
 The people getting these homes include city workers, young professionals, growing families and empty nesters. Many of the apartments are in neighborhoods like Harlem in Manhattan, Jamaica and Far Rockaway in Queens, Fort Greene and Bushwick in Brooklyn and Mott Haven in the Bronx. 
 As part of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's 10-year housing plan, the city produced 1,676 new middle-income housing units in 14 different developments within the last two years, and there are 26 more in the pipeline. The ones that have been completed have been built by nonprofit organizations and private developers with the help of various city subsidies. Most have annual income restrictions that range from $56,700 to $124,075 for a family of four.
 The city also seeks to preserve existing middle-income apartments, like the thousands in Mitchell-Lama complexes and similar affordable-housing projects that were built from the mid-1950s to the mid-1970s. These have been dwindling in number as many have been converted to market-rate apartments in recent years. 
 As for new construction, there seem to be as many types of housing and variations on rules and restrictions as there are projects. They range from single-family houses to 38-story glass towers where only about 20 percent of the apartments are set aside as affordable housing. Income limits may apply for several decades, which can limit resale value. Or the restrictions may run out after as little as five years, after which homeowners can sell at market rates.
 Martha Nadell, an English professor at Brooklyn College, part of the City University of New York, moved into a three-story town house in Park Slope last July that cost her $460,000. It has two rental apartments, which she must let at affordable rates for at least seven years. 
 She entered a lottery that eventually drew 600 people after seeing an article in The Carroll Gardens Courier about four town houses being redeveloped by the Fifth Avenue Committee, a Brooklyn community-development group. She knew she would be eligible because she earns well under the project's income limit, $88,625. ''When they offered it to me, at first I could not believe it was happening,'' said Professor Nadell, 40, who has lived most of her life in Brooklyn. ''And then I was terrified.'' She said the thought of having to be a landlord was daunting, as were ''all these rules and regulations that seem completely opaque and incomprehensible to me.''
 But since moving in, she has become a vocal champion for the types of city programs that made her home available to her and is even working on ways to educate other faculty members at Brooklyn College about these programs. 
 She learned that another house in her lottery, a single-family house priced at $255,000, went to a family of six. The father works for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, and the mother runs a day-care center. Another house also went to a transit worker. 
 ''We all have city or state jobs,'' Professor Nadell said, ''and this is sort of like the middle-class core of a city, and yet these are the people who cannot afford to live here anymore.'' 
 Housing advocates and city officials agree that there is not nearly enough supply to satisfy the demand.
 ''There generally tends to be more emphasis on low-income and market-rate housing, but the population getting the least emphasis is the moderate-income people,'' said Beth Berns, a vice president of the New York City Housing Partnership, a nonprofit agency that works with the city to create middle-income housing. The mayor's housing plan calls for 165,000 new housing units between 2003 and 2013, but only a quarter of those are intended for middle-income residents.
 The numbers of people who enter the lotteries for these homes tell the tale: 4,500 applications for a 60-unit project in Red Hook, Brooklyn; 8,000 applications for 120 units in a mixed-income Harlem condo; 20,000 applications for 2,000 spots on the waiting list for Penn South, a limited-equity housing complex in Chelsea. (The list is now closed.)
 Neill McG. Coleman, a spokesman for the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development, said that about 100,000 people have signed up for e-mail alerts to every new housing lottery, adding that the number ''edges up each year.''
 Housing advocates said that some New Yorkers apply to every available lottery. ''We encourage people to apply for as many as they are eligible for,'' Mr. Coleman said. ''It certainly would increase your chances.'' [The accompanying box explains what to do.]
 Most of the subsidized co-ops sell for $200 to $300 per square foot, which translates to as little as $80,000 for a studio to $210,000 for a two-bedroom, according to RuthAnne Visnauskas, an assistant commissioner at the housing department. 
 ''The sales prices can be severely discounted or just slightly discounted depending on the location,'' she said, ''and income restrictions can range significantly, too, because it's all very market-driven.'' In other words, prices and income restrictions are determined with a close eye on how much people are willing to pay and can afford in each neighborhood. 
 She said the city's middle-income projects are intended for households with incomes that range from 80 percent to 175 percent of the area's median income. A project in the South Bronx, for example, might be restricted to people with incomes up to 80 percent of the median, which means $56,700 for a family of four. But in Fort Greene, the limit might be as high as 195 percent of the median, or $138,255, because incomes are higher in that neighborhood. 
 In Fort Greene, the development in question is a 38-story condo tower being built at 150 Myrtle Avenue, where 42 of 240 units will be affordable. Donald Capoccia, a principal in BFC Partners, the developer, said the prices for the affordable units would start under $300,000 and go up to $500,000, roughly half the market rate. He said the affordable units have less expensive kitchen appliances but are otherwise identical to the market-rate apartments. (The prices for these have not been set.) 
 BFC did not receive any direct city subsidies for the project, but the developer agreed to include affordable apartments in exchange for the right to build on city property. Mr. Capoccia said the project had received more than 10,000 applications for the 42 apartments in a lottery that closed last month. As he put it, ''With odds like that, you know you're going to be making a lot of people unhappy.'' 
 Housing advocates say there is no trick to learning about these types of developments. They simply recommend thoroughness and persistence.
 In addition to signing up for e-mail alerts from the city and checking the city's housing Web site, Ms. Berns, at the Housing Partnership, urged potential buyers to scour daily and community newspapers for lottery ads.
 ''You just have to keep looking because each project has a 60-day lottery period,'' she said. ''And what you see today is just what'sgoing on right now. A month from now, another project will hit.''
 Of course, applying for a project and actually being qualified are entirely different things. Depending on the project, even those with low lottery numbers might not get an apartment because of city and federal preferences that might apply. In most developments, at least 5 percent of the housing must go to city employees, 5 percent to people with disabilities, and 50 percent to people within the project's community board district -- to help prevent people from getting priced out of their own neighborhoods. 
 In projects developed by Habitat for Humanity, the organization does not hold a lottery but has very specific requirements. For example, applicants must be ''currently living in overcrowded, substandard housing conditions or have a severe rent burden,'' which is defined as paying more than 50 percent of the household income for rent. Each adult also must put in at least 300 hours of sweat equity. Habitat currently has a 41-unit building in Ocean Hill/Brownsville, Brooklyn, that still has two-bedroom apartments available for families with a maximum income of $56,700.
 The process of qualifying as a home buyer can also be a very long and tedious one.
 At the Langston, a 179-unit condo in Hamilton Heights with 120 income-restricted apartments, the lottery closed on Nov. 11, 2005, and drew more than 8,500 applications. People started moving in last year, but applications for the last affordable unit are just now being processed.
 Tony Von Meyers, an agent with Halstead Property, which marketed the project, helped people submit their applications to the city -- a process he likened to putting together a board package for a discerning co-op board. Despite the help, he said, in one case, the city disqualified a buyer because he lived just outside the community board district. ''I would always tell people, 'I may seem like a nightmare in the process, but I'm just the messenger, and I have learned not to argue with the City of New York,' '' Mr. Von Meyers said.
 Brokers and officials with private housing agencies say the developments tend to draw a broad cross section of people, including city workers, retirees, young couples and young professionals.
 Heather Gershen, the deputy director of housing development for the Fifth Avenue Committee, said she would like to see city workers, ''people who truly sacrifice their market value in the interest of something greater,'' get the subsidized homes. 
 She added, though, that young professionals who don't make big six-figure salaries also fit the mold for middle-income housing. People in the nonprofit sector, for example, ''don't see themselves as consumers of public benefits, but among my peers -- and I'm 27 -- I know I've encouraged friends of mine to apply.''
 Her organization is currently working on two projects. The first, which closed its lottery in January, is a 60-unit development in Red Hook with income restrictions that range from $27,150 to $167,910 and sales prices that range from $47,136 to $598,692. The second will be an 80-unit building opposite Atlantic Yards, which will have 20 market-rate units mixed with low- and middle-income apartments. Ms. Gershen said that the lottery for them would probably be held toward the end of the year.
 Aside from the limited number of newly built homes coming on the market, the city also tries to preserve existing middle-income housing through programs like Mitchell-Lama and the Housing Development Fund Corporation.
 Jordi Reyes-Montblanc, president of the H.D.F.C. Council, an advocacy group that represents 1,300 low-to-middle-income co-ops that the city took over for back taxes and eventually sold to existing tenants, said about 300 more buildings will soon be converted.
 Income and resale restrictions can vary, but most of the apartments can be sold at market rate, which is why properties with ''H.D.F.C. income restrictions'' can sometimes be found in real estate listings.
 ''We've been discovered by some real estate companies lately,'' Mr. Reyes-Montblanc said, noting that co-op owners now routinely get postcards telling them that the apartments they bought from the city for $250 can now be sold for as much as $700,000. ''They've tempted some people who were too dumb to realize that if they sell, they're selling their livelihood, and then where are you going to live?'' he said.
 As for Mitchell-Lama developments, despite the city's efforts, housing advocates estimate that more than 18,000 Mitchell-Lama apartments have left the subsidized program since 2001, and other subsidized housing complexes are now considering going the same route.
 ''It's a crying shame when these kinds of units go private, because once they're gone, they're gone, and there's no bringing them back,'' said Brendan Keany, the general manager at Penn South, a 15-building co-op complex with income and purchase limits similar to those at Mitchell-Lama projects.
 The co-op board at Penn South is committed to staying middle-income, but Mr. Keany said he knew of one East Side development with 900 units that would become market-rate within the next year. ''When you lose that many units at one time, then the city's model to build new middle-income housing falls woefully short of really solving any problem,'' he said. ''We're not replacing what we lose.'' 
 Penn South has a waiting list of 6,700. It has 2,820 apartments, but only about 150 become available in any given year.
 Rose Sabangan recently came off the list after an 11-year wait. She bought a two-bedroom co-op for $51,000 and pays $699 in monthly maintenance. Under Penn South's rules, she must sell the apartment back to the co-op. It will repay her $51,000, plus a share of the amortization on the complex's underlying mortgage, but no interest and nothing for inflation or appreciation. 
 Ms. Sabangan, who works in computer support for a financial-services firm, moved into the apartment with her daughter and son in 2006. She said she vaguely remembers seeing a newspaper ad for Penn South's waiting list in the mid-1990s, right around the time she was in the midst of a divorce. ''I got on the list, and then I forgot about it,'' she said. ''When they called me in 2006, it was like I hit the Lotto.''
 Her daughter, Julia, was only 13 when Ms. Sabangan first put their names on the waiting list. She is now 24, works as a dancer and Pilates instructor and was able to sign on as a co-owner of the co-op, which means she can stay there as long as she wants. ''Her friends are all envious because they can't afford to live in this neighborhood,'' Ms. Sabangan said. ''But without places like Penn South, where are all the kids going to go? You shouldn't feel like you won the Lotto just to be able to live in this city.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: IN BROOKLYN: Red Hook Homes, left, is a 60-unit co-op on Wolcott and Coffey Streets. Martha Nadell won a lottery to buy a town house in Park Slope. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KATE GLICKSBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. RE10)
IN MANHATTAN: Rose Sabangan at Penn South with her children, Julia, 24, and Rhodes, 16. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. RE10)
IN QUEENS: Arverne by the Sea in Far Rockaway includes two-family houses. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIRK CONDYLES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. RE10)
 IN THE BRONX: The lottery for eight condos at 496 East 138th Street, renovated by Neighborhood Housing Services of New York City, closes March 31. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. RE10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); FAMILY (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (78%); LOTTERIES (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (75%); MAYORS (72%); EMPTY NESTERS (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2008



29 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 8376 words

HEADLINE: Teaching to the Testosterone

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH WEIL. 
Elizabeth Weil is a contributing writer for the magazine. Her most recent article was about when a child should start kindergarten.

 BODY:
On an unseasonably cold day last November in Foley, Ala., Colby Royster and Michael Peterson, two students in William Bender's fourth-grade public-school class, informed me that the class corn snake could eat a rat faster than the class boa constrictor. Bender teaches 26 fourth graders, all boys. Down the hall and around the corner, Michelle Gay teaches 26 fourth-grade girls. The boys like being on their own, they say, because girls don't appreciate their jokes and think boys are too messy, and are also scared of snakes. The walls of the boys' classroom are painted blue, the light bulbs emit a cool white light and the thermostat is set to 69 degrees. In the girls' room, by contrast, the walls are yellow, the light bulbs emit a warm yellow light and the temperature is kept six degrees warmer, as per the instructions of Leonard Sax, a family physician turned author and advocate who this May will quit his medical practice to devote himself full time to promoting single-sex public education. 
 Foley Intermediate School began offering separate classes for boys and girls a few years ago, after the school's principal, Lee Mansell, read a book by Michael Gurian called ''Boys and Girls Learn Differently!'' After that, she read a magazine article by Sax and thought that his insights would help improve the test scores of Foley's lowest-achieving cohort, minority boys. Sax went on to publish those ideas in ''Why Gender Matters: What Parents and Teachers Need to Know About the Emerging Science of Sex Differences.'' Both books feature conversion stories of children, particularly boys, failing and on Ritalin in coeducational settings and then pulling themselves together in single-sex schools. Sax's book and lectures also include neurological diagrams and scores of citations of obscure scientific studies, like one by a Swedish researcher who found, in a study of 96 adults, that males and females have different emotional and cognitive responses to different kinds of light. Sax refers to a few other studies that he says show that girls and boys draw differently, including one from a group of Japanese researchers who found girls' drawings typically depict still lifes of people, pets or flowers, using 10 or more crayons, favoring warm colors like red, green, beige and brown; boys, on the other hand, draw action, using 6 or fewer colors, mostly cool hues like gray, blue, silver and black. This apparent difference, which Sax argues is hard-wired, causes teachers to praise girls' artwork and make boys feel that they're drawing incorrectly. Under Sax's leadership, teachers learn to say things like, ''Damien, take your green crayon and draw some sparks and take your black crayon and draw some black lines coming out from the back of the vehicle, to make it look like it's going faster.'' ''Now Damien feels encouraged,'' Sax explained to me when I first met him last spring in San Francisco. ''To say: 'Why don't you use more colors? Why don't you put someone in the vehicle?' is as discouraging as if you say to Emily, 'Well, this is nice, but why don't you have one of them kick the other one -- give us some action.' ''
 During the fall of 2003, Principal Mansell asked her entire faculty to read ''Boys and Girls Learn Differently!'' and, in the spring of 2004, to attend a one-day seminar led by Sax at the school, explaining boys' and girls' innate differences and how to teach to them. She also invited all Foley Intermediate School parents to a meeting extolling the virtues of single-sex public education. Enough parents were impressed that when Foley Intermediate, a school of 322 fourth and fifth graders, reopened after summer recess, the school had four single-sex classrooms: a girls' and a boys' class in both the fourth and fifth grades. Four classrooms in each grade remained coed. 
 Separating schoolboys from schoolgirls has long been a staple of private and parochial education. But the idea is now gaining traction in American public schools, in response to both the desire of parents to have more choice in their children's public education and the separate education crises girls and boys have been widely reported to experience. The girls' crisis was cited in the 1990s, when the American Association of University Women published ''Shortchanging Girls, Shortchanging America,'' which described how girls' self-esteem plummets during puberty and how girls are subtly discouraged from careers in math and science. More recently, in what Sara Mead, an education expert at the New America Foundation, calls a ''man bites dog'' sensation, public and parental concerns have shifted to boys. Boys are currently behind their sisters in high-school and college graduation rates. School, the boy-crisis argument goes, is shaped by females to match the abilities of girls (or, as Sax puts it, is taught ''by soft-spoken women who bore'' boys). In 2006, Doug Anglin, a 17-year-old in Milton, Mass., filed a civil rights complaint with the United States Department of Education, claiming that his high school -- where there are twice as many girls on the honor roll as there are boys -- discriminated against males. His case did not prevail in the courts, but his sentiment found support in the Legislature and the press. That same year, as part of No Child Left Behind, the federal law that authorizes programs aimed at improving accountability and test scores in public schools, the Department of Education passed new regulations making it easier for districts to create single-sex classrooms and schools. 
 In part because of these regulations and in part because of a mix of cultural and technological forces -- ranging from the growth of brain-scan research to the increased academic pressures on kindergarteners and a chronic achievement gap between richer and poorer students and between white and minority students -- new single-sex public schools and classrooms are opening at an accelerating pace. In 1995, there were two single-sex public schools operating in this country. Currently, there are 49, and 65 percent of those have opened in the last three years. Nobody is keeping exact count of the number of schools offering single-sex classrooms, but Sax estimates that in the fall of 2002, only about a dozen public schools in the United States offered any kind of single-sex educational options (excluding schools which offered single-sex classrooms only in health or physical education). By this past fall, Sax says, that number had soared to more than 360, with boys- and girls-only classrooms now established in Cleveland; Detroit; Albany; Gary, Ind.; Philadelphia; Dallas; and Nashville, among other places. A disproportionate number of the schools are in the South (where attitudes toward gender roles tend to be more conservative) or serve disadvantaged kids. Sax claims that ''many more are in the pipeline for 2008-2009.'' 
 Among advocates of single-sex public education, there are two camps: those who favor separating boys from girls because they are essentially different and those who favor separating boys from girls because they have different social experiences and social needs. Leonard Sax represents the essential-difference view, arguing that boys and girls should be educated separately for reasons of biology: for example, Sax asserts that boys don't hear as well as girls, which means that an instructor needs to speak louder in order for the boys in the room to hear her; and that boys' visual systems are better at seeing action, while girls are better at seeing the nuance of color and texture. The social view is represented by teachers like Emily Wylie, who works at the Young Women's Leadership School of East Harlem (T.Y.W.L.S.), an all-girls school for Grades 7-12. Wylie described her job to me by saying, ''It's my subversive mission to create all these strong girls who will then go out into the world and be astonished when people try to oppress them.'' Sax calls schools like T.Y.W.L.S. ''anachronisms'' -- because, he says, they're stuck in 1970s-era feminist ideology and they don't base their pedagogy on the latest research. Few on the other side want to disparage Sax publicly, though T.Y.W.L.S.'s founder, Ann Tisch, did tell me pointedly, ''Nobody is planning the days of our girls around a photograph of a brain.''
 The two camps face a common enemy in the A.C.L.U., which opposes all single-sex public education. (When I asked a lawyer at the A.C.L.U.'s Women's Rights Project why, she said, ''Have you ever heard of Title IX?'' referring to the 1972 Education Amendments that outlaw all discrimination in educational programs on the basis of sex.) But that hasn't brought the two sides together. ''What kind of message does it give when you tell a group of kids that boys and girls need to be separated because they don't even see or hear alike?'' asks Rosemary Salomone, a legal scholar at St. John's University School of Law. Salomone is especially invested in the debate, as she provided support to T.Y.W.L.S. before it opened in 1996 and was subsequently tapped by the United States Department of Education to draft the revised regulations that made it easier for districts to separate boys from girls. Those regulations now require that a district ''provide a rationale,'' review its program every two years and ensure that enrollment in single-sex classrooms is voluntary. When Salomone revised the regulations, she thought they would usher in a flurry of schools of the T.Y.W.L.S. -- not the Sax -- variety. She was wrong. ''As one of the people who let the horse out the barn, I'm now feeling like I really need to watch that horse,'' Salomone told me over lunch near her home in Rye, N.Y., last month. ''Every time I hear of school officials selling single-sex programs to parents based on brain research, my heart sinks.'' 
 On that November day in Foley, Ala., William Bender pulled a stool up to a lectern and began reading to his fourth-grade boys from Gary Paulsen's young-adult novel ''Hatchet.'' Bender's voice is deep and calm, a balm to many of his students who lack father figures or else have parents who, Bender says, ''don't want to be parents. They want to be their kids' friends.'' Bender paused to ask one of his boys, who said he was feeling sick, ''Are you going to make it, brother?'' Then he kept reading. '' 'The pain in his forehead seemed to be abating. . . .' What's abating, gentlemen?'' The protagonist of ''Hatchet'' survives a plane crash and finds himself alone by an insect-infested lake. Bender encouraged his boys to empathize. They discussed how annoying it is, when you're out hunting, to be swarmed by yellow flies.
 Meanwhile, in Michelle Gay's fourth-grade class, the girls sang a vigorous rendition of ''Always Sisters'' and then did a tidy science experiment: pouring red water, blue oil and clear syrup into a plastic cup to test which has the greatest density, then confirming their results with the firsthand knowledge that when you're doing the dishes after your mother makes fried chicken, the oil always settles on top of the water in the sink. 
 Foley, population 11,300, is 10 miles from the Gulf Coast. Fifty-seven percent of Foley Intermediate's students are white, 24 percent are black and 17 percent are Latino; 70 percent receive free or reduced-price lunches each day. In the first year of Foley's single-sex program, a third of the kids enrolled. The next year, two-thirds signed up, and in its third year 87 percent of parents requested the program. Principal Mansell reports that her single-sex classes produce fewer discipline problems, more parental support and better scores in writing, reading and math. She does, however, acknowledge that her data are compromised, as her highest-performing teachers and her most-motivated students have chosen single-sex. 
 In his books and frequent media appearances, Sax holds up Foley Intermediate as an example of his theories put to good use. In his second book, ''Boys Adrift: The Five Factors Driving the Growing Epidemic of Unmotivated Boys and Underachieving Young Men,'' Sax credits Bender for helping focus a boy who was given a wrong diagnosis of attention-deficit disorder by telling him that his father, who had left the family, would be even less likely to return if all his mother had to report was the boy misbehaving in school. Sax also goes out of his way to note that Bender had this conversation with the boy ''shoulder to shoulder,'' not ''face to face.'' ''Just remember this rule of thumb,'' Sax tells readers: ''A good place to talk with your son is in your car, with you driving and your son in the passenger seat.''
 Sax used to say that he was ''uniquely unqualified to lead the single-sex public education movement,'' since, for among other reasons, he had never been a teacher. Now, he no longer says that, and he maintains that a school's teachers and staff need only 14 hours of training -- two 7-hour days with him -- to prepare to switch from coeducation to single-sex. Sax is 48, square-jawed and sturdily built, with a thick shag of side-parted brown hair and a relentless intellect and tireless charisma that leave even his critics exhausted and impressed. In the 1980s he earned an M.D. and Ph.D. (in psychology) from the University of Pennsylvania. Last year, he gave about 50 seminars and lectures on sex differences in children. The first time I met him, he was swinging through San Francisco to give a series of such talks at the Katherine Delmar Burke School, a private all-girls school. Speaking to a group of sixth graders, Sax explained his theory that girls' hearing ability is much better than boys', as is girls' sense of smell. The girls, just on the edge of puberty, sat utterly rapt, seeming to want to understand why their brothers, boy cousins, cute skater-dude neighbors and fathers were so weird. A few weeks after the lecture, Sax sent me a packet of color photocopies of thank-you notes he had received from the girls. One, from a girl with two fathers, read: ''Dr. Sax, Thank you so much for coming to Burkes. . . . I had a smell in my room and my Dads couldn't smell it but I could. I thought I was going crazy. It ends up there was a dead rat in the wall. Hope you come back soon.'' 
 Sax comes off as a true believer and describes his conversion experience like this: In 2000, one of his patients, a 12-year-old boy, came to his medical office. For several years before then, the boy had been withdrawn, uninspired and on multiple medications, but he had recently made a big turnaround, which his parents credited to having enrolled him in an all-boys school. Upon hearing this, Sax said to the boy's mother, ''With all due respect, I regard single-sex education as an antiquated relic of the Victorian Era.'' To which he says she replied, ''With all due respect, Dr. Sax, you have no idea what you're talking about.'' After visiting a handful of single-sex schools, Sax threw himself into studying neurological differences between males and females, eventually focusing on how to protect boys from a syndrome he calls ''failure to launch,'' which Sax often characterizes as caring more about getting a Kilimanjaro in Halo 3 than performing well in high school or taking a girl on a date. Among his early proposals was that boys should start kindergarten at age 6, a year later than girls, in order to ease the ''sense of scholastic incompetence'' that so many boys feel early on because they tend to develop later. Several friends quickly convinced Sax that American families would never go for this. So Sax started thinking it might be better for boys and girls to be in different classrooms. 
 Sax's official foray into single-sex public-school advocacy started in early 2002, when, he says, he applied for ''a 501(c)(3) with the pretentious and improbable name of the National Association for Single-Sex Public Education.'' In its first few years, N.A.S.S.P.E. didn't see much action. Then, in 2004, he was invited to give a seminar in Foley. His appearance there led to a workshop in Wilcox County, Ala., and over the next few years, Sax says, ''things started to mushroom.'' Sax estimates that, at present, 300 of the 360 single-sex public school programs in the country ''are coming at this from a neuroscience basis.'' Either he or one of N.A.S.S.P.E.'s board members has been in touch with about half the programs. 
 David Chadwell, one of Sax's disciples and the coordinator of Single- Gender Initiatives at the South Carolina Department of Education, explained to me the ways that teachers should teach to gender differences. For boys, he said: ''You need to get them up and moving. That's based on the nervous system, that's based on eyes, that's based upon volume and the use of volume with the boys.'' Chadwell, like Sax, says that differences in eyesight, hearing and the nervous system all should influence how you instruct boys. ''You need to engage boys' energy, use it, rather than trying to say, No, no, no. So instead of having boys raise their hands, you're going to have boys literally stand up. You're going to do physical representation of number lines. Relay races. Ball tosses during discussion.'' For the girls, Chadwell prescribes a focus on ''the connections girls have (a) with the content, (b) with each other and (c) with the teacher. If you try to stop girls from talking to one another, that's not successful. So you do a lot of meeting in circles, where every girl can share something from her own life that relates to the content in class.''
 While Sax rejects the notion that he is a gender essentialist -- according to Sax's own definition, ''a gender essentialist is a derogatory term that arose in the 1970s to define someone who is an idiot, or a Republican, or both, who does not understand that gender is socially constructed'' -- he does say that ''human nature is gendered to the core'' and that ''all that happens when you take a toy gun away from your son and give him a doll instead is that you tell him, 'I don't like the person that you are and I wish you were more like your sister, Emily.' '' He opens ''Why Gender Matters'' with two cautionary tales: one about a boy who starts kindergarten at age 5, is given a diagnosis of A.D.H.D. and depression and ends up on a three-drug cocktail of Adderall, Wellbutrin and clonidine; the other about a girl who transforms ''from chubby wallflower to outgoing socialite'' in middle school, seems to have it all -- friends, academic success -- and then shocks her parents by overdosing on Vicodin and Xanax. The two anecdotes are capsule versions of the boys' and girls' crises, and depending on one's point of view, Sax effectively either addresses or exploits these parental concerns. After presenting the Adderall-doped grammar-school boy and the suicidal middle-school girl, Sax offers a possible cause of these sad stories. ''The neglect of gender in education and child-rearing has done real harm.'' These tragedies ''might have been averted if the parents had known enough about gender differences to recognize what was really happening in their child's life.''
 Among the differences Sax notes between boys and girls: Baby boys prefer to stare at mobiles; baby girls at faces. Boys solve maze puzzles using the hippocampus; girls use the cerebral cortex. Boys covet risk; girls shy away. Boys perform better under moderate stress; girls perform worse. Many academics and progressives tend to find Sax's views stereotyped and infuriating, yet Sax does not seem to mind. Sax told me that in 2005, he delivered a lecture at a conference at the University of Alaska in Fairbanks. When the next speaker, Michael Younger, of Cambridge University, took the lectern, Sax says Younger threw down his speech and said, ''I'm going to depart from my prepared remarks because I'm so annoyed by the sexist rubbish I just heard from Dr. Sax. Dr. Sax is trying to tell us that boys draw action and girls draw stasis. He might as well have said: 'Boys are active, girls are passive. Boys should go out and have jobs, girls should stay home and have babies.' '' While Sax, a gadfly, enjoys telling this story, Younger calls it ''a fiction,'' though he does concede ''that certain aspects of Sax's work suggest an essentialism about boys and girls which is not borne out by reality as exposed in our own research.''
 A deluge of data has emerged in recent years detailing how boys and girls have different developmental trajectories and different brains. Sax has made a role for himself popularizing this work, though it's not yet clear what the research means or whether there are implications for single-sex education. For instance, among neuroscientists, motor skills are often used as proxies for assessing cognitive skills and social and emotional control in younger children. As Martha Denckla, director of the Developmental Cognitive Neurology Clinic at Kennedy Krieger Institute in Maryland, explained to me: ''Looking at normal motor development in boys and girls -- the ability to balance, to hop, to use your feet, to use your fingers and your hands -- as a group, 5-year-old girls look almost completely the same as 6-year-old boys. The same is also true for anything having to do with speed of output: for example, how quickly you answer a question. Maybe you know the answer, but you just can't prepare your mouth to form the words.'' The gender gap in motor development shrinks through grammar and middle schools, Denckla says, disappearing once everyone has gone through puberty, around age 15. Yet Denckla doesn't see any need for single-sex public education; she thinks mixed-grade K-1, 1-2 and 2-3 classrooms are a better way to deal with the developmental differences among school-age kids. 
 Scans of boys' and girls' brains over time also show they develop differently. Analyzing data from the largest pediatric neuro-imaging study to date -- 829 scans from 387 subjects ages 3 to 27 -- researchers from the National Institute of Mental Health found that total cerebral volume peaks at 10.5 years in girls, four years earlier than in boys. Cortical and subcortical gray-matter trajectories peak one to two years earlier in girls as well. This may sound very significant, but researchers claim it means nothing for educators, or at least nothing yet. ''Differences in brain size between males and females should not be interpreted as implying any sort of functional advantage or disadvantage,'' the N.I.M.H. paper concludes. Not one to be deterred, Sax invited Jay Giedd, chief of brain imaging at the Child Psychiatry Branch at N.I.M.H., to give the keynote address at his N.A.S.S.P.E. conference in 2007. Giedd spoke for 90 minutes, but made no comments on schooling at all. 
 One reason for this, Giedd says, is that when it comes to education, gender is a pretty crude tool for sorting minds. Giedd puts the research on brain differences in perspective by using the analogy of height. ''On both the brain imaging and the psychological testing, the biggest differences we see between boys and girls are about one standard deviation. Height differences between boys and girls are two standard deviations.'' Giedd suggests a thought experiment: Imagine trying to assign a population of students to the boys' and girls' locker rooms based solely on height. As boys tend to be taller than girls, one would assign the tallest 50 percent of the students to the boys' locker room and the shortest 50 percent of the students to the girls' locker room. What would happen? While you'd end up with a better-than-random sort, the results would be abysmal, with unacceptably large percentages of students in the wrong place. Giedd suggests the same is true when educators use gender alone to assign educational experiences for kids. Yes, you'll get more students who favor cooperative learning in the girls' room, and more students who enjoy competitive learning in the boys', but you won't do very well. Says Giedd, ''There are just too many exceptions to the rule.''
 Despite a lack of empirical evidence, a cottage industry has emerged working the ''boys and girls are essentially different, so we should educate them differently'' angle. Several advocates like Sax have been quite successful commercially, including Michael Gurian, a family therapist, who published the best-selling ''The Wonder of Boys'' in 1996, a work he has since followed up with 15 more, including ''Boys and Girls Learn Differently!'' Through the Gurian Institute, he provides trainings to teachers, ''showing the PET scans, showing the Spect scans'' (a Spect scan is a nuclear imaging test that shows how blood flows through tissue), ''teaching how the male and female brain are different,'' Gurian told me. Like Sax, Gurian speaks authoritatively, yet both have been criticized for cherry-picking studies to serve their views. For instance, Sax initially built his argument that girls hear better than boys on two papers published in 1959 and 1963 by a psychologist named John Corso. Mark Liberman, a linguistics professor at the University of Pennsylvania, has spent a fair amount of energy examining the original research behind Sax's claims. In Corso's 1959 study, for example, Corso didn't look at children; he looked at adults. And he found only between one-quarter and one-half of a standard deviation in male and female hearing thresholds. What this means, Liberman says, is that if you choose a man and a woman at random, the chances are about 6 in 10 that the woman's hearing will be more sensitive and about 4 in 10 that the man's hearing will be more sensitive. Sax uses several other hearing studies to make his case that a teacher who is audible to boys will sound too loud to girls. But Liberman says that if you really look at this research, it shows that girls' and boys' hearing is much more similar than different. What's more, the sample sizes in those studies are far too small to make meaningful conclusions about gender differences in the classroom. The ''disproportion between the reported facts and Sax's interpretation is spectacular,'' Liberman wrote on his blog, Language Log. ''Dr. Sax isn't summarizing scientific research; he's making a political argument,'' he wrote in an e-mail message. ''The political conclusion comes first, and the scientific evidence -- often unrepresentative or misrepresented -- is selected to support it.''
 One of Sax's core arguments is that trying to teach a 5-year-old boy to read is as developmentally fraught as trying to teach a 3 1/2-year-old girl and that such an exercise often leads to a kid hating school. This argument resonates with many teachers and parents, who long for the days when kindergarten meant learning how to stand in line for recess, not needing to complete phonics homework. Yet public schools are beholden to state standards, and those standards require kindergartners to learn to read. As a result, even leaders of single-sex public schools, like Jabali Sawicki, the principal of the all-boys Excellence Charter School in the Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood of Brooklyn, are using some of what Sax has to offer while quietly refuting other claims. 
 Sawicki is 30, lanky and mocha-skinned, with an infectious energy. He grew up in a tough part of San Francisco with a single mother who managed to get her son a scholarship for middle school at a private all-boys school. From there he went to a private high school and then on to Oberlin College. The Excellence School is part of Uncommon Schools, a small network of charter schools. Housed in a gracious building on a modest street, Excellence currently teaches children in kindergarten through Grade 4, and will add a grade each year for the next four years, up to Grade 8. Sawicki's office occupies an empty classroom slated to be overtaken by students as the school grows. There, he told me that educating lower-class black boys is ''the new civil rights movement.'' He then walked me down the hall to one of his kindergarten classrooms, where a sign on the door read ''Fordham, Class of 2024.''
 ''Jacob,'' said Sawicki, folding himself into a tiny chair and pointing to a line in a workbook, ''will you read that for our guest?''
 Jacob, who is 5, straightened his tiny tie under his green cardigan and used his index finger to track his place on the page. ''A rat and a rabbit went down the slide.''
 ''Thank you,'' said Sawicki. ''And can you tell our guest what you like about the Excellence School?''
 ''I like that I get to wear a sweater with buttons,'' he said, glancing down at his uniform. ''And I like that I'm going to college.''
 While there's some dispute over whether there's an ongoing education crisis for white, middle-class boys, there's no doubt that public schools are failing poor minority students in general and poor minority boys in particular. Despite six years of No Child Left Behind, the achievement gaps between rich and poor students and white and black students have not significantly narrowed. ''People are getting desperate'' is how Benjamin Wright, chief administrative officer for the Nashville public schools, described the current interest in single-sex education to me. ''Coed's not working. Time to try something else.'' 
 Wright was one of the first principals in the country to address the racial and socioeconomic achievement gaps by separating boys from girls. In 1999, he was sent to the failing Thurgood Marshall Elementary School, in Seattle, to try to turn the place around. One of the first things he noticed was that three boys were getting suspended for every girl, ''and for the most ridiculous things in the world -- a boy would burp, or he'd pass gas, or a girl would say, 'He hit me.' '' Nationwide, boys are nearly twice as likely as girls to be suspended, and more likely to drop out of high school than girls (65 percent of boys complete high school in four years; 72 percent of girls do). Boys make up two-thirds of special-education students. They are 1.5 times more likely to be held back a grade and 2.5 times more likely to be given diagnoses of A.D.H.D. So Wright met with his fourth-grade teachers and recalls telling them, ''O.K., here's what we're going to do: how about you take all the boys and you take all the girls?'' Wright says that in 2001, after Marshall's first year in a single-sex format, the percentage of boys meeting the state's academic standards rose from 10 percent to 35 percent in math and 10 percent to 53 percent in reading and writing.
 Wright attributes this both to the insights of ''brain researchers'' like Sax and to what he calls ''the character piece'' -- giving children a positive sense of themselves as students -- which he says is easier to address in a single-sex setting. ''Nobody cares about me, nobody really wants me -- an African American or a Latino boy will tell you that in a hurry,'' Wright told me when we spoke in January. ''Or a Vietnamese or a Cambodian boy, if you're in the right neighborhood. Don't nobody care. Teachers need to understand when it's time to stop teaching the content and start teaching the context.''
 Not all schools see great results from switching to a single-sex format. After transforming the Thurgood Marshall School in Seattle, Wright moved to Philadelphia to work on the district's single-sex programs, and the results were rather modest, a fact Wright attributes to working both with middle- and high-school students and with less-engaged teachers. Other districts have started single-gender programs only to shut them down, as major logistical headaches outweighed the small academic gains. Lori Clark, principal at Jefferson Leadership Academies in Long Beach, Calif., which in 1999 became the first public middle school in the country to convert to a single-gender format, is in the process of reverting her school to coed. ''We just didn't get the bang for the buck we'd been hoping for with our test scores,'' Clark told me. ''Our master schedule is like one of those old Rubik's cubes. It's hard enough to make sure each kid gets this level English class and that level math class -- and then we need to account for if that student is a boy or a girl? We just couldn't have our hands tied like that.'' 
 When Sawicki first took the job at Excellence, he attended conferences given by Sax and others on single-sex education, and at all of them he'd stand up and say: ''Tell me what is it that I should do? What's the magic dust that I should sprinkle?'' Now, four years into the job, he's following Wright's lead, trying to take the best of all models. At Excellence, in a third-grade room, the teacher Roberto de Leon roused his students into calling out the two-dimensional sides of three-dimensional shapes while throwing around a big purple eyeball. But the Excellence school couples their games with serious discipline. By 7:30 each morning, 220 boys walk through the school's heavy double doors, each dressed, in the terminology of the school, as a professional scholar: in black sneakers, dress pants, a white shirt, a green cardigan, a belt and a tie. If a child arrives at 7:31 a.m., his parents will receive a call at 5:45 the next morning to make sure that boy will be at school on time. Excellence is a charter school -- meaning the school is publicly financed but has been freed from some of the rules that apply to other public schools, in exchange for promising to produce certain results. Its halls are silent from 7:50 to 10:30 a.m. each day. ''The school's sacred time,'' Sawicki explains. ''Right now we have 220 boys who are reading. Just a few blocks that way'' -- he pointed toward Crown Heights, a nearby section of Brooklyn -- ''you've got 220 boys who are doing something that's not going to get them to college.''
 After meeting Jacob, Sawicki walked me over to a room labeled ''University of North Carolina, 2024,'' where the kindergarten teacher Trisha Bailey was sitting with nine boys in a reading circle. Part of Excellence's strategy is to keep boys too busy to fall out of line. ''Friends, who's sitting tallest?'' Bailey said in her brightest voice. ''Who has a smile on his face? Whose feet are flat on the floor? O.K., here were go.'' For the next two minutes, Bailey led the boys in a simple phonics exercise, sounding out together cat, kitten, kiss. Then she said, as animated as the host of ''Blues Clues'': ''Good job for you! Good job for me! Good job everybody! O.K., next.'' 
 Under Bailey's guidance, the boys did two more pages of phonics, and then she jumped to her feet and announced: ''Stand up if you need to get your sillies out! Put your hands on your belly. Ha . . . ha, ha . . . ha, ha, ha. Now get ready for a blastoff with me!'' Bailey counted down from 10 to 1, crouched down into a squat alongside the boys and then exploded into the air. Then she promptly took her seat. ''Sit up tall, fold your hands, three-two-one, here we go.'' Bailey held up a page and put her index finger on a red dot. ''Boys, let's read together now. This . . . is . . . my . . . kitten.''
 The Young Women's Leadership School in Harlem is widely considered the birthplace of the current single-sex public school movement. This position of eminence stems from both its early beginnings and its success: since opening in 1996, every girl in every senior class at T.Y.W.L.S. has graduated and been accepted at a four-year college. 
 T.Y.W.L.S. occupies the top five floors of a commercial building in Harlem, on 106th Street near Lexington Avenue. Most of the girls come from the neighborhood, where they walk home so quickly that they often breeze by their own mothers before registering whom they've passed. One afternoon in January, Dalibell Ferreira, a senior, sat drinking a soda in the college counselor's office, where she sometimes stays until 8 p.m. because she finds her own home distracting. Ferreira is tall, poised, with wide-set eyes and her hair neatly pulled back around her fine Dominican face. When she graduates, she wants ''to go to Wesleyan and study abroad, then travel, and then work for Unicef.'' When she entered T.Y.W.L.S. in the seventh grade, she mostly liked that the linoleum floor was so clean she could see her own face reflected on it. Then she started appreciating that people wouldn't snicker, ''Oh, she thinks she's so smart'' when she raised her hand in class. Then one day last spring, on the way home from a friend's house, Ferreira ran into a classmate from elementary school who was pushing a stroller and also pregnant. ''I know that girl is smart, very smart, but now she just hangs around the block,'' Ferreira told me. ''I want to be bigger in life. Maybe that girl had dreams, too, but you can just see: the lights have gone out in her face.'' 
 T.Y.W.L.S. was founded by Ann Rubenstein Tisch, wife of Andrew Tisch, the co-chairman of the Loews Corporation. Ferreira's is exactly the story Tisch, a former correspondent for NBC Network News, hoped her students would someday tell. Tisch first got the idea for a public all-girls school while on assignment in Milwaukee in the late '80s. She was interviewing a 15-year-old at a public high school that had just opened a nursery so teenage moms could come back and finish their degrees. ''Where do you see yourself in 5 years?'' Tisch asked the young mother. The mother started to cry. ''I said to myself: 'She's stuck, she knows she's stuck. And she's impacting three generations: her mother, her child and herself.' We need to get these kids on a completely different path, a path that wealthy girls and parochial-school girls and yeshiva girls are offered. Don't you think that might make a difference?'' 
 Tisch is 53 years old, with reddish hair and a strong, warm face. One of the first things she did when she got serious about trying to start an all-girls public school was to hire a lawyer, George Shebitz, to explore the legality of a single-sex school. Tisch started visiting elite Manhattan all-girls private schools like Brearley and Spence, and once she had a vision of girls in blue-and-white uniforms sitting in circles around tables instead of at rows of desks, Tisch met with Evelyn Castro, who was then the superintendent of New York City's District 4, the district that encompasses part of East Harlem and one known for its innovation. She then spoke to Rosemary Salomone, the legal scholar at St. John's. Salomone knew of a 1994 report by the New York City Department of Education showing a gender gap in math and science scores, which was particularly notable among African American and Hispanic females. Salomone knew that Title IX prohibits schools that receive Federal funds from discriminating on the basis of sex, but she explained to Tisch that this gender gap could work to her advantage. 
 As the Supreme Court would rule in June 1996, just three months before T.Y.W.L.S. opened, the legality of single-sex schools depends on context. In United States v. Virginia, a case regarding females' exclusion from the all-male Virginia Military Institute, the justices found that the male bastion was in fact violating the equal-protection clause of the 14th Amendment, and that the state of Virginia's proposal to open an all-girls school wasn't a sufficient remedy because V.M.I. gave its students not just a good education but powerful connections within Virginia's military and political elite. Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, who earlier in her career had been a founder of the A.C.L.U. Women's Rights Project (a group that has been active in suing single-sex public schools), wrote the majority opinion, composing what some people consider a condensation of feminist thinking up to 1996. Ginsburg's opinion states that in some contexts, single-sex schools might be legal, as long as those schools worked to ''dissipate, rather than perpetuate, traditional gender classifications.'' ''The two sexes are not fungible,'' Ginsburg wrote, quoting a 1946 decision; the physical differences between the sexes are ''enduring'' and ''cause for celebration.'' Yet, Ginsburg warned, those differences cannot be used to place ''artificial constraints on individuals' opportunity.'' 
 News of an all-girls school opening in Harlem hit the press in July 1996 and started a firestorm of arguments about whether single-sex public education was illegal, regressive, anti-feminist and a nonanswer to the problem of how to educate both boys and girls well in school. As Salomone recalls, T.Y.W.L.S. ''divided the feminist community right down the middle.'' Later that year at Fordham Law School, Salomone debated the merits of single-sex public education against Anne Conners, then the president of NOW-N.Y.C. According to Salomone, Conners evoked Brown v. Board of Education. Salomone countered that race is substantially different from gender, and, more important, that a child would end up at T.Y.W.L.S., or another single-sex school, only by parental choice. After the debate, Salomone says she asked Conners if she had lost members over the issue and that Conners suggested that she had. Salomone told her, ''Well, you lost me.''
 Thanks to Tisch and the money she raises, T.Y.W.L.S. enjoys some significant advantages over an ordinary urban public school, most notably a health-and-wellness curriculum and a superheroic college counselor, Chris Farmer, who starts taking the girls on field trips to Columbia University in seventh grade and who once drove a student's entire Ghanaian family, Islamic music blaring, from Harlem to Hobart and William Smith Colleges in upstate New York so the father would feel comfortable enough let his daughter attend. Tisch's connections also make for priceless opportunities: Bill Clinton and Katie Couric, among other megawatt notables, have visited the school. But it was inside Emily Wylie's A.P. English class where the real social value of single-sex teaching was on display. Ferreira, among 20 other seniors, sat in a circle discussing ''Pride and Prejudice.'' Wylie asked the girls to call out which characters had which vices and virtues. A serious discussion of whether lust -- Lydia's lust -- was a vice or virtue ensued.
 ''She's following her passions!''
 ''At least she's not sleeping with folks for money.''
 Wylie regretted to inform her girls that lust is one of the seven deadly sins, which prompted the thoroughly modern question: ''But how is lust bad?'' 
 Wylie says she believes she is a better teacher, and her students are better students, because they're in a desexualized -- or at least less-sexualized -- environment. ''Sure,'' she says, ''when they take pictures, they often present their backsides first. But I think I'm giving girls a better education than I could have if there were guys in the room. I'm freer. I'm more able to be bold in my statements. When I teach poetry and I talk about the sex in poetry I don't need to be worried about the boy in the room who is going to chuckle over the thing he did with the girl last week and embarrass her. Which happened more than once in my last coed environment.''
 Nearly everyone at T.Y.W.L.S. acknowledges that often parents' most pressing concern when enrolling their 11-year-old daughters is sheltering those girls from sexualized classrooms and sexualized streets. ''Harlem's a very intense environment,'' says Drew Higginbotham, T.Y.W.L.S.'s assistant principal, who lives in the neighborhood. ''You're constantly needing to prove yourself physically, to prove yourself sexually. Parents, when they come to our school, they sort of exhale deeply. You can hear them thinking to themselves, I can see my daughter here and she's going to be O.K. for six hours a day.'' Sax is not above or beyond this kind of thinking, either. In fact, after a nearly-two-hour conversation filled with scientific jargon and brains, he told me, perhaps wishfully, that really the most important reason to send a child to a single-sex high school was that those kids still go on dates. ''Boys at boys' schools like Old Farms in Connecticut, or Saint Albans in Washington, D. C., will call up girls at Miss Porter's in Connecticut, at Stone Ridge in Maryland, and they will ask the girl out, and the boy will drive to the girl's house to pick her up and meet her parents. You tell kids at a coed school to do this, and they'll fall on the floor laughing. But the culture of dating is much healthier than the culture of the hookup, in which the primary form of sexual intimacy is a girl on her knees servicing a boy.'' 
 In the past few years Tisch's Young Women's Leadership Foundation has opened schools in the Bronx and Queens, as well helping start ones in Chicago, Philadelphia, Dallas and Austin. Tisch wants to be careful about not overextending her network -- ''we don't want to become Mrs. Fields or Benetton'' -- but she says she also feels an obligation from her success. Last year, 2,100 students applied for the three open ninth-grade spots in the Harlem school. Many other schools make inquiries about how they might replicate T.W.Y.L.S.'s success. This coming year, for the first time, Tisch plans on holding her own conference on single-sex public education. Though she's meticulously circumspect about not disparaging Sax, her actions suggest that she is aware that if she doesn't engage with the many districts interested in starting up single-sex programs, there's a chance that Sax will run away with the movement.
 Education scholarship has contributed surprisingly little to the debate over single-sex public education. In 2005, the United States Department of Education, along with the American Institute for Research, tried to weigh in, publishing a meta-analysis comparing single-sex and coed schooling. The authors started out with 2,221 citations on the subject that they then whittled down to 40 usable studies. Yet even those 40 studies did not yield strong results: 41 percent favored single-sex schools, 45 percent found no positive or negative effects for either single-sex or coed schools, 6 percent were mixed (meaning they found positive results for one gender but not the other) and 8 percent favored coed schools. This meta-analysis is part of a larger project by the Department of Education being led by Cornelius Riordan, a Providence College professor. He explained to me that such muddled findings are the norm for education research on school effects. School-effects studies try to answer questions like whether large schools are better than small schools or whether charter schools are better than public schools. The effects are always small. So many variables are at play in a school: quality of teachers, quality of the principal, quality of the infrastructure, involvement of families, financing, curriculum -- the list is nearly endless. Riordan says, ''You're never going to be able to compare two types of schools and say, 'The data very strongly suggests that schools that look like a are better than schools that look like b.' ''
 That certainly appears to be the case for single-sex schools. The data do not suggest that they're clearly better for all kids. Nor do they suggest that they're worse. The most concrete findings from the research on single-sex schools come from studies of Catholic schools, which have a long history of single-sex education, and suggest that while single-sex schools may not have much of an impact on the educational achievement of white, middle-class boys, they do measurably benefit poor and minority students. According to Riordan, disadvantaged students at single-sex schools have higher scores on standardized math, reading, science and civics tests than their counterparts in coed schools. There are two prevailing theories to explain this: one is that single-sex schools are indeed better at providing kids with a positive sense of themselves as students, to compete with the antiacademic influences of youth culture; the other is that in order to end up in a single-sex classroom, you need to have a parent who has made what educators call ''a pro-academic choice.'' You need a parent who at least cares enough to read the notices sent home and go through the process of making a choice -- any choice. 
 As T.Y.W.L.S. let out on a Friday in January and the girls spilled onto 106th Street, one such parent, a man in saggy jeans and a black parka, walked up the sidewalk clutching his daughter's dog-eared report card and hoping to secure her a spot for next year. ''This where the school at?'' he asked a security guard. The engagement of parents like this may be a major part of the success of single-sex public education. These schools are popular with many parents, who are happy to have an option that has long been available in private and parochial schools. And they are also attractive to teachers and administrators, who are offered a relatively easy and inexpensive way to try to improve some of the intractable problems in public education, especially for disadvantaged students. 
 But schools, inevitably, present many curriculums, some overt and some subtle; and critics argue that with Sax's model comes a lesson that our gender differences are primary, and this message is at odds with one of the most foundational principles of America's public schools. Given the myriad ways in which our schools are failing, it may be hard to remember that public schools were intended not only to instruct children in reading and math but also to teach them commonality, tolerance and what it means to be American. ''When you segregate, by any means, you lose some of that,'' says Richard Kahlenberg, a senior fellow at the Century Foundation. ''Even if one could prove that sending a kid off to his or her own school based on religion or race or ethnicity or gender did a little bit better job of raising the academic skills for workers in the economy, there's also the issue of trying to create tolerant citizens in a democracy.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Second graders at the Excellence Charter School in Bedford-Stuyvesant in Brooklyn. Middle-school students at the Young Women's Leadership School in East Harlem. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHELE ASSELIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); CHILDREN (77%); RODENTS (77%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (73%); WRITERS (72%); NEUROSCIENCE (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (69%); THERMAL SENSORS (69%); FAMILY PRACTICE (68%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (67%); SCIENCE NEWS (64%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2008



30 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 825 words

HEADLINE: The Jump-Start That Hasn't Started

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a senior editor at Money magazine. E-mail: fund@nytimes.com

 BODY:
WHATEVER became of the much-ballyhooed Fed rally?
 Last September, investors clamored for the Federal Reserve to start cutting interest rates aggressively -- not only to stave off a possible recession, but also to give a lift to the stock market. 
 Historically, rate cuts have done just that. Since 1954, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index has surged 13 percent, on average, in the six months after the first in a series of Fed rate cuts. 
 Well, nearly half a year has passed since the Fed began to lower short-term rates, last Sept. 18. But this time, the S.& P. 500 has lost more than 12 percent of its value. 
 What's more, virtually every market sector has fallen since mid-September, in many cases significantly so. Financial stocks have plummeted 26 percent, on average; telecommunications stocks are down 21 percent; and technology shares are down 14 percent. If this market lived up to historical patterns, all 10 sectors of the market should have rallied sharply. 
 What gives? Duncan W. Richardson, chief equity investment officer at Eaton Vance, the asset management firm in Boston, said it was too soon to deem the Fed cuts a failure -- at least when it comes to jump-starting the stock market.
 ''I refuse to despair until all the ammunition is used,'' Mr. Richardson said, noting that the Fed is likely to continue lowering rates this year. The Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, hinted as much in testimony before Congress last week. 
 Mr. Richardson noted that when it comes to Fed rate cuts, there is often a delayed effect. ''We're only now getting in the range where the stimulus is supposed to take effect,'' he said. In other words, investors need to give the stock market time to reflect the Fed's actions. 
 On the few occasions in recent history when rate cuts failed to propel stock prices higher within six months, Fed easing eventually moved the market higher. In fact, over the past half-century, the S.& P. has shot up 19 percent, on average, in the 12 months after the first in a series of rate cuts.
 But let's examine this a bit more closely.
 While history says that stocks are likely to be higher on Sept. 18, 2008, than they were on Sept. 18, 2007, don't count on a dramatic rally just yet.
 Since 1954, there have been four instances when Fed cuts have failed to lift stocks in the first six months. Those were after rate-cutting that began in 1960, 1981, 1990 and 2001. In three of those instances, however, stocks would climb higher within 12 months, but only by a modest 10 percent, on average, according to Standard & Poor's Equity Research. (In the fourth instance, 2001, stocks actually fell by 10 percent over the 12-month stretch.) 
 Those results may have something to do with what those four years have in common. In each case, the Fed simply acted too late in lowering rates to stave off recession.
 In 2001, for example, the Fed began trimming rates in January, just two months before the start of the official recession in March. In 1990, the Fed started easing in July -- the month in which the economy began to contract.
 Is the market saying the Fed was too late this time around, too?
 Not necessarily. But some strategists believe that one reason stocks have disappointed so far is that Wall Street hasn't always been confident of the Fed's commitment to lowering rates aggressively. (This uncertainty may have something to do with the fact that Mr. Bernanke has not battled a potential recession before. As a result, the market hasn't known how to assess him.)
 Nick Raich, director of equity research at the National City Private Client Group in Cleveland, pointed out that in the days immediately after the first interest rate cut in September, the market got off to a hopeful start. From Sept. 18 to Oct. 9, the S.& P. 500 rose 3 percent. 
 But then, Mr. Raich noted, there was a distinct change in mood. At its Oct. 31 meeting, the Fed lowered rates -- but only by a modest quarter of a percentage point (after a half-point cut in September). And instead of saying its prime concern was tackling the slowing economy, the Fed ''talked about the balanced risks of inflation and growth,'' Mr. Raich said. 
 WALL STREET interpreted that as a sign that the Fed might not lower rates much further. Mr. Raich said. Investors acted accordingly, sending stock prices lower by 15 percent from Oct. 31 to Jan. 22.
 But after the Fed made an emergency three-quarter-point cut in January, investors became more convinced that it was serious about stimulating the economy. Sure enough, since that meeting, the S.& P. 500 has risen 2 percent. 
 ''It doesn't matter if the economy is in recession or not,'' Mr. Raich said. ''What matters is if we will be in one in the second half of 2008. Now that the Fed has gotten aggressive, that chance has diminished.''
 What seems to matter even more is whether Wall Street remains confident in Mr. Bernanke's resolve. And that remains to be seen. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); EQUITY RESEARCH (67%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2008



31 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 301 words

HEADLINE: We Can Make It

BYLINE: By DUNCAN HUNTER

 BODY:
DURING this campaign season, one issue has often been left out of the national discussion: the deterioration of our industrial base. More than three million manufacturing jobs have been lost over the last eight years alone and, for the first time since 1950, fewer than 14 million Americans are employed by domestic manufacturers. 
 Consider these figures alongside our annual global trade deficit of $815.6 billion, and it is clear that today's workers are losing to foreign competitors. The rapid decline of our industrial strength, once called the ''arsenal of democracy,'' can be attributed to bad trade policies that severely disadvantage our workers. 
 The arsenal of democracy that carried Eisenhower's forces to Berlin and ended the cold war is now found in other countries across the world. The few remaining textile, machine tool and steel companies in the United States must weigh whether to shift production overseas or risk having to close their doors altogether.
 Free trade agreements should promote collective economic interests, but the policies of recent administrations have only made it more difficult for our workers to compete in the global market. China enjoys a $256 billion annual trade surplus with the United States, and thanks to subsidies and currency manipulation, Chinese products cost less here than our manufacturers have to pay just to procure raw materials. 
 We must eliminate this disparity. I have introduced legislation to declare currency manipulation an illegal export subsidy, and we should also have zero federal taxes on domestic manufacturing.
 The presidential candidates must give serious attention to our declining industrial competitiveness. This debate is desperately needed if we are to reverse this damaging course and rebuild our manufacturing base.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY GREGORY NEMEC) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); COLD WAR (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (76%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (76%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (72%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); EXPORT PROMOTION (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); LEGISLATION (65%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2008



32 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; KEEPING SCORE; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: Risks and Rewards of a High-Priced Ace

BYLINE: By DAN ROSENHECK. 
E-mail: keepingscore @nytimes.com

 BODY:
There was perhaps only one thing General Manager Omar Minaya could do to make Mets fans forget the team's collapse last September: acquire the game's best pitcher, Johan Santana. Although Minaya had a far weaker farm system than his rivals for Santana, the Minnesota Twins accepted four middling Mets prospects. 
 A few months after being practically run out of town, Minaya is now being credited with New York's greatest heist since Peter Minuit bought the island of Manhattan for $24 in 1626. The contract extension that Minaya subsequently handed to Santana -- a six-year deal for $137.5 million, with an option -- registered as an afterthought. 
 Yet it was Santana's cost that led the Twins' tight-fisted owner, Carl Pohlad, to part with him for such a piddling return. And it is the contract Minaya handed him, much more than the prospects he sent to Minnesota, that could come back to haunt the Mets.
 Statistical conventional wisdom holds that long-term deals for pitchers are virtually always a bad idea, as in the cases of Mike Hampton, Chan Ho Park and Darren Dreifort. Yet a handful of elite pitchers have been brilliant investments, like Pedro Martinez in Boston and Greg Maddux in Atlanta. Which path will Santana take?
 Santana, who will turn 29 this month, has a virtually unrivaled claim as the best pitcher in baseball. Over the last four years, he leads all starters in innings pitched, strikeouts and earned run average, despite playing in the stacked American League Central. He very likely will remain effective as long as he stays on the mound.
 ''Good pitchers tend to plateau between age 28 and 32, while hitters start to see some decline,'' said Nate Silver, a performance forecaster at Baseball Prospectus. ''Pitching is more mental than physical in certain respects, and pitchers can change their approach or learn new skills. It's very hard for a hitter to make those improvements.''
 The bigger challenge for Santana will be staying healthy. As pitchers go, he is one of the best bets to hold up for the long haul. From a scouting perspective, he benefits from a sound, easy delivery and the fact that his primary off-speed pitch is a low-stress changeup. Moreover, the Twins used him cautiously early in his career, when pitchers are most likely to strain their arms, and the only blemish on his health record is minor surgery in 2003 to remove a bone chip in his elbow. 
 But a review of the pitchers whose statistical records most resemble Santana's still provides cause for concern. Although Hall of Famers with long careers abound -- Tom Seaver, Don Sutton, Steve Carlton and Juan Marichal are among the 20 pitchers with numbers most similar to his through age 28 -- there are others, like Jose Rijo, Mario Soto and Sandy Koufax, whose careers were curtailed by injury. Silver estimated that Santana would probably lose at least one season to injury during the contract, and pitch at a substantially diminished level in at least one more.
 So are three or four years of superstar-level Johan Santana worth the price? The answer may depend largely on when his best seasons occur. 
 Vince Gennaro, a consultant for major league teams and author of ''Diamond Dollars: The Economics of Winning in Baseball,'' said the opening of the Mets' new stadium in 2009 paradoxically decreases Santana's value in the short term. Players earn money for their teams by improving their won-lost records, since good teams have better attendance, television viewership and merchandise sales than bad teams do. But the link between victories and revenue is diluted when a new ballpark opens because fans usually turn out in droves to see the stadium, even if the on-field product is mediocre. 
 This phenomenon means that the Mets are virtually guaranteed strong attendance both this year, their last at Shea, and in 2009, so they do not need to win to turn a profit, making their players' performance less valuable financially. By contrast, starting in 2010, they will need to contend for the playoffs to keep maximizing the revenue potential of their new ballpark, Citi Field. So if Santana stars at the start of his contract and tails off in the middle, the deal will be a bust; while if he is at his best between 2010 and 2012, Minaya will come out ahead.
 Most analysts conclude that the substantial risks and rewards of signing Santana are roughly in balance in his contract, and that both he and the team made out fairly well. For that, they have an unlikely actor to thank: the Twins, whose limited use of Santana during their playoff drives in 2002 and 2003 kept him fresh for later years. They might have been better off holding on to Santana and getting every possible pitch out of him before abandoning him to free agency.
 ''Minnesota probably lost some value because of the way they handled him,'' said Will Carroll, Baseball Prospectus's injury reporter. ''They could have just taken him back and said, 'Johan, you're going to lead the league in complete games.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Johan Santana, working out at the Mets' camp, turns 29 this month. The Twins used him cautiously and he has been relatively injury free.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NATI HARNIK/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS FANS (78%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (94%); MINNESOTA TWINS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (88%); BOSTON, MA, USA (72%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%) MINNESOTA, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2008



33 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; ART; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2140 words

HEADLINE: Accusations, Depositions: Just More Fodder for Art

BYLINE: By RANDY KENNEDY

 BODY:
FROM a distance the artwork seems to be some kind of Minimalist drawing, mostly horizontal lines and words on white paper, like Carl Andre typewriter poems or a text piece by Lawrence Weiner. But up close it looks pretty much like what it is: dozens of simply framed copies of budget spreadsheets, partially redacted e-mail messages and letters, and transcripts of legal depositions.
 Hung along the walls of a room and stacked in boxes, the documents give the impression of something assembled by the prosecution in a windowless tribunal room at Guantanamo. But they are exhibits, of a sort, of a different kind of trial that began more than a year ago, when an ambitious, driven Swiss artist named Christoph Buchel and the institution that had wanted to help him realize his grandest work, the Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art in North Adams, went to war against each other.
 Their battle became one of the most publicized and minutely dissected the art world had ever seen. It led Mass MoCA, as the museum is known, to sue Mr. Buchel in federal court, asking for the right to open to the public an immense installation that Mr. Buchel had been assembling for months inside a gridiron-size warehouse before his relations with the institution soured and work stopped. 
 The museum won the lawsuit in September but lost, mostly, in the court of public opinion, as many art critics and scholars condemned its attempt to wrest an unfinished work from an artist, no matter how difficult Mass MoCA claimed he was. Later that month the museum decided essentially to bow to Mr. Buchel's will and dismantle the work, which would have been called ''Training Ground for Democracy,'' a kind of nightmarish sociopolitical maze about American culture.
 But if that appeared to bring an end to the dispute, it did so only for those who don't know the restless mind and relentless methods of Mr. Buchel. The maze that was never finished inside the warehouse seems now to have extended out of it, into the world at large, where it is unfolding in new art by Mr. Buchel based on the thousands of pages of correspondence and museum documents made public in the discovery phase of the lawsuit. Mr. Buchel's lawyer is also demanding that other documents that Mass MoCA designated as confidential during the case be made public so that Mr. Buchel can use them as art material too. (He calls the museum's refusal to give him all the documents censorship, and he has framed one particular page, stamped confidential, that contains the words ''This page left intentionally blank'' to show what he describes as the absurdity of the museum's position.)
 ''This new series of works I have been doing is a kind of physical manifestation of the principle of freedom of speech and expression that the dispute is about,'' Mr. Buchel (pronounced BOO-shel) said in an e-mail message to answer several questions about the work. ''It says to the museum: You cannot shut me up. You tried, with your lawsuits and your fancy pro bono lawyers, but you cannot do it. You destroyed the installation 'Training Ground for Democracy,' but it mutated into an ongoing metaproject.''
 Looked at one way, parts of that metaproject that were displayed in December at Art Basel Miami Beach could be seen as a kind of literalization of art for art's sake. Or art for argument's sake: Mr. Buchel simply used the means he knows best -- his work -- to defend himself against what he sees as an inaccurate and unfair portrayal of him as an enfant terrible. 
 But he risks strengthening that portrayal by making this artwork, which could be viewed as purely vindictive, and including in it e-mail exchanges that often paint a portrait of him as highly inflexible and difficult. (One e-mail message reveals that he was unwilling to alter the Mass MoCA installation even to accommodate concerns about accessibility for the disabled.)
 But he is aware of that risk. So the metaproject, like much of Mr. Buchel's work, has a hall-of-mirrors sense to it that leaves you wondering if there is an exit. The Mass MoCA dispute often revolved around money; the museum contended that it was having to spend far too much, but Mr. Buchel said the museum was lying about the budgets. So it's interesting that one work of his new series -- ''Made by Mass MoCA (Training Ground for Confidentiality)'' -- comes with a $250,000 price tag. (It has not sold, though another work with the same price, ''Training Ground for Training Ground for Democracy'' -- also based on the Mass MoCA project and a kind of capsule version of the original installation -- did.)
 Even during the court battle Mass MoCA and its lawyers became concerned that Mr. Buchel might be conducting discovery actions simply to generate documents for a new artwork. That led to testy exchanges in which lawyers questioned him about why he was insisting on having depositions videotaped, including his own. 
 ''Is it possible that you will try to sell the videotape of your deposition as art?'' one lawyer asked Mr. Buchel in a deposition whose transcript is included in the work.
 ''I don't know,'' the artist replied.
 And finally one new work includes a framed copy of an article that I wrote for The New York Times in May about the dispute, an article that Mr. Buchel describes as a ''cover-up'' engineered as part of the museum's press strategy. So there is the distinct possibility that this follow-up article, with which Mr. Buchel cooperated, will be a part of the metaproject too.
 In other words, everybody is implicated. Nobody gets away.
 Joseph C. Thompson, the museum's director and the focus of most of Mr. Buchel's anger (in one e-mail exchange in early 2007 Mr. Buchel suggested that Mr. Thompson volunteer at the White House because of his political acumen), argued in an interview that the museum was not trying to prevent Mr. Buchel from making art based on its internal documents. He said that more than 20,000 pages of documents had been made public in the case and a small percentage were being kept confidential, partly because the material included the names of donors and others who he feels should have the right to privacy. 
 ''We've been extremely forthcoming in our provision of documents,'' Mr. Thompson said. ''I've known that Christoph was selling or attempting to sell personal correspondence of mine, and I haven't been kicking or screaming about that.''
 But in an e-mail message later he also questioned the importance of artwork built from such correspondence. '' 'Training Ground for Democracy' was a work of immense promise about matters central to our lives today, and God knows we worked hard to try to will it into existence,'' he wrote. ''I'm not sure that works based on art-world insiderish b-roll 'making of' issues rises to that high standard.''
 Mr. Buchel's, lawyer, Donn Zaretsky, contests Mr. Thompson's position that the museum has been forthcoming about providing documents, writing in an e-mail message that only a small percentage of the released documents were meaningful, as many were duplicates or irrelevant and that the museum only released them when forced to by the court.
 In a four-hour, off-the-record discussion in December at Maccarone, his New York gallery, Mr. Buchel, 41, seemed if anything even angrier about his experience with Mass MoCA than he had been in spring, during a volley of messages that flew back and forth between Mr. Thompson and him as the project was falling apart and the museum turned to its lawyers.
 Mr. Buchel appeared to know every line of every budget produced during the months of the project's life. And like a congressional investigator trying to parse secret C.I.A. spending, he has burrowed deeply into the accounting, accusing Mr. Thompson of repeatedly lying to him and to his galleries about costs, to try to shrink the size of the installation and water down his ideas.
 In one of the most prominent examples, an old two-story Cape Cod-style house was cut into pieces, squeezed into the Mass MoCA warehouse and then reassembled as the dominant element of the installation, at a cost of about $100,000, according to Mr. Thompson, far more than the museum could afford in what it first thought would be a $160,000 project. Mr. Buchel, citing internal budgets and parts of a deposition of Mr. Thompson, contends that the disassembling, reassembling and installation cost far less, about $18,000. He also argued that Mr. Thompson concealed that the house was not bought directly by the museum but by a donor who wrote a $57,000 check. 
 ''The museum managed itself in absolute nontransparency,'' Mr. Buchel wrote in an e-mail message. But Mr. Thompson contends that donations like the $57,000 legitimately count against the museum's budget because such largesse is a finite resource upon which the museum relies dearly. (Until recently it had no endowment.) And he says that the costs for getting the house from its original location and inside an old warehouse were, despite what various museum budgets might suggest, about $40,000.
 ''Track that total cost against common sense,'' Mr. Thompson wrote in an e-mail message. The real question, he said, should be, ''How the heck did Thompson get'' a 19th-century, 1,800-square-foot house reassembled whole in his gallery for only $100,000? ''In most places that would be a $500K project,'' he argued.
 Another point of continuing dispute (and thus continuing Buchel artwork) concerns the construction of a permanent bay door in the Mass MoCA warehouse so that the largest elements of the installation -- which also included a trailer home, an oil tanker and several shipping containers, plus parts of an old movie house -- could be moved in. The door cost $45,000 and was counted as part of the budget for Mr. Buchel's work, though it was a capital improvement that can be used in the future. Mr. Thompson conceded that including the door in the Buchel budget was a mistake. ''He's got a good point on that,'' he said.
 For Mr. Buchel the point of a continuing, obsessively detailed post-mortem seems not only to prevail in countless matters of fact but, in a larger sense, to lift the museum curtain, revealing the messy way art gets made and paid for these days, when institutions are increasingly interested in complex installations that seem better suited to the ambitions of the Army Corps of Engineers.
 A major underlying theme for Mr. Buchel is what he called ''the creative economy,'' the way that, in his view, museums -- particularly American ones -- seem to care less about the art than they do about their image, budget, attendance and expansionist visions as they become ever more a part of an entertainment culture. Mr. Buchel wrote in an e-mail message that his new work ''examines the power structures of the art system'' by anatomizing Mass MoCA's ''inner organs and psyche and the real motivations behind its public facade.''
 Whether it makes for good art or just good double-fisted polemic may take a while to sort out. But Mr. Buchel's failed project and its metastasizing after-art have, paradoxically, not been bad for Mass MoCA's attendance and budget. At a fundraiser in November in New York, the museum raised four times more than it ever had at such an event -- almost $1 million. It has also raised more than $12 million over the past 16 months to create an endowment, and its attendance has risen significantly since the debacle. 
 If any damage has been suffered, Mr. Thompson said, it is probably only to his own reputation in the eyes of those who feel he committed a cardinal sin in taking an artist to court to display his unfinished work -- in essence, trying to usurp the artist's right to say what art is. But Mr. Thompson did not sound particularly worried about the lasting effects of that. 
 ''I guess I'll be destined only to work with artists I deserve to work with now,'' he said dryly.
 Mr. Buchel has not fared so badly either. He has become much more visible and sought-after in the art world since the Mass MoCA fight and in January was named a finalist for the prestigious Hugo Boss Prize, which comes with a $100,000 award.
 But in talking with Mr. Buchel -- whom even Mr. Thompson referred to during a bad patch as having ''rock-solid integrity'' -- you get the idea that money and even attention are secondary concerns. (He does not like having his picture taken and rejected the idea of cooperating with The Times on any article that would smack of a traditional profile of him.)
 He seems instead to be a kind of fiery, monastic devotee to an almost impossibly high ideal of art, perpetually disappointed with those who do not live up to it.
 ''Who is going to decide what art is?'' he wrote in an e-mail message about the Mass MoCA fight. ''For sure it is not the art institution if the authors are still alive and can speak.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Scenes from the dismantling of Christoph Buchel's ''Training Ground for Democracy'' in October at the Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIK JACOBS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.AR1)
Sections of Christoph Buchel's ''Made by Mass MoCA (Training Ground for Confidentiality),''right and inset, and ''Training Ground for Training Ground for Democracy,'' bottom, parts of a metaproject by the artist in the wake of the museum's lawsuit against him. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, ABOVE AND RIGHT, MACCARONE INC. NEW YORK AND HAUSER & WIRTH ZURICH)
Right, a house that was to be part of Christoph Buchel's ''Training Ground for Democracy'' at Mass MoCA. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIK JACOBS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 MACCARONE INC. NEW YORK AND HAUSER & WIRTH ZURICH) (pg.AR31) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEPOSITIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); LITIGATION (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (88%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (88%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); PRETRIAL DISCOVERY (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); LAWYERS (73%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (71%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (71%); CENSORSHIP (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ZURICH (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2008



34 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: Thinking One Step Ahead of a Downturn

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
SAY the economy has fallen into recession, as so many people on and off Wall Street think. Is it time to bail out of stocks?
 Selling may be the reflexive response by shareholders who have watched the value of their assets decline in step with economic indicators, but investment advisers contend that they should consider buying instead. Recessions tend to be short, and by the time one is widely acknowledged, they say, investors have often sold just in time to miss the recovery that lies around the corner.
 ''People should be preparing for the next upswing because the downturn is already priced in,'' advised Ron Muhlenkamp, manager of the Muhlenkamp Fund. 
 Brendt Stallings, a fund manager for the TCW Group who specializes in shares of medium-size companies, suggests that investors may not be fearing the worst but that they certainly have it on their minds. And that has already registered in stock prices.
 Portfolio managers who foresee a rebound concentrate their buying on segments of the economy that tend to outperform as a new growth cycle gathers momentum. They are not allocating all of their resources to such recovery plays, though, and are making allowances for conditions that seem to be different from those of other recessions.
 ''The normal rotation that occurs is a move into financials and consumer cyclicals,'' Mr. Muhlenkamp noted before conceding that ''normal'' does not quite describe the financial sector and such cyclical industries as housing these days. He likes some financial stocks, notably the mortgage buyer and seller Fannie Mae, but he prefers consumer-oriented companies like the appliance maker Whirlpool and two transportation companies: Harley-Davidson and Winnebago.
 Continuing with his eclectic list of companies that get people from here to there, he expects the stocks of Boeing and Caterpillar to rise with, or ahead of, the economy. A point in their favor, he said, is the level of the dollar; it is far weaker than it was during the 2001 recession, giving American exporters a competitive edge.
 Barbara Walchli, manager of the Aquila Rocky Mountain Equity fund, is another advocate of transportation stocks. The sector, she said, is ''usually one of the groups that moves fastest coming off the bottom.''
 One of the fastest of the fast may be Knight Transportation, a midsize trucking concern. Ms. Walchli lauded Knight's management for keeping the company's books free of debt, unlike a rival, Swift Transportation, which she said had borrowed heavily to take itself private.
 She also likes Avnet, a distributor of electronic components to businesses. It fits well with her expectation that businesses will open their wallets before consumers as the economy emerges from its torpor.
 Mr. Stallings also foresees business spending picking up sooner, and he prefers potential beneficiaries of the trend that have a global reach. Examples include Spirit AeroSystems, a supplier of commercial airline assemblies and components, and two companies, Cognizant Technology Solutions and Resources Connection, that provide outsourced labor to fulfill administrative or technical services for other businesses.
 He also expects consumers to do their fair share in helping the economy bounce back. Among his favorite recovery plays here are three chains of different sorts: P.F. Chang's China Bistro, which operates restaurants; the pet supply company PetSmart; and Dick's Sporting Goods.
 ''It's an interesting time to be a bottom-up fundamental growth manager,'' Mr. Stallings said. ''Everything is on sale across the board.''
 Before buying stocks to anticipate a blast-off out of recession, investors must buy the premise that a recession is here. Many do not, including John Lynch, chief market analyst at Evergreen Investments.
 ''The classic ingredients for a recession have been tight monetary policy and runaway inflation, especially wage inflation, and neither of those exists today,'' Mr. Lynch said, despite some signs that inflation has been increasing.
 He acknowledges that a third sign of recession -- fear -- is here, and then some, but he still describes the economy as being in ''the late stages of expansion'' or possibly ''knocking on the door of a recession.'' That is only likely to postpone the reckoning until next year, he said.
 In his view, the best companies in which to invest between now and then are in defensive areas like health care and basic consumer items, or in segments of technology that derive much of their revenue from businesses. Despite his less positive economic outlook, he, too, anticipates strong capital spending.
 Defensive selections include Procter & Gamble, Pfizer and Johnson & Johnson. Among tech stocks that he mentioned are Intel, Microsoft and Oracle.
 EVEN investment advisers who say the economy is approaching a trough prefer to hedge against the possibility that they are wrong. David C. Fording, co-manager of the William Blair Growth fund, prefers consumer businesses that derive much of their sales abroad, where economic conditions appear less fragile. Mr. Fording said he recently bought shares of the retailer Coach for that reason.
 ''There are a number of growth drivers for Coach in the U.S. and, more important, it's a global brand,'' he said.
 His more conventional recovery choices include Fastenal, a supplier of construction and industrial supplies, and McCormick & Schmick's Seafood Restaurants.
 Such domestically focused companies are worth owning ''if you feel that there's a decent probability that we'll make it through this rough patch,'' Mr. Fording said.
 How rough will it be? He cautioned investors to expect conditions over the short term that are uncomfortable, but not necessarily unprofitable.
 ''Regardless of whether we see really negative headlines for the next three to six months,'' he said, ''it might very well be the case that the market climbs the wall of worry and looks past the bad news to a recovery in 2009.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: PetSmart's site in Secaucus, N.J., boards Jeff Blank's dog, Honey. The company is among one fund manager's bets for the next economic upswing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); ELECTRONICS (73%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (72%); ELECTRONIC COMPONENT MFG (63%); ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC GOODS WHOLESALERS (63%); ELECTRONICS WHOLESALERS (60%); AIRLINES (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (66%); WHIRLPOOL CORP (66%); BOEING CO (53%); SPIRIT AEROSYSTEMS HOLDINGS INC (50%)

TICKER: WHR (NYSE) (66%); BOE (LSE) (53%); BAB (BRU) (53%); BA (NYSE) (53%); SPR (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (66%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (66%); NAICS335228 OTHER MAJOR HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS335224 HOUSEHOLD LAUNDRY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (53%); NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3728 AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT, NEC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2008



35 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 178 words

HEADLINE: A Dismal Friday Erases the Gains

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
After a sparkling start to the week, stocks plummeted on Friday, pulling the market down for the week and for the fourth consecutive month. 
 Through Thursday, the Dow Jones industrial average was in positive territory for the week. But on Friday, a spate of grim economic reports -- on consumer confidence and spending and on business conditions in the Midwest -- resulted in a daily decline of 315.79 points. That wiped out the week's previous gains.
 Financial stocks took the brunt of the losses. For the week, JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America, American Express and Citigroup had the worst performance among the Dow industrials. Their shares all dropped by more than 5 percent.
 For the week, the Dow Jones industrial average lost 114.63 points, or 0.9 percent, to close at 12,266.39. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 22.48 points, or 1.7 percent, to close at 1,330.63. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 31.87 points, or 1.4 percent, to close at 2,271.48. 
 The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell to 3.51 percent from 3.80 percent the previous week. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); BOND MARKETS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (65%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); AXP (NYSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2008



36 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; BOOKS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1908 words

HEADLINE: Sleepy-Eyed Writer, Wandering Byzantium

BYLINE: By CHARLES McGRATH

 BODY:
YOU might not know it to look at him, but the novelist Richard Price has over the years picked up what one of his characters might call some cheddar. He has a house in Gramercy Park and a summer place out on the Island; his work has earned him an Edgar award for television writing, an Academy Award nomination and an award in literature from the American Academy of Arts and Letters. But Mr. Price, who grew up in the Parkside Projects, has shed neither his Bronx accent nor any of his street-smarts. 
 He is still wary, even a little jumpy at times. Walking around the Lower East Side, where his new novel, ''Lush Life,'' is set, he could easily be mistaken for one of the locals. Pale, thin, high-strung, with the baggy eyes of someone who doesn't get enough sleep, he could even be a guy looking to score a little coke -- something Mr. Price admits to doing with regularity back in the '80s. He walks quickly, jokes a lot without smiling much, and, as readers of his books know, has a pitch-perfect mastery of urban speech in all its varieties. He may be the only middle-aged white man in America who can say ''True dat'' without sounding ridiculous. 
 Now 58, Mr. Price published his first book, ''The Wanderers,'' set in the blue-collar Bronx of his childhood, when he was just 24 and barely out of Cornell -- from which he emerged, he has said, even streetier and more Bronx-sounding than when he began -- and the M.F.A. program at Columbia, where his models were Hubert Selby and Lenny Bruce. 
 He has published steadily every since, eventually turning from more or less autobiographical work to books like ''Clockers'' and ''Freedomland,'' big, Dickensian novels about the drug trade and life in the projects. He has also written the screenplays for ''Clockers,'' ''The Color of Money'' (for which he received the Oscar nomination), ''Sea of Love'' and ''Mad Dog and Glory,'' among other movies, and recently he has written some episodes for the HBO series ''The Wire,'' which won him the Edgar. He's one of a handful of contemporary novelists to work for Hollywood and emerge more or less unscathed. 
 Like ''Clockers'' and ''Freedomland,'' ''Lush Life'' is at its core a thriller or a mystery story -- about a holdup ending in a murder. ''I tend to like crime for a backbone,'' Mr. Price said recently. ''An investigation will take you through a landscape.'' The landscape in this case -- the subject of the book, really -- is the Lower East Side, which Mr. Price depicts as a neighborhood of colliding populations: the few remaining Jewish old-timers; the people from the projects; the La Bohemers, as he calls them, the trust-fund couples with their M.F.A.'s and videocams; the Chinese immigrants, many of them illegal, who sleep, stacked on shelves, in some of the old tenements. 
 The book's hero -- if you can call him that -- is a 35-year-old named Eric Cash, a restaurant manager with a drug conviction who has done a little acting, published a short story in a defunct literary magazine and is now working -- or rather, not working -- on his screenplay. He's modeled partly on himself, Mr. Price said. ''He's me if what has been hadn't been. I've always been interested in when the hyphen disappears -- you know, actor-waiter, cabdriver-writer -- and you have to settle for who you are.'' Every now and then you sense that Mr. Price may still feel a little hyphenated himself, with one foot in the old Lower East Side, where he no longer strictly belongs, and one foot in the present, whose permanence he distrusts a little.
 About the Lower East Side today, Mr. Price said, ''This place is like Byzantium. It's tomorrow, yesterday -- anyplace but today.'' He added that he sometimes thinks of the neighborhood as a very busy ghost town, where many of the ghosts milling around still speak Yiddish.
 Mr. Price's last three novels have all been set in a fictional city he calls Dempsy, loosely based on Jersey City. ''The whole idea of Dempsy was I didn't want to feel journalistically beholden to a real place,'' he said. ''It was the other place, the one next to wherever you are. But to fictionalize the Lower East Side would defeat the whole purpose. What drew me was the place itself.''
 He added that he originally thought of writing a historical novel, one that would dramatize the experience of the immigrant Jews who thronged the Lower East Side a hundred years ago. ''But then I realized that's probably the most well-documented immigrant movement in history,'' he said. ''A guy comes over here, and his first job is working in a sweatshop. His second job is writing a novel about a guy working in a sweatshop. How am I going to do this better than Henry Roth did?''
 History was nevertheless on Mr. Price's mind one morning in late fall when he walked around the neighborhood, revisiting some of the places that inspired his novel. His grandparents got their start in the Lower East Side, he explained, and while Mr. Price was growing up his father worked here as a window dresser for the many small clothing shops that used to be an important part of the neighborhood economy. 
 ''In a way the whole place has come full-circle in five generations,'' Mr. Price said. ''A hundred years ago there were Jews trying to claw their way out of here, and now the descendants of those people are paying $2,000 a month to live in what used to be their tenements.'' He wrote the novel partly with his two daughters in mind, he added. ''They're city kids -- they grew up here, and it's not as if they weren't aware of my family's history. But I'm not sure they put that Lower East Side together with this cool place to go to clubs, with cool stores to shop in.''
 First stop on the tour was Schiller's Liquor Bar, the model for Cafe Berkmann, the restaurant that Eric Cash manages in the novel. Mr. Price took great pleasure in pointing out that though the place looks like a remodeled pharmacy from the '20s or '30s, everything from the pressed-tin ceiling to the chicken-wire windows to the de-silvered mirrors was discovered by the owners in old warehouses and installed to look as if it had been there forever. ''It's all a stage set,'' he said, ''and now it's, like, venerable.'' He was even more pleased to discover another instance of art imitating life in a parking lot just across the street: a film crew from ''Law & Order'' setting up a crime scene that included two corpses. 
 Mr. Price then zigzagged all over the neighborhood, pointing out landmarks: the many desanctified synagogues, some of them turned into homes; the double-decker storefronts, one above street level, one below; the ''hanging gardens'' of fire escapes, as he called them, on former tenement blocks; the old Jewish red-light district on Allen Street; the Jade Fountain liquor store, on Delancey, whose sign reads, ''As Old as Hills.'' 
 On Rivington, across the street from Babeland, the sex-toy emporium, he paused in front of a vacant lot that was once the site of a famous synagogue, the First Roumanian-American Congregation. A year or so ago the roof collapsed, Mr. Price explained, and seemingly overnight the building was torn down, leaving only the rear wall and its stained-glass Star of David. ''The candlesticks were standing up in the rubble,'' he said, ''and the whole place looked like an experimental stage set -- like Shakespeare in the Park.'' 
 Everywhere he went Mr. Price was alert to signs of change and yuppification, to the spread of wine bars and fashion boutiques. He noted the invisible boundary on Clinton Street, for example, marking the up-and-coming blocks where the liquor stores no longer sell Thunderbird, and where, imitating a maitre d', he said: ''Sorry, you can't get in this restaurant -- you didn't make a reservation three weeks ago.'' Pointing to a high-rise apartment tower at the east end of Delancey Street, where apartments that used to be owned only by union members now sell on the open market, Mr. Price said, ''In the winter you can actually see Christmas decorations on some of the terraces now. It's like a demographic light board. You total up the Christmas lights and get a WASP head count.''
 On Orchard Street, where outdoor vendors were selling discount pants and shirts and suspiciously cheap leather jackets, much as they would have 40 or 50 years ago, he said: ''This is like those potato fields out in the Hamptons that the farmers sell for a million dollars. In a couple of years it will all be gone. These guys are already assembled at the funeral home, only they don't know it.''
 Mr. Price's previous novel, ''Samaritan,'' about a Hollywood television writer who returns home to teach in a city school -- something that Mr. Price himself has done -- came out in 2003. ''Lush Life'' took so long to finish, he said, in part because he spent so much time researching it -- talking to people, riding around with the neighborhood police and sometimes just walking around. 
 ''I always like to hang out,'' he said, ''because, one, it's a way of avoiding really writing; and, two, sometimes God is a crackerjack novelist and you can plagiarize the hell out of him.'' He particularly liked hanging out with cops, he said, ''because I'm so not a cop myself. Being with them gets me out of my own self-consciousness.'' ''Lush Life'' begins with an undercover team Mr. Price calls the Quality of Life Task Force, who troll the late-night traffic coming off the Williamsburg Bridge, looking for cars that drive slowly and properly signal for a lane change. These automatically get stopped on the principle that anyone so law-abiding must be up to no good. 
 Another reason the book took so long is that Mr. Price felt obligated to the neighborhood -- he wanted to get it right, all the chaos, all the texture -- and wound up writing far too much. ''I threw out 300 pages,'' he said. ''Not voluntarily.''
 When he finally, reluctantly, showed the manuscript to his editor, he explained, it felt less like a submission than an intervention. ''There was just so much here,'' he said, ''and I fell in love with everything. I had two novels. It was as if my novel had had a novel. Congratulations, you've just had a nine-and-a-half-pound novel!'' He shook his head and added, ''You never really learn how to write a book, because every one is different.''
 Mr. Price was in no hurry to get home, it turned out, because he was avoiding work on his new project, an adaptation of Tom Rob Smith's ''Child 44,'' a thriller set in Stalinist Russia, for the film director Ridley Scott. ''The older you get, the less time you want to spend doing stuff for money,'' he said, and he mentioned the novelist Richard Yates, who once told him, ''I don't have time left for screenplays.'' 
 Mr. Price said: ''That's how I feel now. I have less patience for writing this thing that may never happen.'' But he added: ''The most valuable thing I can buy with money now is time, and at the speed with which I write I have to alternate books with screenplays. I have to buy my time. And then, whichever thing I'm doing, I always wish I was doing the other.'' 
 About working for Hollywood, he said: ''I know now to take everything in stride. The first thing you have to learn is that an artist doesn't have much choice when he's a hired pen. The second thing is that it's the kiss of death when you hand in a script and they say, 'What a great read!' That means: 'See you. Don't let the door hit you on the way out.' '' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Richard Price in Schiller's Liquor Bar. His new novel, ''Lush Life,'' is his first since 2003. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.AR1)
Top, Richard Price on Rivington Street. Right, on Ludlow Street. Below, Mr. Price in a photograph from 1983. His new novel is set on the Lower East Side. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JUDY HUDSON
 SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.AR12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (76%); BOOK REVIEWS (75%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2008



37 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1334 words

HEADLINE: SoHo Meets HoJo in Atlantic City

BYLINE: By ALLEN SALKIN

 BODY:
IF all goes well, after Memorial Day you may not be considered good enough to be welcome at a former fleabag hotel in Atlantic City.
 Curtis Bashaw, the developer of a project combining a rundown former Howard Johnson and a Holiday Inn into a boutique hotel named the Chelsea, has tapped the operators of the exclusive Manhattan nightclub du jour, the Beatrice Inn, to oversee the new hotel's night-life offerings. 
 ''It will be SoHo House-y,'' Mr. Bashaw said last week. ''All on the fifth floor, you'll have a library, a game room, an oval-shaped bar and a Stephen Starr restaurant, which connect like a big house and spill out onto an enormous pool deck.''
 While overnight guests at the Chelsea will be welcome to roam at will around the fifth floor, there will also be a street entrance with doormen eyeballing nonguests hoping to pay their way into the party. 
 Will the doormen turn away people deemed unhip based on their clothes, haircuts or demeanor, just as Angelo, the doorman at the Beatrice in Greenwich Village, does nightly?
 ''We hope so,'' Mr. Bashaw said by telephone from Cape May, N.J., where he has developed three hotels. Atlantic City, gritty and rundown on nearly every block where the casinos are not, is not yet the East Coast Las Vegas it was supposed to become when gambling was legalized in 1976, but investors like Mr. Bashaw believe that a wave of what they say are hipster amenities will draw the same kind of young urbanites who have adopted Nevada's Sin City as the in-place to roll.
 Scheduled to make their debuts this year are an express train from Penn Station with casino-designed club cars; a 44-story waterfront tower with a glass-domed tropical oasis at Harrah's; and a $400-million tower addition with a 400-jet Jacuzzi at the Borgata, the hotel that pioneered a more upscale Atlantic City when it opened in 2003.
 It's enough to make a tourism official croon.
 ''The New York hipsters are coming to Atlantic City,'' said Jeffrey Vasser, executive director of the Atlantic City Convention and Visitors Authority. 
 Not all of those hipsters have received word about the new Atlantic City.
 ''Atlantic City is one of the most disgusting places in the world,'' said Sean Kalish, a 26-year-old lawyer who visits the casinos to play poker. He was standing in a slender peacoat waiting for the Atlantic City bus at the Port Authority Bus Terminal on Wednesday. ''It's like Las Vegas got drunk and slept with South Jersey and this is their bastard child.''
 Never mind the old perceptions, say Mr. Vasser and other Atlantic City advocates. They continue to adhere to a philosophy that if you build the right hotel -- and add a celebrity D.J. spinning dance music -- the stylish classes will come.
 ''We believe there is this under-served market of people who have said 'Atlantic City, it's a write-off,' '' said Mr. Bashaw, who with a partner, Craig Wood, is also involved in turning the former Bulova watch-case factory on Long Island into condominiums and opening a spinoff of Hollywood's Mondrian hotel in SoHo. ''We are introducing to Atlantic City the first cool hotel product that's been opened there in dozens and dozens of years.'' 
 The Chelsea, which will have no casino, plans to open after Memorial Day, offering deluxe rooms in the old Holiday Inn tower and a class of ''lite'' rooms for around $200 a night.
 There will be cushioned chairs on the beach with waiters shuttling food and cocktails across the Boardwalk. 
 While the deal with Paul Sevigny and Matt Abramcyk, the operators of the Beatrice Inn, is set to be completed Tuesday and could still fall through, the Chelsea's operators envision the two men booking D.J.s, making a menu of specialty cocktails and bringing ''a vibe,'' said Liv Odegard, a spokeswoman for the Chelsea. Mr. Sevigny, the brother of the actress Chloe Sevigny, was out of the country and unavailable for comment last week, and Mr. Abramcyk said he did not want to speak about the project until all details were in place.
 ''They are going to be in charge of celebrity wrangling, including bringing Paul's sister's friends down,'' Ms. Odegard said. ''At the Beatrice, it was Heath Ledger before he died, Adrian Grenier, Mary-Kate and Ashley and everyone who walks in from the Waverly Inn.''
 It's not impossible to imagine the cachet of the Beatrice luring some fashionable people to Atlantic City, said Jesper Lannung, founder of Modelshotel.com, a social networking Web site. He has frequented the Beatrice, but was not impressed by his one visit to Atlantic City to gamble.
 ''I don't find it too attractive of an area,'' he said. ''But the demographic going to a location could change depending on the venues and the type of people that are attracted to those venues, even in Atlantic City.''
 In recent years, the addition of the Borgata with a top-flight spa and well-reviewed restaurants; a group of nightclubs at the Quarter in the Tropicana; and shopping centers have drawn an increasing number of visitors from Philadelphia and New York City, Mr. Vasser of the convention bureau said. 
 Their spending has allowed the economy to become slightly less dependent on what for years was the typical Atlantic City consumer: a gambler who arrived by bus, wagered for about six hours and left without ever checking into a hotel or buying anything more than a $9.99 all-you-can-eat buffet. For years, 90 percent of the city's revenue was from gambling. Now it's 75 percent, Mr. Vasser said. In Las Vegas, it is about 50 percent, he added.
 Like many Las Vegas hotels that sought to boost the credibility of their dining offerings by opening local branches of well-known restaurants like Spago from Los Angeles and Nobu from New York, the Borgata offers two restaurants overseen by Mr. Starr, who opened his original Buddakan in Philadelphia. 
 The Chelsea is following suit. Mr. Starr's Chelsea Prime, a steakhouse, will be part of the fifth-floor party space.
 It is this borrowing of culture from other cities that makes Bryant Simon, author of ''Boardwalk of Dreams: Atlantic City and the Fate of Urban America'' (Oxford University Press, 2004), dubious that the cool people will adopt Atlantic City as a stop on their summer circuits.
 ''If you reproduce what already exists someplace else, you're only going to get people on the back end of that curve,'' he said. ''Hip has to have an authenticity to it, a kind of rareness. What's going on in Atlantic City is manufactured, but it's not as over the top fantastic as Las Vegas.''
 The back end often carries the wallet. Elizabeth Blau, a night life consultant widely credited with transforming Las Vegas's restaurant scene by enticing brand name chefs to open branches there, said the Chelsea plan might work. ''The brilliant thing about many of these nightclub guys is that they seem able to drum up a party wherever they go,'' she said.
 Ms. Blau worked in Atlantic City over the last few years on the Pier Shops at Caesars, a $175-million shopping and restaurant complex connected to the hotel by a bridge over the Boardwalk.
 ''I don't think it's going to be a seven-day thing,'' she said. ''But can these guys from the Beatrice bring a party to Atlantic City on the weekends? I think so.''
 She said she hoped that her positive appraisal of the project might help her get past the doorman and into the Beatrice. 
 Maybe not. Some authentic Manhattan experiences might best be shipped free of charge to Atlantic City. Like the experience of being rejected by a dead-eyed doorman muttering, ''Sorry, private party tonight,'' which is what happened to this reporter as he approached the Beatrice Inn on Wednesday evening wearing a bulky orange parka appropriate to the freezing weather. 
 Moments later, a shivering couple in sheer but stylish clothes was ushered inside without a question.
 It was enough to make a fellow dream of summer days on quiet Long Island beaches, where the only line is at the snack stand for hot dogs and ice cream cones.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NO ENTRY: A doorman screens the downtown club and may soon work the Boardwalk. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHIHO FUKADA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. ST1)
PROPER ATTIRE REQUIRED: The site of the Chelsea hotel, left, which is scheduled to open after Memorial Day. Below, a rendering of the finished Chelsea hotel, and at bottom, Paul Sevigny, one of the operators of the Beatrice Inn.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSEPH J. DELCONZO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK VON HOLDEN/WIREIMAGE)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY HAYES DAVIDSON)(pg. ST12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); GAMING (86%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); POKER (75%); EXECUTIVES (71%); BUS STATIONS & TERMINALS (67%); HARBORS & PORTS (67%); PORT AUTHORITIES (65%); TRAINS (63%); MOTOR VEHICLES (62%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (60%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (60%); LAWYERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); NEVADA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2008



38 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Westchester Weekly Desk; POLITICS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: Novice Finds Learning Curve Sobering, and Compromise an Art

BYLINE: By JULI S. CHARKES

DATELINE: LaGrangeville 

 BODY:
 JOHN J. HALL spent his first 12 months as a United States representative helping to secure benefits for military veterans and pushing for energy reform. But navigating the corridors of Congress initially required a more literal approach, he said last month. 
 Speaking to a group of seniors at Arlington High School in LaGrangeville eligible to vote in their first election, Mr. Hall, a 59-year-old Democrat, recalled the daunting task of learning to maneuver the labyrinth of corridors underneath the Congressional buildings when trying to find his way to vote. He relied on security personnel to point him in the right direction. 
 The anecdote -- recounted with humor -- prompted Mr. Hall to use a favorite analogy to describe the challenge of being a new member of the House: ''Your first year in Congress is like trying to drink sips of water from a fire hose going full blast. There's so much information coming at you, it's hard to absorb it all.''
 Negotiating the lay of the legislative land comes more quickly now for Mr. Hall, a Dutchess County resident who rode anti-Bush sentiment into Congress, narrowly besting the six-term incumbent Sue Kelly. That ended the Republican hold on the 19th District, which includes portions of Westchester and four surrounding counties. 
 The reversal of power has led the National Republican Congressional Committee to count Mr. Hall as one of its top targets in 2008, said Ken Spain, a committee spokesman. The party has yet to declare a candidate and has until July to do so, Mr. Spain said.
 Seated in a coffeehouse in Dover Plains on Super Tuesday last month, Mr. Hall talked about his first year in office, in between meeting with young constituents and accompanying his wife, Pamela, to vote.
 His biggest disappointment, he said, has been Democrats' inability to push forward on two of his major campaign issues: health care reform and an end to the war in Iraq. He calls Congress's failure to expand eligibility of health insurance for low-income children (known as Schip) a significant loss. 
 Mr. Hall said his ''biggest frustration'' had been ''the inability of the House to bring about a change in Iraq and a quicker redeployment or withdrawal.''
 But Mr. Hall quickly pointed to what he considered successes.
 As a member of the House Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming, he pushed for a bipartisan energy bill that, after rancorous debate, passed into law last year. The law requires auto manufacturers to increase fuel economy standards to 35 miles per gallon by 2020. (It has been 27.5 miles a gallon for cars and 22.2 for light trucks since 1985.)
 A longtime proponent of alternative energy sources, Mr. Hall has conducted public forums throughout his district that explore biofuels, wind power, solar energy and small hydro and tidal power. He applauds Westchester County for incorporating ultra-low-sulfur diesel into the Bee-Line bus fleet. 
 What he said he hoped he would most be remembered for, however, is his advocacy for veterans. The first bill for Mr. Hall as chairman of the Veterans Affairs Subcommittee on Disability Assistance and Memorial Affairs was a cost-of-living measure providing a 2.3 percent increase in benefits for all veterans.
 He also pushed for the release of $3.7 billion in additional veterans financing that will go toward health services, including screenings for post-traumatic stress disorder and traumatic brain injury for returning Iraq war veterans, and administrative support to reduce the growing backlog of veterans' claims, which he said was 600,000. There are 70,000 veterans living in Westchester, said Andrew J. Spano, the county executive.
 ''The claims backlog, I think, is a shameful scandal on the face of this nation,'' Mr. Hall said. ''We are so quick to send our men and women in uniform oversees to fight, but so slow to take care of them when they come home.''
 Dressed in a suit, with his head shaved, Mr. Hall bears little resemblance to the pop star image seared into the memory of fans who recall his '70s band Orleans. But the worlds of music and politics have always overlapped, he said. He was a founder of the environmental group Musicians United for Safe Energy in the late '70s, a period when he became a staunch foe of the use of nuclear power. Today, he opposes a license renewal for Indian Point power plant in Buchanan unless its owners adhere to stricter safety standards.
 The learning curve of the past year has been sobering, he said, an education in the art of compromise. 
 He summed up another lesson culled from a year in office: ''You learn quickly that it doesn't work to be a generalist. So you become much more specific in what you want to accomplish.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: AFTER A YEAR: John J. Hall speaking to Arlington High School students. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSAN STAVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (83%); WIND ENERGY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); VETERANS (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); MEDICAID (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); COUNTIES (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); HEALTH CARE LAW (66%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (63%); HEALTH INSURANCE (61%); BIOFUELS (60%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (60%); AUTOMAKERS (60%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (60%); GLOBAL WARMING (60%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL REPUBLICAN CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEE (54%)

PERSON: JOHN J HALL (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2008



39 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; MARKET MAKER; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: A Rerun, Maybe, but of What Show?

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
IS it 1989 all over again? Or 2001? Or, for those old enough to remember, a replay of 1973-74?
 On Wall Street these days, leading strategists are citing these and other periods to help explain what lies ahead for the stock market in 2008, even as market indexes and the broader economy seem to be following divergent paths.
 On the one hand, leading strategists like Byron Wien of Pequot Capital and Tobias Levkovich of Citigroup are predicting a recession. Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, sounded a pessimistic note in Congressional testimony last week, saying that the economy was looking ''distinctly less favorable'' than it did last summer, while the government reported anemic growth in gross domestic product of just 0.6 percent, at an annual rate, in the final quarter of 2007. 
 On the other hand, even after Friday's losses, the Dow Jones industrial average is still hovering around 12,250 while the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index is down only about 5 percent from a year ago, when economic expectations were much rosier. 
 At first glance, it may seem either that the fears are overdone or that the market hasn't fully priced in the likelihood of a recession. Mr. Wien, who sees similarities between now and 1973-74, is in the second camp. Along with $100-a-barrel oil today, he points to price increases for other commodities, like wheat, which has surged recently. Inflationary pressures are rising, he says, even as the economy slows.
 ''We could easily see another 10 percent drop for the S.& P.,'' said Mr. Wien, who has worked on Wall Street for more than 40 years. ''It's right to be cautious.''
 Still, he doesn't expect stocks to plunge by anywhere near 50 percent, as they did in the early 1970s amid Watergate and the OPEC oil embargo.
 Although he is firmly in the recession camp, Mr. Wien says that one major reason the market won't come apart as it did back then is globalization, a hotly debated economic concept today but only a nascent force in the early 1970s. 
 For example, hard-hit financial institutions today have been able to turn to deep-pocketed investors in the Persian Gulf region and the Far East for fresh capital, while foreigners continue to snap up both United States equities and government bonds.
 ''The rise of India and China and the incredible pools of capital out there have changed things,'' he says. ''It's ironic, because as recently as 2005, we were opposed to China buying U.S. companies like Unocal. But now we view them as our safety net.''
 MR. LEVKOVICH, of Citigroup, has crunched the numbers from several volatile periods on Wall Street, including the crash of 1987, the savings-and-loan collapse of 1989, the Asian economic flu of 1997 and the bursting of the tech bubble in 2001-2.
 ''I would probably go with the 2001-2 scenario,'' he says. ''Now we have a credit and housing bubble deflating; then it was a tech bubble.'' 
 Although he has moved into the recession camp in recent weeks, in part because banks are still tightening up on loans and the credit environment looks to remain restrictive for a while, he is not especially bearish on the stock market. 
 Mr. Levkovich argues that the sectors most affected by the credit crisis -- like bank, brokerage firm and housing stocks -- have already suffered, clearing the way for them to rebound like a ''coiled spring'' in the second half of this year.
 Indeed, he notes that financial shares, which were battered in 2001 and 2002, were among the strongest performers when the market rallied in 2003. He's skeptical of the 1970s parallels, arguing that the current run-up in oil prices is very different from the one back then, when crude surged practically overnight.
 Mr. Levkovich may be right about the 1970s, but his optimism about the stock market today may be a bit premature. 
 That's because it turns out the Street is already counting on a coiled-spring-like earnings turnaround in the second half, with First Call reporting that analysts now foresee an 18.6 percent jump in earnings in the third quarter, and a hard-to-imagine surge of 51.9 percent in the fourth quarter.
 That kind of recovery seems a long way off right now. But in the unlikely event that it does come to pass, the turnaround of 2008 will go into the record books as another period that Wall Streeters will talk about for years to come. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In March 2001, the Dow was falling as the tech bubble burst. One theory sees parallels today and expects a fast recovery. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHAWN BALDWIN/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); BONDS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); INFLATION (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (75%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); TESTIMONY (70%); GLOBALIZATION (68%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (74%) CHINA (92%); INDIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GULF STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2008



40 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; DISPATCHES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: The Boardwalk and the Bling

BYLINE: By JAKE MOONEY. 
More Dispatches: nytimes.com/cityroom

 BODY:
IT was just after 6 on a recent Tuesday evening, but Coney Island was so dark it could have been midnight. The Nathan's sign was on, but the service windows facing the sidewalk were closed. A single car sped down Surf Avenue, honking at anyone who stepped off the curb. The Parachute Jump, a ride that hasn't had a rider in decades, looked dark from the subway station a few blocks away, except for a single blinking light at its tip. 
 The only activity in sight was under the crazily lighted flashing yellow sign of Faber's Fascination, a video arcade and a place that, employees will proudly tell you, stays open all winter. Inside, the manager, Derrick Bruce, was trying to fix a broken game called Megatouch XL and dishing out quarters to kids who tossed crumpled dollar bills on his counter. 
 His friend Audrey McLeod was there with her 11-year-old daughter, Claudia, who was playing games and trying on the sunglasses that gamers can take home when they trade in their hard-won tickets. Mr. Bruce has lived in Coney Island all his life, and Ms. McLeod is a seasonal worker for the city's Parks Department, and both had plenty to say about the latest kerfuffle over the Parachute Jump.
 In 2006, the lighting designer Leni Schwendinger was commissioned by the Parks Department, the Economic Development Corporation and Marty Markowitz, the Brooklyn borough president, to design six lighting schemes for the ride, transforming it, in Mr. Markowitz's words at the time, into ''a beacon of light for this and future generations.''
 Twenty months later, Mr. Markowitz has been publicly critical of the new lighting -- it needs ''blinging up,'' he told The New York Post -- and the Economic Development Corporation has issued a request for new proposals to revamp the lighting, at a cost of up to $1.5 million. 
 Claudia McLeod, taking a break from the games, made her priorities clear. ''It's nice to see lights, but it doesn't matter for your fun time,'' she said. 
 ''In other words,'' her mother added, ''she's waiting for the new things that are coming -- the water rides.'' Her mother was referring to a possibly more dazzling future for the amusement park. About the current lighting scheme, Ms. McLeod said: ''To me, the lights are more romantic than spectacular. They're not bright to catch your eye or anything, but maybe for a couple walking on the Boardwalk.''
 Indeed, the lights that appeared dark that night were turned on, using an ''off-season'' scheme that is easier to see later at night, Ms. Schwendinger said later, and could be made brighter for a fraction of the cost of redesigning the lights completely. Such a brightening is the best option, she argued, adding that her firm would not submit a proposal to participate in any redesign. 
 As for the look itself, she said there had always been a divide between partisans of the two approaches: ''the evocative and the sublime and the mysterious, and the more gaudy and the more upbeat.'' Mr. Markowitz, she said, had always had preferred the latter.
 Mr. Markowitz contended that it's more than a matter of taste. ''I think that we got lighting that's a work of art,'' he said, ''and in my humble opinion it does not reflect the ambience of Coney Island.''
 Mr. Bruce, at work behind the counter at Faber's, suggested that brighter lighting could be a good thing, if it made money. But if the ride doesn't reopen, he said, ''you ask yourself, why are we putting so much money into something that -- it's a dinosaur?''
 Mr. Markowitz's point is that lighted just right, the jump would draw people to the area. On that point, Mr. Bruce was skeptical. 
 ''It's like me selling hot dogs here. I could give you supplies like this,'' he said, pointing to a roll of rough white paper towels, ''or I could give you the nice napkins with the ducks and things on them.'' 
 The reality, he said, as a guy with a cigarette in his mouth pumped quarters into a pinball machine nearby, is this: ''People are going to buy the hot dogs whether the ducks are on the napkins or not.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (87%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (78%); WATER PARKS (77%); OPHTHALMIC GOODS (77%); SEASONAL WORKERS (74%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2008



41 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Play; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 7384 words

HEADLINE: Oedipus Bronx

BYLINE: By JONATHAN MAHLER. 
Jonathan Mahler is a contributing writer for The New York Times Magazine and the author of ''Ladies and Gentlemen, the Bronx Is Burning.'' His next book, ''Hamdan v. Rumsfeld,'' will be out in August.

 BODY:
 Hank Steinbrenner was driving like he owned the place. ''This thing's got no pickup,'' he said, gunning my midsize Hyundai down Steinbrenner Drive in Tampa, Fla. We had just finished lunch on a January afternoon at a Steinbrenner family favorite, an Italian restaurant called Iavarone's, and were on our way back to his new office at Legends Field in my rental car, which Hank had insisted on driving. As we approached the ballpark, he steered the car up onto the curb, drove it on the main walkway, between the Yankees merchandise store and a small memorial park devoted to Yankee immortals, and came to a stop just a few feet from the tinted-glass door marked ''Executive Offices.'' ''This is where I usually park,'' Hank said, stepping out of the Hyundai and tossing me the keys. 
 Hank Steinbrenner, who will turn 51 next month, bears a disconcerting resemblance to his father, George M. Steinbrenner III. The square, pinched face, the broad shoulders, the barrel chest, even the tiny feet, are all unmistakably Steinbrenner. The outsize ring on one of his nicotine-stained fingers, however, was not a keepsake from one of the six World Series that the Yankees have won during the 35 years his father has owned the team. It was a miniature horse's head embedded in a diamond-encrusted horseshoe.
 Until recently, Hank worked in a kind of self-imposed exile on his family's 730-acre horse farm in Ocala, Fla., the Kinsman Farm. It was a relatively stress-free, anonymous life that principally entailed attending races, spending his father's millions at horse auctions and studying bloodlines to find suitable stallions to mate with the Steinbrenner mares. But last year, when his father's heir apparent, Steve Swindal, was divorced from Hank's sister Jennifer and forced out of his job as the chairman of Yankee Global Enterprises, things took a remarkable and unexpected turn for both the Steinbrenner children and professional baseball. Hank and his little brother, Hal, found themselves running the most famous and valuable franchise in American sports, the New York Yankees.
 ''It was a necessity,'' Hank told me, referring to the takeover. ''It was something we wanted to do, but it was a necessity as well. The bottom line is that this is a family business.'' By now, we had taken the elevator up to the fourth floor and were sitting in Hank's new and still unfinished office; the flat-screen TV had been mounted, but the private bathroom wasn't yet operational. The picture windows offered a panoramic view of the Yankees' spring-training diamond, Legends Field, which is being renamed George M. Steinbrenner Field.
 While we were talking, Hal poked his head into Hank's office to tell him the tailor was there to fit him for some new suits and overcoats he would need in New York. Hank rolled his eyes and excused himself for a few minutes to have his measurements taken.
 Hal is apparently accustomed to playing the role of the more responsible son. Earlier in the day, I asked the two brothers about their respective experiences at the same military school. Hank told me that he had been something of a rebel, spending more than his share of time in study hall and on disciplinary probation. And Hal? ''I learned pretty quickly what was expected of me,'' he said, looking up from his BlackBerry. ''He was a conformist,'' Hank interjected. 
 When you're in the same room as the two brothers, who are separated by more than 11 years, it's almost impossible to ignore the Felix-Oscar comparison. Trim, in pressed chinos and a blue-and-white polo shirt, Hal is all wariness and restraint, every bit the conservative young businessman suggested by his 1994 M.B.A. For his part, Hank, with his proudly liberated gut and shopworn, untucked appearance, is clearly not one to hold himself back. 
 Once the season starts, the brothers will be regulars at the Regency Hotel, where they stay when they're in New York, and in the owner's box at Yankee Stadium. Hank has already plunged into his new job, in fact, and if he's acting out of a sense of family obligation, he nonetheless seems to relish being the one whose opinion matters. During the off-season, he supplied an abundance of colorful quotes to the tabloids, including a parting short at the Yankees' outgoing manager, Joe Torre. (''Where was Joe's career in '95 when my dad hired him?'' he asked a reporter, rhetorically.) Hank, who is divorced and has four children, does not intend to be an absentee owner. ''The truth of the matter is that as much as the players and managers want to win, no one wants to win more than myself and Hal and the rest of the family,'' he told me. ''It all starts at the top. So we should be making all of the final decisions, and we will.''
 It's true that the Yankees are a family business -- and have been ever since George Steinbrenner bought the team from CBS in 1973 for $10 million. But they are also a perennial post-season favorite and a big-market Goliath, baseball's annual leader in attendance and typically its biggest road draw. The team's economic clout allows it to effectively set the game's agenda, and when Steinbrenner Sr. was in his activist, win-now-and-at-all-costs mode, everyone knew exactly what to expect: regular raids on the team's farm system, outrageous free-agent contracts and a lot of bloviating. But now that the 77-year-old Steinbrenner has either chosen to retire or been forced to by his failing health, it's not clear how the club is likely to operate, much less who's making the decisions for the organization.
 As the Yankees enter their first full season under new leadership, it seems natural to wonder what the transition will mean for both the team and baseball. Succession is fraught with challenges for any business. Throw family dynamics into the mix and things only get trickier, as Rupert Murdoch and Sumner Redstone, two aging patriarchs with children jockeying for control of their respective kingdoms, have recently reminded us.
 In the realm of sports, an especially volatile enterprise, you don't have to look beyond New York to see just how significantly generational succession can alter a team's fortunes. Jeff Wilpon, the son of the owner of the Mets, took control of and revived the team several years ago, while James Dolan, the heir to the Knicks' throne, was turning his family's once-great franchise into a bottom-scraper and laughingstock.
 For the Yankees, the ongoing succession is a lot more complicated than it was for either the Mets or the Knicks. The team is now in the hands of not one but two designated heirs, and one of the Steinbrenner sisters, Jennifer, will have a voice in the team's operations, too, as will Felix Lopez, the second husband of the other sister, Jessica. ''Like almost any family business with a patriarch and children, the long-term future of the Yankees will depend on the need to avoid sibling rivalries and other types of problems,'' one of the team's limited partners told me. ''The question is going to be how they function as a family.''
 On a cold, clear day in late January, I toured the future home of the New York Yankees with Lonn A. Trost, the team's chief operating officer, and Jennifer Swindal Steinbrenner. At 48, Jennifer is the second-oldest of the Steinbrenner children, after Hank. Originally, I had expected to be shown around the new, partly built stadium by her younger brother, Hal, but he came down with the flu. It's a sign of how eager the Yankee organization is to present a unified family front -- and how fuzzy all of the roles within the club are to outsiders -- that the team simply substituted one Steinbrenner for another.
 A self-professed chauvinist, Steinbrenner Sr. apparently never considered putting either one of his daughters in charge of the Yankees. But both of their husbands were once widely considered to be heirs apparent to George. (For that matter, long before they took over last year, both Hank and Hal were at different times seen as probable successors as well.) Before Lopez, Jessica, who is in her mid-40s, was married to Joseph Molloy, who served briefly as the team's general partner when Steinbrenner was banned from baseball in the early 1990s. (Molloy is now a physical-education teacher at a middle school in Tampa; Jessica keeps an office at Legends Field but devotes most of her time to the family's horses.) Then last February, on the morning after Valentine's Day, Steve Swindal was arrested on charges of drunk driving in Florida; less than six weeks later, Jennifer filed for divorce.
 It was a messy affair, but the excommunication of Steve Swindal created job opportunities at the upper levels of the organization, and the subsequent transfer of power to the Steinbrenner children freed Jennifer to become more involved with the team's operations. Formerly a full-time mom, she now has an office at the Yankees' facility in Tampa and is a general partner of the club, with a particular focus on the new ballpark in the Bronx. When we spoke by phone a couple of weeks before meeting at the new stadium site, Jennifer avoided discussing the change in management caused by her ex-husband's departure. Instead, she dismissed her tabloid divorce, and the resulting upheaval within the Yankees, with peppy spin. ''It couldn't have been scripted any better,'' she told me.
 Jennifer had flown into New York via Chapel Hill, where her daughter, a senior at the University of North Carolina, was performing in ''Sweeney Todd.'' She was here to check on the progress at the stadium and meet with the developer, Tishman Speyer, about the models for some of its 50-plus luxury suites, which prospective renters will be able to see by appointment this summer at the developer's Rockefeller Center offices.
 The new stadium is the crowning achievement of George Steinbrenner's 35-year reign as the principal owner of the Yankees. Steinbrenner badgered the city for it for years, using the threat of a move to New Jersey as his favorite cudgel. The two sides finally reached a deal a few years ago, and the ballpark is supposed to be ready in time for the 2009 season. Who knows whether Steinbrenner will spend much, if any, time there? But even if he doesn't, the ballpark -- the House that George Built -- will be his legacy, and it's going to be up to his children to ensure that it thrives.
 ''It's not going to feel like you're entering a ballpark,'' Trost told me as we walked inside. ''It's majestic, it's classic.''
 If the stadium's exterior, with its limestone and granite facade, is self-consciously retro, the interior will be thoroughly modern. Trost might as well have been talking about a new themed hotel in Las Vegas as he described what would become of one drafty concrete chamber after another: the New York Yankees martini bar, a steakhouse (NYY Steak), a grill room, a Yankees museum, a year-round banquet hall and a conference center. The team's interlocking ''NY'' logo will be everywhere, from the door handles to the latticework. Lining the so-called Great Hall that runs from home plate to the right-field foul pole will be huge two-sided banners, with Yankee legends in black-and-white on one side and more recent superstars in color on the other. The Yankees are eight years removed from their last world championship, but it's hard not to regard the new stadium, with its over-the-top evocation of Yankee mythology, as an in-your-face assertion of Yankee might, a pointed and -- depending on your perspective -- either desperate or reassuring reminder that the team is less a baseball club than an American institution. It will be Red Sox Nation's version of hell.
 The field, now covered in heavy machinery, will be identical to the team's existing one, save for two small but significant details: the rain tarp will be moved from the first-base side of the field to the third-base side so that Alex Rodriguez and Derek Jeter, the Yankees' two most valuable assets, will have something soft to land on when they dive after foul balls, and the distance between home plate and the backstop will be reduced by 20 feet, so the seats will be closer to the field.
 ''Isn't it thrilling?'' gushed Jennifer, who was gamely navigating the construction site in a black fur-lined coat, high-heeled boots and a Yankees hard hat. ''My dream is to own a little apartment over there,'' she said, pointing at the tenement across the street from the main entrance to the new ballpark. ''That way I'd only have to cross the street to get to the stadium.''
 The new stadium is also of special interest to Hal, who has spent the last decade or so developing hotels both for the family real estate business and on his own. Before the unexpected rise of Steve Swindal, most Yankee insiders considered Hal the front-runner to take over the franchise one day. He certainly had the right pedigree. Unlike Hank, who graduated from Central Methodist University in Fayette, Mo., Hal followed in his father's footsteps at Williams College. During his senior year -- and with his father's blessing -- Hal cooperated with a profile in Newsday headlined ''Heir Apparent.'' In 2004, in his last extensive interview, Steinbrenner Sr. told a writer for Sports Illustrated that Hank didn't understand him, but that he was ''very proud of Hal.''
 I met Hal for the first time in the executive offices of a deserted Yankee Stadium in the middle of December. A young-looking 39, he has the permanently crenellated hair of his father, whom he refers to as George. This makes a certain kind of sense. He never really knew his dad before he was George Steinbrenner.
 Unlike Hank, who kept his distance from his father for most of his adult life, Hal seems to have long taken it for granted that he was going to do whatever his father wanted him to. ''That was always going to be up to George, obviously,'' he said when I asked him what sort of role he had envisioned with the Yankees. ''I just made sure that I was there at Legends Field three or four days a week, and if they needed me for anything, I was there.'' Hal's first tour of duty with the team came just after his graduation from Williams in 1991. At the time, George was suspended from baseball, but he wanted his younger son to learn the family business and instructed the team's chief operating officer at the time, David Sussman, to take him under his wing.
 It was a bad time for baseball. The league was just beginning to grapple in earnest with the effects of free agency, and the emerging class system of haves (the teams that could afford to compete for high-priced superstars) and have-nots (those that couldn't) was causing considerable bitterness between the owners of big-market and small-market teams. Many owners were pushing for a salary cap to address the inequity, planting the seeds for the labor unrest that would come to a head with the strike in 1994. In this hostile climate, Sussman recalls, Hal was by no means convinced that it made sense for the Steinbrenner family to hold onto the Yankees.
 George Steinbrenner returned to Yankee Stadium for the 1993 season. Such was his imperiousness -- the sportswriter Red Smith once called him ''the Fuhrer of the Yankees'' -- that even a dutiful son like Hal had trouble working for him. ''Even when he gave you apparent authority to make a decision, there was a lot of second-guessing,'' Hal told me, characterizing his father's famously abusive management style as diplomatically as possible.
 Hal has a guarded, serious manner. He almost never talks to the media, and when he does he reveals as little about himself, his family or the Yankees as possible. He opened our first interview by announcing that he wasn't going to discuss his father's health or the specifics of the team's finances. Later, when I asked him how old his daughters are -- he is divorced and has three children, all girls -- he declined to answer: ''Let's just say they're all under 10 and leave it at that.''
 And yet Hal may not be entirely immune to the allure of attention. When he saw me in Tampa a few weeks after our first meeting in the Bronx and realized that I had spent the better part of the day with Hank, he seemed surprised, maybe even a bit jealous: ''I hope there's going to be some personal stuff about me in the story, too.'' Then, perhaps having thought better of his reaction, he quickly added: ''I just want to get a date out of it.''
 Following his apprenticeship in the Bronx, Hal went to business school at the University of Florida and soon immersed himself in the family's hotel business. He lived in Tampa, kept an office directly next to his father's at Legends Field and periodically got involved with the Yankees before again disappearing into the hotels when he ran out of the patience required for dealing with George.
 Hal is now the chairman of Yankee Global Enterprises -- a title formerly held by Steve Swindal -- which on paper places him a rung above Hank, a senior vice president of the Yankees, but both brothers describe themselves as equal partners. There seems to be no formal arrangement, though they say the plan is for Hal to defer to Hank on baseball-related issues and for Hal to have final say on business decisions. But Hank's high profile -- and Hal's near invisibility -- during the off-season has clearly created the perception that Hank is the one in charge.
 The reality is that it's hard to know exactly who's in charge. Not even the team's 20-odd limited partners, who together own a little under half of the team, seem clear about the new distribution of power. ''I think there's some constructive ambiguity in terms of how things have been situated,'' one of them told me. ''The attitude seems to be, Let's see how things work out before making any final judgments.''
 The ongoing steroids scandal notwithstanding, the game that Hal and his siblings are now diving into on a full-time basis is as healthy as it has ever been. There's still some bitterness between big-market and small-market teams, but mandatory revenue-sharing and the luxury tax have redistributed some of the wealth and given the have-nots less cause to complain. What's more, many small-market teams have managed to adapt and find ways to still remain competitive. The game's popularity is soaring; Major League Baseball's attendance record is broken anew every year.
 The team Hal is returning to is, of course, significantly different as well. After an 18-year drought, the Yankees won the World Series four times between 1996 and 2000. On the back of that dynasty a towering international conglomerate was built. ''The Yankees today are an entertainment company with a baseball team at its core,'' Randy Levine, the team's president, told me recently, ticking off some of the club's less visible businesses, including its memorabilia company, Yankees-Steiner Collectibles, which sells players' game-used uniforms and gear, and its partnership with the Japanese media company Yomiuri Shimbun, the owner of the Yomiuri Giants.
 Without question, the most valuable piece of the Yankees' empire is its cable channel, YES, which the Yankees started in 2002. Now the most-watched regional sports network in the country, the YES network enjoys all of the upside of the team's soaring payroll and none of the downside. The bulk of its viewers represent a prized and notoriously difficult-to-reach demographic, men between the ages of 18 and 49, making it an appealing venue for advertisers. And because the network broadcasts almost all of the Yankees' regular-season games and has extensive access to players and coaches, it's a must-have channel for local satellite and cable providers, which pay steep fees for the right to carry it. Last summer, when Goldman Sachs was shopping around its approximately 40 percent stake in YES, the network was valued at around $3 billion. According to Forbes magazine, the team itself isn't worth half that.
 But as Yankee Global Enterprises continues to grow and expand, so too does the importance of the team's continued success, upon which the entire empire is built. Remaining competitive year in and year out requires an ever-escalating payroll; to subsidize that payroll, the Yankees need to keep increasing their revenues. This off-season, when Alex Rodriguez had the opportunity to opt out of his contract, the Yankees pretty much couldn't afford not to re-sign him, both from a business perspective and a baseball one. Not only is he the best player in the game, he will also be an unrivaled draw for the new ballpark as he presumably chases a variety of baseball milestones. (Under his new contract, A-Rod and the Yankees will share the marketing revenue of his 
 historic achievements.) A-Rod will single-handedly boost the value of YES too, perhaps by as much as $100 million, according to Vince Gennaro, a financial consultant to a number of big-league teams; he predicts that A-Rod could generate roughly $450 million for the Yankees over the course of his 10-year contract.
 That's assuming a lot, though. A-Rod may be as close as you can get to a sure thing in baseball, but he and his contract nevertheless represent a big gamble for the Yankees. The club puts the total value of his deal at $275 million, plus an extra $30 million if he breaks Barry Bonds's home-run record. But the Yankees will almost certainly exceed the luxury-tax threshold for the duration of his time with the team (and the rest of eternity, for that matter), which means that they'll have to pay an extra 40 cents for every dollar A-Rod earns. Thus, he'll cost the team on the order of $427 million. Needless to say, if Rodriguez underperforms, becomes deeply unpopular or -- the real nightmare scenario -- gets hurt, the failure will be considerable.
 The organization's handling of A-Rod last year provides a glimpse of what the new regime may mean for the Yankees. Throughout the season, Rodriguez's agent, Scott Boras, and the team's general manager, Brian Cashman, tried to reach an agreement on a new deal, with Cashman making it clear that if Rodriguez opted out the Yankees would not pursue him as a free agent. Boras and Rodriguez called the Yankees' bluff during the World Series; player and team seemed to have parted ways. ''We're not going to back down,'' Hank said at the time. ''It's goodbye.''
 But several days later, Rodriguez called Hank directly, going around both Boras and Cashman, and the Yankees did back down. In an effort to save face, Hank went out of his way to cast A-Rod, not exactly a hayseed, as an almost unwitting dupe of Boras -- ''He sounded shellshocked,'' Hank told me, ''like he didn't know what was going on'' -- and suggested that he, personally, had helped bring Rodriguez around by lecturing him on the majesty of the pinstripes. Hank may have salvaged some pride by cultivating the impression that A-Rod crawled back to the Yankees on his knees, but it came at a cost: the public humiliation of a player to whom the team had just committed hundreds of millions of dollars.
 For the Yankees, the new, $1.2 billion stadium is an even higher-stakes bet than A-Rod. Unlike football, baseball is a local business; financially, teams depend heavily on regional fan support. Apart from vanity, George Steinbrenner had a very simple reason for wanting a new ballpark: the Yankees have maxed out their revenue potential in the current one.
 The new stadium certainly promises to be a giant ATM. Its seating capacity is a little less than that of the existing stadium -- it will seat just under 51,000, down from 57,500 -- but fewer seats means greater demand, and greater demand means higher ticket prices. There will also be many more opportunities to spend money inside the ballpark. Four times as much space will be devoted to retail shops -- 12,000 square feet compared to 3,000 -- and instead of empty, blacked-out center-field bleachers, there will be a massive sports bar. The existing stadium has 19 high-priced luxury suites; the new stadium will have 51 higher-priced luxury suites as well as 8 separate ''party suites'' that together can accommodate more than 400 people.
 During my tour of the stadium, Trost stressed that a trip to the ballpark would still be affordable to the average Yankee fan. ''The luxury suites will bear the brunt of the price increases,'' he told me. ''They'll subsidize Joe Fan.'' If this is true, it's also a bit misleading. The suites, which will run from $600,000 to $850,000 per year, are certainly priced exorbitantly, but the average ticket is also rising, with roughly half the seats costing more than $45. No doubt it's a price that Joe Fan will be more than happy to pay -- as long as the Yankees are winning. ''The hiccup of not making the post-season in a given year is going to have a pretty devastating effect on the Yankees,'' Gennaro told me. ''By 2010, the new-stadium halo will be worn off, and people are going to be there stomping their feet saying, 'Show me a winner.' ''
 The stomping of feet is, of course, what George Steinbrenner did so publicly for so long, and if he didn't give New York a champion every year, he certainly came a lot closer than any other baseball owner. That responsibility will now rest principally with Hank, apparently the final authority on the team's baseball decisions.
 Hank's sudden and forceful emergence during the 2007-8 off-season took a lot of people by surprise, given his long history of ambivalence toward his father's most cherished business. Hank went straight into horse racing after graduating from Central Methodist in 1980, with no immediate intention of working for the Yankees. ''There was never any doubt in my mind about what I was going to do -- horses,'' Hank told me. Five years later, though, his plans temporarily changed when his father asked him to serve what would become an ill-fated apprenticeship in the Bronx.
 The Yankees were struggling at the time -- the 1980s would be the first decade since the 1910s in which the Yankees failed to win a World Series -- and Steinbrenner Sr. was perpetually raging at his staff. No one was immune from his spleen-venting rants, least of all his son. The beat reporters noticed that Hank had a facial tic -- a twitch in one of his eyes -- that came and went depending on whether his father was around. He lasted less than two seasons before retreating to Ocala. ''Overall, my father was a great dad, but as a boss he was a real pain in the ass,'' Hank said when I asked him about his brief time with the team.
 Several years later, in 1990, when Steinbrenner Sr. was suspended from baseball for paying a shady figure named Howard Spira $40,000 to dig up dirt on the team's underperforming slugger Dave Winfield, he asked his oldest son to come back and replace him as the club's general partner. Hank, who in addition to his work on the stud farm was now coaching a high-school soccer team in Ocala, initially agreed. Then he changed his mind. ''I agonized about it for two weeks,'' he told me. ''But I knew the ban was never going to last. The Yankees were a dictatorship. No matter who took the title, my dad was still going to be the boss.''
 Yet Hank, who continued to work with the family's horses, didn't exactly strike out on his own. When he and I were sitting in his office at Legends Field, I noticed a small racecar with the Yankees ''NY'' emblazoned on its tail fin sitting on his desk. Hank told me it was a replica of a dragster that he had persuaded his father to sponsor for the driver Darrell Gwynn in 2000. ''It could have been a good business, if we'd stuck with it,'' Hank said. Gwynn, who still has warm feelings toward Hank, told me later that Steinbrenner Sr. repeatedly summoned him to Tampa to chew him out for not winning more races, and then stopped making payments on their three-year, $10 million contract after a little more than a year. Gwynn said that Hank would occasionally try to defend his performance and even stormed out of a couple of their meetings in frustration, but that at the end of the day he didn't stop his father from breaking the contract.
 It's hard not to consider Hank's relationship with his father in Oedipal terms. He is fiercely loyal to his father, as demonstrated by his published comments about Joe Torre, and at times Hank has sounded a lot like George Steinbrenner, circa 1980, perhaps most noticeably in his spiteful public treatment of A-Rod. (Steinbrenner Sr. once described his disappointing, high-priced Japanese pitcher Hideki Irabu to a reporter as a ''fat pus-sy toad.'') ''You look at what Hank says and how he's conducting himself and you get the impression that he's trying too hard to be George,'' said one of the team's limited partners, who did not want to be identified because he was wary of speculating publicly about the family.
 At the same time, though, Hank seems eager to escape his father's long shadow. During our day together in Tampa, he repeatedly criticized his dad for any number of things, from his insatiable appetite for celebrity to his lack of patience with the Yankee farm system to his treatment of his employees. ''Hank is the pariah who's come home with something to prove to his old man, even if his old man is not going to be around to see it,'' says one former business associate of Steinbrenner Sr.
 That may be stretching the point, but Hank certainly knows what happened when his grandfather, an intercollegiate hurdles champion who graduated at the top of his class at M.I.T., decided to retire from his family business, a Midwestern shipping company called Kinsman Marine. Henry Steinbrenner told his oldest child and only son, George, that if he wanted to take over the company he could borrow the necessary capital to buy it from him and the other principal stockholders. Eager to earn his father's respect, George did exactly that, and then proceeded to transform the company into a behemoth. ''He was always seeking the approval of his father,'' Hank told me.
 I asked Hank if the same was true of him. He answered instantly: ''Every son seeks his dad's approval, obviously.''
 The image of George Steinbrenner, the huffing, puffing, half-mad micromanager, still lingers in the public imagination. But the reality is that under Steve Swindal (who ran the team from June 2005 until his recent fall from grace), the general manager of the Yankees, Brian Cashman, had virtually unfettered control over the team's baseball operations and served as its primary spokesman to the press.
 Hank wasted no time making it clear that this era had passed. Within days of the Yankees' elimination from the playoffs last fall, he announced that he was going to insist that the team's 22-year-old, lights-out middle reliever, Joba Chamberlain, be moved into the starting rotation this year. Hank has since been an almost constant presence in the papers, conspicuously overshadowing -- and frequently undermining -- Cashman as he held forth on, among other things, A-Rod, Torre and the team's new manager, Joe Girardi. During the Johan Santana sweepstakes, hardly a day went by when Hank didn't offer some reporter an update on the organization's latest thinking about the Minnesota Twins pitcher.
 ''The fans want the Steinbrenners involved,'' Hank told me this winter. Such a statement would have once been laughable -- the announcement of his father's ban from baseball in 1990 prompted a standing ovation at Yankee Stadium -- but over the past decade or so, Yankee fans have come to see the Boss, and perhaps his children by extension, in a more favorable light. Whether the team was winning or not, he always put on a good show, and with his brashness, overconfidence and egomania, he seemed genetically engineered for New York. Most of all, even at his blustery worst, he always cared enough about winning to dump his profits from the Yankees back into the team. Still, it's worth noting that the foundation of Joe Torre's dynasty was built during the years of Steinbrenner's ban, from 1990 to 1993. And today's team, which includes a good deal of young, homegrown talent, was put together over the past few years, while Cashman was in charge.
 Joe Girardi, who was fired from the Florida Marlins in 2006 after he clashed with the team's owner -- he was still named National League manager of the year after his one season with the Marlins -- told me he has no problem working for active owners. ''I think it's a good thing that they care so much and that they want to be involved,'' he said. ''It shows their passion for the game.'' (When I asked Hank about Girardi, he told me he was pleased to have a manager ''with a little more fire in his belly'' than Torre. ''Baseball's not as complicated as football, so I don't know that a manager means as much in baseball as he does in other sports, but Girardi is a great leader.'')
 Hank is certainly more knowledgeable about baseball than his father was when he bought the Yankees in 1973. During his Yankees apprenticeship in the mid-'80s, Hank worked closely with two veteran baseball men, the team's G.M., Clyde King, and its head of scouting and player development, Woody Woodward. ''I would say he has a natural feel for baseball, and I've been with plenty of owners over the years where that's not the case,'' recalls Woodward, who took Hank on scouting trips and educated him on the subtleties of the game.
 Hank said he has no regrets about any of the strong statements he made during the off-season, including his swipe at the beloved Torre. On the contrary, he told me he felt obligated to speak up because no one else within the organization was doing so: ''Everyone was hiding in their rooms. You can't do that and be a leader. You have to step up and take a position.''
 Yankee officials are obviously aware of Hank's tendency to produce good copy, and seem eager to inoculate themselves by casting him as an asset rather than a liability. ''Hank is very, very comfortable with the press and very secure in his knowledge of baseball,'' Levine says. ''And what he's saying to the media isn't inconsistent with Yankee policy.''
 Team officials are also making a concerted effort to project a sense of continuity, treating the generational succession as an almost unnewsworthy event. They say Swindal was just a placeholder, that Steinbrenner Sr.'s unspoken intent was always to put his sons in charge of the Yankees, that the Boss himself is still involved in all of the major decisions. He's simply taking a more hands-off approach, ''like the chairman of any major company,'' according to Levine, who described the transition from Swindal to the Steinbrenner children as ''seamless.''
 It's unclear how much meaningful input Steinbrenner Sr. is providing these days, though. In the face of speculation about his declining health, the Yankees insist that he's fine, yet at the same time keep him out of the public eye, which gives the whole situation a Wizard of Oz quality. (When I asked the family's spokesman, Howard Rubenstein, for an interview with Steinbrenner, he offered to get me a written statement instead.)
 Whatever Steinbrenner's condition, there's no getting around the significance of the changes under way. The Yankee organization is always hard to penetrate -- it's a multibillion-dollar company run almost like a small business -- but Yankee insiders seem especially reluctant to talk about the team's operations during this period of transition. The club's limited partners are understandably loyal to Steinbrenner Sr., given how much he has increased the value of the franchise; the consensus among them is that he has earned the right to do whatever he thinks is best for the team. Still, they are watching things unfold and, you have to assume, will start agitating for changes, perhaps even a sale of the team, if they are unhappy with its direction under the next generation of Steinbrenners.
 In the short term, the individual most likely to be affected by the changes is Brian Cashman, whose contract comes up at the end of the 2008 season. Before 2005, the Yankees' G.M. was very much at the mercy of Steinbrenner Sr.'s whims, but after Steve Swindal's accession, Steinbrenner made a point of endowing Cashman with the authority traditionally enjoyed by general managers. Given Cashman's overall success to date, it seems safe to assume that the Yankees will try to keep him; the question is whether he'll want to stay if he no longer has the power to shape the team. For now, Cashman isn't saying anything about his plans -- or, for that matter, about how his job has evolved under the new regime. ''Some things are different, some things aren't,'' he told me when we spoke recently. ''I'd rather not get into the specifics.''
 The biggest issue the Yankees face is potential sibling rivalries, particularly between the two brothers, and Hank's outspokenness has inevitably triggered speculation about the possibility of resentment. ''Observing some of the things Hank has been saying, he has a disconcerting tendency to speak in the first-person singular,'' one of the limited partners told me. ''When George does that, that's one thing, but when you're in a situation where there's a family transition going on, for one of four siblings to speak like that can produce issues.''
 The interests of the brothers' informal fiefdoms -- business and baseball -- will inevitably collide. Indeed, they already have in the case of Johan Santana, whom Hank seemed desperate to land. The Yankees offered Phil Hughes, Melky Cabrera and a mid-level prospect for the Minnesota Twins ace and set an early December deadline for a decision. The Twins stalled, and Hank continued to press the negotiations until he was ultimately talked out of making a deal by both Hal, who had financial concerns about Santana's salary, and Cashman, who was reluctant to part with so many prospects.
 Hank made no secret of the fact that he was the most aggressive advocate of acquiring Santana, and the very public manner in which he handled the organization's internal deliberations over the trade could certainly come back to haunt the Yankees. If the young prospects disappoint, it will be clear who is at fault, and Hank seems to be reserving the right to assign blame. ''I don't want to make it seem like I'm going to be ranting and raving like my father used to do, but everybody seems so sure that we're going to be O.K., and these guys are still rookies,'' he told me. (It won't help matters if Santana, who was eventually traded to the Mets, thrives in New York.)
 If resentment does surface between Hank and Hal, their father will be at least partly responsible. He had years to prepare a succession plan, but like so many successful family-business leaders, who tend to feel an especially powerful sense of ownership, he had a hard time letting go. From time to time he talked about ''letting the young elephants into the tent,'' as he put it, yet at the end of the day -- at least until Steve Swindal emerged -- he always kept the flaps tightly closed. What's more, Steinbrenner Sr. pitted Hank and Hal against each other with comments like the ones he made to Sports Illustrated in 2004 and presumably created the current Darwinian arrangement in which they are both ''equal partners'' in the business.
 The Yankees organization clearly recognizes the precariousness of this power-sharing arrangement. After I interviewed Randy Levine, he called Rubenstein to express concern that my story was going to focus too much on Hank. And without any prompting, Jennifer told me how well her two brothers were working together: ''They're complementing each other perfectly. Together they're just clicking.''
 However things play out among the Steinbrenner siblings, however tempting it may be for Yankee haters to indulge in dark, King Lear-like fantasies of family discord tearing apart the Yankee kingdom, it's worth remembering that the franchise has almost always been a model of dysfunction under the Steinbrenners. And there's no denying that, for now, the state of the Yankees appears strong. They have a good mix of young talent like Hughes, Chamberlain, Ian Kennedy and Robinson Cano, along with battle-tested veterans like Jeter, Mariano Rivera and Jorge Posada, and they have ensured that the best player in baseball, Alex Rodriguez, will never play for anyone else.
 For his part, Hank betrays no worry about the competition in the American League, whether it's the Cleveland Indians, who eliminated the Yankees last year; the Detroit Tigers, who added Miguel Cabrera and Dontrelle Willis this winter; or, above all, the Red Sox, who have not only won the World Series twice in the last four years but are arguably becoming a national phenomenon. ''Red Sox Nation?'' Hank says. ''What a bunch of [expletive] that is. That was a creation of the Red Sox and ESPN, which is filled with Red Sox fans. Go anywhere in America and you won't see Red Sox hats and jackets, you'll see Yankee hats and jackets. This is a Yankee country. We're going to put the Yankees back on top and restore the universe to order.'' 
 GEORGE, WE MISS YOU ALREADY
 A Fond History Of The Yankees Under Steinbrenner. 
 March 27 Steinbrenner's daughter files for divorce from her husband, the former heir apparent Steve Swindal. George says, ''I have no intention of retiring, and my family runs the Yankees with me.'' 
 August 16 After continual threats to move to New Jersey or Manhattan's West Side, Steinbrenner breaks ground on a new, $1.2 billion stadium.
 June Steinbrenner and Derek Jeter dance the conga line together in a Visa commercial just months after Steinbrenner rebuked Jeter for carousing.
 March 19 The Yankees Entertainment and Sports Network begins broadcasting. YES will become the nation's top regional sports network by 2005.
 October 27 & october 26 The Yankees sweep the Braves to win the World Series. The following year, they win the Subway Series against the Mets. 
 November 23 Cablevision's $500 million bid to buy a share of the team stalls over control. ''The Steinbrenners will be in control,'' George says. 
 October 21 The Yankees sweep the San Diego Padres and the World Series after winning 114 games in the regular season.
 July 1 Steinbrenner takes charge of Yankee Stadium traffic from a seat in the V.I.P. parking lot. ''I can't rebuild the Deegan [highway],'' he says. ''We've got to work with what we've got.''
 October 26 The Yankees defeat the Atlanta Braves to win the World Series, the first of four under manager Joe Torre.
 May 19 The Steinbrenner character debuts on ''Seinfeld,'' and interviews George Costanza, who tells Steinbrenner he's caused New York a lot of pain. The Boss replies, ''Hire this man!''
 July 30 Steinbrenner is banned from baseball for paying Howard Spira to dig up dirt on Dave Winfield. The ban is lifted two and a half years later.
 December 9 The MSG network agrees to pay the Yankees $500 million for local broadcast rights for 12 years, at the time the largest deal of its kind. 
 September 14 Steinbrenner criticizes the Yankees' slugger Dave Winfield: ''Where is Reggie Jackson? We need a Mr. October or a Mr. September. Winfield is Mr. May.''
 January 11 After hiring Billy Martin for the third of what will be five stints as manager, Steinbrenner refers to a ''new era for the third time.''
 October 25 Steinbrenner injures his hand after the Yankees lose Game 5 of the World Series to the Los Angeles Dodgers, claiming he punched two men who insulted the team in his hotel elevator.
 October 17 The Yankees win the World Series after making up a 14-game deficit to the Boston Red Sox in the regular season. July 24 Billy Martin resigns 
 as manager after saying of Steinbrenner and Reggie Jackson: ''The two of them deserve each other. One's a born liar. The other's convicted.''
 October 18 The Yankees win the World Series for the first time since 1962 after Reggie Jackson hits three home runs in Game 6.
 August 23 Steinbrenner pleads guilty to making illegal campaign contributions to Richard Nixon and several Democrats. (He is suspended from baseball for 15 months and is later pardoned by President Reagan.)
 January 3 A group led by George Steinbrenner buys the Yankees for $10 million. He pledges to be a hands-off owner: ''I've got enough headaches with my shipping business.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 1, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Page 40 of Play magazine this weekend about the shift in control of the Yankees from George Steinbrenner to his sons misstates the number of years Mr. Steinbrenner has owned the team. It is 35, not 30.
An article on Page 40 of Play magazine this weekend about the shift in control of the Yankees from George Steinbrenner to his sons misstates the number of years Mr. Steinbrenner has owned the team. It is 35, not 30.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FIELD OF REVENUES: The Yankees' new stadium, opening in 2009, which the team needs in order to make more money to pay for the stars that are needed to pay for the new stadium
ARMED AND READY: Hank is insisting that Joba Chamberlain (right), a star reliever in 2007, be named a starting pitcher this year. He unsuccessfully tried to trade Phil Hughes (left) and other players for Johan Santana of the Twins
THE NEW REGIME: Hal (left) and Hank Steinbrenner at the Yankees' spring-training site in Tampa, Fla
SAFE PLAY?: Both sides bluffed, but in the end, the Yankees agreed to pay Alex Rodriguez hundreds of millions of dollars -- while hoping he can earn them even more in return. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEFF RIEDEL
TOP, LEFT TO RIGHT: THE NEW YORK YANKEES/ASSOCIATED PRESS, NICK LAHAM/GETTY IMAGES, AL BELLO/GETTY IMAGES. BOTTOM: RON FREHM/ASSOCIATED PRESS (MARTIN), JIM MONE/ASSOCIATED PRESS (WINFIELD), GEORGE DIEBOLD/SOLUS-VEER/CORBIS (MONEY), ALICE S. HALL/NBCU PHOTO BANK (''SEINFELD''), REUTERS (STEINBRENNER)
 TOP: JIM MCISAAC/GETTY IMAGES (RODRIGUEZ). BOTTOM: MEYER LIEBOWITZ/THE NEW YORK TIMES (PRESS CONFERENCE). ASSOCIATED PRESS (JACKSON). RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS (MARTIN). UNITED PRESS INTERNATIONAL (STEINBRENNER). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); HORSES (89%); FAMILY (77%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (76%); FAMILY COMPANIES (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); HORSE & PONY PRODUCTION (65%)

COMPANY: HYUNDAI MOTOR CO (91%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%)

TICKER: HYUD (LSE) (91%); 005380 (KSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%); SIC3569 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (91%)

PERSON: ALEX RODRIGUEZ (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2008



42 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3151 words

HEADLINE: Is a Lean Economy Turning Mean?

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN

DATELINE: OAKLAND, Calif. 

 BODY:
-- NICOLE FLENNAUGH has a college degree, office experience and the modest expectation that, somewhere in this city on the eastern lip of San Francisco Bay, someone will want to hire her.
 But Ms. Flennaugh, 36, a widow, cannot secure steady, decent-paying work to support herself and her two daughters. Nearly two years after she was laid off as a customer service representative at the Educational Testing Service, and even after applying for dozens of full-time jobs, she has been getting by with occasional stints as an office temp. 
 ''You're used to making $17 an hour with benefits, and now you have to take any job for $8 an hour,'' Ms. Flennaugh says. On a recent afternoon, she sat in front of a computer terminal at an employment center in a gritty part of town, scrolling dejectedly through online job listings while sending another batch of applications into the ether. 
 ''I've literally sat and cried, but my friends with double degrees are doing worse,'' she says. ''It's the economy. It's really bad.'' 
 Now, it's getting tougher -- particularly for those at the lower rungs of the economic ladder, and especially for African-Americans like Ms. Flennaugh. As the economy slows and perhaps slides deeper into a recession that may already be under way, communities like this -- cities that have long struggled with a shortage of jobs -- see work becoming scarcer still.
 Across the nation, the labor market has been deteriorating. Many companies, long reluctant to add workers, are hunkered down and waiting for improved prospects, engaged in what Ed McKelvey, a senior economist at Goldman Sachs, calls ''a hiring strike.'' Americans with jobs are taking cuts to their work hours; those without jobs are staying out of work longer, or accepting positions that pay far less than they earned previously.
 Teenagers are struggling to land minimum-wage jobs at fast-food restaurants, because those positions are increasingly being filled by adults. And those with poor credit are finding that this can disqualify them from getting a job.
 IN many communities, dreams of upward mobility are yielding to despair and the grim realization that the economy -- not strong for less-educated workers even when it was growing -- may now be shrinking, making it tougher than ever to find a job. 
 Indeed, the increasingly anemic job market comes on the heels of six years of economic expansion that delivered robust corporate profits but scant job growth. The last recession, in 2001, was followed by a so-called jobless recovery. As the economy resumed growing, payrolls continued to shrink. 
 Even as job growth accelerated in 2005 and 2006 before slowing last year, it was not enough to return the country to its previous level. Some 62.8 percent of all Americans age 16 and older were employed at the end of last year, down from the peak of 64.6 percent in early 2000, according to the Labor Department. 
 ''The economy never got its groove back after the tech bubble burst,'' says Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody'sEconomy.com. ''We're still feeling fallout from the collapse of the tech economy and the accounting scandals. There are still psychological scars for the managers affected. Managers are less interested in taking risks.''
 In many metropolitan areas, overall employment remains below levels reached before the last recession; the list includes New York, Chicago, Detroit, Milwaukee and Buffalo, as well as Boulder, Colo.; Spartanburg, S.C.; and Topeka, Kan., according to Economy.com. 
 As the presidential contenders Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama crisscross Ohio ahead of its Democratic primary on Tuesday, they are stopping in many cities on that list -- Canton, Cleveland, Dayton, Toledo. They are focusing on bread-and-butter economic issues, promising to increase the minimum wage, extend unemployment benefits and generate new jobs.
 Oakland, long known as the blue-collar sibling to the aristocratic San Francisco across the bay, is among the metropolitan areas that never fully recovered from the last recession, with fewer jobs today than in March 2001, according to Economy.com. The technology boom of the 1990s and the real estate bonanza of more recent years created fewer jobs and less wealth here than they did in the moneyed enclaves like Silicon Valley. Yet if Oakland missed out on the festivities, it is already feeling the pullback.
 ''There's more competition for every job,'' said Gay Plair Cobb, chief executive of the Oakland Private Industry Council, a job training organization. ''People are getting discouraged and depressed.''
 Home to about 400,000 people, Oakland is enormously diverse, with blacks making up 36 percent of the population, Hispanics 22 percent and Asian-Americans 15 percent, according to the 2000 census. The city is racked by stubborn poverty, with one-fifth of all households living on less than $15,000 in annual income, according to the census. 
 Given that picture, Oakland reflects a national trend: The weaker labor market is especially pronounced for African-Americans, and black women in particular, a slide that has halted a quarter-century of steady gains. 
 From 1975 to early 2000, the percentage of African-American women who were employed jumped to 59 percent from 42 percent. Two years later, following a recession, the percentage had dropped to 55 percent. Since then, employment among African-American women has shown little change, reaching 55.7 percent at the end of 2007.
 In a recent paper, the Center for Economic and Policy Research asserted that a recession in 2008 would be likely to swell the ranks of the unemployed by 3.2 million to 5.8 million, while raising the unemployment rate among black Americans to 11.3 percent to 15.5 percent, compared with 8.3 percent in 2007. 
 Nationally, the unemployment rate remains at a historically low level of 4.9 percent, though this does not include people who have given up looking for work.
 The slide in employment is occurring at a time when jobs are more important than ever for millions of households headed by African-American women, because welfare changes in the 1990s forced many into the job market to compensate for a loss of public assistance.
 ''The labor market for low-income women is so poor that it's almost a hoax,'' says Randy Albelda, an economist at the University of Massachusetts in Boston.
 For more than a decade, Dorothy Thomas, 49, an African-American and a mother of two, worked as an administrative assistant at various health care centers in Northern California. In her last job, she earned $16 an hour, as well as benefits, she said.
 It was never enough to pay all the bills, she said, so she made choices, paying this one, not paying that one, all the while focused on one mission: getting her two daughters through school. She lived in apartments in better neighborhoods, paying more rent than she could afford to ensure that her girls attended better schools.
 ''I truly bought into the idea that education is the way out of poverty,'' Ms. Thomas says. One daughter received a master's degree in education and is a teacher in Hawaii, she says, and the other is still in college. 
 But the bills for Ms. Thomas are still coming due. She lost her car in November 2005 after she fell behind on the payments. Unable to drive to work, she lost her job. Since then, she has been unable to find a job. 
 Several times, she has landed interviews that seemed likely to bring offers, but the jobs required a credit check -- a test she cannot pass.
 ''My credit is just so in shambles,'' she told a classroom full of people gathered for a credit counseling session at the Private Industry Council. ''More and more jobs are checking your credit. They're saying that credit is a reflection of your character.''
 Ms. Thomas deftly toggles between different modes of speech, from street-smart to receptionist-smooth. But getting to work without transportation and buying clothes for interviews without cash are beyond her abilities. 
 ''Why can't I get a job?'' she asks, her eyes welling with tears. ''Is it because of my age? Is it because I've gained weight? I'm articulate. I'm a positive thinker. I know how to conduct myself in an office setting. But I'm starting to lose all my confidence.''
 Government data show that the labor market has weakened in recent years for nearly every demographic group. Women as well as men; whites, blacks, Hispanics and Asian-Americans; teenagers and the middle-aged; high school graduates and those with college degrees. In terms of employment as a percentage of population, all remain below the level reached before the last recession.
 The source of this weakening and what it says about the overall, long-term health of the economy are the subject of fractious debate. 
 Some economists argue that the labor market has merely settled back to earth after years of ridiculously aggressive investment in technology, which created far more jobs in the 1990s than could be sustained.
 ''This is a return to normal,'' says Robert E. Hall, an economist and senior fellow at the Hoover Institution, a conservative research group at Stanford.
 But others conclude that the sluggish job market reflects long-term, systemic forces reshaping the American economy. It represents, they say, the underbelly of the so-called new moderation that has made recessions less frequent and less severe. 
 Traditionally, the American economy has often expanded in extreme cycles. In periods of growth, companies hire aggressively. When they sense a slowdown, they cut back, laying off workers and curtailing investments, amplifying the ripples of retrenchment. Now, however, companies aim to keep their work forces lean all the time.
 AS the American economy boomed in the late 1990s, so did business for the Bartlett Manufacturing Company, a circuit-board maker based in Cary, Ill. By 2000, it had about 200 workers -- mostly in blue-collar assembly jobs at its original factory near Chicago, and an additional 50 or so at a new plant in Albuquerque, said the company's chairman, Douglas S. Bartlett. Most of the positions paid $10 to $11 an hour.
 But by late 2001, with the country in recession and many orders flowing to China, business was down two-thirds from the best years. So the company shuttered its Albuquerque factory and laid off more than 100 workers at its Chicago plant, bringing its total work force down to 87. 
 Business improved slightly in 2004 and 2005 and remained essentially flat over the last two years, but the company hasn't added workers. 
 ''We improved our process through automation,'' Mr. Bartlett says.
 If business now deteriorates, he does not expect to shed workers, because he is already down to the minimum needed to keep his plant running.
 ''When a customer calls, you need to be able to deliver parts in three or four days because, if they could wait longer, they would just go offshore and get it cheaper,'' Mr. Bartlett says. ''We don't lay people off at this point. We just reduce hours. We pretty much can't get any leaner.''
 Bartlett Manufacturing's experience is emblematic of forces at work throughout the economy. An anemic job market is not so much a product of layoffs -- which remain relatively few -- as it is a result of a sharp pullback in hiring.
 In 1994, 30 million people were hired into new and existing private-sector jobs, according to the Labor Department. By 2000, the number of hires had expanded to 34 million. A year later, in the midst of the recession, hiring slackened to 31.6 million, while layoffs winnowed the work force. 
 In 2003, with the economy again growing, layoffs slowed, but the private sector hired only 29.8 million -- a figure that has nudged up only a little in the years since.
 Rather than hire and risk having to fire in another downturn, companies added hours for those already on the payroll and relied more on temporary workers, said Mr. McKelvey, the Goldman Sachs economist. Manufacturing companies continued to automate, to squeeze more production out of the same number of workers, while shifting jobs to lower-cost countries like China and Mexico. For lower-skilled workers, that intensifies the competition for the jobs that remain.
 ''Now, you're not only competing against the guy next door,'' Mr. McKelvey says. ''You're competing against the guy across the water.''
 Some economists say the weakness of hiring in recent years may protect those with jobs against the usual impact of a recession: Many companies are so lean that the unemployment rate may not increase much.
 ''It's not your grandfather's recession anymore,'' says Jared Bernstein, senior economist at the Economic Policy Institute, a labor-oriented research group in Washington. ''You're probably going to see fewer layoffs, because you just don't have the traditional model.''
 But the same trend suggests that the impacts of the slowdown are likely to be felt deeply for several years, even after the economy resumes a swift expansion, Mr. Bernstein added.
 Before 1990, it took an average of 21 months for the economy to add back the jobs shed during a recession, according to an analysis by the Economic Policy Institute and the National Employment Law Project, a worker advocacy group. Yet in the last two recessions, in 1990 and 2001, it took 31 months and 46 months, respectively, for employment levels to recover fully.
 In the recessions of the early 1980s and the early 1990s, the ranks of the so-called long-term unemployed -- those out of work for 27 weeks or more -- jumped to well above 20 percent of all unemployed people. But in both cases, that share eventually settled back to close to 10 percent of the unemployed. 
 After the 2001 recession, however, the long-term share stayed above 20 percent from the fall of 2002 until the spring of 2005. In the months since, it has never dipped below 16 percent. In January, 18 percent of those unemployed had been without work for at least 27 weeks, according to the Labor Department.
 OAKLAND is typical of the lean hiring that has accompanied the winnowing of jobs. In recent decades, Oakland's once-formidable manufacturing base has hollowed out as the city has lost food processing factories, auto plants and warehouses. Downtown, concrete-floor factories have been turned into chic residential loft spaces. 
 Yet the Port of Oakland is booming, with dozens of cranes arrayed at the bay's edge, plucking containers full of cars and electronic products off of ships arriving from Asia, and depositing shipments of produce from the Central Valley of California.
 The port has benefited from a surge in American exports. Port officials cite an economic development study showing that jobs connected in some way to their operations -- in industries ranging from cargo and trucking to insurance and retail -- doubled to more than 28,000 from 2001 to 2005. A planned $800 million expansion would add 7,000 more jobs, said James Kwon, director of the port's maritime division.
 Deborah Acosta, international trade project manager of the Community and Economic Development Agency of Oakland, says, ''We're talking about good-paying jobs that don't require a college degree.'' 
 So far, the growth at the port has not been enough to compensate for steady erosion of work elsewhere in the city. Since 2001, the metropolitan area has shed 22,000 manufacturing jobs, and thousands more in transportation and warehousing, and professional and business services, according to Economy.com.
 For public officials grappling with the social and political impact of long-term joblessness, training has become a mantra.
 ''The jobs are there, but the people to fill the jobs are not,'' says John Garamendi, the lieutenant governor of California. ''The current demand for skilled individuals in medical fields, in biotech, for people capable of welding -- there's a demand for these people.''
 But all too often, these job-training programs fail to find people the jobs they expect, said Marsha Murrington, vice president for programs at the Unity Council, a nonprofit social service organization that operates a job center in Oakland.
 ''People are getting training or high degrees in areas that are not supported by the job market,'' she complains. ''People are looking for those high-paying corporate jobs that aren't there.''
 Greg Bailey, another Oakland resident, is among those who banked on the benefits of job training. Last spring, after 15 years as a truck driver, an installer of household appliances and a warehouse stocker -- jobs that left him nursing a bad back and high blood pressure -- Mr. Bailey decided to pursue work that was less physically taxing. He enrolled in a government-financed training program to gain the skills needed to work at one of the many biotechnology plants sprouting up in the area.
 ''It sounded great; the opportunities were almost endless,'' said Mr. Bailey, 40, tall, soft-spoken and personable.
 A former high school basketball star, Mr. Bailey said he had to turn down several college scholarships when he graduated so he could find a job and support his mother, who was ill, along with his younger brother. Later, he enrolled several times in various college programs, but the demands of being the family's primary breadwinner left too few hours for schoolwork. 
 The biotech training program was to be a way to jump ahead, putting him in position to earn $17 to $18 an hour, as well as health benefits, as a warehouse or maintenance worker in an industry that offered other chances for advancement. But despite applying for about 100 jobs over the last six months, he says, he has never been invited to an interview.
 Last summer, a month after the course ended, he went to a job center in East Oakland and was surprised to bump into six of his classmates.
 ''I was like, 'Oh man, you're all here too?' '' Mr. Bailey said. ''We all started looking at anything at that point. It was kind of depressing.''
 RECENTLY, he began applying for the same types of jobs from which he had hoped to escape. Now, even those jobs seem beyond reach. He did take one warehouse job that started at 5 a.m. and required him to walk two miles to and from work, but he quit in disgust after two weeks. It paid $10 an hour -- two-thirds of what he used to make as a truck driver.
 He applied for a minimum-wage job at Wal-Mart, but after two interviews the person doing the hiring was fired, he said, and Mr. Bailey was told that he had to start all over -- this for a night shift at a store in an area plagued by crime. Disenchanted, he stopped pursuing a career at Wal-Mart.
 ''I'll just look for anything now; it doesn't matter,'' he confided on a recent afternoon. 
 The next day, he accepted a job at a warehouse for $9 an hour. 
 ''It's just picking up boxes,'' he says. ''That's all right. I've got to do something.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Nicole Flennaugh, a college graduate, has had a difficult time finding a full-time job nearly two years after she was laid off as a customer service representative. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NOAH BERGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.BU8)
Greg Bailey of Oakland enrolled in a biotech training program, but he has not been able to find a job in the industry. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NOAH BERGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.BU9) ILLUSTRATION
CHARTS: JOB GAINS, JOB LOSSES
Despite recent years of economic growth, employment in many areas remains lower than it was in 2000, during the technology boom. The current employment decline has affected all population groups, but some, like black women, may be especially vulnerable. (Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics
 Moody's Economy.com) (CHARTS BY HANNA HARFIELD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.BU9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); ACADEMIC TESTING (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (72%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); FAST FOOD (71%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (70%); MINIMUM WAGE (70%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (65%)

COMPANY: EDUCATIONAL TESTING SERVICE (57%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2008



43 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; MOTORING; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1179 words

HEADLINE: E-ZPass Was Just the Beginning

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
CALIFORNIA, Pennsylvania, Texas and Virginia may be all over the map when it comes to the presidential primaries, but they do have one thing in common: all are grappling with how to collect tolls from the drivers who use their highways. 
 Electronic toll collection is increasingly the obvious answer. Pennsylvania, which is trying to turn Interstate 80 into a toll road, is considering going completely electronic and not including cash lanes. 
 By charging tolls on an Interstate that had always been free, Pennsylvania hopes to generate the money needed to maintain this vital east-west artery, a major thoroughfare for trucks. Other states are also looking for ways to raise the money needed for highway repair, upkeep and expansion. Because resistance to raising taxes on gasoline and diesel remains strong, lawmakers are instead turning to tolls or, in governmental parlance, ''user fees.'' 
 While Interstate 80 might appear to be a good place to go entirely electronic, the state may be forced to install some cash lanes because many drivers -- including some in rental cars and those from states without toll roads -- still pay with cash. Cash transactions are costly, though, because highway agencies must pay toll-takers, maintain plazas and safely transfer the cash to banks. And for drivers already faced by a multitude of distractions, fumbling through pockets for nickels, dimes and quarters to pitch at toll collectors is not only frustrating, it can be dangerous.
 Like fast-food restaurants, department stores and other businesses that handle cash, tolling agencies are introducing a variety of technologies to streamline the process and increase profits.
 The most common substitute for human toll collecting uses a combination of radio-frequency identification transponders, high-speed cameras and networked computers that read tags in windshields and instantaneously charge the driver's account, usually billed to their credit cards. Toll plazas are being redesigned so vehicles do not need to slow down. 
 E-ZPass, one of a growing array of technologies that are changing the way agencies collect tolls, is the ubiquitous version, available to drivers in a dozen states from Maine to Virginia. In just New York State, nearly 10 million tags are in use, three times the number in 1999. 
 The spread of electronic tolling is having a subtle and unexpected impact on motoring. Drivers need not weave through toll plazas in search of a lane that accepts cash, a particularly difficult task for those on motorcycles. Travel across many states no longer requires a hoard of change for tolls. And because they can check their toll payments online, businessmen do not need to save fistfuls of receipts for their expense reports.
 ''The trend is to make driving less of a thinking experience, and E-ZPass is part of that,'' said Scott Le Vine, a transportation consultant at the Center for Transport Studies at Imperial College London. ''It's a nice feeling to fly past a tollbooth without giving it a second thought.''
 Increasingly, electronic tags will be embedded into windshields, license plates and other places so drivers will no longer have to send off for a portable tag from a tolling agency. And because they are part of the car, they will be harder to steal.
 Electronic tolling is changing the way drivers view tolls, too. A study by an economist at M.I.T., Amy Finkelstein, found that drivers who pay their tolls electronically are less aware of the rates they pay. She also found that rates at the tollbooths included in the study were up to 40 percent higher on roads that accepted electronic tolls compared with those that did not.
 And with electronic collection systems, agencies have the flexibility to raise tolls by precise percentages -- say 3 percent a year -- instead of in increments of 5 or 10 cents to avoid having to collect pennies. This helps agencies that charge drivers tolls based on when they enter the road, similar to the express lanes on part of California Route 91 in Orange County. There, drivers heading eastbound pay $5.10 at 2 p.m. on Fridays, $10 at 3 p.m. and $4.90 at 6 p.m., with a variety of rates at other times.
 Drivers rarely like tolls, but they are willing to pay them -- even if they unaware of how much they are paying -- if they are getting something in return, like less-crowded lanes or a shorter wait at a tollbooth.
 ''It's human nature that you wouldn't be as upset about it when you're not reaching into your pocket to pull out $5 instead of $3,'' said Jane Cloninger, a director at Edgar, Dunn & Company, a consultant that focuses on credit cards and other electronic payment systems. ''But electronic tolls deliver speed and convenience, and if I can get through the toll plaza faster, I'm happier.''
 If states relied only on electronic tolls, they would need high-speed cameras to snap pictures of the license plates of drivers without E-ZPass tags. A staff would have to track down these drivers, send them bills and wait weeks for the payment.
 The more costly alternative would be to build at least one lane for a manned booth with offices nearby to store the cash. While fewer than half of Pennsylvania's drivers have an E-ZPass, the lanes would be designed with an eye toward removing them as the percentage rises.
 ''We're treating these cash lanes as temporary,'' said Barry J. Schoch, vice president at McCormick Taylor, the engineering firm hired by the Pennsylvania Turnpike Commission to prepare a list of possible sites. ''In 50 years, there will be transponders built into the car, so if we build tollbooths, we will be able to convert them to some other use,'' like rest or maintenance areas.
 Some of the oldest and largest tolling agencies, like the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, are studying how to phase out their cash lanes, too. Because more than 71 percent of transactions at the Port Authority's tunnels and bridges include an E-ZPass -- up from 52 percent in 2000 -- Anthony E. Shorris, the agency's executive director, expects cash booths to disappear from those crossings over the next five years.
 The future, in fact, may be on display in places like Stockholm, where drivers do not need tags at all. There, cameras take pictures of every license plate, video recognition software reads the numbers and the owner is charged. 
 While E-ZPass and other radio-tag systems are likely to remain because of their widespread use, agencies introducing tolls for the first time are looking more at these video-only systems, according to Naveen Lamba, a specialist in traffic management systems at I.B.M., which provides much of the technology for Stockholm's system.
 While there are concerns about the reliability of these systems and the privacy of the data they collect, Mr. Lamba said that drivers are increasingly comfortable with electronic tolling.
 ''People typically are not in favor of these systems, but once they are in place, people are more willing to accept them,'' he said. ''Congestion is a problem in every city, and it's going from bad to worse.''

GRAPHIC: DIAGRAM: AT THE TOLLBOOTH, CASH IS NOT KING: Electronic toll collection is becoming common. Prepaid accounts or credit cards are charged automatically as vehicles with coded electronic tags drive through. Cameras, sometimes supplemented by sensors that detect the number of axles, are used to ensure that tags are being used by the correct class of vehicle and to catch scofflaws. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (92%); CONTACTLESS PAYMENTS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); RADIO FREQUENCY IDENTIFICATION (77%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (77%); ELECTRONIC BILLING (77%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (77%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (77%); FUEL TAX (77%); DRIVER BEHAVIOR (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); RESTAURANTS (64%); FAST FOOD (64%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (54%); RETAILERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2008



44 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 581 words

HEADLINE: When DNA and Insurance Collide

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''Fear of Insurance Trouble Leads Many to Shun or Hide DNA Tests'' (''The DNA Age'' series, front page, Feb. 24) is a tragic indictment of our current private ''health'' insurance system, which inhibits Americans from using advances in medical science that can predict their risks for many potentially treatable illnesses because they fear they will lose their ability to obtain medical insurance. 
 As the understanding of the contributions of genetics to human disease is expanding very rapidly, this dilemma will grow in tandem. It is ironic that we are willing to provide a single-payer plan for our seniors (Medicare), when many of these preventable illnesses cause their greatest suffering and expense. 
 Single-payer health insurance for all is the only humane, rational and economically sound plan for the future health of our country. 
 Peter Barland New Rochelle, N.Y., Feb. 24, 2008
 The writer is on the board of directors of Physicians for a National Health Plan. 
 To the Editor:
 Your article about insurance and DNA illustrated nicely the existence and harmful effects of fear of genetic discrimination, but it may have inadvertently made matters worse.
 Ninety percent of Americans cannot be affected by genetic discrimination, either because they get health coverage in ways that do not allow health risks to be considered (Medicare, Medicaid, employer coverage) or because they can't afford health insurance at all. 
 Only about 15 million Americans get insurance in ways that could lead to genetic discrimination, but more than 40 states have forbidden discrimination in that kind of insurance. Many states have also outlawed genetic discrimination in employment, adding to the unclear protection of the Americans With Disabilities Act. 
 The Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act will provide clear and broad protection when it passes. People should not avoid medically important genetic tests because of unrealistic fears of discrimination.
 And we all must be careful not to worsen the harm caused by those fears.
 Hank Greely Stanford, Calif., Feb. 24, 2008
 The writer is a professor of law and of genetics at Stanford University.
 To the Editor:
 The concerns expressed in ''Fear of Insurance Trouble Leads Many to Shun or Hide DNA Tests'' (front page, Feb. 24) should be tempered by two important observations.
 First, rather than discriminate, most health insurance companies now cover costs not only for genetic testing, but also for the surgeries or increased screening that follow a positive genetic test for increased risk of breast, ovarian or colon cancer. 
 Second, at centers such as ours, the number of families having genetic testing has increased dramatically over the past few years, and a relatively small minority of individuals have canceled visits because of fears of potential insurance discrimination. 
 Kenneth Offit New York, Feb. 25, 2008
 The writer is the chief of the Clinical Genetics Service at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. 
 To the Editor:
 I suspect that stories like this one will do more to get us to universal health care than any byzantine plan proposed by any candidate. 
 Once people start to realize that genetic predisposition could be used to deny care, I think they will be much more open to Medicare for all -- no ifs, ands or buts. 
 This isn't a question of good or bad, or about ideology. Things have changed, and so must our health care.
 Daniel Newsome Elizaville, N.Y., Feb. 24, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOHN HENRY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (93%); DNA (91%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); GENETIC SCREENING (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); DNA TESTING (89%); INSURANCE (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); CANCER (76%); GENETIC & MOLECULAR MEDICINE (76%); MEDICARE (76%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (76%); FAMILY (73%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (72%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (71%); DISABILITY DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (69%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); COLORECTAL CANCER (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); MEDICAID (58%); US AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2008



45 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; ON BASEBALL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1431 words

HEADLINE: Keeping Lean in Camp, Brewers Hope to Pile on Wins

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS

 BODY:
This is how far the Milwaukee Brewers have come along the road to contention. The Washington Nationals have 72 players in camp, looking for 25 who will make them respectable. The Brewers were in that position not long ago, failing to win 70 games in four successive seasons (2001-4) and failing to have a winning season for 14 seasons in a row.
 But this year, the Brewers' training camp has a new outlook and a population of 49, only about twice as many players as they are allowed to have at one time and far fewer than many teams have in camp.
 The Brewers, in fact, have the fewest players in camp of any contender. The Chicago Cubs, for example, have 59 players, the Mets 63 and the Yankees 69. 
 Economics and not just contending status play a part in how many players teams have in camp. The low-revenue Brewers don't want the expense of a lot of players, whereas the Yankees and the Mets are willing to pay.
 But enough has been written in the last 15 years about the Brewers' spending, or lack of it. There had been no reason to write about them as a contender. But that's what they have become. 
 Last season, the Brewers led the National League Central for all of May, June and July and were tied for first place as late as Sept. 18 when they had only 12 games to play. But they lost seven of those games and finished two games behind the Cubs.
 ''The Cubs are still the team to beat,'' said Doug Melvin, the Brewers' general manager and the man responsible for creating the contender. 
 The Brewers, however, are prepared for another backyard scrap with their neighbors to the south. They signaled their serious intentions by the way they pursued a closer.
 Francisco Cordero was their closer last season, finishing with 44 saves, second in the N.L. A free agent, he snubbed an aggressive (for the Brewers) offer of four years for $42 million and signed instead with Cincinnati for four years and $46 million.
 ''I was disappointed that he didn't accept our offer, which was pretty good,'' Melvin said. ''It was about the money in the end.''
 Melvin was disappointed because the Brewers had restored Cordero to the closer's role after they acquired him from Texas in 2006 for Carlos Lee, and he expressed his appreciation by leaving for an extra $1 million a year.
 In his five-year tenure as the Brewers' general manager, Melvin has not been a slave to a particular closer. In fact, no reliever has held the job for two consecutive full seasons under Melvin. Cordero replaced Derrick Turnbow, who replaced Danny Kolb, who replaced Mike DeJean.
 Now comes the veteran Eric Gagne to replace Cordero.
 ''When you're not a contender, you probably experiment more with closers,'' Melvin said. ''When you're a contender, you have to take some risks, but you can't experiment as much.''
 Gagne, not long ago the best closer in the game when he recorded 84 saves in 84 successive save situations, is a risk for two reasons. Elbow and back operations limited him to 16 games in 2005 and '06, and he endured a terrible two months with Boston after it traded for him last July 31.
 ''We would have given Turnbow a chance to be the closer,'' Melvin said. ''Gagne had been looking for a multiyear deal. But then he said he'd take a one-year deal for more money. We liked Gagne. We tried to trade for him last year.''
 The Brewers gave Gagne $10 million for this season. ''The price has gone way up for closers, maybe to $12 million a year for 65 innings,'' Melvin said. ''We took a chance on Gagne for one year.''
 And after this year? ''We'll sign him to an extension or look for a closer again,'' Melvin said.
 The Brewers made other moves this winter. They signed Mike Cameron to play center field and Jason Kendall to catch, and they added Guillermo Mota, David Riske and Salomon Torres to the bullpen. They moved the sensational rookie Ryan Braun to left field from third base and Bill Hall to third from center.
 ''That will make us a better defensive club,'' said Melvin, whose team led the majors last year with 231 home runs.
 Rays Sniffed and Snubbed
 If ''those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it,'' as Santayana (that's George, not Johan) wrote, the Tampa Bay Rays flirted with a second strike of disaster recently when they internally discussed the possibility of signing Barry Bonds.
 Under their original owner, Vince Naimoli, the Rays were desperate to add power hitting. Naimoli thought home runs would attract fans, and he departed drastically from the team's long-range plan of building with younger players.
 The Rays, who earlier had purchased Fred McGriff from Atlanta, signed Jose Canseco and Greg Vaughn as free agents and traded for Vinny Castilla. Aging veterans all, they were marketed as the Hit Show, but they bombed. 
 Their acquisition set back the Rays' progress, keeping them in a hole from which they are still struggling to emerge. To its credit, the current ownership has rejected the idea of adding Bonds to its band of young and, in some instances, impressive players.
 Making Sense of Salaries
 Although salary arbitration has been around for 35 years, it is a poorly understood element of baseball's economic system. Owners, general managers, agents and players don't really understand it, and often are confused by the outcome of hearings.
 Two that recently raised eyebrows and questions were the decisions for Oliver Perez (Mets) and Chien-Ming Wang (Yankees). Why, puzzled onlookers asked, did Perez win and Wang lose? 
 Perez, who had a 15-10 record last year, submitted a salary figure of $6.5 million, and the Mets countered with $4,725,000. Wang, who had a 19-7 record, put in $4.6 million to the Yankees' $4 million.
 A player's performance obviously has much to do with the way the arbitrators see a case. But salary submissions, the midpoint of the player and club figures, comparable salaries and service time also play large roles in the outcome.
 Wang, a first-timer in arbitration with just under three years of major league service, had a midpoint of $4.3 million. The three-arbitrator panel decided he didn't deserve that much, especially when compared with the $4.35 million Dontrelle Willis earned with Florida in 2006, when he had similar service time: 2 years 159 days for Wang, and 2 years 143 days for Willis.
 Perez was in arbitration for the third time, and the midpoint of his and the Mets' figures was $5,612,500. Should his salary fall above or below that figure? The most comparable pitcher was Erik Bedard, who had recently signed for $7 million. That gave the edge to Perez, and he won. 
 Cloudy in Sunshine State 
 Charlie Crist's state usually has a lot of sunshine, and he might have spent too much time in it. Crist, governor of Florida, said last week that he would like to see his state get a third major league team. ''It would be a great goal for us to aspire to,'' he said.
 A more sensible goal for Crist and his fellow Florida officials might be to do everything they can to solidify the two franchises the state already has that struggle economically every year.
 The Marlins and the Rays have had the lowest attendances in their respective leagues each of the last two years. 
 Clarity in Congress
 Given the zealously partisan nature of the Congressional hearing into the tales of Roger Clemens and Brian McNamee, it is significant that Tom Davis, the ranking Republican on the House oversight committee, joined Henry A. Waxman, the Democratic chairman, in signing the letter referring Clemens to the Justice Department for investigation.
 Clemens and his Houston lawyer, Rusty Hardin, can be as dismissive and as stoic as they want, but the willingness of Davis, Republican of Virginia, to join Waxman, Democrat of California, should tell them that this will not be a civics exercise.
 Davis was one of Clemens's biggest boosters at the hearing. He asked leading questions that enabled Clemens to respond favorably for himself, and he aggressively questioned McNamee. 
 Probably Davis's most foolish comment or question referred to the Clemens family's nanny, whom the committee interviewed by telephone.
 Davis: ''And her English, as I understand it, is not that good. Is that correct?''
 Clemens: ''It is not that good.''
 But the transcript of the committee's interview with the nanny showed that with the exception of a few grammatical mistakes, she spoke as well as Davis and Clemens.
 Out of the partisan fog of the committee chambers, Davis was evidently able to think more clearly and agreed with Waxman that enough of Clemens's responses were suspect to warrant a referral.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Manager Ned Yost and the Brewers have 49 players in camp, the fewest among teams considered pennant contenders.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MORRY GASH/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%)

ORGANIZATION: MILWAUKEE BREWERS (94%); NEW YORK METS (83%); CHICAGO CUBS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%) ILLINOIS, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2008



46 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: At the Plaza, Restoring Life Lived Luxuriously

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ

 BODY:
Let's say somebody has bought a famous but slightly dilapidated property and spent a lot of time and money fixing it.
 The property is really famous: F. Scott Fitzgerald set scenes from his most celebrated novel there, Alfred Hitchcock filmed a scene from one of his most acclaimed movies there, and countless debutantes reached the summit of their debutantehood there.
 What to do to show it off? 
 If you are the El-Ad Group of Israel, the latest owner of the Plaza Hotel, the 100-year-old landmark facing Central Park South and Grand Army Plaza, you invite reporters from several nations on Saturday to a deluxe tour and a news conference, complete with coffee served by white-gloved butlers.
 Miki Naftali, the chief executive officer of El-Ad, said the company had spent $400 million over two and a half years to renovate the Plaza. Combined with the $675 million spent to buy the hotel in 2004, this means the company has spent more than the gross domestic product of Monaco on the famed landmark. 
 So it was with evident pride, and no detectable buyer's remorse, that Mr. Naftali repeatedly called the Plaza ''this great castle on the park.'' 
 But like any ancient castle, the Plaza was expensive to fix, Mr. Naftali said in an interview. 
 And not all of it is done. The Oak Bar, for example, where Cary Grant was kidnapped by international spies in Hitchcock's ''North by Northwest,'' won't be finished until late spring.
 The biggest bill was $30 million to repair a leaking roof, Mr. Naftali said. A further $16 million was spent to restore and add kitchen facilities to the Grand Ballroom, one of the rich man's wonders that compelled Fitzgerald to set scenes from ''The Great Gatsby'' in the hotel.
 And $15 million was spent on the Palm Court, where many New Yorkers of a certain age have splurged on or have been treated to a Sunday brunch that would delight Epicurus and give Midas pause. 
 The 800-room hotel closed three years ago for renovations. Now that it has reopened, only 130 rooms remain as hotel rooms, which were shown off to reporters on Saturday.
 Women in black dresses and high heels led reporters from room to room, each with high-thread-count linen and small soaps in dishes. There are flat-screen television sets. There is a detachable wireless gizmo the size of a book that controls the TV, the lights, the heat and other comforts. The bathroom faucets are 24-karat gold.
 The tab for the hotel rooms begins at $1,000 a night. The hotel is already taking guests.
 But the majority of the space in the old hotel -- about 60 percent -- has been converted to 181 luxury condominiums. All have sold, Mr. Naftali said, except for one on the second floor that is being used as a temporary construction office.
 The most expensive condo is one that El-Ad never designed, Mr. Naftali said. The buyer bought four units and combined them into one giant 11,000-square-foot mansion above Central Park. Mr. Naftali, his voice dropping to a sommelier's whisper, declined to disclose the sale price.
 Bob and Suzanne Chute of Naples, Fla., are a hint of how lofty the game is at the Plaza these days.
 They bought, sight unseen, a three-bedroom condo for $13.86 million.
 ''We saw a computer thing and they could show you what it looked like if you were looking out the window,'' said Mr. Chute, 64, an entrepreneur who owns several companies and whose deep, rich tan indicates a life spent near the Equator.
 The couple don't usually buy with so little information, they said. ''But we had faith in what the people were telling us,'' said Mrs. Chute, 61, who describes herself as ''just a wife.''
 The couple closed on the condo on Friday, and Sunday morning they plan to meet with their interior decorator.
 How does it feel to own a Plaza condo? 
 ''We are psyched,'' Mr. Chute said. ''We are so psyched.''
 On Saturday, the couple were having their first breakfast at the Palm Court, where eggs Benedict costs $30.
 Breakfast doesn't come with condo ownership, the couple acknowledged. When told that a glass of orange juice costs $12, the couple smiled.
 ''One thing we're not big at is looking at the prices,'' Mr. Chute said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Champagne Bar in the new lobby of the landmark Plaza Hotel, which has undergone a $400 million renovation.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MOVIE FILMING (77%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE FILMS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (75%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (75%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (69%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (60%); MOVIE REVIEWS (57%); EXECUTIVES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%); MONACO (55%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2008



47 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; TELEVISION; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1829 words

HEADLINE: Auteur Writes Herself Another Chance

BYLINE: By DAVE ITZKOFF

 BODY:
BEFORE she had time to savor losing everything, Amy Sherman-Palladino was offered a chance to get it all back, and more.
 In September, months after she'd stepped away from her hit television series ''Gilmore Girls'' and decamped to New York from her native Los Angeles, she was sitting next to her husband and fellow executive producer, Daniel Palladino, in their new production offices in Astoria, Queens. 
 In a ground-floor studio, a staff imported mostly from California was working on Ms. Sherman-Palladino's new sitcom for Fox, ''The Return of Jezebel James,'' while she labored upstairs in a room she had decorated in a faux-bordello style: velvet-upholstered furniture, a plastic pink chandelier dangling over her desk, a lingerie-clad mannequin seated in a window.
 Even when she expresses herself through interior design, Ms. Sherman-Palladino can be unexpectedly dangerous. During a fire drill, she recalled, that mannequin was mistaken for a living, breathing person by crew members and firefighters who gathered on the street. But no one dashed into the building to rescue her. 
 ''They naturally thought it was you,'' Mr. Palladino said.
 ''Of course,'' Ms. Sherman-Palladino replied. ''Because she and I have problems with authority, so it worked out very well.'' 
 It was a joke, but not an exaggeration. Within the television industry Ms. Sherman-Palladino, a spunky, sarcastic writer with a penchant for gothic top hats and fishnet stockings, is recognized as a unique talent, but also a challenging one. (So challenging, she declined to give her age.)
 As the creator of ''Gilmore Girls,'' the comedy-drama that helped to define the WB network (and its postmerger incarnation, CW), Ms. Sherman-Palladino earned a following as a distinctive female voice in a predominantly male field, along with a reputation for being uncooperative and abrasive with her network and studio partners. 
 Her abrupt and public exit from ''Gilmore Girls'' in the spring of 2006 over a contract dispute could have left her stigmatized as unmanageable, but her abilities proved too much of a draw. Weeks after her departure was announced, she was working on ''Jezebel James,'' which Fox has scheduled for a March 14 debut. 
 For Ms. Sherman-Palladino, the show represents more than the opportunity to put the contentious history of ''Gilmore Girls'' behind her, to prove that she was right to butt heads, bruise egos and burn bridges to gain the creative latitude she required. Now that she has sold Fox on herself and her methodology, she can demonstrate that she still makes the kind of emotionally engaging television that is worth fighting over.
 As Ms. Sherman-Palladino put it, ''I don't want to sit there and go, 'Ucch, if I had just gone with my instinct, if I had just cast this person, or fought them on this.' You don't want to fail not having really put up a fight.''
 These sides of Ms. Sherman-Palladino were already in evidence in 1999 when she began developing the series that became ''Gilmore Girls.'' At the time she was an Emmy Award-nominated former writer from ''Roseanne'' -- one who had both struggled and thrived under that show's notoriously temperamental star -- with an idea for a series about the kinship between a young mother and her precocious teenage daughter.
 The pilot script ''had so much of Amy's voice in it,'' said Susanne Daniels, a former WB programming executive who is now the president of entertainment at Lifetime. ''It was clearly based on relationships that she had lived and knew.'' Ms. Sherman-Palladino could be counted on to speak her mind, Ms. Daniels said, and ''that element of her, that forthright nature, comes through in her writing too.''
 For the six seasons that she produced ''Gilmore Girls,'' from 2000 to 2006, Ms. Sherman-Palladino (whose husband joined her as an executive producer) built a sizable fan base, but also an enemies' list at the WB and Warner Brothers Television, the studio that produced the show. 
 Several executives formerly associated with ''Gilmore Girls'' said that Ms. Sherman-Palladino could be slow in delivering her scripts and antagonistic to network and studio counterparts who sought plot updates from her. By the end of her run on the show, some of these people knew not to call her at all. 
 Ms. Sherman-Palladino said that she always provided pitches and outlines well in advance, and that the industry's most esteemed show runners of that era were not expected to submit finished scripts. ''Joss Whedon never gave anyone a script,'' she said. ''Aaron Sorkin never gave anyone a script.'' 
 A proposed ''Gilmore Girls'' spinoff was also a source of friction, according to several entertainment executives. They said that Ms. Sherman-Palladino was angered when Warner Brothers Television would not permit her to be the show runner of both ''Gilmore Girls'' and the spinoff, and when the series order for the spinoff was reduced to 7 episodes from 13. 
 Ms. Sherman-Palladino said that such contentions were ''absolutely false,'' adding, ''There's not an ounce of truth in any of that.'' (The studio eventually scrapped the project because of budget concerns.) 
 Some former colleagues said that Ms. Sherman-Palladino has not yet mastered the collaborative nature of television, and her experiences have taught her the deceptive lesson that she is better served by doing things exactly as she pleases than by being a team player. 
 ''She's someone who did it the way she was told early in her career,'' said Jordan Levin, WB's former entertainment president, who is now a partner at Generate, a talent management firm. ''She got burned by that, and then succeeded, and it positively reinforced her doing it her way.''
 But the Palladinos were still clearly disappointed by the circumstances that led to their departure from ''Gilmore Girls,'' which lasted only one more season without them. When she renegotiated her contract with Warner Brothers Television in 2006, Ms. Sherman-Palladino said, she sought more than the one-year extension the studio was offering. The impasse was never resolved, and the Palladinos left the series. (A spokeswoman for Warner Brothers Television declined to comment.) 
 Asked if she watched any part of the final ''Gilmore Girls'' season, Ms. Sherman-Palladino simply replied, ''No.''
 Mr. Palladino added: ''It would be work to us. Every word, every frame, every shot, we'd be sitting there going, 'I wouldn't do it that way.' ''
 Many critics and fans who did watch were not satisfied, either. In The New York Times Virginia Heffernan wrote: ''The show is not faring well'' without the Palladinos. ''It's faring weirdly.'' 
 But unemployment proved short-lived; Ms. Sherman-Palladino was approached to develop a show for Fox in August 2006. The network hoped that with her background in traditional, multicamera situation comedy and her ability to appeal to young women, she would create a show that could serve the sizable female audience that was already tuning in to ''American Idol.'' 
 Days later she presented the network ''Jezebel James,'' about a motivated career woman who learns that she is unable to have a child, and turns to her estranged younger sister to carry a baby for her. Fox was enthusiastic enough to order a pilot script, and when that script attracted the interest of Parker Posey and Lauren Ambrose, two New York actresses who did not typically work in sitcoms, the network offered to produce the series in New York -- a move that suited the Palladinos just fine.
 To accommodate the production of ''Jezebel James'' in New York, Fox transmitted the show's table reads, run-throughs and tapings to the network's offices in Los Angeles, while trying to provide Ms. Sherman-Palladino the breathing room she required. ''With Amy you sign on for her vision,'' said Marcy Ross, Fox's executive vice president for current programming. ''You have to give her the reins, which I believe we did do, and which the show reflects.'' 
 Even so, familiar difficulties soon crept in: Scripts were rewritten to the very last minute and delivered at lengths of 60 pages or more for a single 22-minute episode, when the rule of thumb is roughly a page a minute. Friday-night tapings stretched into Saturday-morning hours.
 ''By the end of the week,'' Ms. Posey said, ''I'm like a wet rag that's been totally wrung out, stretched, ironed, creased and crumbled and hung out to dry. They're like, 'It'll be a well-oiled machine soon.' You're like, 'In the year two-thousand-and-what?' ''
 Still, the stars of ''Jezebel James'' said that such hardships were worthwhile if they allowed Ms. Sherman-Palladino to make the show she wanted to make. 
 ''It's hopefully funny in a way that only girls can be funny,'' Ms. Ambrose said. When an actor works in television, she said, ''they own you, but when somebody like Amy's in charge, who's passionate and very determined, you go, 'O.K., I'll put my life for the next thousand years in her hands.' ''
 Despite the dedication of the performers, other factors would seem to bode ominously for the show's long-term prospects. As production continued on ''Jezebel James,'' Fox reduced its order to 7 episodes from 13, and while the show was once expected to run in a time slot abutting ''American Idol,'' it will now be shown on Friday nights. (The network said that both changes were made to accommodate the ever-expanding schedule of ''Idol.'')
 Over a recent lunch, some three months after they finished work on ''Jezebel James,'' the Palladinos remained upbeat about their new series, though they acknowledged that so much had happened in the interim -- the writers' strike, for one thing -- they felt a certain distance from the entertainment business at large.
 They said that if viewers did respond positively to the show, it would not be because of time slots or network promotions, or the association with ''Gilmore Girls,'' but simply because they feel a connection with the material. 
 ''The first few years at 'Gilmore,' '' Ms. Sherman-Palladino said, ''I really spent way too much time talking to person after person after person, about marketing and support, and how we're not just a chick show, we can do more than sell tampons. It never got us anything. It came down to when the audience discovered it, they watched it, and then all of a sudden everybody liked it.''
 The strike, they said, had at least afforded them time to contemplate new projects and potential collaborations on projects for film and television, and possibly the Internet. It had also introduced them to more New York-based writers, taught them to recognize the building exteriors of the corporations and studios they were striking against, and helped them get better acquainted with their adopted city.
 ''We're often asked if we're from New York,'' Ms. Sherman-Palladino said. 
 Mr. Palladino added: ''Probably half the time it's a veiled insult. Sort of like: 'You're kind of rude and abrupt. Are you from New York?' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Amy Sherman- Palladino, below with her husband, Daniel Palladino, has created ''The Return of Jezebel James,'' with Parker Posey, near right, and Lauren Ambrose, for Fox. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES
RICHARD FOREMAN/FOX) (pg.AR23)
 ''Gilmore Girls,'' with Lauren Graham, above left, and Alexis Bledel, outlasted Amy Sherman-Palladino by only a year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL DESMOND/CW) (pg.AR24) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (77%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (77%); INTERIOR DECORATING (74%); LINGERIE (73%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (72%); WRITERS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2008



48 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 253 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths GALLAGHER, LACEY WINGHAM

 BODY:
 GALLAGHER--Lacey Wingham, 45, of New York, New York, beloved wife, daughter, sister, aunt and niece, died on February 27, 2008. Lacey departed this earth peacefully at New York Presbyterian Hospital after a three year battle with ovarian cancer surrounded by her family and a close friend. Lacey was born on June 28, 1962 in New York to Trudi and Hugh Gallagher. 
Lacey grew up on the east coast and abroad, most notably in Hong Kong and the Philippines. She graduated from Wellesley College and Princeton University's prestigious Woodrow Wilson School and had a distinguished career as an emerging markets economist, most recently as a Managing Director at Credit Suisse. She was also a member of the Council on Foreign Relations. Lacey loved travel, people and all things beautiful. She radiated joy to all who knew her. Lacey is survived by her husband, Mark Carlebach of New York City; parents Trudi and Hugh Gallagher of Armonk, NY; brother Keith Gallagher, niece and nephew Jessica and Matthew Gallagher of Scottsdale, AZ; uncle Roman Weber of Geneva, Switzerland; and minischnauzer, Trixie -all of whom loved her and felt loved by her. Family will receive friends on Sunday 2-4 and 7-9pm at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81st St. Funeral services Monday 11:30am at Frank E. Campbell. In lieu of flowers, the family requests that donations be sent to The Ovarian Cancer Research Fund (www. ocrf.org) or The Ovarian Cancer National Alliance (www.ovariancancer.org) in the name of Lacey Wingham Gallagher. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (89%); OVARIAN CANCER (89%); CANCER (89%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (77%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ONCOLOGY (72%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (70%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (54%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (54%)

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (56%)

ORGANIZATION: PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (57%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (56%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (56%); CS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (53%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); ARIZONA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (97%); PHILIPPINES (71%); HONG KONG (71%); SWITZERLAND (53%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2008



49 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 236 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths NOONAN, PATRICIA M

 BODY:
 NOONAN--Patricia M., who died at the age of 41 on December 11, 2007, is to be remembered March 9 at NYU School of Law, Washington Square South at 3:00pm. Friends and colleagues are invited. 
Patty, a non-smoker and avid runner, was diagnosed with stage 4 lung cancer six months post partum. She bravely used up every last molecule of energy fighting the disease for nine months. Patty's sole purpose was to live as long as possible for her infant daughter Lily Frances; she met that goal dutifully and with grace. Raised primarily in Richmond, VA, Patty and her husband Christopher Malone lived for over 20 years in NYC before moving to Verona, NJ in 2005. Patty served as Sr. VP of policy and economic development at the Partnership for NYC & NYC Investment Fund at time of her death. She was a member of the 2000-2001 Coro Foundation's leadership NY class. The NYLCV newsletter stated ''New York City lost one of its best and brightest advocates for environmental sustainability''. Patty is survived by her daughter Lily, her husband, Christopher, her mother Beth Noonan, her father Jack Noonan and her sister Kathy Farrow. A fellowship has been established in Patty's name at NYU. Contributions can be sent to NYU-WagnerNoonan Fund, c/o Lisa Taylor; 295 Lafayette St., 2nd floor; NY, NY 10012. An education fund is being established for Lily Frances Malone. More information will be available at the March 9th event. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); CANCER (77%); SMOKING (73%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (70%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (68%); LUNG CANCER (57%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (52%)

ORGANIZATION: CORO FOUNDATION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2008



50 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: NONFICTION: Sunday, March 2nd 2008

 BODY:
Rankings reflect sales, for the week ending Feb. 16, at many thousands of venues where a wide range of general interest books are sold nationwide. These include hundreds of independent book retailers (statistically weighted to represent all such outlets); national, regional and local chains; online and multimedia entertainment retailers; university, gift, supermarket, discount department stores and newsstands. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (&#8224;) indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Among those categories not actively tracked are: perennial sellers; required classroom reading; text, reference and test preparation guides; journals and workbooks; calorie counters; shopping guides; comics and crossword puzzles. Expanded rankings are available on the Web: nytimes.com/books. 


	 	 	 			Weeks		This	Last	On		Week	Week	List	BEST SELLERS: NONFICTION		 	 	 	1	1	7	IN DEFENSE OF FOOD, by Michael Pollan. (Penguin Press, $21.95.) A manifesto urges us to ''Eat food. Not too much. Mostly plants.''		 	 	 	2		1	RECONCILIATION, by Benazir Bhutto. (Harper/Harper Collins, $27.95.) A posthumous look at Islam, democracy and the West, by Pakistan's former prime minister and assassinated opposition leader.		 	 	 	3	3	5	REAL CHANGE, by Newt Gingrich with Vince Haley and Rick Tyler. (Regnery, $27.95.) How to build a better America, from the former speaker of the House.		 	 	 	4*	2	13	AN INCONVENIENT BOOK, by Glenn Beck and Kevin Balfe. (Threshold Editions, $26.) Beck's solutions to problems including global warming and political correctness.		 	 	 	5	4	19	I AM AMERICA (AND SO CAN YOU!), by Stephen Colbert, Richard Dahm, Paul Dinello, Allison Silverman et al. (Grand Central, $26.99.) The wit and wisdom of the mock pundit of Comedy Central's ''Colbert Report.''		 	 	 	6		1	THE AGE OF AMERICAN UNREASON, by Susan Jacoby. (Pantheon, $26.) Are Americans hostile to knowledge?		 	 	 	7	7	6	LIBERAL FASCISM, by Jonah Goldberg. (Doubleday, $27.95.) This ''alternative history of American liberalism ... reveals its roots in, and commonalities with, classical fascism.''		 	 	 	8	6	2	HOPE'S BOY, by Andrew Bridge. (Hyperion, $22.95.) A memoir of foster care by an advocate for poor children.		 	 	 	9	13	4	THIS REPUBLIC OF SUFFERING, by Drew Gilpin Faust. (Knopf, $27.95.) The impact of the Civil War's enormous death toll, from the new president of Harvard.		 	 	 	10*	8	32	QUIET STRENGTH, by Tony Dungy with Nathan Whitaker. (Tyndale, $26.99.) A memoir by the first black coach to win a Super Bowl (with the Indianapolis Colts in 2007). 		 	 	 	11		1	SEND YOURSELF ROSES, by Kathleen Turner with Gloria Feldt. (Springboard, $24.99.) A leading lady's life.		 	 	 	12	15	34	LONE SURVIVOR, by Marcus Luttrell with Patrick Robinson. (Little, Brown, $24.99.) The only survivor of a Navy Seals operation in northern Afghanistan describes his escape.		 	 	 	13		110	FREAKONOMICS, by Steven D. Levitt and Stephen J. Dubner. (Morrow, $27.95.) How economic theory explains everything from sumo to the falling crime rate.		 	 	 	14	10	6	GEOGRAPHY OF BLISS, by Eric Weiner. (Twelve, $25.99.) A writer explores to what degree an individual's happiness is intertwined with a shared geography and culture. 		 	 	 	15		1	THE MATCH, by Mark Frost. (Hyperion, $24.95.) In 1956, Ben Hogan and Byron Nelson faced two amateur champions in a high-stakes private golf game.		 	 	 	16*	9	3	ICEMAN, by Chuck Liddell with Chad Millman. (Dutton, $25.95.) A mixed martial artist who competes for the Ultimate Fighting Championship describes his life and his fights.		 	 	 	
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); BESTSELLERS (90%); BOOK SALES (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); NEWSSTANDS (78%); BOOKSTORES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (60%); SPORTS (60%); RELIGION (51%); GLOBAL WARMING (50%)

PERSON: DREW GILPIN FAUST (56%); BENAZIR BHUTTO (51%); NEWT GINGRICH (50%); STEPHEN COLBERT (50%); GLENN BECK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%) INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2008



51 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; COUNTING HEADS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2314 words

HEADLINE: The Border And The Ballot Box

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
ON June 7 of last year, a bill to overhaul the nation's immigration system -- a bill supported by President Bush and the Democratic leaders of Congress -- died in the Senate. It died mostly because of grass-roots opposition, and its downfall appeared to serve as an announcement of the issue's new political potency. For much of 2007, immigration seemed certain to play a dominant role in the 2008 presidential campaign.
 After the bill failed, Senator John McCain, the early Republican front-runner whose championing of the bill had made him look soft on illegal immigration, faded in the polls. The new Republican front-runners, Rudolph W. Giuliani and Mitt Romney, were trading accusations over who had been nicer to illegal immigrants in the past. ''It's been wonderful,'' Representative Tom Tancredo, the most emphatically anti-immigration candidate, said during a Republican debate in November, ''because all I've heard is people trying to out-Tancredo Tancredo.'' 
 The backlash even had a familiar feel to it. In the last few decades, the country has experienced its fourth great immigration wave. Each of the other three -- in the 1850s, 1880s and early 1900s -- also caused a political reaction, the first and most famous being the rise of the Know Nothing movement. History looked as if it would repeat itself, albeit in a milder form, this year.
 And so it has. It's just that the lessons of the past aren't quite what they first appeared to be.
 Immigration has a fantastically complicated political history in the United States. It has produced enough populist anger to elect Know Nothing mayors of Chicago, Philadelphia, Washington and San Francisco, all in the 1850s and, more recently, to help Lou Dobbs reinvent his television career and become a best-selling author. But when national politicians have tried to seize on such anger, they have usually failed -- and failed quickly. ''While immigration has always roiled large sections of the electorate,'' said Eric Rauchway, a historian at the University of California, Davis, ''it has never been the basis for a national election, one way or the other.'' 
 That appears to be truer than ever in 2008. Mr. McCain will all but clinch the Republican nomination on Tuesday with victories in the Ohio and Texas primaries. In the Texas campaign, except for a couple of obligatory questions about a border fence during a Democratic debate, immigration has been the dog that didn't bark. The candidates who would have made an issue of it exited the race long ago.
 There is, however, one more historical parallel to consider: as a political matter, immigration probably won't go away on its own. The anti-immigration movements of the past may not have created presidents, but they did change the country. The Chinese Exclusion Act helped cut the immigration rate by more than 40 percent at the close of the 19th century. The Nativist movement of the 1910s and 1920s had even more success passing laws to reduce the flow.
 Unlike those earlier immigration waves, the current one includes a large number of illegal immigrants, which creates its own political dynamic. The subject also plays into the economic anxiety of today that stems from decades of slow wage growth and is now aggravated by the possibility of a recession. Perhaps most important, this immigration wave could turn out to be the biggest of them all. Last month, the Pew Research Center reported that the percentage of Americans born overseas would break a century-old record sometime before 2025, if current trends continued.
 So, eight months after the Senate's immigration bill collapsed, immigration has managed to fade into the background without really becoming less important. The next president isn't likely to be elected on immigration, but he or she is going to have to reckon with it. 
 ON a snowy December morning last year, Mr. Romney held a campaign event at a general store in Windham, N.H. Among the Republicans who had packed inside to hear him was a young mother, there with a child, and she asked Mr. Romney whether as president he would make sure that New Hampshire residents who worked in Massachusetts could qualify for in-state college tuition in Massachusetts. 
 There were any number of good-natured ways to deflect the issue (not one a president decides, of course). Mr. Romney chose none. ''I can tell you this,'' he replied. ''If there is going to be an in-state tuition break, it's going to be for citizens, not for illegals.'' This was a swipe at Mike Huckabee, who had favored allowing illegal immigrants living in the state to pay the in-state tuition when he was governor of Arkansas. 
 In retrospect, those final weeks of 2007 -- just before actual voting began -- look like the recent high point for criticisms of illegal immigration. Consider that Mr. Huckabee was the one Republican candidate who seemed even friendlier to immigrants, including illegal ones, than Mr. McCain. In the November debate when other candidates tried to out-Tancredo each other, Mr. Huckabee instead upbraided Mr. Romney for his views on in-state tuition. ''In all due respect, we're a better country than to punish children for what their parents did,'' Mr. Huckabee told him. ''We're a better country than that.'' 
 In early January, he won the Iowa caucus in an upset of Mr. Romney. Shortly before the caucus, Mr. Tancredo became the first candidate to quit the campaign, evidently fearful that he would not even attract a respectable protest vote. 
 It's hard, in fact, to see how a single 2008 Republican candidate benefited from anti-immigration rhetoric. All the while, Mr. McCain's campaign bus was being followed around the early-voting states by a white van called the ''Amnesty Truth Express.'' Outside his Florida headquarters in West Palm Beach, a few days before he won the primary that established him as the clear front-runner, the van displayed a sign reading, ''McCain Equals Amnesty.'' 
 How could Mr. McCain's resurgence happen only six months after Americans deluged members of Congress with phone calls opposing an immigration bill that would have provided a path to citizenship for many people in the country illegally? And how could it happen when several states, including Arizona and Colorado, have recently implemented laws to make life harder for these immigrants? The country's previous backlashes offer something of a guide.
 Immigration was first mentioned in a party platform in 1848, according to Rita Simon, a sociologist at American University, just a few years after the potato famine brought an enormous emigration from Ireland. By the 1850s, the Know Nothings were a far stronger political force than anything similar today. They ran a former president, Millard Fillmore, in the 1856 presidential election, and he received 22 percent of the vote. For a time, anti-immigrant forces seemed as if they might dominate the new Republican Party. 
 In the end, though, the minority of Republicans who staunchly opposed the Know Nothings -- including Abraham Lincoln and William Seward -- won the day. As the 1850s came to a close and Southern states began talking about secession, immigration no longer seemed like a big enough issue to determine elections. 
 The Nativist reaction of the early 20th century started with a similar virulence. In the aftermath of World War I, ''there was just this fear that millions of people were going to pour in,'' said Mae Ngai, a Columbia University historian. ''You could read the discussion from the 1910s and think you were looking at something from today, if you just took out 'Italians' and put in 'Mexicans' '' 
 Anti-immigrant sentiment probably did help Herbert Hoover beat Al Smith -- a Catholic, like many immigrants at the time -- in 1928. But after Congress overwhelmingly passed new immigration restrictions in 1924, the main political fight over immigration occurred not between the parties, but within the Democratic Party, with those who wanted to embrace the Ku Klux Klan battling those who did not. Franklin D. Roosevelt was in the latter group.
 Mr. Rauchway, the historian, argues that the ultimate failure of anti-immigrant politics is part of a larger failure of class-based politics in the United States. Running against the rich -- or the poor -- has rarely worked in this country. Instead, immigrant-bashing has been most successful when it tapped into broader racial fears, as it did in both the 1850s and the 1920s. Notably, the economy was booming in the '20s. 
 ''As it becomes less and less acceptable to be racist,'' Mr. Rauchway said, ''immigration is not going to be as politically effective.''
 Polling data supports this argument. In a New York Times/CBS News poll conducted last May -- in the midst of the debate over the immigration bill -- 57 percent of respondents said that most recent immigrants contributed to this country, up from 34 percent when the question was asked in 1986. Only 28 percent in last year's poll said that most immigrants caused problems, down from 44 percent in 1986. The Gallup Poll also shows increasing sympathy for immigrants. 
 Social science, in turn, tends to support these tolerant views. Successive generations of Latinos -- from immigrants to their children and grandchildren -- have made enormous economic and educational progress over the last half-century, according to research by James Smith of the RAND Corporation. The crime rate among immigrants is lower than it is for native-born Americans, says Anne Morrison Piehl, an economist at Rutgers. The same even appears to be true of illegal immigrants: relative to their overall numbers, they are underrepresented in the nation's prisons.
 Yet it still is difficult to look at the current situation and conclude that last summer's defeat of the immigration bill will be the last such political explosion. The current immigration surge not only raises the old questions about whether today's arrivals are somehow unfit to be Americans, as the Germans, the Irish, the Chinese and the Italians were accused of being in past immigration waves; it also sows doubts about the competence of the federal government. As Ms. Ngai has written, illegal immigration ''seems to undermine something fundamental to the very existence of a nation.''
 In the 1990s, the number of illegal immigrants grew by 770,000 a year, according to Jeffrey Passel, a demographer at Pew. Recent efforts to tighten border security have helped reduce that annual total to 550,000 in this decade, but this still represents more than a third of total annual immigration. The mere fact that so many immigrants are here illegally, living in the shadows, may make it harder for them to achieve the usual American success story.
 It also prevents the country from having control over its immigration policy -- over how much weight should be given to family ties or to different job skills, for instance. The bulk of illegal immigrants have little education, which means that they worsen economic inequality (even if their impact is often greatly exaggerated). Their presence in the labor market reduces the cost of many items -- from home construction and child care to fruit and vegetables -- but does so by holding down wages for the native high-school dropouts who compete for those jobs. 
 Even if border security continues to improve, it seems unlikely ever to be foolproof. Just recently, the federal government backed away from a plan for an electronic fence because of technical glitches. Many experts say that a more honest immigration policy has to start inside this country -- namely, with the government ending its wink-and-nod attitude toward employers who hire illegal immigrants. 
 There are small signs it is beginning to do so. Michael Chertoff, the secretary of homeland security, announced a week ago that 53,000 employers were now using an electronic system to check new workers' Social Security numbers, more than twice as many as last year. 
 Politically, the success of a policy like this one would have the potential to persuade voters that the government was serious about enforcement. Skepticism on that very point helped kill last year's immigration bill. If Americans believed enforcement was real, they might then accept higher levels of legal immigration, as well as a citizenship path for immigrants now here illegally. 
 ''The only scenario I can see for reform is one that tries to damp down the frenzy about illegal immigration,'' Christopher Jencks, a Harvard sociologist who has studied the subject, said. To varying degrees, Mr. McCain and his Democratic opponent -- whether Hillary Rodham Clinton or Barack Obama -- will most likely try to balance security and openness in the general-election campaign. Mr. McCain, who says he was chastened by the reaction to the immigration bill, has so far emphasized border security more than the Democrats have.
 No matter how it happens, the country will almost certainly need an influx of new arrivals in coming decades. The baby boomers are about to start turning 65. Someone will have to take their place in the work force -- and help pay their Medicare and Social Security bills.
 After a year of political whiplash, it seems safe to conclude that the anti-immigration fervor was never as bad as it seemed but isn't permanently gone, either. As ever, we Americans like to say that we live in a nation of immigrants. But we are also prone to believing that the last great immigrants were the ones who arrived decades ago. The country can never quite make up its mind how open it should be. 
 It was in 1882, after all, that Congress significantly restricted immigration for the first time, by passing the Chinese Exclusion Act. Only four years later, the Statue of Liberty -- ''the Mother of Exiles,'' in the words of the Emma Lazarus poem inscribed inside the statute -- rose above New York Harbor. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Anti-Chinese An illustration of a massacre published in Harper's Weekly, 1885. Chinese laborers were attacked by white coal miners. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BETTMANN/CORBIS)
Anti-Catholic Burning of St. Augustine Roman Catholic Church in Philadelphia, 1844. As immigration soared, so did nativist reaction. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BETTMANN CORBIS)
GRANTED ENTRY: European immigrants who were processed at Ellis Island wait for the ferry that will carry them to New York City, circa 1900. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BETTMANN/CORBIS)
SENT BACK: A California border agent with an illegal immigrant, 1993. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID TURNLEY/CORBIS)
OUT OF THE PICTURE: Mitt Romney made clear his tough immigration stance. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHERYL SENTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) DRAWING (DRAWING BY LEIF PARSONS)
 CHART: IMMIGRATION RATE IN U.S.: Spikes in the 1840s, '50s and '80s led to violence. A backlash in the early 20th century brought sharp curbs on immigration. (Source: Pew Research Center) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); BORDER CONTROL (75%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); HISTORY (68%); WRITERS (62%); BESTSELLERS (50%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (90%); THOMAS G TANCREDO (78%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2008



52 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 283 words

HEADLINE: As the Nation Crumbles

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER J. DODD

 BODY:
THE most pressing problems can sometimes be the dullest -- until they force their way into our attention in an instant.
 On Aug. 1, the bridge carrying Interstate 35W over the Mississippi River buckled and broke. Thirteen people were killed. More than 100 were injured. 
 Afterward, we learned the frightening facts: 160,570 of our bridges are in just as dangerous a shape; a third of our roads are in poor or mediocre condition; some of our biggest cities depend on water and sewage systems over a century old.
 With every bursting pipe, potholed road and derailed train, the conclusion became inescapable: America's backbone is decaying.
 It wasn't always this way. Year by year and ton by ton -- from the great railroads to tens of thousands of miles of Interstate -- great American engineers built the foundations of our prosperity.
 Why are we leaving so little for our future? Reliable infrastructure keeps economies growing and the entrepreneurial spirit vibrant.
 Last summer, Senator Chuck Hagel and I proposed a National Infrastructure Bank. I hope it gets the attention it deserves on the campaign trail. It's encouraging that Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton are both co-sponsors. John McCain should be, too. 
 The Infrastructure Bank would unite the public and private sectors to complete large-scale works. Funds would go to the most qualified projects, not those with the most political clout. Every $1 billion spent on highways and transit projects would create about 47,500 jobs.
 This issue may never bring an audience to its feet, but it shouldn't have to. 
 On Jan. 21, the 44th president will face volumes of pressing challenges. Reinventing our infrastructure ought to be on Page 1.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY GREGORY NEMEC) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (53%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (75%); CHUCK HAGEL (68%); BARACK OBAMA (51%); JOHN MCCAIN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI RIVER (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2008



53 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; THE NATION; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1336 words

HEADLINE: Coming Soon: Health Care Debate, Part 2

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK

 BODY:
THE skirmishing between the Democratic presidential candidates over the mechanics of universal health coverage will soon give way to a quite different general-election debate -- about whether universal coverage should even be a national priority. 
 In the primaries, Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama have magnified their differences over making health insurance mandatory because it provides a rare chance to differentiate themselves on an issue that matters deeply to Democrats. But they are fighting over the narrowest of bands in a broad policy spectrum, and the focus on universal coverage -- rather than on cutting costs -- may have far less resonance come Nov. 4. 
 Senator John McCain, the presumptive Republican nominee, agrees with the Democrats that the health system needs major repair. But his solution would stress cost-containment over assuring coverage for all. Its most controversial elements would fundamentally alter the employer-based insurance system through which 71 percent of insured Americans now get their health coverage.
 Like President Bush, Mr. McCain wants to use tax policy to create an insurance marketplace that he says would be more competitive. He would end the longstanding tax exemption on health benefits paid by employers, to eliminate what he says is a bias against those who buy insurance individually. 
 Instead, anyone who buys health insurance would receive refundable tax credits of $2,500 per individual and $5,000 per family. To promote competition, Mr. McCain would allow policies to be sold across state lines and by organizations like churches and trade groups.
 The most difficult to insure -- the elderly and those with health problems -- would be eligible for larger credits, though Mr. McCain has not specified the amounts. By contrast, the Democratic plans would simply prohibit insurers from denying coverage because of health status. 
 The McCain campaign has no estimate of how many of America's 47 million uninsured would likely gain coverage under its plan. But Mr. McCain's emphasis is elsewhere. ''The biggest problem with the American health care system,'' he said in an October speech, ''is that it costs too much.''
 The Democratic candidates have not ignored the cost side of the health care equation. Like Mr. McCain, both have articulated plans to reduce the rampant growth of health spending through improvements in prevention, electronic record keeping and chronic-disease management. When Mrs. Clinton introduced her health plan last year in a series of three speeches, she pointedly devoted the first to lowering costs.
 But anyone paying attention to the Democratic campaign over the last two months could be excused for thinking that universal coverage is the candidates' fundamental concern. Last Saturday, Mrs. Clinton drew attention by scolding Mr. Obama (''Shame on you, Barack Obama!'') for what she said was a distortion of her position in a mailing. Three days later, the candidates spent the first 16 minutes of their debate in Cleveland disagreeing over whether everyone should be required to have insurance (Mrs. Clinton says yes; Mr. Obama says only children should be).
 Jonathan B. Oberlander, an authority on health politics at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, predicted that in the general election the Democrats might regret how much time they spent discussing government mandates, and the tax increases they have proposed to support broad expansions of coverage. ''It's just not how you want to sell health reform,'' he said.
 Polling suggests that at least 9 of every 10 voters in November will be insured. Many will not see universal coverage as a matter of self-interest. The complex economic argument that the uninsured impose hidden costs on everyone else may be difficult to convey in sound bites.
 And the electorate may be less receptive than participants in the Democratic primaries and caucuses. A December poll by the Kaiser Family Foundation found that 42 percent of Democrats said their top health policy concern was expanding coverage for the uninsured, while 35 percent said it was reducing costs. The priorities flipped when Republicans and independents were added to the mix, with 41 percent of all polled saying they cared most about reducing costs and 31 percent citing coverage for the uninsured.
 Michael F. Cannon, the director of health policy studies at the Cato Institute, argues there is no way to know whether universal coverage -- estimated by both Democratic campaigns to cost at least $110 billion -- would be the most cost-effective means of improving the country's health. 
 Mr. Cannon, a libertarian who used his blog to found the Anti-Universal Coverage Club, acknowledges that a substantial body of research has shown that health coverage can improve health outcomes. Studies by the American Cancer Society, for instance, have found that the uninsured are significantly more likely than those with private insurance to be diagnosed with cancer in late stages rather than early stages.
 But he cites a highly-regarded 2001 survey by two University of Chicago researchers, Helen Levy and David Meltzer, who said, ''there is no evidence at this time that would allow us to say whether money aimed at improving health would be better spent on health insurance or on inner-city clinics, community-based screening programs for hypertension or advertising campaigns to encourage good nutrition, to name just a few possibilities.''
 Mr. Cannon, along with a number of conservative theorists, contend that spending on unneeded procedures, medical errors and hospital infections is a more dire problem than the cost of caring for the uninsured. They say that waste accounts for a much larger share of the country's $2.1 trillion health care bill, and that at least twice as many Americans are estimated to die each year from medical errors as from lack of access to care. 
 The toxic politics of appearing to support any rationing of care has kept candidates in both parties from seriously confronting the overuse and misuse of health care, they say. Without change, health spending is projected to double by 2017, eating up 20 percent of gross domestic product.
 ''The pernicious aspect of this cry for universal coverage is that it is too easy for politicians,'' said Joseph R. Antos, a health policy expert at the American Enterprise Institute. ''The hard work is getting at the underlying inefficiencies in the health system, the perverse incentives that have everybody operating in the dark.'' 
 Supporters of universal coverage counter that its benefits would go well beyond its impact on health spending. Mrs. Clinton, for instance, speaks passionately about making health care in America more equitable and removing the ability of insurance companies to ''determine who lives and who dies, who gets health care and who does not.'' 
 Len M. Nichols, director of health policy for the New America Foundation, and a supporter of a health insurance mandate, said the ledger also must account for the economic and social costs of the deaths, disabilities and bankruptcies attributable to lack of insurance. ''The right question is: would coverage expansion add enough social and economic value to merit the investment?'' he said. ''The literature suggests a resounding yes.''
 Other health experts say it would be regrettable if the general election devolves into a debate that pits coverage against cost. In fact, they say, the government must fight on all fronts simultaneously to have any chance at meaningful change. ''If reforming U.S. health care results only in expanded access to care, costs will increase faster but with limited health benefits,'' Thomas R. Frieden, New York City's health commissioner, wrote last week in The Journal of the American Medical Association. ''If only cost controls are instituted, even more individuals will be denied access to needed care. Health care must be restructured to make maximizing health the organizing principle.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN ST. JOHN/NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC, VIA GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); HEALTH CARE (85%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); INSURANCE (76%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); TAX RELIEF (72%); DENIAL OF INSURANCE COVERAGE (71%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (71%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (67%); CHRONIC DISEASES (61%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (61%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2008



54 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: How a Bubble Stayed Under the Radar

BYLINE: By ROBERT J. SHILLER. 
Robert J. Shiller is professor of economics and finance at Yale and co-founder and chief economist of MacroMarkets LLC.

 BODY:
ONE great puzzle about the recent housing bubble is why even most experts didn't recognize the bubble as it was forming. 
 Alan Greenspan, a very serious student of the markets, didn't see it, and, moreover, he didn't see the stock market bubble of the 1990s, either. In his 2007 autobiography, ''The Age of Turbulence: Adventures in a New World,'' he talks at some length about his suspicions in the 1990s that there was irrational exuberance in the stock market. But in the end, he says, he just couldn't figure it out: ''I'd come to realize that we'd never be able to identify irrational exuberance with certainty, much less act on it, until after the fact.'' 
 With the housing bubble, Mr. Greenspan didn't seem to have any doubt: ''I would tell audiences that we were facing not a bubble but a froth -- lots of small local bubbles that never grew to a scale that could threaten the health of the overall economy.'' 
 The failure to recognize the housing bubble is the core reason for the collapsing house of cards we are seeing in financial markets in the United States and around the world. If people do not see any risk, and see only the prospect of outsized investment returns, they will pursue those returns with disregard for the risks.
 Were all these people stupid? It can't be. We have to consider the possibility that perfectly rational people can get caught up in a bubble. In this connection, it is helpful to refer to an important bit of economic theory about herd behavior. 
 Three economists, Sushil Bikhchandani, David Hirshleifer and Ivo Welch, in a classic 1992 article, defined what they call ''information cascades'' that can lead people into serious error. They found that these cascades can affect even perfectly rational people and cause bubblelike phenomena. Why? Ultimately, people sometimes need to rely on the judgment of others, and therein lies the problem. The theory provides a framework for understanding the real estate turbulence we are now observing. 
 Mr. Bikhchandani and his co-authors present this example: Suppose that a group of individuals must make an important decision, based on useful but incomplete information. Each one of them has received some information relevant to the decision, but the information is incomplete and ''noisy'' and does not always point to the right conclusion. 
 Let's update the example to apply it to the recent bubble: The individuals in the group must each decide whether real estate is a terrific investment and whether to buy some property. Suppose that there is a 60 percent probability that any one person's information will lead to the right decision.
 In other words, that person's information is useful but not definitive -- and not clear enough to make a firm judgment about something as momentous as a market bubble. Perhaps that is how Mr. Greenspan assessed the probability that he could make an accurate judgment about the stock market bubble. 
 The theory helps explain why he -- or anyone trying to verify the existence of a market bubble -- may have squelched his own judgment.
 The fundamental problem is that the information obtained by any individual -- even one as well-placed as the chairman of the Federal Reserve -- is bound to be incomplete. If people could somehow hold a national town meeting and share their independent information, they would have the opportunity to see the full weight of the evidence. Any individual errors would be averaged out, and the participants would collectively reach the correct decision.
 Of course, such a national town meeting is impossible. Each person makes decisions individually, sequentially, and reveals his decisions through actions -- in this case, by entering the housing market and bidding up home prices. 
 Suppose houses are really of low investment value, but the first person to make a decision reaches the wrong conclusion (which happens, as we have assumed, 40 percent of the time). The first person, A, pays a high price for a home, thus signaling to others that houses are a good investment.
 The second person, B, has no problem if his own data seem to confirm the information provided by A's willingness to pay a high price. But B faces a quandary if his own information seems to contradict A's judgment. In that case, B would conclude that he has no worthwhile information, and so he must make an arbitrary decision -- say, by flipping a coin to decide whether to buy a house.
 The result is that even if houses are of low investment value, we may now have two people who make purchasing decisions that reveal their conclusion that houses are a good investment.
 As others make purchases at rising prices, more and more people will conclude that these buyers' information about the market outweighs their own.
 Mr. Bikhchandani and his co-authors worked out this rational herding story carefully, and their results show that the probability of the cascade leading to an incorrect assumption is 37 percent. In other words, more than one-third of the time, rational individuals, each given information that is 60 percent accurate, will reach the wrong collective conclusion. 
 Thus, we should expect to see cascades driving our thinking from time to time, even when everyone is absolutely rational and calculating. 
 This theory poses a major challenge to the ''efficient markets'' view of the world, which assumes that investors are like independent-minded voters, relying only on their own information to make decisions. The efficient-markets view holds that the market is wiser than any individual: in aggregate, the market will come to the correct decision. But the theory is flawed because it does not recognize that people must rely on the judgments of others.
 NOW, let's modify the Bikhchandani-Hirshleifer-Welch example again, so that the individuals are no longer purely rational beings. Instead, they are real people, subject to emotional reactions.
 Furthermore, these people are being influenced by agencies like the National Association of Realtors, which is conducting a public-relations campaign intended to show that putting money into housing is a reliable way to build wealth. Under these circumstances, it's easy to understand how even experts could come to believe that housing is a spectacular investment.
 It is clear that just such an information cascade helped to create the housing bubble. And it is now possible that a downward cascade will develop -- in which rational individuals become excessively pessimistic as they see others bidding down home prices to abnormally low levels. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (91%); HOUSING BUBBLE (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (71%); HERD BEHAVIOR (70%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (56%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2008



55 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: The Buck Has Stopped

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
BEN S. BERNANKE, the Federal Reserve chairman, told Congress last week that fighting off a possible recession in the United States was Job 1 for his crew. But a consumer-led recession has already begun, according to a new index that reflects how much money Americans can actually spend right now. 
 The new indicator comes courtesy of Charles Biderman, the founder and chief executive of TrimTabs Investment Research, a proprietary research firm in Santa Rosa, Calif. ''The big picture is: the amount of money people have to spend, which includes money on real estate transactions, is plummeting, and it started to break down in October,'' he said.
 Consumer spending, don't forget, accounts for about two-thirds of gross domestic product. Naturally, all eyes are on what consumers are doing with their money. Mr. Biderman said his data, in contrast to the indicators the federal number crunchers produce, are contemporaneous and offer much more insight into what is happening in the economic here and now. 
 He said data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics and the Bureau of Economic Analysis rely on outdated figures and outmoded methods. (Both agencies have been roundly criticized for years about these problems. They defend their practices by saying that, among other things, certain data segments that they ignore are insignificant and that their models are -- of necessity -- focused on past data.)
 Mr. Biderman's assessment of current employment and personal income pictures, for instance, is gleaned from sources that include daily deposits of withheld income and employment taxes reported to the United States Treasury. This compares with the monthly employment analyses put out by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, which are preliminary and, Mr. Biderman says, based on flawed surveys and extrapolation of historical data. 
 No surprise, he says, that the initial figures from the bureau are so often adjusted significantly later on. 
 TrimTabs calls its new measure the Consumer Spendables Indicator, and it sensibly includes these crucial sources of consumption cash: after-tax wages; after-tax income from nonwage sources, like capital gains, dividends, pensions, partnerships and self-employment; and net equity extraction from consumers' homes, either through property sales or mortgage refinancing. 
 FOR the first time since the fourth quarter of 2003, TrimTabs estimates, consumers will have less money to spend this quarter on a year-over-year basis. The firm expects this figure to fall 0.6 percent from the same period in 2007. 
 While that may not seem like a meaningful decline, it becomes more significant when compared with the increases the index showed during the real estate boom. 
 Back when homes were everybody's favorite A.T.M., mortgage equity extraction propelled the TrimTabs consumer indicator. Beginning in late 2004, quarterly comparisons with year-earlier periods shot up; they peaked at a growth rate of 17 percent in the first quarter of 2006. During that period, consumers had $1.69 trillion to spend; equity extraction accounted for $191 billion then, TrimTabs said, its peak amount. 
 ''The economy surged in '04 and '05 and the early part of 2006 because of money coming out of real estate,'' Mr. Biderman said. ''The economy was stronger than the government showed.''
 To build the new indicator, he collected data from as far back as the first quarter of 2002. The amounts of spendable cash that consumers had at their disposal kept growing throughout 2007, surging to $2.2 trillion in the second quarter of that year. Even as mortgage lending slowed and real estate prices began to fall in late 2007, consumers had more money to spend, on a year-over-year basis, largely because home loans in the pipeline took some time to work through to borrowers. 
 Now the ill effects of declining real estate values and stricter lending are hitting, ahem, home. Moreover, the Federal Reserve's recent rate-cut campaign has had little effect on consumer borrowing costs. 
 On Friday, the Commerce Department's consumer spending figures supported TrimTabs' view of a consumer slowdown. It said consumer purchases rose 0.4 percent in January, barely above the inflation rate of 0.3 percent. The data seemed to show that the only money being spent was going to cover increased living expenses. And if you've bought groceries lately, these costs also seem far higher than the government posits. 
 Indeed, Mr. Biderman is on something of a campaign to persuade the government's statistical gurus to enter the real world and junk their reliance on surveys and extrapolations of historical data that don't reflect reality. 
 ''There is real-time data available, but they don't want to look at it,'' he said. ''One of the reasons why the dollar sells at a discount is people have no faith in the data coming out of Washington.''
 And yet investors rely heavily on employment numbers -- the markets gyrate when they are issued each month. 
 TRIMTABS, which estimates employment growth using data from an online job index and an analysis of income tax withheld versus job creation rates, has been far more accurate than the Bureau of Labor Statistics. For example, in 2006, the government's initial estimates of employment growth came in at 1.52 million jobs. But the bureau revised that data upward in February 2007, for a total of 2.24 million. 
 By comparison, TrimTabs' estimates of 2006 employment growth, using real-time data, totaled 2.39 million jobs. The firm reported those figures to clients contemporaneously. 
 Last week, TrimTabs told clients it estimated that 77,000 jobs would be lost in February; Wall Street economists are calling for a gain of 30,000 for the month. 
 Since October 2007, TrimTabs estimates, the economy has lost about 175,000 jobs, the first sustained employment drop since early 2003. Growing job losses naturally will contribute to a weakening consumer, whose ills will affect the overall economy. And the stock market is feeling this pain as well, in Mr. Biderman's view. 
 ''All the cash that was created, a lot of it is still in the equity market, and that is in the process of being unwound even though the overall economy might not be that fragile,'' he said. ''For a five-year period, no one lost any money buying anything. A lot of mischief was done, and now that mischief is being unwound.''
 Stocks fell last week, and are down considerably so far this year. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index has lost 9.4 percent since the end of 2007, while the Dow Jones industrial average is down 7.5 percent.
 Happily, Mr. Biderman does not expect the recession to last much longer than the end of 2008. ''I see this thing lasting longer than the bulls think but not as deep as the bears expect,'' he said. ''People will start feeling better late this year.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Consumers have cut back on purchases more than federal data indicates, says a research firm. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ELAINE THOMPSON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.BU5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); RECESSION (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); TAX LAW (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); HISTORY (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (75%); STATISTICAL METHOD (73%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (69%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (60%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (60%); EXECUTIVES (56%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (55%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (72%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2008



56 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1865 words

HEADLINE: The Emerging Minority

BYLINE: By JAMES TRAUB. 
James Traub, a contributing writer, last wrote for the magazine about the French foreign minister, Bernard Kouchner.

 BODY:
Barack Obama, who does not have too many problems nowadays, does have a Hispanic problem. In Nevada, the first state with a large Latino population to hold a primary, Hillary Rodham Clinton won 64 percent of the Hispanic vote and Obama only 26 percent. By the time of the Super Tuesday primaries on Feb. 5, Obama had apparently picked up many of John Edwards's Hispanic votes, but Clinton still held her own, 63 percent to Obama's 35 percent. With her back now against the wall, Clinton is counting on Hispanics to carry her to victory in Texas this Tuesday and thus preserve her electoral viability.
 It comes as no surprise that black voters prefer Obama or that women prefer Clinton. But why have Hispanic voters chosen Clinton by about the same margin that women have? The two candidates have similar positions on immigration, poverty, English-language teaching and the like. Experts in Hispanic politics tend to ascribe her lead to the years she spent cultivating the Hispanic community, to her heavy advertising on Spanish-language media, to a deep reservoir of fondness for her husband and to Obama's relative neglect of this constituency, at least until recently. At the same time, shouldn't the politics of identity dictate that Hispanic voters would broadly prefer a black man to a white woman? 
 Or do identity politics, in fact, work the other way around? Sergio Bendixen, Clinton's Hispanic pollster, provoked a furor in late January when he told an interviewer that ''the Hispanic voter . . . has not shown a lot of willingness or affinity to support black candidates.'' Television commentators treated the claim as accepted wisdom and thus a serious impediment to Obama's electoral prospects, while both the Obama camp and scholars of Hispanic voting patterns denounced Bendixen for spreading racial propaganda on behalf of his client. Clinton later tried to defuse the controversy by explaining that her pollster was simply making ''a historical statement.'' But neither she nor Bendixen have since furnished the relevant history. (The pollster's office did not respond to my request for clarification.)
 Bendixen's claim would come as no surprise to veterans of New York City politics, where ethnic competition has long been a fact of life. In Rodriguez v. Pataki, a 2002 voting rights case, a federal court in New York adopted the findings of an expert who concluded that in six Democratic primary races involving a black candidate, ''Hispanics and whites voted together far more often than did Hispanics and blacks''; in all but one election, ''Hispanics 'voted cohesively against' the black candidate.'' Nor is this pattern exclusive to New York. Allan J. Lichtman, a scholar at American University who has served as an expert witness in more than 75 voting rights and redistricting cases, says that in Texas primaries, Hispanic voters almost always choose white candidates over black ones and blacks choose whites over Hispanics. (Lichtman also notes that since black turnout in Texas primaries is usually about triple that of Hispanics, Obama's prospects this Tuesday may be stronger than they appear.)
 It is also true, as critics of Bendixen were quick to point out, that black mayors in Chicago, New York and Dallas, as well as black congressmen in many areas, have done well among Hispanic voters, if not nearly as well as they have among blacks. But some of these cases involve general elections in which party affiliation is not at issue. Indeed, Fernando Guerra, an expert on Hispanic politics at Loyola Marymount University, who disdains Bendixen's blanket assertion, nevertheless says that he has ''a gut feeling that about 10 percent of the Latinos who are voting for Hillary are voting against Obama because he's African-American.'' Guerra ascribes some part of the Latino reluctance to support black candidates to racism and some to the competition for scarce resources at the lower rungs of the economic and political ladder.
 The reluctance runs both ways. Antonio Villaraigosa took only 20 percent of the black vote in his unsuccessful 2001 run against James Hahn for mayor of Los Angeles; even when he won the rematch with the wholehearted support of the black leadership, his black support was not overwhelming. Michael Bloomberg handily defeated Fernando Ferrer among blacks when he won re-election as mayor of New York in 2005. Nor is it hard to understand why this should be so. In much of the country, blacks are in the position of an established ethnic bloc, and Hispanics are the arrivistes. Black population is largely static, while Hispanics are growing rapidly. Blacks are likely to be the most immediate losers when Hispanic immigrants take low-wage jobs. Indeed, Fernando Guerra says that he doesn't blame black voters who fear Hispanic inroads. ''There really is a loss,'' he points out. ''It's measurable.'' 
 At the very least, the idea of a kinship of the oppressed, which Jesse Jackson promoted under the banner of the Rainbow Coalition, is plainly a chimera. ''There is no such thing as 'people of color,' '' in the words of John Mollenkopf, an expert on immigration and urban affairs at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York. A bleaker view holds that such solidarity as now exists between blacks and Hispanics will not survive changes in demography and culture. In ''The Rainbow Coalition Evaporates,'' an article appearing in the current issue of City Journal, a conservative bimonthly, Steven Malanga argues that growing Hispanic penetration into traditionally black areas is producing dangerous tensions, from political rivalry to gang violence. He suggests that black politicians could soon be forced to take a more adversarial position in debates over immigration and predicts that the rising hostility ''portends problems for the Democratic Party.''
 This nightmare vision -- or perhaps this instance of conservative wish fulfillment -- sounds only slightly more plausible than Jesse Jackson's utopian one. Rather than dwelling on the zero-sum equation, black political leaders have framed immigration as a civil rights issue. Polls consistently find that blacks support immigrant rights despite viewing themselves as net losers from immigration. Political choices matter: rivalry among competing groups is inevitable, but one function of politics in a multiethnic society is to adjudicate such competing claims. Whether in Sarajevo or Los Angeles, politicians can do a great deal either to promote cooperation or to inflame frictions. 
 Barack Obama has made a clear political choice during the presidential campaign. Guided by his palpable yen for consensus as well as his own polyglot sense of identity, Obama has chosen to speak a transracial, indeed a nonracial, language -- and endured a good deal of criticism from old-line black leaders for doing so. Nor has he made any attempt to woo Hispanics as part of a ''black-brown'' coalition. He has, by and large, addressed minority voters not as minorities but as Americans. And it may be no coincidence that Obama has not been hindered in the past by ethnic rivalry: in his 2004 Senate primary, Obama took 70 percent of the Hispanic vote -- even though one of his opponents was Hispanic. And his standing among such voters this time around has steadily improved, perhaps as they have come to know more about him.
 Paradoxically, it has been the Clinton camp that with an increasing feel of desperation has tried to make Obama into a black candidate, whether by comparing his political success with Jackson's, as President Clinton has done, or by insinuating that Hispanics will balk at his candidacy. (''I want to say this very carefully,'' Bendixen cautioned.) It's the white candidate, that is, who has stirred the pot of identity politics. And perhaps it will take a black candidate to lay some of the shibboleths of identity politics to rest.
 If Barack Obama wins the Democratic nomination, Bendixen's claim will be put to an even more consequential test. Clinton supporters sometimes argue that their candidate is the more electable one because Hispanics will migrate to the G.O.P. or stay home should Obama be the nominee. The Republicans have already eaten into the Democrats' lead with Hispanics, at least at the level of presidential politics: while Bob Dole won 20 percent of their votes in 1996, Bush won 35 percent in 2000 and about 40 percent in 2004. Indeed, Karl Rove's longstanding dream of giving the Republican Party a permanent majority turned in no small part on appealing to Hispanic immigrants' patriotism, social conservatism and faith in the American dream. 
 But that moment may already have passed. Exit polls in 2006 showed that in Congressional races, Democrats won 69 percent of the Hispanic vote. And that was before Bush's immigration bill -- the linchpin of Rove's bid for the Hispanic vote -- went down in flames after a withering attack from conservatives. And, of course, it also preceded the current Republican primaries, in which candidates have vied to appeal to the party's nativist wing. In nominating John McCain -- who has taken a brave stand, though not without some backsliding, on immigration -- the party has put its best foot forward with Hispanics. But McCain himself said last May that ''the Hispanic vote is turning against us in very large numbers.''
 Demographics as well as politics seem to be working against the G.O.P. According to Antonio Gonzalez, president of the William C. Velasquez Institute, which studies Hispanic political behavior, Hispanic registration was becoming increasingly segmented in the 1970s and '80s, with growing numbers of both Republicans and independents. But those numbers began to shift as newer immigrants registered to vote and increasingly cast their lot with the Democrats (contrary to Rove's hopes and expectations). Among major ethnic or religious groupings, only blacks now vote more monolithically for one party than Hispanics do. Immigration is an especially central issue for newer arrivals in this country, and they have no doubt who to blame on the subject. 
 And so while it is true that competition for scarce resources is bound to pit America's two principal minority groups against each other in many places, this almost certainly does not portend problems for the Democratic Party, whoever its standard-bearer. Allan Lichtman notes that the same studies that show blacks and Hispanics splitting in Democratic primaries also show ''almost 100 percent unity in the general election.'' Racial or ethnic rivalry is thus not evidence of a deep difference in political opinion. In short, Karl Rove's values coalition of the right has proved every bit as evanescent as Jesse Jackson's rainbow coalition of the left.
 It is possible, of course, that Hispanic voters would be attracted to a pro-immigrant, pro-free-enterprise, ''compassionate conservative'' Republican Party. That was the party many thought they were voting for in 2000 and again in 2004. That may even have been the party that George Bush and Karl Rove thought they had brought into being. But it turned out that their own base wouldn't accept that party. And now the Democrats will reap the benefit. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALLISON V. SMITH)
CHART: SPLIT DECISION: Exit-poll reports on the Hispanic voter in the 2008 Democratic primaries (Source: Edison Media Research and Mitofsky International
 Chart by Charles M. Blow) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISPANIC AMERICANS (92%); VOTERS & VOTING (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); EXPERT WITNESSES (68%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (68%); WITNESSES (60%); IMMIGRATION (53%); CITIES (50%); REDISTRICTING (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (92%); JOHN EDWARDS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEVADA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2008



57 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1536 words

HEADLINE: McCain Channels His Inner Hillary

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
BEFORE they were sidetracked into a new war against The New York Times, the Rush Limbaugh posse had it right about John McCain. He is a double agent. Some Democrats do admire and like him. So does Jon Stewart, and so do many liberal editorial boards and card-carrying hacks in the mainstream American press. So, in fact, do many at The Times, including myself. As long as I don't look too hard at the fine print. 
 You've got to love a guy who said a few years ago that he regretted likening Mr. Limbaugh to ''a circus clown'' because of all the complaints from circus clowns insulted by the comparison. ''I would like to extend my apologies to Bozo, Chuckles and Krusty,'' Senator McCain told a rather startled Neil Cavuto of Fox News. 
 What's more, Ann Coulter and Tom DeLay aren't entirely wrong when they bluster that a vote for Mr. McCain amounts to a vote for Hillary Clinton (or, for that matter, Barack Obama). The Arizona senator's otherwise conservative record is closer to the Democrats on immigration, campaign-finance reform, stem-cell research, global warming, oil drilling in Alaska, waterboarding, Gitmo and, until a recent flip-flop, the Bush tax cuts. In The New Republic, Jonathan Chait concluded that Mr. McCain's Senate votes made him ''the most effective advocate of the Democratic agenda in Washington'' during the first Bush term.
 All of which should make Democrats more nervous than the clowns of the hard right. Might Mr. McCain so blur distinctions that he could grab enough independents to triumph? He won even among antiwar and anti-Bush voters in New Hampshire. A Mason-Dixon poll last week found Mr. McCain beating either Senator Obama or Senator Clinton in must-win Florida.
 The good news for the Democrats so far is that whatever Mr. McCain's sporadic overlap with liberals, he is emulating almost identically the suicidal Clinton campaign against Mr. Obama. He has mimicked Mrs. Clinton's message and rhetorical style, her tone-deaf contempt for Mr. Obama's cultural appeal, and her complete misreading of just how politically radioactive the war in Iraq remains despite its migration from the front page. 
 Like his prototype, Mr. McCain trumpets his long years of experience to an electorate that currently associates experience with Dick Cheney and Donald Rumsfeld. He further channels Mrs. Clinton by belittling Mr. Obama's oratory as an ''eloquent but empty call for change'' -- a tact that calls attention to how flat and uninspiring his own speeches can be. (Again like Mrs. Clinton, Mr. McCain is at his best in small groups and town-hall meetings.) 
 He also likes to counter hope with gloom -- as if he wants to put Armageddon, rather than a chicken, in every pot. But after seven years of doom, Americans are as hungry for optimism as they were for Reagan's ''Morning in America'' after Carter's malaise. As Rudy Giuliani learned the hard way, the political potency of 9/11 has gone the way of John Ashcroft and color-coded terror alerts. 
 Most luckily for Democrats, Mr. McCain is in even greater denial than Mrs. Clinton about Iraq. On Monday he cited a USA Today/Gallup poll to assert that ''the majority of Americans believe the surge is succeeding.'' In fact, that poll found that only 43 percent of Americans see an upturn in Iraq. Let's posit that many or even most voters do believe (correctly) that the surge has improved security. Even so, the political needle hasn't budged. The same Gallup poll found that a somewhat higher-than-usual 60 percent of Americans still call the war ''a mistake,'' as a majority has since the summer of 2005. For a year now, a majority has also favored a timetable for removing troops, no matter what happens on the ground.
 Though Mr. McCain maintains that Republicans were routed in the 2006 midterms because of Congressional overspending and corruption, that's wishful thinking. With all due respect to Mark Foley, Jack Abramoff and the bridge to nowhere, that election was mostly a repudiation of a war that was as unpopular then as it is on the eve of its fifth anniversary in 2008. 
 That's why Mr. McCain was already on the defensive in his early skirmishes with Mr. Obama last week, after Mr. Obama dared point out that Al Qaeda was not in Iraq prior to the American invasion. Mr. McCain was reduced to arguing that such annoying little details are out of bounds because they belong to ''the past.'' 
 You can't blame Mr. McCain for trying. His role back then in enabling the fiasco was far more active than Mrs. Clinton's, and it's far more visible on videotape. He didn't just vote to authorize the war; in response to a question from Tim Russert in September 2002, he lent his military credibility to the administration's undermanned war plan. When Gen. Eric Shinseki, the Army chief of staff, challenged that strategy in a February 2003 Senate hearing by calling for ''several hundred thousand soldiers,'' Mr. McCain did not speak up in support. That month he went on ''Hannity & Colmes'' to say that the war ''will be brief,'' that post-Saddam Iraq is ''going to be paid for by the Iraqis,'' and that America will ''send a message'' from Syria to Saudi Arabia that ''democracy can take hold in the Middle East.'' 
 The one part of his Iraq past that Mr. McCain does want us to recall now is his subsequent criticism of the war's execution. But contrary to his current claims, he never publicly demanded Mr. Rumsfeld's head. And when Mr. McCain did call for more troops in Iraq, he was again in sync with Democrats like Joe Biden, with whom he made that case on ''Meet the Press'' in August 2003. 
 Rather than dwell on this ancient history, Mr. McCain said last week, we should talk about ''what we are going to do now.'' But his answer to ''what we are going to do now'' in Iraq is merely more of what he did then. 
 If, as he says, the surge is ''succeeding,'' voters may well join the Democratic ticket (possibly including the Vietnam War hero Jim Webb?) in asking why we'll still have some 140,000 troops on indefinite duty in Iraq as of this summer, a year and a half after this ''temporary'' escalation was announced. It will be a slam-dunk for Democrats to argue that it's long past time for the Iraqis to stand up on a sensible timetable that will allow the Americans to stand down. 
 It's also possible, especially now that Iraq's provincial elections have been abruptly scuttled by warring Shiite factions, that the surge will stop ''succeeding'' and Iraq will again erupt in sectarian violence. Then Mr. McCain will have to propose a new and larger surge -- and explain how he'll pay for it while the economy slumps and he extends the Bush tax cuts. Either way, he offers voters no tangible exit strategy beyond his constant refrain that the commander in chief should take his orders from Gen. David Petraeus.
 Since the mere mention of Iraq is dangerous to Mr. McCain's and Mrs. Clinton's claims about the exalted value of their experience, they have countered by trying to portray Mr. Obama as a foreign policy moron. They've even alighted on the identicalbogus charge, accusing him of threatening to recklessly bomb our dear ally Pakistan. What Mr. Obama actually said last summer was that he would go after Al Qaeda operatives in Pakistan's mountains when there was actionable intelligence even if a recalcitrant President Musharraf refused to act. 
 As with his early opposition to the Iraq war, Mr. Obama has proved to be prescient once more. His Pakistan stance anticipated both the latest Bush administration policy -- the C.I.A. killed the seniorQaeda commander Abu Laith al-Libi in just such a unilateral strike within Pakistan in late January -- and Mr. McCain's own campaign posture. When Mr. McCain promises to follow Osama bin Laden to ''the gates of hell,'' he too is vowing to go after Al Qaeda in Pakistan without restraint.
 In desperation to land some knockout punch, some McCain supporters, following the precedent of Clinton surrogates, are already invoking Mr. Obama's race, middle name and tourist snapshot in Somali dress to smear his patriotism. The idea is to make him a Manchurian candidate, a closet anti-Semitic jihadist trained in a madrassa run by, say, Louis Farrakhan. 
 What repeatedly goes unrecognized by all of Mr. Obama's opponents is that his political Kryptonite is the patriotism he offers in lieu of theirs. His upbeat notion of a yes-we-can national mobilization for the common good, however saccharine, speaks to the pride and idealism of Americans who are bone-weary of a patriotism defined exclusively by flag lapel pins, the fear of terrorism and the prospect of perpetual war. 
 A few more ''macaca'' moments for the nearly all-white G.O.P. could spell its doom. Recognizing the backlash that has followed the racially tinged smears leveled at Mr. Obama so far, Mr. McCain wasted no time in publicly scolding the right-wing radio talk-show host who railed against Barack Hussein Obama at one of his rallies last week. Or perhaps, as those of us who like Mr. McCain want to believe, he is simply a man of honor: he knows that history will judge him exactingly on how he runs against America's first black or female presidential nominee, win or lose.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BARRY BLITT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); CIRCUSES & CARNIVALS (75%); IRAQ WAR (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); IMMIGRATION (66%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (52%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (51%); GLOBAL WARMING (51%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (91%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (88%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); DICK CHENEY (58%); NEIL CAVUTO (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2008



58 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; EVERYBODY'S BUSINESS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: Exxon Mobil Needs a Hug

BYLINE: By BEN STEIN. 
Ben Stein is a lawyer, writer, actor and economist. E-mail: ebiz@nytimes.com

 BODY:
AS I was sitting at my majestic TV in a majestic suite at the Mandarin Oriental Hotel in Miami a couple of weeks ago, going over notes for a speech the next morning and waiting for Crockett and Tubbs to speed by, chasing drug kingpins in their ''Miami Vice'' motorboat, I watched Barack Obama speak in Madison, Wis. 
 As usual, Senator Obama gave a fine oration, with thunderous applause from the audience as his reward. But then I was beguiled by a series of gifts he was going to give the American people (of course, with their own money): universal health care, antipoverty programs, large grants to college students in return for community service (a darned good idea) and other goodies. 
 Then he talked about the country's energy policy and how he planned to change our dependence on oil. And he took aim at Exxon Mobil, which had almost $12 billion in earnings last quarter, and said that good old Exxon Mobil wouldn't part easily with its profits. 
 Now, I know it's primary season. I know Democratic candidates have to make obeisance to the populist, antibusiness wing of their party, just as the Republican front-runner, Senator John McCain, has to make bows and curtsies to the supply-side part of his (and my) party. 
 But Mr. Obama's comments about Exxon Mobil are, as folks used to say, fightin' words.
 Mr. Obama is clearly an intelligent man. So it may not be too early to start a small process of education about Exxon Mobil and other oil companies and why attacking them is not smart. First, Exxon Mobil, like all the other gigantic integrated energy companies in this country, is owned not by a cabal of reactionary businessmen holding clandestine meetings in a lodge in the Texas scrublands (as Oliver Stone so brilliantly illustrated in ''Nixon'').
 Exxon Mobil, in fact, is owned mostly by ordinary Americans. Mutual funds, index funds and pension funds (including union pension funds) own about 52 percent of Exxon Mobil's shares. Individual shareholders, about two million or so, own almost all the rest. The pooh-bahs who run Exxon own less than 1 percent of the company. 
 When Exxon Mobil earns almost $12 billion in a quarter, or $41 billion in a year, as it did in 2007, that money does not go into the coffers of a few billionaire executives quaffing Champagne in Texas. It goes into the pension and retirement accounts of ordinary citizens. When Exxon pays a dividend, that money goes to pay for the mortgages and oxygen tanks and in-home care of lots of elderly Americans.
 So, Mr. Obama, which union pension plans -- and which blue-collar workers who benefit from them -- will be among the first you would like to deprive of the income that flows from Exxon's rich dividends? 
 When Mr. Obama or his Democratic rival, my fellow Yale Law School graduate Hillary Rodham Clinton, go after the oil companies and want to take away their profits, they are basically seeking to lower the income of the ordinary American. Why do that? It's just cutting off one end of a blanket and sewing it to the other.
 Years ago, there was a comic strip called ''Pogo'' by Walt Kelly, and the possum who was its hero uttered a deservedly famous line: ''We have met the enemy and he is us.'' This applies to Big Oil. Its profits are our income. Its employees are overwhelmingly not millionaires -- and, by the way, it's not illegal or evil to be a millionaire. They are our neighbors and the people who get us the gasoline to run our cars and trucks and the oil to heat our homes. 
 And, after expenses, the money hauled in by Exxon Mobil and other companies like it goes vastly more toward exploration and finding new ways of delivering oil and gas to us slobs in our cars than it does to well-heeled oil executives. It may be a scary fact, but we need the oil companies. 
 Meanwhile, all over the world, from Russia to Venezuela to Africa to the sands of the Mideast, nations with large oil reserves are making it harder for American energy companies to get their hands on oil and gas. If they succeed and re-cartelize the price, current prices may look cheap. 
 We should not be beating up Exxon Mobil and its brethren and making them cry uncle to Uncle Sam. A better policy might be to keep making sure they have no role in price-fixing, and then to encourage them to go after and lock up as much oil and gas as they can for us to burn up. We would be better off with stronger oil companies that can serve our energy needs for the long haul than with weak and overtaxed oil companies that cannot deliver the needed juice.
 Finally, envy is simply not good economics. It has never led anywhere except to trouble, and we have enough divisions in this country already. As I said, Mr. Obama is a smart man. And Senator Clinton is a smart woman. I have worked in politics and with politicians. I know they have to say crowd-pleasing things (just as Republican leaders have to say that cutting taxes raises revenue). 
 But I respectfully suggest that they might want to reconsider their attack on Big Oil. After all, Big Oil is big us. And we need us.
 A FINAL and unrelated thought: The whole world is poorer now because of the death last week of Bill Buckley. Along with Milton Friedman and Bob Bartley, he was a pillar of strength for free people, free society and free markets. His tireless preachments for the value of freedom started at a time when socialism seemed virtually inevitable, and ended at a time when free-market capitalism became an economic tsunami.
 He is irreplaceable. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PHILIP ANDERSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PENSION FUNDS (88%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (85%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (72%); DIVIDENDS (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (69%); SENIOR CITIZENS (67%); SHAREHOLDERS (67%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (66%); INDEX FUNDS (61%); MUTUAL FUNDS (61%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (55%)

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (95%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (95%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (95%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADISON, WI, USA (90%) WISCONSIN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2008



59 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1731 words

HEADLINE: SPENDING HEAVILY, OBAMA ATTEMPTS KNOCKOUT BLOW

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY; Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting from San Antonio.

DATELINE: COLUMBUS, Ohio 

 BODY:
Taking advantage of his financial edge, Senator Barack Obama is buying large amounts of advertising and building extensive get-out-the-vote operations in an effort to end Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's candidacy with twin defeats Tuesday in Ohio and Texas. 
 The intensity of Mr. Obama's drive is especially apparent on television, where he has outspent Mrs. Clinton by nearly two to one in the two states. That is helping him eat deeply into double-digit leads she held in polls just weeks ago.
 But after a month in which she raised $32 million -- a remarkable amount, but still less than the $50 million or more brought in by Mr. Obama -- Mrs. Clinton is fighting back. 
 The expenditures of the two Democratic presidential candidates, combined with a travel schedule that sent them and their surrogates from border to border in Texas and Ohio, reflect the expectation that the voting this week may be climactic. Mrs. Clinton's advisers have suggested that she will bow out of the race if she falters in either state, after 11 straight losses. 
 Their face-offs are not just on television. Mr. Obama, of Illinois, has a town-hall-style meeting Sunday afternoon in Westerville, Ohio. Mrs. Clinton, of New York, just announced one there, too. Mr. Obama will be at Westerville Central High School, Mrs. Clinton at Westerville North High School.
 Polls show that the race is deadlocked in Texas. Mrs. Clinton's lead in Ohio has been whittled away, though she does still lead.
 ''Senator Obama is spending a lot of money on TV; if this can be purchased, he can win it,'' Gov. Ted Strickland of Ohio, a Democrat who has campaigned across the state with Mrs. Clinton, said in an interview. ''I think we've survived the initial blast of the Obama phenomenon, and we're now holding steady.''
 In a sign of Mr. Obama's confidence and his strategy of amassing delegates wherever he can, he spent part of Saturday in Rhode Island, which with Vermont also votes on Tuesday.
 Aides to Mrs. Clinton said she remained confident of winning the Ohio and Texas contests and would press on with her campaign, as signaled by her increasingly tough attacks on Mr. Obama.
 But Clinton advisers have recently pointed to Mr. Obama's financial advantage, in what appears to be an attempt to lay the groundwork to stay in the race should she lose by a small margin or squeak to victory in either or both states. ''They are dumping a lot of money there,'' said Mrs. Clinton's chief strategist, Mark Penn, referring to the Obama campaign.
 That said, Mrs. Clinton once enjoyed double-digit leads in both states, and her campaign had told supporters concerned about her string of losses that her effort to win the Democratic nomination would get back on track after solid wins in Ohio and Texas. Democrats said narrow victories there might not be enough to stanch a flow of uncommitted superdelegates -- elected officials and party leaders -- to Mr. Obama, who have until now deferred to the request by Mrs. Clinton's advisers to wait for the vote in the two states. 
 Mr. Obama, campaign officials said, has spent about $10 million on television advertising in Texas since early February; Mrs. Clinton has spent just less than $5 million. Mr. Obama has spent about $5.3 million for television advertising in Ohio, compared with just under $3 million for Mrs. Clinton, the officials said. 
 Those figures do not take into account substantial advertising being presented for Mr. Obama by the Service Employees International Union. It also does not include money that Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton spent in Texas on Spanish-language television and radio stations in a competition for Latino voters, whom Mrs. Clinton had once considered an unassailable part of her base. 
 ''I have many friends in Texas; I know your tradition and culture,'' Mrs. Clinton said in one commercial broadcasting in Houston this weekend, speaking into the camera as subtitles translate her remarks into Spanish. 
 Mr. Obama's financial advantage is helping him beyond the airwaves. His campaign flew 200 paid organizers from across the country to 10 campaign offices in Texas right after the Feb. 5 primaries, aides said, when some of Mrs. Clinton's staff members were volunteering to work without pay. Another 150 were sent to build get-out-the-vote networks in Ohio, working for Paul Tewes, who was the Obama campaign's director in Iowa. Mr. Obama's eight-point victory in that state's caucuses gave his campaign a huge boost.
 Mrs. Clinton's on-the-ground effort is no less aggressive and extensive; in particular, she has tapped into the network of support provided to her by Mr. Strickland. But in both states, her corps of workers are made up largely of volunteers. Many are from the two states, but others came here and to Texas on their own dime -- typically from Washington and New York, some responding to an e-mail plea from Chelsea Clinton.
 ''We need as many people on the ground in Texas, Ohio, Rhode Island and Vermont as we can get,'' Ms. Clinton wrote.
 Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama were relying on surrogates to help carry their message ahead of the contests this week. Their identities offered a hint at the kind of voters both candidates were going after. 
 For Mrs. Clinton, it was Richard A. Gephardt, the former House Democratic leader from Missouri. Mr. Gephardt, a longtime opponent of trade deals like the North American Free Trade Agreement, was campaigning in the blue-collar Mahoning Valley in Ohio. 
 Mr. Obama has Arcade Fire, the popular indie-rock group who announced that the leading members would perform for him on Sunday at Stuart's Opera House in Nelsonville. The city is not far from Ohio University and many of the younger voters that Mr. Obama seeks. (Aides to Mrs. Clinton, distressed that a band with many fans at the Clinton headquarters would join the line of supporters heading into the Obama camp, pointed out that the band was Canadian; in fact, while its members live there now, they grew up in Texas.)
 If the Clinton and Obama campaigns succeed at their goals, every Democrat in the state will get a knock on the door from a supporter of one candidate or the other. Thousands of Mr. Obama's supporters gathered Saturday morning at 75 staging stations. 
 In Texas, Mr. Obama's campaign began the final part of its Caucus Education Program to make certain its supporters understood the state's complicated voting procedure: a primary, in which two-thirds of the delegates are chosen, is followed by a caucus, which determines the remaining delegates. Volunteers went door-to-door leaving pamphlets that explained what the campaign had come to call the Texas Two Step, to remind Obama supporters that they had to vote twice.
 Mr. Obama has repeatedly defeated Mrs. Clinton in caucuses. Because of that, his aides said, he could win more Texas delegates even if he lost the popular vote. Aides to Mrs. Clinton said Saturday that in part because of defeats she had suffered to Mr. Obama in caucuses, they had made an all-out effort to identify voters who would get out for both the primary during the day and the caucuses at night.
 Here in Ohio, both candidates have focused on urban and suburban areas. Mrs. Clinton is also campaigning in rural areas and southeast Ohio, which she views as one of her strongest parts of the state. (Mr. Strickland did particularly well there in his election as governor.)
 In Texas, both candidates staged last-minute efforts in Dallas, Houston and San Antonio, where both Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama had rallies Friday evening. Mrs. Clinton's campaign brought in Mayor Antonio R. Villaraigosa of Los Angeles as part of an extensive roster of Latino surrogates sent across South Texas, reflecting the intensity of the struggle for those voters.
 Mr. Obama focused on parts of the state with large concentrations of African-American residents, from Beaumont in East Texas to Houston, both with significant populations of evacuees from Hurricane Katrina.
 Heading into the final days before the nominating contests this week, Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama used heavy television advertising to reinforce what had been the central closing themes of their campaigns. 
 Across Texas, Mrs. Clinton presented an advertisement that starkly suggested Mr. Obama was not ready to lead the world in dangerous times, echoing a similar charge she made against him Saturday in speeches in the state. 
 The Obama campaign began running a series of new advertisements in Texas over the weekend. Among them was a pointed response to Mrs. Clinton's attack on his national security credentials, in which he criticized her judgment in voting for the resolution authorizing President Bush to proceed with the Iraq war. 
 Advertisements in Ohio reflected the prominent role that trade has taken here. Mr. Obama filled the airwaves with a spot saying he opposed Nafta, a pact put in place while Bill Clinton was president. Meanwhile, advertising in the state from Mrs. Clinton appealed to blue-collar workers by attacking trade and tax policies that she said unfairly protected corporations.
 The extent of Mr. Obama's financial advantage was increasingly clear this weekend and stirred concern among Mrs. Clinton's supporters.
 Mr. Obama has already begun spending money on staffing and television advertisements in some states coming up after Tuesday. Mrs. Clinton's expenditures there have been minimal.
 Clinton advisers said the television advertisement about Mr. Obama's readiness for the White House -- it features children sleeping while a narrator asks who would be better able to deal as president with a middle-of-the-night telephone call or a crisis -- would be shown only in Texas. Part of that strategy was based on the calculation that the security message would resonate better in Texas than Ohio, where the economy is the overwhelming issue. But another aspect, an aide said, was that the advertisements would gain free coverage in the Ohio news media, saving money.
 Financial concerns have also played into a decision by Mrs. Clinton's campaign to buy time on the Fox sports channel to broadcast across Texas a town-hall-style forum that she will hold Monday near Austin. 
 Her aides said the venue was chosen in part to reach white male voters who had moved steadily to Mr. Obama. But the bigger factor, they said, was that the channel was a relatively inexpensive outlet.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 8, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Sunday about Barack Obama's effort to land a knockout blow to the campaign of Hillary Rodham Clinton with large advertising expenditures referred incorrectly to the indie-rock band Arcade Fire, which performed a concert for Mr. Obama in Ohio. Some members are from Canada and some from Texas; they did not all grow up in Texas.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Barack Obama campaigning Friday at the Sombrero Festival in Brownsville, Tex. (DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton with young supporters Friday in San Antonio. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A23) CHARTS: The Race in Two Crucial States: In the most recent Fox News poll from Ohio, 14 percent of likely Democrats voters said they were undecided. Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton and Senator Barack Obama are running neck and neck in Texas. (Sources: The campaigns (travel schedules and office locations as of Friday)
CNN/Opinion Research Corporation, ABC News/The Washington Post
 Fox/Opinion Dynamics, Quinnipiac University and University of Cincinnati (polls)) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CINCINNATI (59%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (94%); BARACK OBAMA (94%); TED STRICKLAND (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BROWNSVILLE, TX, USA (79%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (78%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (73%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (58%) OHIO, USA (98%); TEXAS, USA (95%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2008



60 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 2, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine; ON LANGUAGE; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: Transformative

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE

 BODY:
But is it transformational?
 Remember when ''change'' was a big deal? It's already passe, hopscotched by a bigger word for a more fundamental change: transformative, though difficult to fit on a bumper sticker, has surged ahead in political jargon. The stage was set in January, as Barack Obama told The Reno Gazette-Journal that ''Ronald Reagan ch anged the trajectory of America in a way that, you know, Richard Nixon did not and in a way that Bill Clinton did not. He put us on a fundamentally different path because the country was ready for it.'' That put-down of former President Clinton caused his wife, Hillary Rodham Clinton, to zing Obama in debate a week later for the Democratic political sin of, as she put it, ''admiring Ronald Reagan.'' 
 In his riposte, Obama said, ''What I said was is that Ronald Reagan was a transformative political figure because he was able to get Democrats to vote against their economic interests.'' (In his curious ''was is,'' Obama's juxtaposition of both past and present tenses of the verb ''to be'' may have been a subtle, implicit reminder of the former president's unforgettable ''it depends upon what the meaning of the word 'is' is.'' Or the eloquent candidate may have simply misspoken.) 
 The following week, President George W. Bush, supposedly out of the rhetorical fray this year, gave the highbrow adjective a four-usage boost in remarks in Nevada about the war on terror, including: ''Liberty is transformative . . . we've got to be confident in the transformative powers of liberty.'' 
 With that postpartisan imprimatur, the word's frequency of use took off in the week after: ''With Senator Clinton,'' said the ex-candidate Bill Richardson, ''you get tremendous experience. . . . With Senator Obama, he's a transformative figure.'' Senator Claire McCaskill of Missouri leapt on the transformativity bandwagon, as did the former Democratic speechwriter Bob Shrum, who reported that Senator Edward Kennedy had become ''a lion in springtime'' (formerly winter) who ''thinks that Obama can be a transformative figure.''
 The embrace of the word by political junkies has people in the language dodge wondering, What is this going to do to ''transformational grammar''? That's the monicker given to the revolutionary study by Noam Chomsky a half-century ago of the way the brain's predisposition to language expresses itself. As the grammarian Robert Funk explains, T.G., as it is known to linguistic insiders, holds that ''meaning is generated in the deep structure and then transformed into a variety of surface structures (sentences we actually speak).'' As I get it, the transformationalists are figuring out why children acquire their native language so quickly and spontaneously. Syntax is not dictated by mavens laying down rules; it's issued with the newborn brain itself, along with the capacity to soar, inspire or inflame as well as to argue about the details of usage.
 Exercising that capacity in synonymy: transformational means ''relating to a major change'' while transformative is ''having the power to transform.'' The poet Adrienne Rich caught that power with ''as long as our language is inadequate, our vision remains formless. . . . Our process may be 'revolutionary' but not transformative.'' 
 The Presumptive Candidate
 ''John McCain is the presumptiveG.O.P. nominee for president,'' headlined Newsweek (in an issue with the date and price shrunken down to an unreadable size on its cover). We'll be reading and hearing a lot of that -ive construction (like supportive and transformative), but the adjective presumptive means ''highly probable, likely, all but a sure thing.'' 
 And yet there is a purple coloration to that word that befits a royal court rather than a democratic election. We get it from the legal phrase ''heir presumptive.'' 
 At court, splitting heirs: the ''heir apparent'' is the next in line by right of birth, usually the eldest child. The ''heir presumptive'' is the one to inherit the throne, unless its right of inheritance is defeated by the birth of a nearer relative. A sibling, for example, may be the heir to a childless king, but that presumptive prince or princess loses out if the monarch produces a child. 
 ''Presumptive nominee'' is not incorrect, but connotation counts; presumptive strikes me as presumptuous. I like ''expected, likely, probable,'' even ''odds on.'' And if you are a Henry Stanley determined to presume Dr. Livingstone, how about presumed? Try it: ''John McCain is the presumed G.O.P. nominee for president.''
 That befits a reg'lar guy trying to head a free people's government. And while we're at it, let's take a run at the Americanism most often tied like a tin can to McCain's tail: maverick. 
 In the 1840s, Samuel Augustus Maverick was a Texas cattleman who refused to brand his cattle because he said it was cruel to the animals. Rather than hail him as a humane hero, his neighbors denounced him as a damned hypocrite because his kindness enabled him to lay claim to all the unbranded cattle that wandered onto his range. Lawsuits and shoot-'em-ups are said to have followed, but the result was a triumph of eponymy: the cattleman's name, Maverick, became the word for an animal that bore nobody's brand. 
 Maverick's grandson and great-grandson became Texas politicians. In 1944, the former Representative Maury Maverick coined a word for bureaucratic obfuscation: gobbledegook. He said the language in official Washington sounded to him like the gobbling of a strutting turkey cock, ''and at the end of the gobble there was a sort of gook.'' 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (LETTERING BY FANETTE MELLIER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LINGUISTICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); BILL CLINTON (88%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL RICHARDSON (57%); CLAIRE MCCASKILL (57%); TED KENNEDY (57%); RICHARD NIXON (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RENO, NV, USA (72%) NEVADA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2008



61 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 271 words

HEADLINE: Liechtenstein's Efforts on Financial Crimes

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 In your Feb. 25 editorial ''Liechtenstein's Friendly Bankers,'' you state that Liechtenstein has ''lax financial controls'' and needs ''to start showing some real cooperation in fighting fraud, money laundering and tax evasion.'' I differ with this assessment. 
 An engaged partnership with the United States on matters related to prosecuting financial crimes is in place. In 2003, Liechtenstein and the United States signed a Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty, which resulted in the successful conclusion of several cases related to tax matters. 
 American officials in Washington have confirmed at Congressional hearings years of excellent cooperation with their counterparts in Liechtenstein. Liechtenstein has carried out a number of significant reforms since 2001 in the financial services sector by considerably increasing the size and effectiveness of its financial supervisory mechanisms.
 Liechtenstein's improvements related to anti-money-laundering provisions and efforts to combat the financing of terrorism were assessed last year by the International Monetary Fund. An I.M.F. report will confirm Liechtenstein's high level of compliance with international standards.
 As a member of the European Economic Area, Liechtenstein is mandated to carry out European Union money laundering directives, putting Liechtenstein on par with the E.U. regulatory framework. 
 Liechtenstein will continue to work with its partners in Europe and the United States in the areas of financial crimes, including fraud, money laundering and tax matters.
 Claudia Fritsche Ambassador of Liechtenstein Washington, Feb. 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (94%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MONEY LAUNDERING (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); TAX FRAUD (77%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (77%); TAX LAW (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); TERRORISM (53%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN ECONOMIC AREA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); LIECHTENSTEIN (94%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2008



62 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: Priced Out of the Market

 BODY:
The world's food situation is bleak, and shortsighted policies in the United States and other wealthy countries -- which are diverting crops to environmentally dubious biofuels -- bear much of the blame. 
 According to the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization, the price of wheat is more than 80 percent higher than a year ago, and corn prices are up by a quarter. Global cereal stocks have fallen to their lowest level since 1982. 
 As usual, the brunt is falling disproportionately on the poor. The F.A.O. estimates that the cereal import bill of the neediest countries will increase by a third for the second year in a row. Prices have gone so high that the World Food Program, which aims to feed 73 million people this year, said it might have to reduce rations or the number of people it will help. 
 The world has faced periodic bouts when it looked as if population growth would outstrip the food supply. Each time, food production has grown to meet demand. This time it might not be so easy. 
 Population growth and economic progress are part of the problem. Consumption of meat and other high-quality foods --mainly in China and India-- has boosted demand for grain for animal feed. Poor harvests due to bad weather in this country and elsewhere have contributed. High energy prices are adding to the pressures. 
 Yet the most important reason for the price shock is the rich world's subsidized appetite for biofuels. In the United States, 14 percent of the corn crop was used to produce ethanol in 2006 -- a share expected to reach 30 percent by 2010. This is also cutting into production of staples like soybeans, as farmers take advantage of generous subsidies and switch crops to corn for fuel. 
 The benefits of this strategy are dubious. A study by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development suggested that -- absent new technologies -- the United States, Canada and the European Union would require between 30 percent and 70 percent of their current crop area if they were to replace 10 percent of their transport fuel consumption with biofuels. And two recent studies suggested that a large-scale effort across the world to grow crops for biofuels would add carbon dioxide to the atmosphere rather than reduce it. 
 The human costs of this diversion of food into energy are all too evident. 
 As a first step, the United States and other wealthy countries that are driving this problem must ensure that the United Nations and other relief agencies get the support they need to feed the most vulnerable people. But aid is not a solution. 
 Congress must take a hard look at the effect of corn ethanol on food supplies in the same way the new energy bill requires it to review the environmental effects. It must move toward ending subsidies that will become even more difficult to justify as oil prices rise and the costs of producing corn ethanol decline. And it must press other wealthy countries to do the same before hunger turns to mass starvation. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOMASS (90%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (90%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BIOFUELS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); AGRICULTURE (78%); FOOD CHARITIES (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (78%); CORN FARMING (78%); ANIMAL FOODS (78%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); CORN MARKETS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); ETHANOL (77%); ALCOHOLS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); LIVESTOCK FEED (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); POPULATION GROWTH (72%); MEATS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (65%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (64%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION OF THE UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CHINA (79%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (52%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2008



63 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 439 words

HEADLINE: Building Walls Isn't the Only Way to Prevent Floods

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 In ''There Will Be Floods'' (Op-Ed, Feb. 27), Alex Prud'homme is right to call for a ''a greener, more intelligent system that integrates traditional engineering with natural defenses like wetlands, islands and reeds.'' But it is also critical to recognize that levees and seawalls inherently create a false sense of security. 
 Levees must be maintained where existing cities depend on them, but new development and redevelopment in natural flood hazard areas -- with or without structural ''protection'' -- must be avoided entirely or at least designed to withstand the regional equivalent of a Katrina. Rutherford H. Platt
 Northampton, Mass., Feb. 27, 2008
 The writer is a geographer and author of ''Disasters and Democracy: The Politics of Extreme Natural Events.''
 To the Editor:
 Since the United States may be facing a period of prolonged stagflation with many workers unemployed, and since our infrastructure of levees and bridges is woefully out of date, we need a program like the Works Progress Administration, which put millions of the unemployed to work in the 1930s. 
 Let's vigorously institute this program and teach the unemployed the skills needed to repair our infrastructure. Let's do America's long-term future a favor for a change, instead of sticking our heads in the very wet sand and pretending that Katrina never happened. Roy Freedle
 Lambertville, N.J., Feb. 28, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Alex Prud'homme is right. Natural defenses, like wetlands, may prove more effective than traditionally engineered levees in many cases. They are also likely to cost taxpayers less than traditionally engineered levees.
 Working with Mother Nature is almost always cheaper than working against her. Mary E. Kelly
 Austin, Tex., Feb. 27, 2008
 The writer is co-director of the land, water and wildlife program of the Environmental Defense Fund.
 To the Editor:
 Although man may have made flooding worse through climate change, flooding is a natural phenomenon and as such is neither all good nor all bad. 
 Modest flooding can help ecosystems by rejuvenating rivers. For example, minor floods disturb rocks and gravel, which improves water flow. This is important for some fish and invertebrates. Floods are part of the disturbance regime to which each ecosystem is well adapted. 
 The principal problem with floods is that people love water and want to be near it. Often, too near it for their own good. Reducing property damage and human misery from flooding will require better land use management, as well as better engineering.
 Rich Domingue
 Oak Grove, Ore., Feb. 28, 2008
 The writer is a hydrologist.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (89%); WRITERS (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); FLOOD ZONES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); WILDLIFE (77%); WETLANDS (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (75%); WATER QUALITY (73%); ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (72%); GEOGRAPHY (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2008



64 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: Iraq Needs Strides in Economy and Governance to Cut Attacks, a Top General Says

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON

DATELINE: FORT HOOD, Tex. 

 BODY:
The former No. 2 American commander in Iraq says that, without economic and political progress, it will not be possible to reduce substantially the current level of violence there. 
 Lt. Gen. Raymond T. Odierno said the American reinforcements and the adoption of a counterinsurgency strategy had succeeded in reducing attacks by insurgent and militant groups to the level of early 2005, or even late 2004. 
 But the number of attacks is still high. General Odierno said that literacy programs, vocational training and provincial elections that would enfranchise the country's minority Sunnis were needed to make additional security gains. 
 ''In order to have another significant decline, it is going to take economic progress, governance progress, and I think that's the next step,'' he said. The general outlined his views in an interview on Wednesday at his Fort Hood headquarters and in a meeting with the editorial board of The New York Times earlier last month.
 In mid-February, General Odierno, who is chief of the Army's III Corps, completed a 15-month tour as the day-to-day commander of military operations in Iraq. He has been nominated to serve as the Army's next vice chief of staff. 
 Surveying the military situation, he said the expanded American military presence and improvement in security had encouraged more Sunni volunteers to align themselves with the United States and had established a climate in which Iraqis had begun to tackle a long-deferred political and legislative agenda. 
 About half of the attacks carried out by militants are by Shiite groups, he said. The rest are primarily orchestrated by Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia, the Sunni insurgent group that is largely made up of Iraqis but that American intelligence says is foreign led.
 The general said that Iran continues to train and finance Shiite extremists in Iraq and that Iran's goal is to ensure that the Iraqi state remains too weak to challenge Iran's increasing power. ''What we have seen is a steady state, in terms of some of the Shia extremist activities that still occur that are supported by both training and funding by Iran,'' he said. ''I think Iran's interests are a weak government of Iraq.''
 In an effort to elude detection, he said, the Iranians have sought to provide support in less apparent ways, like training a select number of Shiite militants in Iran who in turn train comrades in Iraq. ''They are bringing the leaders over to train them so they can do training back in Iraq,'' he said. 
 General Odierno said the Iraqi Army planned to expand by 40 battalions this year but faced equipment shortages. ''They are still lagging in being equipped properly to do this on their own,'' he said. ''That will take a year or so to get that improved.''
 However, he stressed that a variety of economic and political steps were needed. One big problem, he said, is the large pool of young men who are not literate enough to be accepted into the Iraqi Army and police forces. Vocational schools and literacy programs are needed to provide an alternative to ''being hired hands'' for insurgent groups, he said.
 General Odierno said the American military was supporting vocational programs along with the United States Agency for International Development. It was uncertain whether the Iraqi government would organize sustained and widespread job training. 
 In the political sphere, General Odierno said holding provincial elections would reduce violence over the long run by enfranchising Sunnis who had boycotted earlier elections. The Iraqi Parliament passed a measure last month calling for provincial elections by October, but it was vetoed by the Presidency Council. The United States is still pushing for the measure to be adopted and put into effect. 
 There has been considerable debate in the United States as to whether the withdrawal of American forces would galvanize the Iraqi government into action or undermine its tentative efforts at political reconciliation by encouraging Iraqis to cling to militias for protection. 
 General Odierno, along with Ambassador Ryan C. Crocker, are among those in the latter camp. The general said that many Iraqis concluded last year that American forces might be leaving soon as a result of Congressional opposition to the war, and that those anxieties peaked when Gen. David H. Petraeus prepared to testify to American lawmakers in September. 
 General Odierno said at the time Sunni and Shiite Iraqis were ''separating themselves and trying to solidify their power bases so they could survive.''
 He added: ''If they realize we are going to stay there, it strengthens them, in my mind, to be more unified, frankly. That's what I believe.''
 A related debate is over the wisdom of establishing a rigid schedule for shrinking the American military presence. Senator Barack Obama has said that if he is elected president he will withdraw all combat brigades within 16 months of taking office; Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton has said she will reduce brigades at the rate of one to two per month. Most military officers say they need more flexibility in adjusting force levels.
 General Odierno was careful not to join the political debate, while offering a nuanced view. 
 ''To set a timeline makes it more difficult if you don't do an assessment,'' he said. ''You've got to constantly assess where we are at. And if we are making progress and everybody is moving forward, then you need to do an assessment: is it necessary to have a hard timeline? It might be better off not to have one. And I just want people to have an open mind as we move forward. That's all.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TERRORISM (77%); ELECTIONS (73%); AL-QAEDA (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (71%)

PERSON: RAY ODIERNO (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); IRAQ (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2008



65 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: Combining Grocery Shopping With Doctors' Appointments

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
Some Britons can add a visit to the doctor to their shopping lists. On Monday, J Sainsbury, one of Britain's largest supermarket chains, is to become the first in the country to offer a visit to a family doctor in one of its stores.
 Unlike Wal-Mart's entry into health care with clinics and discount pharmaceuticals in the United States -- a foray by a private enterprise into public health -- at Sainsbury, a team of government-financed doctors will see patients. To start, they will work in the evenings and on Saturdays in a fully equipped consultation room in one store in Manchester. If the pilot project succeeds, it is expected to be introduced in other Sainsbury stores this year. 
 The supermarket doctors will help not only patients but also the government. British authorities have struggled to improve their taxpayer-financed national health service and to make doctors more readily available to patients. The doctors may also help Sainsbury. Like other retailers, the company is searching for ways to increase profits as growth in its traditional food business has slowed. 
 British supermarkets already sell clothes, DVDs, furniture, credit cards and insurance. About 15 percent of Sainsbury's sales come from nonfood items.
 ''There are only so many different types of cheeses and sausages you can offer,'' said Tim Denison, a member of the Retail Think Tank, a research firm based in London. ''This is a logical step for supermarkets that look where to go next to give consumers the efficient shopping experience they want.'' 
 The clinics are expected to attract more customers and to give the store an incentive to sell prescription drugs, which have higher profit margins than over the counter medication, Mr. Denison said. 
 Patients doing their shopping will be alerted via electronic pager when a doctor is available to see them. 
 The initiative, called Doctors in Store, was the idea of Mohammed Jiva, a 35-year old family doctor in the Manchester area. Dr. Jiva noticed a growing demand from patients to book appointments in the evenings or on weekends because of busy work schedules. 
 ''People told me, 'I had to get out of work to see you,' '' he said, ''and I thought that was pretty inconvenient, so I started to ask myself. 'Why can't doctors move to where the patients are instead?' ''
 Britain's national health service offers free medical consultations, but Britons are permitted to register with only one practice close to their home; otherwise, they can pay for private health care. That requirement, combined with the difficulty many people have in seeing doctors during daytime weekday hours, means employees spend 3.5 million working days a year traveling to and from doctors, costing the British economy $2 billion, the Confederation of British Industry estimated.
 In the United States, clinics have existed for years in drugstores, retailers and even some grocery store chains, and more than 700 clinics have opened in the last 15 months. But the structure of Britain's government-run health care system and the high cost and limited availability of retail space have made it difficult to offer such services here.
 Even now, the Sainsbury clinics differ from those at Wal-Mart or other American stores. They are not walk-in clinics, and only patients registered with the supermarket doctors' practice can book appointments. That is because the country's medical clinics are financed by regional government trusts, and to keep the service free of charge, the trust that finances Dr. Jiva's practice needs to make sure only patients registered there use the service.
 Recent efforts by the government to improve the health service and a plan to increase health spending 3.7 percent in the next three years have done little so far to improve patient satisfaction, which stands at about 60 percent. 
 Last year, the government opened a handful of walk-in centers in London rail stations, but they were poorly publicized and patients complained that the clinics did not have access to patients' medical records. Another plan to extend family doctors' working hours was rejected by the British Medical Association. 
 There are now 1,600 patients for each family practitioner in the United Kingdom. That compares with 325 patients for every doctor in the United States. Linda Millington, a spokeswoman for Britain's medical association, said the Sainsbury clinics are ''an interesting and welcome experiment'' but raised concern about the clinics being located in supermarkets, where people can also buy products like alcohol and cigarettes.
 Dr. Jiva was unconcerned. ''Customers and patients may think twice before opting for an unhealthy choice when there's a doctor close by,'' he said.
 Of the three largest supermarket chains in the country, only Sainsbury -- which already offers flu vaccinations, blood pressure tests and smoking cessation help in some of its stores -- responded positively to Dr. Jiva's proposal to open in-store clinics, he said.
 Sainsbury's chief executive, Justin King, called the initiative ''a groundbreaking partnership that supports the government's wider aims to make health care more accessible.'' 
 In addition to helping the national health service and Sainsbury, the move may benefit the doctors because they will be working in a big store with many people around, Dr. Jiva said. ''Safety is a big issue when working late in the evenings, when it's dark outside, in an office that has drugs on stock,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (94%); FAMILY PRACTICE (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); RETAILERS (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (76%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (72%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (71%); CHEESE (66%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (64%); OVER-THE-COUNTER DRUGS (63%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (51%)

COMPANY: J SAINSBURY PLC (92%); WAL-MART STORES INC (58%)

TICKER: SBRY (LSE) (92%); WMT (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (92%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (92%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (58%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (73%) UNITED KINGDOM (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); ENGLAND (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2008



66 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: The Indispensable Man

BYLINE: By WILLIAM KRISTOL

 BODY:
In my high school yearbook (Collegiate School, class of 1970), there's a photo of me wearing a political button. (Everyone did in those days. I wasn't that much dorkier than everyone else.) The button said, ''Don't let THEM immanentize the Eschaton.'' 
 There you see an example of the influence of Bill Buckley, who died last week at age 82. For it was Buckley who had promulgated this slogan, as an amusing distillation of the thinking of the very difficult historian of political philosophy Eric Voegelin. I'd of course not read Voegelin then (there's a lot of him I still haven't read, to tell the truth). But the basic thought was: Don't let ideologues try to create heaven on earth, because they'll deprive us of freedom and make things a lot worse. 
 To read Buckley growing up in the 1960s was bracing. Buckley and his colleagues -- some merrily, some mordantly -- mercilessly eviscerated the idiocies of the New Left. They also exposed the flaccidity of the older liberalism. If, like me, you already had a sense from listening to most of your peers and some of your elders that a lot of what they believed was silly (or worse), you couldn't help but be attracted to Buckley. 
 It was the beginning of an education. Everyone knows of American conservatism as a political movement. But conservatism's recrudescence (a term I'm borrowing, needless to say, from Buckley) was an intellectual odyssey as well. Buckley's efforts helped introduce his readers to thinkers like Voegelin and Leo Strauss and Friedrich Hayek, writers neglected by a complacent and uninterested liberal orthodoxy. Many of the writers one encountered thanks to Buckley and National Review weren't themselves conventional conservatives. But in opening doors to the work of men like these, Buckley helped many of us realize there were far richer intellectual traditions available than 20th-century liberalism even dreamed of. 
 It's hard today to appreciate that before Buckley, there was no American conservative movement. There were interesting (if mostly little-known) conservative thinkers. Plenty of Americans had conservative inclinations and sentiments. But Buckley created conservatism as a political and intellectual movement.
 Founder of National Review magazine and its editor for over three decades, author and editor of more than 50 books, collaborator in the formation of countless conservative organizations and enterprises, host of the television show ''Firing Line,'' tireless speaker and brilliant debater, generous promoter of the careers of so many others -- Buckley was, simply, the indispensable man of modern American conservatism.
 And he was, as well, an indispensable figure in the last half-century of American history. After all, to oversimplify just a bit: First there was conservatism. Then there was the first explicitly conservative American president of modern times, Ronald Reagan. Then there was victory in the cold war, a revitalized economy and a renewed nation. Post hoc, ergo propter hoc? Perhaps. In any case, it's hard to imagine this happening without Bill Buckley.
 Bill was a complicated man. In him, admirable but disparate qualities coexisted easily. Bill was at once remarkably ecumenical -- and knowledgeably discriminating. He had a taste for profound reflection about man and God -- and for fierce polemicizing against socialists and appeasers. He had a real joie de vivre -- but also, perhaps like any thoughtful person, a streak of melancholy. He appreciated the intellectual arguments for pessimism, but he never yielded to the mortal sin of despair.
 Bill died in his study early Wednesday morning. He had had dinner Tuesday night with Larry Perelman, who in a lovely piece on National Review's Web site described the evening.
 Perelman knew Bill because in 1994, at age 18, as an aspiring classical pianist living in Minnesota, he had written to thank him for fighting for freedom for Soviet Jews (Perelman's parents had fled the Soviet Union, that locus classicus of immanentizers of the eschaton, in the 1970s). Perelman also had been moved by Buckley's columns on classical music. Perelman wanted to repay Bill by playing the piano for him. Bill invited Perelman to do so, and recitals at the Buckley home became a regular attraction for Bill and selected guests.
 Perelman was scheduled to play Beethoven's ''Diabelli'' Variations Wednesday night, so he joined Bill for dinner the evening before to discuss the performance. They resolved the issue of how Perelman would handle the repeats in the Diabelli to their mutual satisfaction. They talked about music and politics and friends, to the accompaniment of a recording of Beethoven's Fourth Piano Concerto, Bill's favorite. 
 It's fitting that Bill's last evening was filled with music and graced by friendship, both of which gave him so much joy. It's fitting that he spent it with someone who had sought Bill out because of his uncompromising defense of freedom, the lodestar for his political and intellectual efforts. It was a fitting end to an admirable life. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); WRITERS (88%); HISTORY (75%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2008



67 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1727 words

HEADLINE: States and Cities Start Rebelling on Bond Ratings

BYLINE: By JULIE CRESWELL and VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
Does Wall Street underrate Main Street? 
 A growing number of states and cities say yes. If they are right, billions of taxpayers' dollars -- money that could be used to build schools, pave roads and repair bridges -- are being siphoned off in the financial markets, where the recent tumult has driven up borrowing costs for many communities.
 A complex system of credit ratings and insurance policies that Wall Street uses to set prices for municipal bonds makes borrowing needlessly expensive for many localities, some officials say. States and cities have begun to fight back, saying they can no longer afford the status quo given the slackening economy and recent market turmoil.
 Municipal bonds, often considered among the safest investments, sank along with stocks last week, darkening the already grim mood in the markets. Several big hedge funds unloaded bonds as banks further tightened credit to contain the damage from mounting losses on home mortgages and other loans. 
 States and cities rarely dishonor their debts. The bonds they sell to investors are generally tax-free and much safer than those issued by corporations. But some officials complain that ratings firms assign municipal borrowers low credit scores compared with corporations. Taxpayers ultimately pay the price, the officials say, in the form of higher fees and interest costs on public debt.
 ''Taxpayers are paying billions of dollars in increased costs because of the dual standard used by the rating bureaus,'' said Bill Lockyer, treasurer of California, who is leading a nationwide campaign to change the way the bonds are rated. California, one of the largest issuers of municipal bonds, is rated A; Mr. Lockyer said the state should be triple A.
 The state is soliciting support from other municipalities for a letter it intends to send to the ratings agencies, arguing that municipal bonds should be rated on the same scale as the one used for corporate bonds.
 Because of their relatively weak credit scores, more than half of all municipal borrowers buy insurance policies that safeguard their bonds in the unlikely event that they fail to pay the debt. California, for instance, paid $102 million to insure more than $9 billion in general obligation debt between 2003 and 2007.
 Ratings agencies like Standard & Poor's, Moody's Investors Service and Fitch Ratings are paid a second time to evaluate the insured bonds.
 Officials at ratings firms and bond insurance companies defend the system, saying it gives investors the information they need to buy bonds with confidence. The recent turmoil, they say, highlights the need for insurance. They further add that rating municipal bonds like corporate debt would not save taxpayers much money, if any.
 The outcry in the municipal market comes at a difficult time for the ratings firms and bond insurers. S.& P., Moody's and Fitch Ratings have drawn criticism for assigning their highest grades to securities tied to subprime mortgages, only to downgrade them later as defaults surged and the investments tumbled in value.
 The plunging fortunes of bond guarantors, meantime, have cast doubt over the value of the insurance policies municipalities buy. 
 ''We are learning essentially that the emperor may have no clothes, that there is no real reason to require these towns to have insurance in many instances,'' said Richard Blumenthal, the attorney general of Connecticut, who is investigating the ratings firms on antitrust grounds. ''And it simply serves the bottom lines of the ratings agencies, the insurers or both.''
 The House Financial Services Committee plans to examine how municipal bonds are rated at a hearing on March 12.
 At every rating, municipal bonds default less often than similarly rated corporate bonds, according to Moody's. In fact, since 1970, A-rated municipal bonds have defaulted far less frequently than corporate bonds with top triple-A ratings. Furthermore, when municipalities do default, investors usually receive some -- or even all -- of their money back, unlike in most corporate bankruptcies. 
 But critics like Mr. Lockyer and Mr. Blumenthal face an uphill battle to change the Wall Street system. Upgrading municipal ratings would dramatically alter the landscape of the $2.6 trillion market; Moody's estimates that more than half of the market would be rated triple A or double A using the corporate scale. Triple-A securities are considered nearly as safe as Treasury bonds issued by the federal government.
 Moreover, some bond specialists caution that this is the wrong time to rerate municipal bonds. The slowing economy and faltering housing market are squeezing state and city tax revenue. At the same time, public pension liabilities keep rising. Facing budget shortfalls, states like California, New Jersey and Arizona are cutting services.
 Ratings firms, bond insurance companies and some bond investors defend the separate ratings scales, arguing that it allows investors to make distinctions among various debt and, ultimately, set appropriate interest rates. Defenders of the current system say that sophisticated investors understand that the letter grades assigned to corporate bonds and municipal debt mean different things.
 Gail Sussman, the Moody's executive in charge of public finance ratings, likened the firm's dual ratings scale to a ruler that measures in inches on one side and centimeters on the other. 
 ''The distance between point A and point B is the same'' whether it is measured in inches of centimeters, Ms. Sussman said.
 Moody's says it is willing to discuss changing its scale; so far few local and state officials have asked for a change, Ms. Sussman said. And when Moody's asked for comments on the issue several years ago, investors, bankers and insurers overwhelmingly favored the status quo, she said.
 Executives at S.& P., however, say they use a single global rating scale to measure all kinds of debt. Colleen Woodell, chief quality officer for public finance, acknowledged that municipal debt had defaulted at lower rates than corporate issues, but she noted that the data covered a relatively benign 20-year period. 
 Ms. Woodell said the disparity was ''within a tolerable band'' and would diminish over time. She said the firm upgraded a number of municipalities after it finished its first default study in 2000. (Data on S.& P.-rated municipal and corporate debt from the early 1980s to 2006 show similar differences in default rates as those rated by Moody's.)
 Some sophisticated bond investors say that if municipalities were rated on the same scale as corporations, it would be harder to distinguish the relative riskiness of various cities, states and school districts, and mutual fund companies would have to evaluate bonds issue by issue.
 ''If you rate 95 percent of the issues the same, the ratings cease to be useful, and investors need and utilize these ratings to differentiate credits,'' said John Miller, chief investment officer at Nuveen Asset Management in Chicago, which manages about $65 billion in mostly tax-exempt bonds.
 But local and state officials counter that a universal rating system would emphasize the relative safety of their debt against other bonds, arguably attracting more investors. In periods of stress like now more ready buyers would help reduce instability and help keep borrowing costs low.
 So far, Mr. Lockyer has won support for his plan from half a dozen states, including Connecticut, Oregon and Washington, as well as from numerous cities and local authorities. They plan to send a letter to the three ratings agencies early this week calling for action. 
 Other public finance officials, including those for New York City, said that while they agreed municipal bonds were underrated, they would not sign the letter. New York City's bond rating is double A. 
 The Government Finance Officers Association of the United States and Canada, which represents 17,200 local and state governments, is weighing whether it wants to take a stand on the issue before its annual conference in June. 
 The debate is not new. It has been pushed to the forefront because of the recent concern about the strength of bond insurance companies like MBIA and the Ambac Financial Group, which together guarantee interest and principal payments on $733 billion in municipal debt.
 The insurers are themselves rated triple A -- on the corporate scale -- by Moody's and S.& P., and essentially transfer those gilt-edged ratings to municipal issuers through the policies they sell. Municipal issuers with lower ratings paid $2.5 billion in premiums for bond insurance last year alone. In exchange, they typically pay lower interest rates on their debt than they would without the insurance. 
 Robert G. Shoback, a senior managing director of public finance at Ambac, said bond insurance lowered the cost of borrowing money, especially for smaller municipalities and school districts that might not be well known on Wall Street. Investors have relied on insurance for ''comfort, confidence and stability,'' he said.
 But this year investors effectively stripped away the premium they placed on insured municipal bonds because they feared the bond insurers would lose their top ratings and, as a result, the bonds those companies insured would be downgraded, too. 
 ''The industry is at a significant point now in how it views itself, how it interprets risk and how it will use insurance going forward,'' said Thomas Doe, chief executive of Municipal Market Advisors, a research firm.
 Mr. Blumenthal, the Connecticut attorney general, said the recent turmoil had allowed municipalities to voice long-held frustrations that they did not feel comfortable expressing earlier, fearful that ratings firms would refuse to rate them or give them low ratings. 
 The California group and other municipalities say there may be some middle ground where the two sides could compromise. Investors could still have finer delineations among bonds if rating agencies added suffixes to the newly triple-A-rated bonds, like Aaa1, Aaa2, and so on, said Roger L. Anderson, executive director for the New Jersey Education Facilities Authority, who has agreed to sign California's letter.
 Ms. Sussman, of Moody's, said the firm would be wary about adding qualifiers to triple-A ratings, which the company regards as ''gilt-edged.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 15, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on March 3 about efforts by some cities and states to change the way their bonds are rated referred imprecisely to the payments state and local governments make for credit ratings. The issuers of the bonds pay a single fee to ratings firms like Standard & Poor's, whether or not the securities are insured. They do not pay a second fee for insured ratings. (Bond insurance companies also pay the ratings firms annual fees, which increase as the companies' insurance portfolios grow.)

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: A HIGHER GRADE: If municipal bonds were rated like corporate bonds, they would generally receive a higher rating. For example, state general obligation bonds with municipal ratings as low as A1 would be considered Aaa -- the highest rating -- if they were corporate bonds. (Source: Moody's Public Finance Credit Committee)
 SAME LETTER, DIFFERENT GRADES: Corporate bonds have higher default rates than municipal bonds at the same letter ratings. Moody's measured 10-year default rates for bonds between 1970 and 2006. (Source: Moody's Investors Service) (pg.A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (91%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); INSURANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CORPORATE BONDS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (89%); CREDIT BUREAUS (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); CORPORATE DEBT (76%); SUBPRIME LENDING (76%); INSURANCE POLICIES (76%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (73%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (54%); MORTGAGE LOANS (53%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (63%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (51%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (51%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (51%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2008



68 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 504 words

 BODY:
OPEC CUTBACK UNLIKELY Fearful of being blamed for a recession, OPEC is likely to keep output unchanged when its members meet on Wednesday. 
 EISNER'S ONLINE HITS Among the swarm of Hollywood developers scrambling to come up with original Internet programs, Michael D. Eisner, late of Disney, is among the few who can claim success. [C1.] 
 WAL-MART REVIEWS Wal-Mart is encouraging its merchandise buyers to speak frankly, even critically, about the products the chain carries on an unusual new Web site. [C1.]
 A BLOG'S RESPONSIBILITY Comments posted on two tart blogs written by advertising industry insiders blame the sites for contributing to the suicide late last month of an agency executive. [C1.]
 MEETING OF THE MEDIA A deal between Hollywood, Silicon Valley and AT&T is one indication of how online and mobile entertainment is transforming the wireless carriers, and perhaps also a recognition that failure to act could leave the partners vulnerable to interlopers. [C1.]
 OSCAR'S NARROWING AUDIENCE The January opener of ''American Idol'' drew more viewers than the Oscar broadcast as the Academy Awards move increasingly toward becoming an industry niche. The Media Equation: David Carr. [C1.]
 IMAGINATIVE SALES PITCH The latest Sears advertising campaign is based on an unusual partnership with Hearst that aims at persuading its readers to reimagine themselves as Sears shoppers. [C7.]
 THANKS, ANYWAY Glen Hansard, below, who co-wrote ''Falling Slowly,'' which won the Academy Award for best song -- is an Irishman but he botched an effort at the ceremony to say ''thank you'' in his nation's native tongue. [C5.]
 SKIPPING THERAPY SESSIONS ''In Treatment,'' a new show on psychological therapy, has enjoyed critical acclaim, but viewers seem to be checking out. [C5.]
 CASH FOR INNOVATION A new entry among companies that seek to channel the collective wisdom of the masses into a business strategy has a novel twist: pay cash for ideas. E-Commerce Report: Bob Tedeschi. [C6.]
 TINIER AND TINIERIntel has introduced the Intel Atom, the latest in a family of inexpensive chips that require little power. [C4.]
 SHARING DOWNLOADED BOOKS Some of the largest book publishers are stripping away the anticopying software on digital downloads of audio books. [C2.]
 ESPN IN FILMS ESPN, which dominates sports on television, is now making a run at the big screen. [C4.]
 OBAMA, SUPERSTAR Us Weekly, a magazine that delights in skewering people and recently poked fun at Hillary Rodham Clinton's fashion sense, gave uniformly flattering treatment to Barack Obama. [C4.]
 COMMODITY ADS ONLINE A prime topic of conversation last week at the Interactive Advertising Bureau's convention was pork bellies. Bits. [C6.]
 THE SHADOW OF MURDOCH A book review is spiked at a Dow Jones publication, and some see editors second-guessing the new boss, Rupert Murdoch. [C5.]
 SECRETIVE LIBEL SUIT An executive who testified in a federal mob investigation wants to file a sealed libel suit against a Web journalist. [C5.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (87%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (87%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (78%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (73%); REALITY TELEVISION (72%); PORK (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (70%); WEB SITES (70%); SUICIDE (69%); MOBILE MEDIA (69%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (68%); COMPANY STRATEGY (66%); SPORTS (64%); SPORTS & RECREATION (64%); BOOK REVIEWS (63%); FAMILY (63%); PSYCHOLOGY (63%); BOOK PUBLISHING (61%)

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (56%); DOW JONES & CO INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (50%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (76%) CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2008



69 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: As Economy Lags in U.S., Oil Nations Rethink Cuts

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
With high oil prices weighing on a struggling economy, the OPEC oil cartel is reconsidering its plans to cut production, a move that could push prices above their current record levels. Instead, OPEC is likely to keep output unchanged when its members meet Wednesday. 
 When the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries gathered in Vienna last month, the group suggested that it might curb production soon to make up for a seasonal decline in oil demand. Since then, however, oil prices have risen above $100 a barrel. and the economic picture in the United States, the world's leading oil consumer, has darkened significantly. 
 Oil prices usually fall between the peak winter and summer seasons. Typically, refineries prepare to shut down for annual maintenance and oil consumption is lower. But while recent data indicates that oil inventories are increasing and Americans are curbing their energy use, the price of oil has been reaching new records. 
 After trading near $103 a barrel during the session Friday, the next-month contract for crude oil settled at $101.84 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, down 75 cents.
 ''Even if OPEC is worried about a drop in demand, they don't want to be blamed for a recession,'' said Adam Sieminski, chief energy economist at Deutsche Bank. ''That would be bad public relations. So they will do nothing.''
 Oil prices have been rising lately as investors pour money into commodities to offset declines in the dollar and to hedge against inflation. The euro traded in New York on Thursday and Friday near $1.52. Other leading currencies were also near recent highs as the week ended. 
 Earlier, Commerce Department figures showed that the nation's economic growth nearly halted in the fourth quarter of 2007, expanding by only 0.6 percent, compared with 4.9 percent in the third quarter. 
 Given such a somber context, leaders in OPEC nations are facing contradictory pressures. Even as the United States economy sputters and many consumers scale back their use of energy, oil prices are rising -- something that appears to baffle the OPEC leaders. 
 The oil-producing group typically reduces its output in the second quarter of the year to avoid a steep decline in prices. Such a move now would be politically tricky, especially for American allies in the group like Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates. 
 OPEC's 13 members, who together account for 40 percent of the world's petroleum exports, also include Iran and Venezuela.
 ''The political optics of the OPEC decision are likely to take precedence at this meeting,'' Greg Priddy, an analyst at the Eurasia Group, said in a research note. ''Leading members such as Saudi Arabia are keen to limit price increases, fearing negative effects on their relations with the U.S.''
 Whatever OPEC does, analysts expect oil prices to remain high this year. According to a monthly survey of analysts by Reuters, oil futures are forecast to average $83.87 a barrel in 2008, $2.54 a barrel more than the previous survey's estimate. In 2007, oil averaged $72 a barrel.
 ''To me there is a formula: if oil is near $100, they are certainly not going to cut their production, and if oil looks like it's going to fall toward $85 a barrel, there would be talk of a cut,'' Mr. Sieminski said. ''This is market-driven, and OPEC is following the market.''
 In Washington, the energy secretary, Samuel W. Bodman, said he thought that an increase in OPEC production could help bring prices down. 
 ''The price that we are now seeing would indicate a certain fear level on the part of the marketplace,'' Mr. Bodman told reporters on Thursday. ''It is important that the members of OPEC for their own sake carefully look at supply and demand.''
 His concerns echoed those of some members of the cartel, who sent signals that they recognized the threat of an economic slowdown. 
 ''I expect OPEC to leave output unchanged,'' Shokri Ghanem, Libya's top oil official, told Dow Jones Newswires on Thursday. ''At this point, there is no reason to do anything.''
 Venezuela's oil minister, Rafael Ramirez, said he would back either a cut in output or a decision to leave production unchanged. ''We would support either option,'' he said.
 Since the late 1990s, when oil prices fell sharply, OPEC has proved very effective in fine-tuning its supplies to micromanage the market. 
 For example, when prices were lower at the end of 2006, the Saudi oil minister, Ali al-Naimi, helped engineer two production cuts totaling 1.7 million barrels a day. The cuts helped push down commercial supplies and forced oil companies to draw on their inventories. 
 This tightening contributed to a rise in oil prices, to today's $100-plus range a barrel from around $50 a barrel in January 2007.
 The last time that OPEC increased its output, in September 2007, the decision to raise it by 500,000 barrels a day had little effect on markets. Oil futures prices have jumped by more than 30 percent since then. 
 But more recently, some analysts point out that Saudi Arabia, the world's biggest exporter, has allowed more oil to seep into the global system. Analysts say they believe that the Saudis would like to see oil supply levels loosen in coming months. 
 According to estimates compiled by Bloomberg News, Saudi Arabia pumped 9.2 million barrels a day in January, 250,000 barrels more than it is allocated under OPEC quotas. 
 ''It might seem counterintuitive,'' said Antoine Halff, head of commodities research at Newedge, a brokerage firm, ''but OPEC should be increasing its production now that prices are dropping. This would provide a lifeline to the world economy. OPEC knows it can't afford a recession.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CARTELS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); CURRENCIES (88%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); RECESSION (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (55%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (55%); DBK (FRA) (55%); DBK (BIT) (55%); DBETN (JSE) (55%); DBA (ASX) (55%); DB (NYSE) (55%); ALMUDON (KUW) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (55%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (51%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); AUSTRIA (88%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); KUWAIT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2008



70 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 287 words

 BODY:
SIGNALS ON THE ECONOMY Economic news will dominate the week, punctuated by the unemployment report for February (Friday). 
 Other reports include the Institute for Supply Management's manufacturing index for February and construction spending for January (Monday); the Federal Reserve beige book, revised fourth-quarter productivity, factory orders for January and the I.S.M. service index (Wednesday); and consumer credit for January (Friday).
 EARNINGS REPORTS Earnings start to tail off, with reports coming from BP and Take-Two Interactive Software (Tuesday); BJ's Wholesale Club, Costco Wholesale, H&R Block, Saks, TiVo and Trump Entertainment Resorts (Wednesday); Blockbuster (Thursday); and Volkswagen (Friday).
 COMPANY MEETINGSPfizer will have a meeting with analysts in New York (Wednesday).
 Intel will have its annual analysts' meeting in Santa Clara, Calif. (Wednesday and Thursday).
 Walt Disney will have its annual shareholder meeting in Albuquerque (Thursday).
 INDUSTRY REPORTS Retailers will report same-store sales for February (Thursday).
 Automakers will report their February sales (Monday).
 THE REGULATORS The consumer advisory council of the Federal Reserve will meet in Washington to discuss mortgage lending and disclosure rules (Thursday).
 The House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform will conduct a hearing on executive compensation and the mortgage crisis (Friday).
 Members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries will meet in Vienna (Wednesday). They are expected to maintain production quotas.
 Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, will speak at the Independent Community Bankers of America's National Convention and Techworld in Orlando, Fla. (Tuesday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); WHOLESALERS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); RETAIL SALES (77%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); SAME STORE SALES (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); CONSUMER LAW (76%); RETAILERS (76%); CONSUMER LENDING (76%); AUTOMAKERS (74%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING (71%); SHAREHOLDER MEETINGS (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (66%); EXPORT TRADE (50%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%); TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE INC (71%); TRUMP ENTERTAINMENT RESORTS INC (70%); INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY BANKERS OF AMERICA (66%); COSTCO WHOLESALE CORP (57%); H & R BLOCK INC (57%); BJ'S WHOLESALE CLUB INC (57%); WALT DISNEY CO (56%); INTEL CORP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (54%)

TICKER: TTWO (NASDAQ) (71%); COST (NASDAQ) (57%); HRB (NYSE) (57%); DIS (NYSE) (56%); INTC (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (71%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (71%); NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (70%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (57%); SIC5399 MISC. GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (57%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (57%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (57%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (56%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (56%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (56%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (56%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (78%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (54%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2008



71 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADDENDA; Pg. 

LENGTH: 207 words

HEADLINE: New Ad Accounts

 BODY:
Accounts
 Microsoft, Redmond, Wash., chose Crispin Porter & Bogusky, Miami and Boulder, Colo., part of MDC Partners, to create a campaign aimed at consumers for Windows products. Further details on the assignment, with spending estimated at as much as $300 million, were not disclosed. The lead global creative agency for Microsoft -- McCann Erickson Worldwide, part of the McCann Worldgroup division of the Interpublic Group of Companies -- also took part in a review for the assignment. 
 Miller Brewing, Milwaukee, part of SABMiller, moved the creative assignment for Miller Chill beer, with spending estimated at $50 million. The brand was shifted to Saatchi & Saatchi, New York, part of the Publicis Groupe, which also creates campaigns for Miller High Life, from the Chicago office of Y&R, part of the Young & Rubicam Brands unit of the WPP Group, which also creates campaigns for Miller Genuine Draft.
 Patron Spirits, Las Vegas, expanded its relationship with the Richards Group, Dallas, by naming Richards as agency of record for Ultimat, a Polish vodka that Patron recently acquired. The marketing budget to reintroduce Ultimat was estimated at $15 million. Richards is also agency of record for the flagship Patron brand, Patron tequila.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); BEER & ALE (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (77%); BUDGETS (72%)

COMPANY: CRISPIN PORTER & BOGUSKY (91%); MICROSOFT CORP (90%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (85%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (83%); MCCANN WORLDGROUP (72%); MDC PARTNERS INC (58%); WPP PLC (58%); SAATCHI & SAATCHI WORLDWIDE (57%); SABMILLER PLC (57%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); IPG (NYSE) (85%); PUB (PAR) (83%); MDZ.A (TSX) (58%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (58%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (58%); WPP (LSE) (58%); SOSAB (JSE) (57%); SAB (LSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (85%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (85%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (83%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (58%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (58%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (58%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (57%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (91%); COLORADO, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2008



72 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: Ahmadinejad, in Iraq, Chides Bush on Iran Criticism

BYLINE: By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr. and AHMAD FADAM; Khalid al-Ansary and Balen Y. Younis contributed reporting from Baghdad, and Iraqi employees of The New York Times from Kirkuk, Salahuddin and Falluja.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD 

 BODY:
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran, arriving in Baghdad to open what he declared a ''new chapter'' in relations between Iraq and Iran, warned President Bush on Sunday that America's problems in the Middle East would worsen as long as he continued to accuse Iran of interfering in Iraq.
 The visit, the first by an Iranian leader since the brutal Iran-Iraq war of the 1980s, set off protests in Sunni Arab areas that seemed to underscore how growing Iranian influence could thwart hopes of mending the Iraqi government's sour relationship with Sunnis inside its own borders. Many of Iraq's Shiite leaders have ties to Iran. 
 ''Today, by the grace of God, our two countries' leaders have agreed to cement their brotherly relations,'' Mr. Ahmadinejad said after meeting with the Iraqi president, Jalal Talabani. The Iranian leader plans to stay for two days and strike deals on energy and other investment projects.
 Mr. Talabani, a Kurd, said that ''economic, oil, political and security issues'' are all on the table. He also reiterated previous vows by Iraqi officials to eliminate the Mujahedeen Khalq, a group of anti-Iranian guerrillas, some of whose members have taken shelter at an American-guarded compound in eastern Iraq.
 Mr. Ahmadinejad later called for Iraq, Iran and Turkey to cooperate to drive Kurdish guerrillas from the Iraqi border areas they use to stage attacks into both countries. American officials say the guerrillas of the Kurdistan Workers Party, who attack Turkey, a NATO ally, are terrorists. But they do not condemn a closely linked group, the Party for Free Life in Kurdistan, which carries out deadly raids into Iran. 
 The visit made plain the determination of Iraqi leaders to move closer to Tehran despite American accusations that Iran supports militias in Iraq. Mr. Ahmadinejad received hugs from several dignitaries who greeted him, including Vice President Adel Abdul Mahdi, a Shiite.
 At a news conference, the Iraqi prime minister, Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, seemed to distance himself from American criticism of Iran. ''I think that the level of trust is very high,'' Mr. Maliki said. ''And I say frankly that the position Iran has taken recently was very helpful in bringing back security and stability.''
 A question from an Arab reporter to Mr. Ahmadinejad -- about Bush administration statements that Iran provides weaponry to militias -- appeared awkward for Mr. Maliki, who turned to Mr. Ahmadinejad as if to distance himself from the query. 
 ''That's what he said,'' Mr. Maliki told the Iranian leader, referring to the reporter and making clear that the question did not spring from anything Mr. Maliki had said. 
 Mr. Ahmadinejad responded: ''You can tell Mr. Bush that making accusations about others will increase the Americans' problems in the region. They will have to accept the facts in the area. The Iraqi people do not like the Americans.''
 In an appearance later with Abdul Aziz al-Hakim, leader of a powerful Shiite party, Mr. Ahmadinejad responded to a similar question by saying that the United States occupation had sent terrorists flocking to Iraq.
 Mr. Ahmadinejad's trip almost seemed choreographed to contrast with Mr. Bush's visits, which occurred inside highly protected American compounds.
 After arriving at Baghdad International Airport, Mr. Ahmadinejad rode in a motorcade -- not aboard helicopters -- to central Baghdad down a road once controlled by Sunni insurgents. He arrived to warm smiles from Mr. Talabani and a line of Iraqi officials at Mr. Talabani's compound, where he was under the protection of Kurdish pesh merga fighters and other Iraqi forces.
 Outside Baghdad, it was clear the visit outraged many Sunni Arabs who still have raw emotions from the Iran-Iraq war and believe that Mr. Maliki's Shiite-dominated government functions as a proxy for Iran. 
 The recent move by thousands of former insurgents and other Sunnis to join American-backed militias is often ascribed solely to a revolt against Sunni jihadist militants. But many of those militiamen say they joined partly to get support from the Americans so they can prepare to resist Iranian efforts to dominate Iraq.
 ''I think Ahmadinejad is the most criminal and bloody person in the world,'' said Emad Abbas, a university student in Samarra. ''This visit degrades Iraq's dignity, and it proves that Iraq is occupied twice, once by the United States and once by Iran.''
 In Kirkuk, where Sunnis are fighting efforts by Kurds to control the city, tribes and political parties rallied against the visit. 
 ''How can we tolerate this?'' said Salman Abdullah Al-Hamad, an Arab tribal leader in Kirkuk. ''Today we live under the regime of the clerics. The Iranian revolution has been exported to Iraq.''
 Hundreds of Sunnis also took to the streets in Falluja. ''Ahmadinejad is the main reason why the occupiers remain in Iraq,'' said Muhammad Dira Farhan, 50. 
 ''His visit is intended to reassure his followers here,'' he said, but he is ''provoking and enraging'' many Iraqis.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, center, with Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, left, and Abdul Aziz al-Hakim, far right.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID FURST/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (87%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); POLITICS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); TERRORISM (64%)

ORGANIZATION: MUJAHEDIN-E KHALQ ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (93%); NOURI AL-MALIKI (89%); JALAL TALABANI (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (78%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); IRAQ (95%); TURKEY (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); IRAN (78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2008



73 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: About Those Health Care Plans by the Democrats ...

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
While Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama fight over who has the better health plan for the uninsured, they say little about a more immediate challenge that will confront the next administration, whether Democratic or Republican: how to tame the soaring costs of Medicare and Medicaid.
 The two programs, for older Americans and low-income people, cost $627 billion last year and accounted for 23 percent of all federal spending. With no change in existing law, the Congressional Budget Office says, that cost will double in 10 years and the programs will account for more than 30 percent of the budget.
 Economists and health policy experts say the federal health programs are unsustainable in their current form, because they are growing much faster than the economy or the revenues used to finance them. The Medicare program is especially endangered; its hospital insurance trust fund is expected to run out of money in 11 years.
 But the need for cutbacks is not a popular theme for political candidates wooing voters who want more care at a lower cost. 
 The Democrats do not say, in any detail, how they would slow the growth of Medicare and Medicaid or what they think about the main policy options: rationing care, raising taxes, cutting payments to providers or requiring beneficiaries to pay more.
 Nor do they say how they would overcome the health care industry lobby, which has blocked proposals for even modest reductions in Medicare payment rates.
 Instead, scores of lawyers and lobbyists are continually urging Congress to expand Medicare coverage of specific drugs, medical devices, tests and procedures.
 The leading edge of the baby boom generation becomes eligible for Medicare in three years. The number of beneficiaries, now 44 million, is expected to reach 49 million in the first term of the next president and then climb to 55 million by 2017.
 Those numbers, while daunting, are less significant than other factors.
 Peter R. Orszag, director of the Congressional Budget Office, said, ''The bulk of the projected increase in spending on Medicare and Medicaid is due not to demographic changes, such as increases in the number of beneficiaries, but to increases in costs per beneficiary.'' 
 And what is driving those costs?
 ''Most of the long-term rise in health care spending is associated with the use of new medical technologies,'' the budget office said in a recent report. It suggested that more selective use could save substantial amounts -- a prospect that alarms manufacturers of some medical devices.
 ''Medical technology has saved and improved countless lives by reducing disability and death rates from cancer, heart disease and other conditions,'' said Stephen J. Ubl, president of the Advanced Medical Technology Association, a trade group. 
 Spending on Medicare and Medicaid tends to increase in tandem with health spending generally.
 ''Federal health spending trends should not be viewed in isolation from the health care system as a whole,'' said David M. Walker, the comptroller general of the United States. 
 When Medicare and Medicaid squeeze payments to doctors and hospitals, health care providers often try to increase charges to other patients, Mr. Walker said. To rein in the costs of Medicare and Medicaid, he said, it will be necessary to slow the growth of health costs generally.
 For several years, an independent federal panel, the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, has recommended that Congress reduce payments to private health plans. Those payments are about 12 percent higher, on average, than the cost of caring for similar patients in the traditional fee-for-service Medicare program.
 Insurance companies, working with satisfied customers and lawmakers who want to preserve access to such plans, have successfully resisted the proposal.
 To help pay for their coverage plans, Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama both say they would roll back the ''Bush tax cuts'' for the wealthiest Americans. But major provisions of the tax cuts, adopted in 2001 and 2003, are already scheduled to expire at the end of 2010. Democratic lawmakers, moreover, have committed the savings from the elapsed tax cuts several times to other pet programs, like eliminating the alternative minimum tax.
 Some experts say the only real way to tame health care costs is by limiting access to expensive treatments or by requiring affluent Americans to pay for more of their health care. 
 Medicare has generally not taken costs into account in deciding which services to cover. If officials even suggest that Medicare should deny payment for an expensive treatment that could produce a small improvement in a person's condition, they are accused of rationing care.
 Researchers at Dartmouth Medical School have found large variations in the amount of hospital care and other services that people with the same condition receive in different parts of the country. In some regions, where doctors favor more intensive treatments, Medicare spends much more without getting better results for patients. 
 This research ''suggests that about 20 percent of Medicare spending could be eliminated with no adverse effects on health,'' said Prof. David M. Cutler of Harvard, an adviser to the Obama campaign. Identifying that 20 percent would be ''very difficult,'' he acknowledged.
 President Bush says high-income people should pay higher premiums for the Medicare drug benefit, and at least some liberals are willing to discuss the idea.
 ''We can go further in setting Medicare premiums at higher levels for affluent beneficiaries without unraveling the universal nature of the program,'' said Robert Greenstein, executive director of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. But, he insists, ''we should also eliminate billions of dollars in overpayments to private Medicare plans.''
 The Democratic candidates do believe they can wring savings out of an inefficient health care system that spent an average of $7,400 a person last year, far more than any other country.
 Mr. Obama says his plan can achieve ''tremendous savings'' by making the health care system more efficient. Mrs. Clinton says her plan will save more than $50 billion a year with ''efficiency reforms.''
 To this end, Democrats and some Republicans are coalescing behind proposals intended to improve care while lowering costs. These proposals call for greater use of health information technology, including electronic medical records, programs to manage the care of people with multiple chronic diseases and research to compare the effectiveness of different treatments.
 Senator John McCain of Arizona, the presumptive Republican nominee, describes Medicare as a ''fiscal train wreck.'' He voted against adding a prescription drug benefit to Medicare in 2003 because, he said, it added huge costs to a program going broke.
 Mr. McCain says he, too, wants to cover more people. But he has not explicitly embraced the goal of universal coverage, saying he worries more about costs.
 Public opinion polls show broad support for federal action to cover the uninsured. But Robert D. Reischauer, a health policy expert and president of the Urban Institute, said, ''It will be difficult for Senator Clinton and Senator Obama to retain popular support for their plans once the details are specified.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LOBBYING (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); MEDICAL DEVICES (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); TRENDS (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (71%); BABY BOOMERS (71%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (68%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (67%); CANCER (64%); MEDICAID (58%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (57%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); PETER ORSZAG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2008



74 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: Spitzer's Fiscal Certainty Is Met With Skepticism

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
From New Jersey to California, many states are contemplating a raft of painful budget cuts as they wrestle with evaporating tax revenue and ballooning deficits.
 But in New York, which faces the same economic uncertainties, no such severe cutbacks are on the table. In fact, Gov. Eliot Spitzer has proposed adding about $6 billion to this year's $118 billion budget and hiring some 2,000 new state workers.
 Yet over the weekend, Mr. Spitzer and legislative leaders reduced by another $250 million their estimate of how much money the state will have to finance its operations. That came three weeks after a downward revision by Mr. Spitzer of $384 million. 
 Those adjustments, coming in quick succession, underscore just how shaky the financial outlook is as profits on Wall Street drop and the housing market slips further into decline. 
 And despite assurances from Mr. Spitzer and his financial advisers that the proposed budget is reasonable, a growing number of budget experts in Albany are beginning to wonder whether the state's spending plan for the next fiscal year borders on profligate.
 ''We need to assume that it's going to get worse before it's going to get better,'' said Thomas P. DiNapoli, the state comptroller, who issued a report last week that was highly skeptical of the governor's plan. ''I think we're living in a time of tremendous volatility, and even the experts don't have expert advice anymore.''
 If there is a common theme lawmakers are hearing from economists and budget experts, it is to proceed with caution.
 ''There's some uncertainty out there,'' said James Orr, an economist with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. ''So they've got to be careful.''
 Job growth in the state is slowing. Initial unemployment claims have reached their highest level in five years. And some economists have asserted that the country is already in a recession.
 For its part, the Spitzer administration has said that it is prepared to make adjustments to the budget if the outlook worsens considerably. But Mr. Spitzer's budget advisers acknowledged that there is only so much they can plan at this point.
 ''We're anticipating, obviously, that we have to be cautious going forward,'' said Laura L. Anglin, the governor's budget director. ''I believe we positioned ourselves very much accordingly, and hopefully we're able to weather this storm.''
 Though Mr. Spitzer has revised his revenue estimates twice because of rapidly shifting economic forces, he has still proposed increasing spending by about 5 percent, more than one and a half times the rate of inflation.
 Some policy experts said they thought it was impractical -- even imprudent -- to move forward without proposing more cuts to the $124 billion budget.
 ''They're not leaving much margin for error if the economy gets worse than they projected,'' said E. J. McMahon, a senior fellow at the Manhattan Institute, a conservative research organization. ''If we're in the kind of situation we were in at the turn of the '90s, we're looking at a future where the only way the governor can make these commitments is with a huge tax increase. That's where I'd worry things are drifting.''
 Compared with states like New Jersey and California, New York's projected deficit is a smaller portion of its budget. And the state also has at its disposal a sizable rainy-day fund, which now contains more than $1 billion. 
 New York has also held up relatively well as home prices have fallen across the country. The run-up in property values in recent years was sharper in states like California, Florida and Arizona than in New York, where increases were more moderate, leaving less of a bubble to burst.
 But if there is a recession, some economists believe it will hit New York harder than many other states because New York's fortunes are so intertwined with Wall Street's. 
 ''The epicenter of this crisis is financial,'' said Chris Varvares, president of Macroeconomic Advisers, a national economic research group. ''So you'd think it'd have a bigger disproportionate impact on New York, and it probably will.''
 Twenty percent of the state's revenue comes from Wall Street -- from personal income taxes, corporate income taxes and taxes on real estate deals. And with Wall Street in a state of turmoil because of the collapse of the subprime mortgage market, the state is facing its grimmest outlook for revenue collection since after the Sept. 11 attacks. 
 But the Spitzer administration, confident that the economy is not going to sour much further, insisted that it had properly calculated how much money it can spend.
 ''We don't believe it's going to get much worse than it is,'' Ms. Anglin said. ''Obviously, if things deteriorate further than anticipated we will have to take additional actions. But we think it's a little premature to say.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); RECESSION (76%); GOVERNORS (73%); HOUSING MARKET (70%); INFLATION (64%); CENTRAL BANKS (63%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (84%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2008



75 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: Hollywood, Silicon Valley And AT&T? It's a Deal

BYLINE: By LAURA M. HOLSON

 BODY:
Hollywood and Silicon Valley have something of a Mars/Venus problem: the two sides are talking but they don't speak each other's language. A new venture involving a phone company may just add Pluto into the mix. 
 On Monday, the William Morris Agency, the Hollywood talent shop, will announce that it is teaming up with the Silicon Valley venture capital firms Accel Partners and Venrock to invest in digital media start-up companies based in Southern California. What makes the combination unusual, though, is the addition of AT&T as a limited partner. 
 While there has been a spate of deals recently as entertainment and technology companies try to capitalize on their shared interest in new media, many people view wireless carriers as too controlling, particularly when it comes to offering new software and content on today's more sophisticated, Web-friendly cellphones. 
 This deal is an indication of how quickly online and mobile entertainment are transforming the wireless carriers and perhaps a recognition -- on all sides -- that a failure to act now could leave the partners vulnerable to interlopers who seek to upend their traditional businesses.
 Susan Johnson, a senior vice president for business development at AT&T, who will be working with the alliance, said the convergence of media and technology was ''as much an opportunity as a threat.''
 Hollywood and Silicon Valley executives have had an uneasy relationship since the Internet boom of the late 1990s, when the promise of a new-media revolution failed to materialize. Scores of actors and directors piled into private jets to make the 300-mile pilgrimage from Los Angeles to Palo Alto, but they were unsuccessful at creating properties for the Web.
 ''There is always a fear, I know, that the bubble is about to burst when a parade of actors and actresses comes through my door,'' said Jim Breyer, a board member of Marvel Entertainment and a partner at Accel, which invested early on in Facebook. ''This time the discussions are much more rational.''
 David Siminoff, a general partner at Venrock who invests in media companies, said, ''The ethos of this fund is about reducing the friction.'' Further, he added, ''Hollywood people are not stupid. They are just not technology people.''
 AT&T is not looking exclusively for content; the likes of CBS, ESPN and NBC already provide much of that for cellphones. Instead, it is hoping to invest in technologies that will make it easier to run ads on cellphones, as well as to nurture social networks like Facebook and MySpace, online hits that have migrated to hand-held devices. 
 AT&T has spread money around Hollywood before -- it invested in the film producer Media Rights Capital -- but those investments were largely passive.
 The fund was the idea of James A. Wiatt, chief executive at William Morris, and Paul Bricault, who runs the agency's consulting practice and has known Mr. Siminoff for years. The fund's initial financing will be in the tens of millions of dollars, which it will use to start and invest seed money in fledgling companies interested in creating online content and technology for social networking, mobile games and advertising.
 The founders also want flexibility. While investments are likely to be as small as $250,000, the founders would also consider financing companies that need millions of dollars. Although the emphasis of the fund is on Southern California, investments may be made in other areas. 
 The founders' interests are varied. Ms. Johnson said AT&T was most interested in mobile applications, while Mr. Siminoff said he was looking for content or social networking companies with ''emotional relevance'' for consumers.
 Richard Wolpert, a former president of Disney Online and the chief strategy officer at RealNetworks, a digital entertainment company, has been hired to oversee the fund. It will have an executive committee, with representatives from William Morris and its venture capital partners, and a larger investment committee to decide which companies get financing. ''All of us are looking to bring ideas and contribute,'' said Mr. Wiatt.
 Talent agencies in the last year have taken different directions in their approach to new media. But if there is any question how important it is to the future, consider this: the Writers Guild of America effectively shut Hollywood for three months recently when it went on strike after demanding a greater share of new-media profits from producers.
 Creative Artists Agency has been seeking venture capital partners ever since it paired with Sequoia Capital almost a year ago to help start the Will Farrell-backed Web site FunnyOrDie.com. Industry executives say Creative Artists has sought to raise as much as $150 million for a digital entertainment and technology fund. Other firms, like ICM and Endeavor, are interested in capitalizing on technology relationships, too.
 By contrast, the advertising agency Spot Runner and the United Talent Agency helped start 60Frames, an online content creator and video producer. United Talent owns a stake in 60Frames, but the $3.5 million raised to finance projects came from private and institutional investors, said the chief executive of 60Frames, Brent Weinstein, and UTA has no hand in day-to-day operations.
 ''It was very important for 60Frames to be independent,'' said Mr. Weinstein, who used to work at UTA. 
 Whatever the future prospects of the William Morris alliance, all involved hope a happy outcome will be something that cannot be valued on a spreadsheet: talk that leads to understanding. Ms. Johnson described herself as a technologist who knows little about Hollywood. ''We're not in it for the return on investment,'' she said. ''It is the dialogue.''
 Or, as Mr. Bricault of William Morris put it: ''Without our disparate skill sets, it is just another investment fund.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Talent shops have helped ventures like FunnyOrDie.com, top, and 60Frames, maker of the ''Debate in '08'' video.(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); SOCIAL MEDIA (88%); TALENT AGENTS (79%); FILM DIRECTORS (79%); VENTURE CAPITAL (77%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (77%); MEDIA CONVERGENCE (76%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (76%); MOBILE MEDIA (76%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (74%); STARTUPS (72%); LIMITED PARTNERSHIPS (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (68%); EXECUTIVES (66%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (64%)

COMPANY: AT&T INC (95%); WILLIAM MORRIS AGENCY INC (58%); ACCEL MANAGEMENT CO INC (57%); FACEBOOK INC (52%)

TICKER: T (NYSE) (95%); FB (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2008



76 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: Troops Mass at Colombian Borders in Crisis Over Killing of Rebel

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela 

 BODY:
Venezuela and Ecuador mobilized troops to their borders with Colombia on Sunday, intensifying a diplomatic crisis after Colombian forces killed a senior guerrilla leader at a jungle camp in Ecuador. 
 President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela, whose government has warm ties with the rebel group, threatened Colombia with war and mobilized tank units and fighter jets near the border between the two countries. 
 The killing on Saturday of 17 members of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC, Latin America's largest insurgency, also generated a fierce diplomatic reaction from Ecuador and Venezuela. 
 Speaking on television Sunday night, President Rafael Correa of Ecuador called Colombia's action a violation of Ecuador's sovereignty. He expelled Colombia's ambassador and withdrew his ambassador from Bogota. 
 Mr. Chavez, meanwhile, said he was shutting down Venezuela's embassy in Colombia. 
 Rhetorically at least, Mr. Chavez's threat points to one of the tensest moments between Venezuela and Colombia in recent decades. Whether or not the saber-rattling produces conflict, Mr. Chavez stands to benefit from a distraction from social problems here, like food shortages and surging inflation.
 Mr. Chavez couched his warning by saying he would react in the event of a Colombian raid into Venezuela. He taunted President Alvaro Uribe of Colombia, a Bush administration ally, calling him a ''mafia boss,'' ''criminal,'' ''liar'' and ''lackey of the empire.'' 
 ''If you decide to do this in Venezuela, pal, we'll send you a few Sukhois,'' Mr. Chavez said, referring to the fighter jets Venezuela has recently acquired from Russia. 
 Mr. Chavez described the slain senior guerrilla, Raul Reyes, the second most powerful member of the FARC, as ''a true revolutionary.'' He said he had met with Mr. Reyes on three occasions since the 1990s, offering rare detail into Venezuela's often murky ties to Colombia's rebel groups.
 Both the FARC and a smaller insurgency, the National Liberation Army, or ELN, operate along the porous border. Movements by uniformed members of both groups have been documented in western Venezuela. The FARC has also been reported to have operated without hindrance in eastern Ecuador. 
 Colombia's government kept silent after Mr. Chavez's threats, as it largely has done since a deterioration of ties between the countries that began in November when Mr. Uribe abruptly withdrew his support for Mr. Chavez's mediation with the FARC. 
 But in response to Ecuador's protest that Colombia had violated its sovereignty, Colombia's Foreign Ministry apologized Sunday night. Mr. Correa, Ecuador's president, called the apology a ''mockery.'' 
 Strengthening trade links among Andean countries suggest that the tension will soon die down.
 Trade between Colombia and Venezuela, for instance, still flourishes despite a hiccup in some industries caused by recent political outbursts. Venezuela even relies now on a natural gas pipeline from Colombia for its extraction of oil around Lake Maracaibo. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); NATIONAL LIBERATION ARMY (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (73%); ORGANIZED CRIME (65%)

ORGANIZATION: REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (83%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (91%); ALVARO URIBE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (78%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (99%); COLOMBIA (99%); ECUADOR (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2008



77 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: Gaza Pitfalls In Every Path

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER; Isabel Kershner contributed reporting from Jerusalem.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Ever since the militant Islamist organization Hamas took over Gaza eight months ago, President Bush's peace plan for the Middle East has been to prop up the more moderate Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, in the hopes that Palestinians would rally behind him as man who could bring them statehood and make Hamas irrelevant.
 But Israel's military and economic pressure on Gaza, the menacing rocket fire from Gaza into Israel and the ensuing chaos that reached new heights this weekend have highlighted a fundamental tangle in that plan: As long as Hamas controls Gaza, it can subvert negotiations between Israelis and moderate Palestinians whenever it sees fit. 
 As Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice heads to the region on Monday, a trip planned for weeks, she is confronting very few options in achieving President Bush's stated goal of peace between Israel and a new Palestinian state that includes both the West Bank, where Mr. Abbas's government sits, and Gaza.
 ''She's walking into a buzz saw,'' said Aaron David Miller, author of ''The Much Too Promised Land: America's Elusive Search for Arab-Israeli Peace.'' ''You cannot make peace with half of the Palestinian polity and go to war with the other half.''
 On Sunday, as violence spilled over from Gaza into the West Bank, a spokesman for Mr. Abbas said talks with Israel had been suspended. 
 In many ways, the latest crisis, in which Israeli aircraft and troops have attacked Palestinian positions in northern Gaza after long-range rockets from Gaza hit the large Israeli city of Ashkelon, looks like the Lebanon war of July 2006, when Israel bombed Hezbollah targets in Lebanon.
 The Israelis are also facing criticism similar to that made during the Lebanon war -- that their response has been disproportionate and killed many civilians, including children. And just as Israel faced tough decisions on Lebanon, the United States finds itself with dwindling choices, none considered attractive.
 Ms. Rice could encourage Israel to increase the strikes against Hamas in the hopes of destroying its leadership in Gaza. But Israel tried that with Hezbollah in Lebanon and failed, leaving Hezbollah leaders to assert when the war was over that they had stood up to Israel.
 Even if Israel did go all out to defeat Hamas in Gaza, the problem of what comes after would remain. For instance, would Israeli forces stay in Gaza, or would they be replaced by an international force from the already stretched NATO or the United Nations?
 Ms. Rice's other alternative -- encouraging Israel to negotiate a cease-fire with Hamas -- has pitfalls, Middle East experts say, because that would further legitimize Hamas, which the United States and Israel consider a terrorist organization. Martin Indyk, the former United States ambassador to Israel, said such a cease-fire would further undermine Mr. Abbas and make it look like Hamas is the entity with which Israel and the West should be negotiating.
 ''Excluding them doesn't work, and including them doesn't work, either,'' Mr. Indyk said. ''So what do you do? This is a situation that does not lend itself to a sensible policy.''
 With the rocket attacks on Israel, Hamas has demonstrated power to threaten peace talks simply by inciting a strong Israeli response and making it impossible for Mr. Abbas to sit by and do nothing. On Sunday, the day after Israeli aircraft and troops attacked Gaza, resulting in the biggest one-day death toll in more than a year, Mr. Abbas announced that he was suspending the peace negotiations in protest.
 Mr. Abbas's options, too, are limited, Palestinian experts say, given that the peace negotiation with Israel is his main selling point for his claim that he is the only one who can bring the Palestinians a deal with Israel. 
 A senior Bush administration figure acknowledged on Sunday that Ms. Rice ''is playing a really bad hand.'' So far, the Bush administration is adhering to a position very similar to the one it used during the Lebanon war.
 As with Hezbollah, Ms. Rice is standing behind Israel's right to defend itself. Gordon D. Johndroe, a White House spokesman, said late Saturday that the United States wanted to see ''an end to violence and all acts of terrorism directed against innocent civilians.'' But, he noted, ''there is a clear distinction between terrorist rocket attacks that target civilians and action in self defense.''
 As with the Lebanon war, Ms. Rice is, at the same time, trying to prop up a besieged ''moderate'' leader -- this time, Mr. Abbas instead of the Lebanese prime minister, Fouad Siniora. But -- just as with Hezbollah -- she cannot stop the rocket attacks onto Israel from Gaza because the United States does not talk to Hamas.
 ''This is beyond her capacity, and beyond even the capacity of a secretary of state like Kissinger or Baker,'' said Mr. Miller, who served as a Middle East negotiator for the last three presidents. ''This is rooted in a fundamental problem that we haven't acknowledged: Israel cannot make peace with a divided Palestine.''
 Even within Israel, many experts are echoing that view. A few weeks ago, Hamas claimed responsibility for a suicide bombing in the Negev desert town of Dimona, the first such attack in more than a year. Shlomo Brom, a retired general at the Institute for National Security Studies, said the bombing was meant ''to send a clear message'' to Mr. Abbas, Israel and the United States that there will be no normalization of life without Hamas.
 Mr. Brom advocates dialogue with Hamas. But the United States and Israel have refused to deal with Hamas leaders unless the organization forswears violence and acknowledges Israel's right to exist. 
 So Ms. Rice will try to press surrogates, including Egypt, to lean on Hamas, administration officials say. And she will sharply criticize rocket attacks on civilian Israeli targets, and publicly charge Hamas with hiding behind civilians in Gaza. She will meet with Mr. Abbas and the Palestinian prime minister, Salam Fayyad, in the West Bank, and with Prime Minister Ehud Olmert of Israel and his foreign minister, Tzipi Livni.
 Ali Abunimah, a research fellow at the Palestine Center, a Washington-based advocacy group, derided the American strategy of ignoring Hamas: ''You can't talk to them. You can't deal with them. You just cover your ears, close your eyes and pretend they don't exist.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An Israeli soldier, one of two killed in Gaza on Saturday, was buried Sunday in Jerusalem. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANNIS BEHRAKIS/REUTERS)
 Palestinians in northern Gaza on Sunday mourned a 21-month-old girl killed in an Israeli strike. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EYAD BABA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PEACE PROCESS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HEZBOLLAH (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); TERRORISM (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); ARMED FORCES (71%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (93%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (89%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); LEBANON (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2008



78 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Campaigns As if Momentum Is Hers

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

DATELINE: AKRON, Ohio 

 BODY:
Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton does not look like a candidate who might drop out of the presidential race as early as Wednesday.
 In a weekend dash of campaigning in Texas and Ohio before those states vote on Tuesday, Mrs. Clinton was in happy-warrior mode -- and seemed to have found a stride. Her attack lines were punchier, her audiences were reacting more enthusiastically than usual, and she clearly liked her latest line of attack against Senator Barack Obama, on his lack of experience with a crisis.
 If many of her advisers are worried and even gloomy about her prospects on Tuesday, Mrs. Clinton appears charged up (to the point where her voice is increasingly hoarse). She is talking to reporters and joking around more, not less, and she has been taking time to show good cheer on ''Saturday Night Live'' over the weekend and on ''The Daily Show'' on Monday. 
 And yet: Mr. Obama has won the last 11 contests and, despite her attacks, still enjoys a front-runner's momentum. He raised more than $50 million in February, while she raised $32 million. He has been peeling off some of her superdelegates -- who are party leaders and elected officials -- and now enjoys an overall delegate lead of 1,303.5 to her 1,212, according to a projection by The New York Times.
 Clinton advisers view both Ohio and Texas as must-win contests in order to catch up with Mr. Obama in the delegate hunt and persuade superdelegates and donors that her candidacy is viable. Public polls in Texas show a virtual dead heat, if not a slight lead for Mr. Obama, while Mrs. Clinton has been holding onto a small lead in Ohio.
 The Clinton camp has been steadily managing expectations. First it said she needed to win both states by comfortable, if not overwhelming, margins; then former President Bill Clinton said that she needed to win both states to stay in the race, without commenting on the margin; and now her advisers are suggesting that an Ohio victory, on top of her $32 million in fund-raising, could give her an argument against dropping out.
 Mrs. Clinton herself has privately told advisers that she has a hard time imagining ending her campaign if she wins Ohio and narrowly loses Texas, given that she has money in the bank and that she believes she would have an edge in the next big vote, Pennsylvania on April 22, because its demographics are similar to Ohio's.
 At the same time, Mrs. Clinton believes there are new whiffs of momentum around her, advisers say. After being sidelined recently by attention on Mr. Obama and the leading Republican candidate, Senator John McCain, she drew coverage with her latest television commercial about Mr. Obama's ability to handle a crisis, and has pivoted from that to portray herself as the more qualified Democrat on every count.
 ''Who would you hire to turn the economy around?'' Mrs. Clinton asked a crowd of a couple thousand people at a rally in Akron on Sunday evening. ''Who would you hire to make sure we have quality affordable health care for every American? Who would you hire to make college affordable for hard-working middle-class families? And who would you hire to end the war in Iraq and take care of our veterans?''
 For better or for worse, Mrs. Clinton has come full circle on her message, again embracing the strategic assumptions with which she began the campaign in January 2007: That she is the most able and experienced Democrat to be commander in chief, to manage the economy, and to win what she calls a ''wartime election'' in November.
 It is a sobering message, not the kind that rouses people to their feet to cheer. But it is the sort of competency-based rationale that was so much a part of her years as first lady and her campaigns for the United States Senate in 2000 and 2006.
 But Mrs. Clinton waged the so-called experience argument relentlessly against Mr. Obama in Iowa, only to come in third in the caucuses there.
 Yet in Akron and elsewhere in Ohio on Sunday, Mrs. Clinton won strong applause for promising to develop ''a new manufacturing policy,'' to renegotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement and to take a strong stand against outsourcing -- three priorities that Senator John Kerry pressed across Ohio in 2004, only to lose that November to President Bush.
 Mrs. Clinton's task is to beat Mr. Obama, and her crowds on Sunday reacted well when she said they could hold her accountable for her ''solutions'' while Mr. Obama was offering only ''speeches.''
 ''I want you to come to the White House and say, 'I heard you in Akron; when are you going to produce those jobs?' '' Mrs. Clinton said at the rally here. And, regarding the high price of oil, she has taken to saying as she did here, ''I'm not interested in holding hands with the Saudis -- I'm interested in holding them accountable.''
 Over all, her language has become more brass tacks. ''We need a president who gets it,'' Mrs. Clinton said in Westerville, near Columbus, speaking about the financial problems of voters. Referring to well-off people like herself, she said, ''It's time we looked around and saw what was going on in the rest of Ohio, in the rest of America.''
 And around reporters this weekend, in Texas on Saturday and Ohio on Sunday, she has seemed fairly relaxed. She is now coming back to the press cabin on the campaign plane every other day or so to chat on the record, something she began doing only a few weeks ago. She recently tried her hand at bowling an orange up the aisle during takeoff, a favorite game of the news media.
 Mrs. Clinton even turned on the charm on Sunday when she saw an old nemesis, Gail Sheehy, on her plane; the candidate popped her eyes wide and sounded chipper as she talked to Ms. Sheehy, the author of a book about the Clinton marriage.
 ''How are you! I'm so glad you're out here,'' Mrs. Clinton told her -- even though the sudden presence of Ms. Sheehy, as well as that of another high-profile writer, Tina Brown, carried the whiff of last-chance-to-see-the-show.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hillary Rodham Clinton campaigned Sunday in Austintown, Ohio, showing renewed energy just before the state's primary.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); SUPERDELEGATES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICS (73%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (68%); FUNDRAISING (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (66%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); BILL CLINTON (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AKRON, OH, USA (58%) OHIO, USA (97%); TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2008



79 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: Sears Joins With Hearst for a Multimedia Blitz

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
TWO decades ago, shoppers were told ''there's more for your life at Sears.'' An ambitious campaign that begins this week -- the result of an unusual retailer-media partnership between Sears and Hearst -- may help determine whether there is more life for Sears.
 Sears, Roebuck & Company, a division of the Sears Holdings Corporation, is struggling with slumping sales, falling profits and mounting complaints about store conditions. Revenue in the quarter that ended on Feb. 2 for stores open more than a year -- a closely watched yardstick in the retail industry -- dropped 4 percent from a year earlier.
 The wobbly economy is exacerbating Sears's woes as consumers slow their spending and worry about rising prices, falling home values and the gyrating stock market. And while its competitors have been stepping up efforts to woo skittish shoppers, Sears Holdings has been cutting the marketing budgets for both Sears and its sibling, Kmart. 
 ''We already invest a significant amount of capital and expenses'' in areas like marketing, Edward S. Lampert, the chairman of Sears Holdings, wrote to shareholders in a letter last week. ''The key is to improve the productivity of these investments.''
 The new campaign, with the theme ''Reimagine you,'' seeks to do that by peddling all at once a wide variety of Sears products like clothing, appliances, tools and linens as well as branded Sears services like home maintenance and kitchen remodeling.
 The campaign, with a budget estimated at $50 million to $75 million, will include television, print, catalogs, signs and displays, as well as e-mail messages, video clips, blogs and other Web sites.
 One goal for Sears is to sponsor ''innovative, interruptive and integrated campaigns that challenge people's perceptions'' about the retailer and its offerings, said Richard Gerstein, chief marketing officer at Sears, which is based in Hoffman Estates, Ill.
 ''We have to do a better job of collecting our products and turning them into experiences,'' he added.
 Another goal, Mr. Gerstein said, is finding media companies ''to partner with, to go to market differently,'' rather than ''buying pages for pages' sake.''
 So Sears is teaming up with the Hearst Magazines unit of the Hearst Corporation, which is creating elements of the campaign like a Web site (www.reimagineyourself.com) and a 32-page booklet, ''Reimagine You,'' to be distributed with 13 Hearst magazines and newspapers.
 Hearst will also add Sears-centric content to a Web site (thedailygreen.com) that is part of the Hearst Magazines Digital Media stable of sites.
 The collaboration between Hearst and Sears speaks to the interest among media companies in customizing plans for major marketers, the better to capture a larger share of their dollars.
 The campaign represents ''a significant increase'' in Sears's commitment to Hearst, said Michael A. Clinton, the executive vice president at Hearst Magazines in New York who is also the chief marketing officer and publishing director.
 For instance, Sears will make ''a significant digital buy on the Web sites'' of the nine Hearst magazines that will carry the ''Reimagine You'' booklet with their April issues, Mr. Clinton said. They include Cosmopolitan (cosmopolitan.com), O: The Oprah Magazine (oprah.com/omagazine), Popular Mechanics (popularmechanics.com) and Redbook (redbookmag.com).
 The booklet was also to be distributed with the Sunday editions of four Hearst newspapers: The Houston Chronicle, The San Antonio Express-News, The San Francisco Chronicle and The Times Union in Albany.
 Mr. Gerstein described buying the ads on the Hearst Web sites as part of an initiative to ''ramp up our digital investment to five times what it was'' in spring 2007.
 ''We've been a little slow to the digital party,'' he added, ''but our customers spend a lot of time online, researching products like appliances, lawn and garden, and patio furniture.''
 The deal with Hearst also reflects a shift in the Sears media strategy, Mr. Gerstein said.
 ''There are a lot of media out there,'' he said. ''It's really about partnership, how to make the ads work for us and stand out.''
 During the weeks that the ''Reimagine you'' campaign is running, the Sears creative agency -- the Chicago office of Y&R, part of the Young & Rubicam Brands division of the WPP Group -- will produce ads that reflect the look and tone of the booklet and Web site being produced by Hearst. 
 For instance, the print ads inside the booklet use a ''Reimagine'' theme rather than the theme from the current ads by Y&R Chicago, which is ''Sears. Where it begins.''
 And television commercials feature editors and writers from the Hearst magazines. For example, one spot begins with an announcer saying, ''Sears asked Popular Mechanics to reimagine the garage.''
 After a contributing editor of the magazine, Joseph Truini, offers organizing tips, the announcer promotes a sale on tools and concludes, ''This spring, reimagine yourself at Sears.'' Two Web addresses appear at the end of the spot, reimagineyourself.com and sears.com. 
 The print ads and commercials seem fresher, less cluttered and more aspirational than is typical of Sears pitches.
 For example, the print ads bear headlines suggesting that readers can reimagine themselves as ''the green Samaritan,'' ''the urban Aphrodite,'' ''weekend connoisseurs'' or ''the alpha neighbor.'' And the models appear younger, better-dressed and more stylish than usual.
 Not everyone endorses the idea of a campaign for Sears that strives to be more upscale.
 ''They can maybe attract some attention and attract some people into the store,'' said Alan Siegel, chairman and chief executive at Siegel & Gale in New York, a corporate and brand identity consulting company owned by the Omnicom Group, ''but the experience in the store will not reflect the ads.''
 The reason, Mr. Siegel said, is that Mr. Lampert ''has skimped on capital investment in the stores'' and has not focused enough on merchandise.
 ''He can do anything he wants in the advertising,'' Mr. Siegel said of Mr. Lampert, but Sears is now ''really not competitive with Target, Kohl's and others.''
 Mr. Gerstein, needless to say, would beg to differ.
 The campaign ''is about igniting true possibilities,'' he said, and persuading a current or potential Sears customer that he or she can ''make it the year you want it to be.''
 Maybe the campaign ought to be called ''Reimagine Sears'' -- or, to borrow the title of a TV series in which the commercials will be seen, ''Extreme Makeover: Sears Edition.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ads from Sears urge readers to ''reimagine'' themselves as ''the urban Aphrodite'' or ''the alpha neighbor.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (76%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (74%); SPONSORSHIP (73%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (69%); HOME PRICES (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%); BUDGET CUTS (67%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (63%); PRICE INCREASES (54%)

COMPANY: SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (92%); SEARS HOLDINGS CORP (92%); HEARST CORP (87%)

TICKER: SHLD (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (92%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (92%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (92%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (92%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (87%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (87%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (87%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (87%)

PERSON: EDDIE LAMPERT (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2008



80 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 423 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Auctions Set for This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week includes Monday's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of four-week bills on Tuesday. 
 At the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 1.84 percent. The rate on the six-month issue was 1.82 percent, and the rate on the four-week issue was 2.08 percent.
 The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
 TUESDAY
 Delaware, $215.7 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
 Hennepin County, Minn., $60 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive. 
 WEDNESDAY
 Washoe County, Nev., School District, $55 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive. 
 THURSDAY
 Boston, $126.2 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 Montgomery County, Md., $64.7 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
 California Municipal Finance Authority, $103 million of debt securities for Biola University. Lehman Brothers.
 Commonwealth Financing Authority, Pa., $187.5 million of fixed-rate (federally taxable) revenue bonds. Merrill Lynch.
 Fontana, Calif., Unified School District, $80 million of debt securities. George K. Baum.
 Georgia Power, $370.8 million of debt securities. JPMorgan Securities.
 Houston Independent School District, Harris County, Tex., $385.4 million of limited tax schoolhouse bonds. Merrill Lynch.
 Jacksonville, Fla., Port Authority, $53.3 million of revenue refunding bonds. Morgan Stanley.
 New York State Thruway Authority, $724 million of second general highway and bridge trust fund bonds. Goldman Sachs.
 North Texas Tollway Authority System, $1.8 billion of revenue refunding bonds. Bear Stearns.
 Ohio Housing Finance Authority, $75 million of single-family mortgage revenue bonds. George K. Baum.
 Puerto Rico Aqueduct and Sewer Authority, $1.3 billion of revenue bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
 Puerto Rico Aqueduct and Sewer Authority, $161 million of revenue refunding bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
 Rapides, La., Finance Authority, $60 million of debt securities for Cleco Power project. Goldman Sachs. 
 Salt River Project Agricultural Improvement and Power District, Ariz., $797.6 million of revenue bonds for Salt River Project Electric System. Bear Stearns.
 State Public School Building Authority, Pa., $56.7 million of college revenue bonds for Delaware County Community College project. Wachovia Bank.
 State of California, $1.8 billion of general obligation bonds. Siebert Brandford Shank.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (94%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); DEBT FINANCING (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (88%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (88%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (87%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (75%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (74%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (74%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (74%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (73%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (70%); TAX LAW (70%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (67%); PORT AUTHORITIES (67%); RIVERS (66%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (66%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (64%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); SALT RIVER PROJECT AGRICULTURAL IMPROVEMENT & POWER DISTRICT (81%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); WELLS FARGO & CO (56%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%); WFC (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (81%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (75%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2008



81 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2557 words

HEADLINE: Vienna Meeting on Arms Data Reignites Iran Nuclear Debate

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. BROAD and DAVID E. SANGER; Elaine Sciolino, Warren Hoge and Helene Cooper contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Last Monday, the chief United Nations nuclear inspector gathered ambassadors and experts from dozens of nations in a boardroom high above the Danube in Vienna and laid out a trove of evidence that he said raised new questions about whether Iran had tried to design an atom bomb.
 For more than two hours, representatives to the International Atomic Energy Agency were riveted by documents, sketches and even a video that appeared to have come from Iran's own military laboratories. The inspector said they showed work ''not consistent with any application other than the development of a nuclear weapon,'' according to notes taken by diplomats.
The presentation caught no one's attention more than the Iranian representatives in the room, who deny Iran is developing atomic weapons. As they whipped out cellphone cameras to photograph the screen, Iran's ambassador, Ali Asghar Soltanieh, nearly shouting, called the evidence baseless fabrications, the diplomats said, and warned that the agency was going down ''a very dangerous road.''
 Suddenly, the confrontation with Iran had reignited. 
 The display of new and newly declassified information is part of the latest effort to pressure Iran to disclose information about its past atomic activities and offer proof that its current program is benign. France's ambassador, Francois-Xavier Deniau, said questions raised by the Vienna meeting had opened a ''new chapter'' in the West's effort to keep Iran from acquiring nuclear arms, according to participants.
 This confrontation is different from the long-running American-led campaign. Gone are the veiled threats of military action from the White House. The wind largely went out of that effort in December, when American intelligence officials surprised Western allies -- and angered Bush administration hawks -- with a report saying Iran had halted its nuclear weapons program in 2003. Last Monday's presentation in Vienna did not contradict that conclusion, but disclosed many new details suggesting the depth of Iran's past work on weapons design. 
 The new effort to pressure Iran has been led by Europeans and the international atomic agency. The United Nations Security Council is scheduled to vote Monday on a resolution on Iran, the third that would impose economic sanctions for its continued refusal to stop enriching uranium for nuclear fuel.
 The United States has been relegated to more of a behind-the-scenes role, largely because the December intelligence report left it with little leverage to continue confronting the Iranians. That assessment revealed a contentious debate within the government over how imminent a threat Iran posed -- a division that raged in secret while the report was being prepared, and continues to this day. ''The administration is in real disarray,'' said David A. Kay, the nuclear specialist who led the fruitless search for unconventional weapons in Iraq after the invasion. ''And the Europeans are picking up the ball.''
 The wrangling in Washington spilled into the open when a declassified summary of the report, known as a National Intelligence Estimate, was made public. The White House argued that Iran remained a serious nuclear threat even if it was not working on a weapons design. has been defended by intelligence professionals as an independent judgment, and by Democrats who greeted its conclusion as a bar to military action.
 But several allies said the report's conclusion was too sweeping, and President Bush has made clear that he shares that view. Thomas Fingar, the deputy director of national intelligence for analysis who runs the National Intelligence Council, which produced the estimate, said ''the vast majority of concerns'' he had heard from abroad were, '' 'Why would you say something that complicates our policy making?' instead of 'You have misinterpreted the evidence.' '' At issue is how to judge whether a nuclear program is intended for military purposes. 
 For years, Washington had based its assessment that Iran was pursuing nuclear weapons largely on its steady work to enrich uranium, which could be used for bombs but which Iran says it wants to fuel power reactors. Forcing Iran to give up enrichment became the goal. 
 The December estimate, by contrast, focused on weapons design. Based on fresh intelligence that Iran's bomb design program was suspended in 2003, it said Iran was not pursuing nuclear weapons, even though uranium enrichment continued.
 Perhaps no one exemplifies the debate more than Mike McConnell, the director of national intelligence, who has backpedaled from the conclusions of the intelligence estimate -- even though he supervised it.
 The report said intelligence analysts did not know enough to say whether Iran ''currently intends to develop nuclear weapons.'' But on Feb. 26, Mr. McConnell told a radio interviewer, ''Our estimate is they intend to have a nuclear weapon.''
 Mr. McConnell declined to comment for this article.
 In interviews, officials acknowledged that one element of the friction over Iran is the shadow of Iraq. Intelligence agencies, having been roundly criticized as having overestimated the threat of Iraq and justifying the invasion, came to a conclusion on Iran that undercut the administration's political position.
 Mr. Bush and Mr. McConnell have both acknowledged that the December estimate damaged the effort to isolate Iran. Recently, the administration has taken steps to counter that effect.
 It decided to let the atomic energy agency confront Iran with what it says is the best evidence of Iranian weapons work, some of which was revealed last Monday in Vienna. The United States had previously shown some of that evidence to selected countries, but it had declined to declassify all of the material, which was contained on a laptop apparently slipped out of Iran by a technician with access to the nuclear program. While American and energy agency officials say the documents appear real, they cannot definitively authenticate them or tie them to Iran. 
 At the meeting in Vienna, Olli Heinonen, who runs the atomic agency's inspection teams, said his presentation drew on materials from ''several member states'' as well as the agency's own information, according to diplomats at the meeting. But getting answers to the questions raised has been difficult, Mr. Heinonen said, largely because the Iranians have barred his team from many suspected nuclear facilities and from interviewing Mohsen Fakrizadeh, whom he described as the military official in charge of Iran's nuclear effort.
 Intelligence Scramble
 The Bush administration's strident confrontation with Iran reached a high point last October when the president suggested that if Iran obtained nuclear weapons, it could lead to ''World War III.''
 But at that moment, the nation's intelligence agencies were concluding that Iran had stopped its work on weapons design four years earlier, based on a new definition of what constituted a nuclear weapons program. 
 For decades, American spies assessed weapons programs mainly by a nation's ability to make bomb fuel. That is because experts say that perfecting the process of enriching uranium or making plutonium is far more difficult than designing warheads or building missiles to deliver the weapons. With Iran, they looked at progress in making centrifuges, machines that spin faster than the speed of sound to enrich uranium ore.
 In 2004, American intelligence agents obtained the laptop filled with simulations and accounts of experiments on nuclear arms. Officials sawit as strong evidence that Iran was designing warheads.
 Still, a 2005 intelligence estimate focused on Iran's development of ''fissile material,'' whose atoms can split or fission in bursts of atomic energy. ''Iran could produce enough fissile material for a weapon by the end of this decade,'' it warned.
 As they drafted the new report last June, intelligence officials again argued that Iran's slow but steady progress in making nuclear fuel was aimed at obtaining the bomb, according to interviews with senior intelligence officials.
 Then, last fall, quite suddenly, the intelligence community switched emphasis. It played down its historic focus on bomb fuel after penetrating the heart of Iran's weapons program, the officials said.
 Federal officials said spies had obtained notes and journals showing that Iran's warhead designers had complained bitterly about having to stop work in late 2003, apparently in response to international pressure.
 The breakthrough rocked the intelligence world. Instead of viewing Iran's veiled program through a purloined laptop or spy satellites, Washington had a narrow but direct conduit into the most tightly held of Iranian secrets. It was exactly what it lacked in prewar Iraq.
 While getting favorable reviews, the new information also stirred disputes over whether it was strong enough to overturn the historic emphasis on nuclear fuel, federal officials said. 
 ''There was lots of internal debate,'' said an official involved in the assessment.
 A senior intelligence official who helped oversee the estimate's production said he viewed the new emphasis on warhead design as ''a judgment call'' and potentially ''a big mistake.''
 A Report's Shock Waves
 The rewritten intelligence estimate, made public on Dec. 3, began with a blunt assertion: ''We judge with high confidence that in fall 2003, Tehran halted its nuclear weapons program.''
 That sent shock waves around the globe and instantly deflated the American-led effort to isolate Iran. The threat of an attack on its nuclear sites quickly lost force, as did the diplomatic effort to ratchet up sanctions.
 Yet the estimate's fine print said that bascially nothing had changed. Iran, it held, still could in theory make a bomb sometime between 2009 and 2015, the same general range as in previous Iran estimates. 
 Behind the radical change of tone -- and the headlines -- lay an inconspicuous footnote at the bottom of the first of the unclassified version's three pages. ''For the purposes of this Estimate,'' it said, Iran's nuclear weapons program is defined as including warhead design but excluding Iran's ''declared civil work'' to enrich uranium. 
 Officials later said intelligence analysts had rarely if ever based a weapons estimate on such a narrow definition. So too, the footnote and estimate said nothing of Iran's expanding effort to build long-range missiles.
 Publicly, figures like Henry A. Kissinger and James R. Schlesinger railed at the narrow definition. Privately, so did some officials at the nation's nuclear laboratories. They charged that the Energy Department in its consultations had deliberately excluded fuel experts and analysts suspicious of Iran.
 ''We have been marginalized in the intelligence community,'' a senior official said in an interview. ''It boggles the mind,'' he added of the new focus on weapon design.
 Some allies were equally befuddled. Israel complained directly to President Bush during his visit there in January, and then turned over a dossier to American intelligence officials disputing key elements of the report. After the report was issued, France's president, Nicolas Sarkozy, said, ''Notwithstanding the latest elements, everyone is fully conscious of the fact that there is a will among the Iranian leaders to obtain nuclear weapons.''
 In interviews, intelligence officials vigorously denied that the estimate reflected any narrowing for political reasons.
 Mr. Fingar, who heads the National Intelligence Council, said that politics played no role in the assessment and that he knew of no exclusion of dissenting viewpoints over what constituted a nuclear arms program.
 ''The definition and that footnote,'' he said in January, were widely read and approved by the intelligence community. ''If there was a concern,'' he said, ''it never came to me.''
 Even so, the estimate's top author, Mr. McConnell, has recently expressed his own concerns over the effect of the report.
 Under intense questioning at a Senate hearing, he conceded Feb. 5 that the report erred in focusing so intently on warhead design, calling it ''probably the least significant part'' of Iran's program. ''In retrospect,'' he said, ''I would do some things differently.'' 
 Some analysts say the legacy of Iraq may have encouraged the intelligence community to avoid saying anything that could later be seen as overestimating the Iran threat.
 ''Intel officers are human too,'' said Paul R. Pillar, a top Middle East analyst at the Central Intelligence Agency from 2000 to 2005 and now a professor at Georgetown University. ''What we might be seeing here is the price to be paid for the vilification of the community on the Iraq issue.''
 The Diplomatic Push
 The publication of the estimate gave China and Russia the chance to water down the next set of proposed sanctions against Iran. They argued that if American intelligence agencies doubted Iran's rush for a bomb, how could harsh sanctions be justified? The chief American negotiator, R. Nicholas Burns, who left his job on Friday, countered that the sanctions were all about Iran's refusal to stop enriching uranium, not about weapons. But that argument was a tough sell.
 With the Iran debate losing steam, the Bush administration allowed the atomic energy agency to present to a wide array of diplomats some of the intelligence that the United States had obtained -- including from the 2004 laptop. (While the data has been declassified, the Bush administration has refused requests to make it public.)
 That is what allowed Mr. Heinonen to make at least part of his presentation last Monday. He knew the most compelling aspect was the video of the work for designing a nuclear warhead to fit atop the Shahab 3, Iran's most advanced missile. European capitals are within its range, which helps explain the new enthusiasm by France and Germany to lead the charge against Iran.
 Mr. Heinonen stopped short of accusing Iran of trying to produce a weapon, saying that had to be the subject of more analyses and inspections. 
 Gregory L. Schulte, the American ambassador to the atomic agency, said in an interview that the chief inspector ''was very careful not to reach any conclusions, but he also very clearly said that the secretariat could not agree with Iran's conclusions that these were baseless accusations.''
 Diplomats said the Vienna presentation bolstered the Security Council's resolve to impose a third round of sanctions. The Council is still failing in its 18-month effort to force Iran, through escalating sanctions, to stop enriching uranium.
 As the Council considers additional ways to punish Iran's nuclear leaders, European countries are planning to offer new incentives to Iran if it agrees to halt its uranium enrichment, diplomats said last week.
 That could include proposals for joint ventures between European and Iranian oil companies, and talks with Iran on regional security issues. The United States is said to have no intention to join the new incentives.
 ''If the Europeans are going to pick up the ball on the threat, they feel they also have to propose a way out of the political impasse,'' said Dr. Kay, the former weapons inspector. ''They're about as pessimistic as we are on whether the Iranians will respond. But they feel you have to take that chance.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mike McConnell, the director of national intelligence, testifying before the Senate recently. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MANUEL BALCE CENETA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A6) CHART: CONTRADICTORY FINDINGS ON IRAN (pg.A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (93%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (76%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); DEFENSE RESEARCH (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (57%)

PERSON: MIKE MCCONNELL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (94%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); AUSTRIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); FRANCE (79%); IRAQ (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2009



82 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: March 3, 2008

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 4044 words

HEADLINE: Crossing Borders, Crossing Time

BYLINE: SARAH KAVANAGH and ANDREA BROTHMAN


HIGHLIGHT: In this lesson, students create an exhibit that explores the connections between immigration and politics from 1850 to the present. 

 BODY:
Overview of Lesson Plan: In this lesson, students create an exhibit that explores the connections between immigration and politics from 1850 to the present.
Author(s):
Sarah Kavanagh, The New York Times Learning Network
Andrea Brothman, Bank Street College of Education in New York
Suggested Time Allowance: One hour
Objectives:
Students will:
1. Read quotations from presidential candidates regarding immigration and decide which ones they agree with the most to begin considering contemporary immigration issues in politics.
2. Examine how immigration has affected political movements throughout history by reading and discussing the article "The Border and the Ballot Box."
3. Work in groups to research one of the last three waves of American immigration using online resources.
4. Create a portion of a "History of Immigration and Politics" exhibit examining one aspect of immigration history and write a letter to the presidential candidate of their choice offering insight and advice.
Resources and Materials:
- pens/pencils.
- paper.
- student journals.
- classroom board.
- copies of the article "The Border and the Ballot Box," found at www.nytimes.com/learning/teachers/featured_articles/20080303monday.html (one per student).
- computers with Internet access (or handouts of print copies of Web sites).
Activities and Procedures:
1. WARM-UP/DO-NOW: At the start of class, provide students with a handout with the following quotes with the names of the speakers left off, as well as the following prompt:
- Order these quotations from one to nine, one being the one you agree with the most and nine being the one you agree with the least. All of these quotes come from a different presidential candidate, some who are still running today and some who have dropped out. Guess which candidate said each quote and his or her political party. (The teacher may wish to provide a name bank for this question.)
- "I take issue with your description of people being illegal immigrants. There aren't any illegal human beings. They are undocumented." (Dennis Kucinich)
- "We should end illegal immigration at the border, because it can't be really dealt with internally. We should do it by having a fence, a technological fence, as well as a physical fence. It should be used to alert the Border Patrol of the people coming to the border, and we should stop people from coming in." (Rudolph Guiliani)
- "A nation that cannot and will not defend its own borders will not forever remain a sovereign nation." (Fred Thompson)
- "We need to sit down as Americans and recognize these are God's children as well. And they need some protection under the law; they need some of our love and compassion. I want to assure you that I'll enforce the borders first. We'll solve this immigration problem." (John McCain)
- "I said no to driver's licenses for illegals. I said ... we're going to make sure that those that come here don't get a tuition break in our schools, which I disagree with other folks on that one." (Mitt Romney)
- "What I supported, and I still do, was the idea that you don't punish a child for the crime of a parent. ... I don't believe that this country has reduced itself to the point that when a parent commits a crime and breaks the law, that you grind your heel in the face of 6-year-old. ... We don't punish the children of those who break the law." (Mike Huckabee)
- "I see the immigration problem as a consequence of our welfare state. We encourage people not to work here, but the welfare we offer the people who come -- they get free medical care. They get free education. They bankrupt our hospitals. Our hospitals are closing. And it shouldn't be rewarded. That means you don't give them citizenship." (Ron Paul)
- "There are many in the political and the broadcast world today who take a particular aim at our Latino population. And I think it's very destructive. It undermines our unity as a country. There was a particularly egregious example of that in the House-passed bill last year. The House bill tried to criminalize anyone who helped an illegal immigrant, anyone who gave them medical care, any church that opened up to give them food at a dinner or breakfast. And I said that it would have criminalized the Good Samaritan. It would have criminalized Jesus Christ. We have to say no, we are a nation of immigrants, and we will respect and treat one another with dignity." (Hillary Clinton)
- "Keep in mind that my father came to this country from a small village in Africa because he was looking for opportunity. And so when I see people who are coming across these borders, whether legally or illegally, I know that the motivation is trying to create a better life for their children and their grandchildren." (Barack Obama)
After a few minutes, have students share with the class which quotations they agreed with the most and the least. Is the class mostly in agreement, or are there some differences of opinion? What might account for these differences of opinion? Once students have had enough time to share their thoughts, let them know which candidate said each quote. Are they surprised by any of the identifications? If so, why? If not, why not?
2. As a class, read and discuss the article "The Border and the Ballot Box" (www.nytimes.com/learning/teachers/featured_articles/20080303monday.html), focusing on the following questions:
a. What does the failure of the 2007 immigration bill say about the role of immigration in national politics?
b. According to the article, why does the backlash against immigration have a "familiar feel to it"?
c. What role has immigration played in national elections throughout history? Why do you think this might be the case?
d. How did anti-immigration movements of the past change the country?
e. In what ways is today's immigration wave different from immigration waves of the past?
f. What was one reason for the first immigration wave in 1850?
g. What political party was created as a reaction to the first great immigration wave?
h. What distracted voters from immigration in the 1850s?
i. What fears about immigration did Americans have after World War I?
j. How did "anti-immigration sentiment" affect the 1928 presidential election?
k. What does polling data show about how Americans' attitudes are changing in relation to immigration today?
l. What do social scientists say about how much Latino immigrants have contributed to the United States?
m. What does the Columbia University historian Mae Ngai mean when she says that illegal immigration "seems to undermine something fundamental to the very existence of a nation"? Do you agree? Why or why not?
n. Why might it be harder for illegal immigrants to achieve in America than it is for legal immigrants?
o. What negative effects does illegal immigration have on the American economy?
p. Some experts believe that an "honest immigration policy" should start with "the government ending its wink-and-nod attitude toward employers who hire illegal immigrants." What does this mean, and do you agree that this is an important step in controlling illegal immigration? Why or why not?
q. Why will the United States "need an influx of new arrivals in the coming decades"? How do you think this might affect people's positions on immigration?
r. How does the contrast of the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882 and the erection of the Statue of Liberty in 1886 speak to America's struggle with immigration?
s. Are you surprised by any of the information presented in the graph? Why or why not?
3. Inform your students that they will be creating a "History of Immigration and Politics" exhibit that illustrates how trends in immigration have affected American politics throughout history. Split the class into six groups as outlined below. Each group should answer the questions pertaining to its topic using the online resources provided. Depending on your classroom Internet access, you can either print out these resources before class, or have students visit these sites.
Group 1: Trends in Immigration From 1820 to 1870
QUESTIONS:
- Using the census data from your time period, figure out which continent most American immigrants were arriving from.
- What reasons did Irish immigrants have for coming to the United States during this period?
- What reasons did German immigrants have for coming to the United States during this period?
- Where did many of the immigrants during this period settle?
SOURCES:
-www.digitalhistory.uh.edu/historyonline/immigration_chron.cfm
- www.flowofhistory.org/themes/movement_settlement/uspolicytimeline.php
- pbskids.org/bigapplehistory/immigration/topic1.html
-www.pbs.org/fmc/timeline/eimmigration.htm
-www.americanparknetwork.com/parkinfo/content.asp?catid=85&contenttypeid=34#1489
-www.ellisisland.org/immexp/wseix_5_2.asp?
-www.pbs.org/kpbs/theborder/history/interactive-timeline.html
-memory.loc.gov/learn/features/immig/irish2.html
- www.pbs.org/destinationamerica/usim_wn_noflash.html
-www.pbs.org/destinationamerica/usim_wn_noflash_2.html
-www.census.gov/population/www/documentation/twps0029/tab01.html
-www.census.gov/population/www/documentation/twps0029/tab02.html
-www.census.gov/population/www/documentation/twps0029/tab04.html
Group 2: Trends in American Politics From 1820 to 1870
QUESTIONS:
- What was the primary platform of the Know Nothing Party, also known as the American Party?
- What laws restricting immigration were passed during this time period?
- How were immigrants treated differently under the law depending on their nation of origin? Give examples.
SOURCES:
-www.digitalhistory.uh.edu/historyonline/immigration_chron.cfm
- www.flowofhistory.org/themes/movement_settlement/uspolicytimeline.php
-dig.lib.niu.edu/message/ps-nativism.html
- ap.grolier.com/article?assetid=0161940-0&templatename=
- ap.grolier.com/article?assetid=0233110-00&templatename=/art
-www.ohiohistorycentral.org/entry.php?rec=911
-www.ohiohistorycentral.org/entry.php?rec=838
-ehistory.osu.edu/osu/mmh/clash/Imm_KKK/KKK%20pages/KKK-page2.htm
-www.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,1627019,00.html?promoid=AOL
Group 3: Trends in Immigration From 1880 to 1920
QUESTIONS:
- Using the census data from your time period, figure out which continent most American immigrants were arriving from.
- What reasons did Italian immigrants have for coming the United States during this time period?
- What reasons did Russian and Austro-Hungarian immigrants have for coming to the United States during this time period?
- Where did the majority of immigrants settle during this time period?
SOURCES:
-www.digitalhistory.uh.edu/historyonline/immigration_chron.cfm
- www.flowofhistory.org/themes/movement_settlement/uspolicytimeline.php
-www.pbs.org/kpbs/theborder/history/interactive-timeline.html
-www.ellisisland.org/immexp/wseix_5_3.asp?
- www.pbs.org/fmc/timeline/eimmigration.htm
- www.understandingrace.org/history/gov/eastern_southern_immigration.html
-www.pbs.org/destinationamerica/usim_wn_noflash_4.html
-www.pbs.org/destinationamerica/usim_wn_noflash_5.html
-www.pbs.org/destinationamerica/usim_wn_noflash_6.html
-memory.loc.gov/ammem/ndlpedu/features/immig/italian3.html
-www.eyewitnesstohistory.com/snpim.htm
-www.census.gov/population/www/documentation/twps0029/tab01.html
-www.census.gov/population/www/documentation/twps0029/tab02.html
-www.census.gov/population/www/documentation/twps0029/tab04.html
Group 4: Trends in American Politics From 1880 to 1920
QUESTIONS:
- What effect did the Ku Klux Klan have on how immigration was handled in the political sphere during this time period?
- What laws restricting immigration were passed during this time period?
- How were immigrants treated differently under the law depending on their nation of origin? Give examples.
SOURCES:
-www.digitalhistory.uh.edu/historyonline/immigration_chron.cfm
- www.flowofhistory.org/themes/movement_settlement/uspolicytimeline.php
-memory.loc.gov/ammem/award99/cubhtml/theme9.html
-memory.loc.gov/ammem/ndlpedu/features/immig/chinese6.html
-ehistory.osu.edu/osu/mmh/clash/Imm_KKK/anti-immigrationKKK-page1.htm
-www.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,1627019,00.html?promoid=AOL
Group 5: Trends in Immigration From 1965 to Today
QUESTIONS:
- Using the census data from your time period, figure out which continent most American immigrants were arriving from.
- Find out the top three countries of origin for immigrants in this time period. (Tip: Use Ellis Island's "Peopling of America" Web site.)
- What are some reasons that Mexican immigrants had for coming to the United States?
- What are some reasons that Indian immigrants had for coming to the United States?
SOURCES:
-topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/i/immigration_and_refugees/index.html
-topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/i/illegal_immigrants/index.html
-www.digitalhistory.uh.edu/historyonline/immigration_chron.cfm
- www.flowofhistory.org/themes/movement_settlement/uspolicytimeline.phphttp://www.pbs.org/kpbs/theborder/history/interactive-timeline.html
-www.ellisisland.org/immexp/wseix_5_5.asp?
-www.pbs.org/itvs/beyondtheborder/immigration.html
-www.pbs.org/independentlens/newamericans/newamericans.html
-www.census.gov/population/www/documentation/twps0029/tab01.html
-www.census.gov/population/www/documentation/twps0029/tab02.html
-www.census.gov/population/www/documentation/twps0029/tab03.html
-www.census.gov/population/www/documentation/twps0029/tab04.html
Group 6: Trends in American Politics From 1965 to Today
QUESTIONS:
- Using the "On the Issues" Web site, find at least one quote from each of the front-runners for president in 2008 about immigration or immigration policy.
- What laws restricting immigration were passed during this time period?
- How were immigrants treated differently under the law depending on their nation of origin? Give examples.
SOURCES:
-topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/i/immigration_and_refugees/index.html
-topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/subjects/i/illegal_immigrants/index.html
-www.digitalhistory.uh.edu/historyonline/immigration_chron.cfm
- www.pbs.org/kpbs/theborder/history/interactive-timeline.html
-www.time.com/time/magazine/article/0,9171,1627019,00.html?promoid=AOL
-www.ontheissues.org/Immigration.htm
-www.pbs.org/kpbs/theborder/history/timeline/23.html
-www.pbs.org/kpbs/theborder/history/timeline/24.html
After each group has had a chance to answer the assigned questions, announce that each student in the group must choose one question that the group just answered. All questions must be chosen by at least one student, some questions may have pairs working on them, but no question should have more than two students assigned to it.
Once students have chosen a question, remind students that they will be creating a "History of Immigration and Politics" exhibit. Let them know that their job is now to create the portion of the exhibit that answers their assigned question. Each portion of the exhibit must contain these three elements:
- informative text.
- a primary textual document.
- a primary photographic or artistic document (this could be a political cartoon).
Students should feel free to also include:
- audio.
- video.
- objects.
- maps.
- interactive features.
Have students create their assigned portion of the "History of Immigration and Politics" exhibit. In a later class, once all portions are complete, you may put up the exhibit either in your classroom or in a public place in the school. Make sure that students have time to experience the complete exhibit and talk, as a class, about the issues that it brings up.
To wrap up, have students discuss their findings with the rest of the class. Were they surprised by anything they learned?
4. WRAP-UP/HOMEWORK: Individually, students write a letter to the front-running presidential candidate of their choice, offering advice about how he or she can learn from immigration history since 1850 and use this knowledge for rhetorical and policy decisions. If desired, have students actually send their letters to their chosen candidates.
Further Questions for Discussion:
- If you could talk to the presidential candidates about what they could learn from immigration history, what would you tell them?
- Why do you think immigration has always stirred such passion in Americans?
- Has learning about immigration history influenced your thoughts about contemporary immigration issues? If so how? If not, why not?
Evaluation and Assessment:
Students will be evaluated based on their initial journal entries, participation in class and small group discussion, their thorough responses to their assigned questions, their creative completion of their portion of the immigration exhibit, and a thoughtfully written letter.
Vocabulary:
overhaul, potency, backlash, roiled, electorate, obligatory, dynamic, aggravated, retrospect, caucus, rhetoric, resurgence, implemented, platform, emigration, staunchly, aftermath, latter, surge, competence, bulk, glitches, influx, prone, statute
Extension Activities:
1. Create a poster comparing the front-runner presidential candidates' positions on immigration.
2. Write a historically and culturally accurate diary entry from the perspective of an immigrant to the United States. What fears might this immigrant have had? What resources would have been available to him or her? What were his or her reasons for leaving home? Is he or she documented or undocumented?
3. Analyze primary photographic documents of immigration and immigrants from the turn of the century. Jacob Riis' photography can be found online at xroads.virginia.edu/~ma01/davis/photography/images/riisphotos/slideshow1.html. You may also wish to complete the photo analysis activities found at www.edc.org/CCT/PMA/image_detective/main/index.html?immigration. What can we learn from photographic evidence? What cannot be learned from photographic evidence?
Interdisciplinary Connections:
Global History - Choose another country and analyze its contemporary immigration policies. How are the immigration problems this country faces different from those in the United States? How are they similar? What could the United States learn from the results in this country?
Math - Using census data, create a series of charts and graphs illustrating historical trends in American immigration.
Health - Create a poster that illustrates the medical examination process at Ellis Island. What diseases were these examinations looking for? Why were immigrants screened for these diseases? What symptoms did they exhibit?
Media Studies - Screen one of the following documentaries and discuss the immigration issues that arise: "Sentenced Home" (www.pbs.org/independentlens/sentencedhome/film.html), "Lost Boys of Sudan" (http://www.pbs.org/pov/pov2004/lostboysofsudan/index.html), "The Sixth Section" (www.pbs.org/pov/pov2003/thesixthsection/index.html), or the PBS series "The Border" (www.pbs.org/kpbs/theborder/).
Teaching with The Times - Read The New York Times for the next month looking for articles relating to immigration. Clip these articles and add them to your in-class exhibit and discuss how contemporary immigration issues have been influenced by historical immigration issues. To order The New York Times for your classroom, click here.
Academic Content Standards:
Grades six to eight:
United States History Standard 17 - Understands immense immigration after 1870 and how new social patterns, conflicts and ideas of national unity developed amid growing cultural diversity. Benchmark: Understands the background and experiences of immigrants of the late 19th century.
United States History Standard 31 - Understands economic, social and cultural developments in the contemporary United States. Benchmarks: Understands changes in the workplace and the economy in contemporary America; understands demographic shifts and the influences on recent immigration patterns.
Civics Standard 24 - Understands the meaning of citizenship in the United States, and knows the requirements for citizenship and naturalization. Benchmarks: Understands that American citizenship is legally recognized full membership in a self-governing community that confers equal rights under the law, is not dependent on inherited, involuntary groupings like race, gender or ethnicity, and confers certain rights and privileges; understands what constitutes citizenship by birth in the United States; knows the criteria established by law that are used for admission to citizenship in the United States.
Geography Standard 9 - Understands the nature, distribution and migration of human populations on Earth's surface. Benchmarks: Understands demographic concepts and how they are used to describe population characteristics of a country or region; knows the ways in which human movement and migration influence the character of a place.
Geography Standard 13 - Understands the forces of cooperation and conflict that shape the divisions of Earth's surface. Benchmarks: Understands factors that contribute to cooperation (e.g., similarities in religion, language, political beliefs) or conflict (e.g., economic competition for scarce resources, boundary disputes, cultural differences, control of strategic locations) within and between regions and countries.
Language Arts Standard 1 - Demonstrates competence in the general skills and strategies of the writing process. Benchmarks: Uses style and structure appropriate for specific audiences; writes narrative accounts.
Language Arts Standard 4 - Gathers and uses information for research purposes. Benchmarks: Uses a variety of resource materials to gather information for research topics; determines the appropriateness of an information source for a research topic; organizes information and ideas from multiple sources in systematic ways.
Grades nine through 12:
United States History Standard 17 - Understands immense immigration after 1870 and how new social patterns, conflicts and ideas of national unity developed amid growing cultural diversity. Benchmarks: Understands challenges immigrants faced in society in the late 19th century; understands the challenges diverse people encountered in late 19th century American society.
United States History Standard 31 - Understands economic, social and cultural developments in the contemporary United States. Benchmark: Understands how recent immigration and migration patterns affected social and political issues.
Civics Standard 24 - Understands the meaning of citizenship in the United States, and knows the requirements for citizenship and naturalization. Benchmark: Understands the distinction between citizens and noncitizens (aliens) and the process by which aliens may become citizens.
Geography Standard 9 - Understands the nature, distribution and migration of human populations on Earth's surface. Benchmarks: Understands population issues; knows how international migrations are shaped by push and pull factors; understands the impact of human migration on physical and human systems.
Geography Standard 13 - Understands the forces of cooperation and conflict that shape the divisions of Earth's surface. Benchmarks: Understands how cooperation or conflict can lead to the allocation of control of Earth's surface; knows the causes of boundary conflicts and internal disputes between culture groups; understands the changes that occur in the extent and organization of social, political and economic entities on Earth's surface; understands why some countries are land-locked; understands how external forces can conflict economically and politically with internal interests in a region.
Language Arts Standard 1 - Demonstrates competence in the general skills and strategies of the writing process. Benchmarks: Writes compositions that are focused for different audiences; writes compositions that fulfill different purposes; Writes fictional, biographical, autobiographical and observational narrative compositions.
Language Arts Standard 4 - Gathers and uses information for research purposes. Benchmarks: Uses a variety of news sources to gather information for research topics; synthesizes a variety of types of visual information, including pictures and symbols, for research topics; synthesizes information from multiple research studies to draw conclusions that go beyond those found in any of the individual studies; identifies and defends research questions and topics that may be important in the future.

        
The Border and the Ballot Box

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); HISTORY (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); POLITICS (90%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); WRITERS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); BORDER CONTROL (75%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (66%) American History; Civics; Elections in the United States; History of North America; Language Arts

COMPANY: LEARNING NETWORK (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: DENNIS KUCINICH (58%); FRED THOMPSON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2011



83 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WORLD BUSINESS BRIEFING EUROPE; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 135 words

HEADLINE: Britain: Bank's Profit Up Despite Loan Troubles

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The banking group HSBC Holdings reported that profit rose 21 percent in 2007 despite charges from subprime and other loans in North America. HSBC, which is based in London, said the outlook this year was uncertain. ''The economic slowdown and the credit outlook in the U.S. may well get worse before they get better,'' the chairman, Stephen K. Green, left, said. The company reported a profit of $19.1 billion, compared with $15.8 billion in 2006, largely on strength in Asia. HSBC said it absorbed $2.1 billion in write-downs on asset-backed securities and credit trading positions, leveraged and acquisition financing positions, and monoline credit exposure. Loan impairment charges related to the subprime mortgage problems in the United States and other credit provisions rose 79 percent, to $11.7 billion. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (88%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%)

COMPANY: HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (92%)

TICKER: HSBA (LSE) (92%); HSB (PAR) (92%); HBC (NYSE) (92%); 0005 (HKSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); ASIA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2008



84 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1067 words

HEADLINE: Oil Tops Inflation-Adjusted Record Set in 1980

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
Capping a relentless rise in recent years, oil prices hit a record high during the day on Monday, then pulled back to close below the record.
 The day's highest trading price, $103.95 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, broke the record set in April 1980 during the second oil shock. That price, $39.50 a barrel, equals $103.76 today, when adjusted for inflation.
 The surge in energy prices is taking place as investors seek refuge in commodities to offset a slowing economy and a declining dollar. Analysts pointed out that financial institutions like pension funds and hedge funds are also buying oil and other commodities like gold as hedges against a rise in inflation. 
 That trend is expected to continue, especially after Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, signaled last week that he was ready to cut interest rates further to bolster economic growth, despite rising consumer prices.
 ''When investors lose confidence in the central bank, they tend to look for hard assets,'' said Philip K. Verleger, an economist and oil expert. ''The Fed's capitulation on inflation is driving investors to commodities.''
 For example, Calpers, the California Public Employees' Retirement System, the largest United States pension fund, said last week that it might increase its commodities investments sixteenfold to $7.2 billion through 2010, to benefit from an across-the-board surge in commodities like gold, silver, oil and wheat. 
 The latest catalyst for the spike in energy prices has been the recent fall in the value of the dollar, analysts said. Currency traders are selling dollars and buying euros to take advantage of the difference in interest rates between the United States and Europe.
 After steep declines last week, the dollar dropped to a record $1.5274 against the euro on Monday before recovering somewhat. It also fell to its lowest level in three years against the Japanese yen.
 Like many commodities, oil is priced in dollars on the international market. A falling dollar tends to buoy oil prices in part because consumers using stronger currencies, like the euro or yen, can afford to pay more per barrel. 
 ''The question for oil is, Where is the dollar going?'' said Roger Diwan, a managing director at PFC Energy, a consulting firm in Washington. ''That's going to be the main market mover in the short term.''
 Since 2000, oil prices have more than quadrupled as strong growth in demand from the United States and Asia outstripped the ability of oil producers to increase their output. 
 The rising prices of the past decade failed to dent global economic growth as consumers absorbed the higher costs. Even now, with the United States economy slowing markedly, the trend has not slowed much. Global oil consumption is still expected to increase by 1.4 million barrels a day this year, driven by demand in China and the Middle East.
 Still, today's market climate is markedly different from the energy crises of the 1970s and 1980s. These were brought about by sudden interruptions in oil supplies, like the 1973 Arab oil embargo, the Iranian revolution of 1979 or the outbreak of the war between Iran and Iraq in 1980.
 Also, the United States' economy was once much more dependent on oil than it is today. The amount of oil needed to increase economic output by $1 has dropped by 25 percent since 1990. 
 In the early 1980s, energy accounted for about 8 percent of disposable income in American households. As the economy became less energy-intensive and prices declined, that share fell to under 4 percent in the early 1990s. 
 But as prices keep rising, the share of energy spending has been increasing. It reached more than 6 percent of household disposable income in December. 
 Other energy futures also rallied on Monday. Gasoline and heating oil futures both jumped to records. Natural gas prices, which are up 24 percent since the beginning of the year, closed unchanged at $9.346 per thousand cubic feet.
 After hitting $103.95 in New York trading on Monday morning, crude oil pulled back to close at $102.45. In London, Brent crude oil futures rose 38 cents, to $100.48 a barrel. 
 Gold also reached a record after several days of large gains; it traded on Monday at $989.54 an ounce.
 With oil setting fresh records, many analysts expect gasoline to approach $4 a gallon on average this summer. Gasoline prices have been rising sharply in recent days and have hit $3.16 a gallon on average, according to AAA, the automobile club. They are closing in on last year's record of $3.23 a gallon. 
 There is evidence that these high prices are finally causing consumers to cut consumption. 
 According to the latest government figures, released Monday by the Energy Department, gasoline demand fell by 1 percent in December 2007 from the previous year. Oil demand was nearly flat last year as well. 
 Gasoline accounts for about half of the total oil used in the United States, which consumes one in four barrels of oil produced worldwide each day. Most experts say the price of oil is not about to drop anytime soon. Saudi Arabia's oil minister, Ali al-Naimi, said crude prices were unlikely to fall below $60 a barrel because the cost of developing new supplies, from sources like Canadian tar sands, is rising. 
 ''Therefore, a line has been drawn below which the price cannot fall,'' Mr. Naimi said in an interview published over the weekend by Petrostrategies, an industry newsletter in Paris.
 Mr. Naimi's comments came as the OPEC oil cartel prepares to meet on Wednesday. It is expected to leave its production levels unchanged. 
 The oil producing group suggested last month that it might curb production soon to make up for a seasonal decline in oil demand. But with oil prices at current levels, analysts said members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries would find it politically difficult to curb their output now.
 Some analysts expect oil producers to trim their production informally to avert an oil surplus in coming weeks. Others say OPEC, which controls 40 percent of the world's oil exports, is being pulled apart by contradictory pressures. 
 ''The market around the fringes is starting to fray,'' said Lawrence J. Goldstein, an economist at the Energy Policy Research Foundation. ''Yet ironically, you are looking at triple-digit oil prices because the price is being set by nonphysical investors.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Oil field work being done in Cabimas, Venezuela, on Saturday. OPEC, which has Venezuela as a member, is expected to leave production levels unchanged. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JORGE SILVA/REUTERS) (pg.C4) CHART: PRICE OF OIL: Adjusted for inflation, per barrel. (Sources: Federal Reserve
Energy Information Administration
 Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INFLATION (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); TRENDS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EURO (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); METALS MARKETS (78%); GOLD MARKETS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); WHEAT MARKETS (78%); GRAIN MARKETS (77%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); CONSUMPTION (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (70%); HEDGE FUNDS (70%); INTEREST RATES (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (61%)

ORGANIZATION: CALIFORNIA PUBLIC EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM (73%); ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (59%); ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (59%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (58%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (93%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2008



85 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: The $2 Trillion Nightmare

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
We've been hearing a lot about ''Saturday Night Live'' and the fun it has been having with the presidential race. But hardly a whisper has been heard about a Congressional hearing in Washington last week on a topic that could have been drawn, in all its tragic monstrosity, from the theater of the absurd.
 The war in Iraq will ultimately cost U.S. taxpayers not hundreds of billions of dollars, but an astonishing $2 trillion, and perhaps more. There has been very little in the way of public conversation, even in the presidential campaigns, about the consequences of these costs, which are like a cancer inside the American economy. 
 On Thursday, the Joint Economic Committee, chaired by Senator Chuck Schumer, conducted a public examination of the costs of the war. The witnesses included the Nobel Prize-winning economist, Joseph Stiglitz (who believes the overall costs of the war -- not just the cost to taxpayers -- will reach $3 trillion), and Robert Hormats, vice chairman of Goldman Sachs International.
 Both men talked about large opportunities lost because of the money poured into the war. ''For a fraction of the cost of this war,'' said Mr. Stiglitz, ''we could have put Social Security on a sound footing for the next half-century or more.''
 Mr. Hormats mentioned Social Security and Medicare, saying that both could have been put ''on a more sustainable basis.'' And he cited the committee's own calculations from last fall that showed that the money spent on the war each day is enough to enroll an additional 58,000 children in Head Start for a year, or make a year of college affordable for 160,000 low-income students through Pell Grants, or pay the annual salaries of nearly 11,000 additional border patrol agents or 14,000 more police officers.
 What we're getting instead is the stuff of nightmares. Mr. Stiglitz, a professor at Columbia, has been working with a colleague at Harvard, Linda Bilmes, to document, among other things, some of the less obvious costs of the war. These include the obligation to provide health care and disability benefits for returning veterans. Those costs will be with us for decades.
 Mr. Stiglitz noted that nearly 40 percent of the 700,000 troops from the first gulf war, which lasted just a month, have become eligible for disability benefits. The current war is approaching five years in duration.
 ''Imagine then,'' said Mr. Stiglitz, ''what a war -- that will almost surely involve more than 2 million troops and will almost surely last more than six or seven years -- will cost. Already we are seeing large numbers of returning veterans showing up at V.A. hospitals for treatment, large numbers applying for disability and large numbers with severe psychological problems.''
 The Bush administration has tried its best to conceal the horrendous costs of the war. It has bypassed the normal budgetary process, financing the war almost entirely through ''emergency'' appropriations that get far less scrutiny.
 Even the most basic wartime information is difficult to come by. Mr. Stiglitz, who has written a new book with Ms. Bilmes called ''The Three Trillion Dollar War,'' said they had to go to veterans' groups, who in turn had to resort to the Freedom of Information Act, just to find out how many Americans had been injured in Iraq.
 Mr. Stiglitz and Mr. Hormats both addressed the foolhardiness of waging war at the same time that the government is cutting taxes and sharply increasing non-war-related expenditures. 
 Mr. Hormats told the committee:
 ''Normally, when America goes to war, nonessential spending programs are reduced to make room in the budget for the higher costs of the war. Individual programs that benefit specific constituencies are sacrificed for the common good ... And taxes have never been cut during a major American war. For example, President Eisenhower adamantly resisted pressure from Senate Republicans for a tax cut during the Korean War.''
 Said Mr. Stiglitz: ''Because the administration actually cut taxes as we went to war, when we were already running huge deficits, this war has, effectively, been entirely financed by deficits. The national debt has increased by some $2.5 trillion since the beginning of the war, and of this, almost $1 trillion is due directly to the war itself ... By 2017, we estimate that the national debt will have increased, just because of the war, by some $2 trillion.''
 Some former presidents -- Washington, Franklin Roosevelt, Truman, Eisenhower -- were quoted at the hearing on the need for accountability and shared sacrifice during wartime. But this is the 21st century. That ancient rhetoric can hardly be expected to compete for media attention, even in a time of war, with the giddy fun of S.N.L.
 It's a new era. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); VETERANS (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); WITNESSES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); DESERT STORM (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); NOBEL PRIZES (74%); POOR POPULATION (74%); AWARDS & PRIZES (73%); IRAQ WAR (71%); MEDICARE (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (68%); GRANTS & GIFTS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); BORDER CONTROL (65%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (64%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (63%); MENTAL ILLNESS (60%); ARMED FORCES (60%); VETERANS HEALTH CARE (60%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (83%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (83%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (83%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (83%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (83%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2008



86 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Science Desk; POSTINGS RECENT ENTRIES FROM OUR BLOGS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 512 words

 BODY:
Well
 From Tara Parker-Pope's blog, nytimes.com/well.
 The weigh-in penalty: University of Pennsylvania researchers surveyed 482 college-age men and women to determine how sensitive they were to the disclosure of personal information, including their weight. The study, to be published in a coming issue of the medical journal Appetite, showed that women experienced high degrees of discomfort at the prospect of being weighed in the presence of others. 
 Many doctors' offices put the scale in a spot where the weigh-in can be witnessed by other patients.
 ''Weighing concern may make these women, particularly those who are overweight and already at risk for certain ailments, less likely to visit a doctor,'' said the lead author, Andrew B. Geier, a doctoral candidate at the university.
 Mr. Geier said the solution for doctors is simple and inexpensive -- weigh patients in private.
 Jill S. responds: I know I need to lose weight and it does tend to make me feel guilty and put off the appointments. If weighing in could be avoided at least some of the time, I would be more likely to go to the doctor.
 Dot Earth
 From Andrew C. Revkin's blog, nytimes.com/dotearth.
 Environmental problems used to be strictly local. You polluted your well. You fished out your lake. You logged your forest. 
 Now mobility, technology, energy choices and trade have changed all of that. Consider the newly realized long-distance connection between logging deep in the Congo River basin and the nesting grounds of the rare leatherback turtle.
 Thousands of stray logs, broken away from rafts of timber heading to mills abroad, end up washing onto turtle beaches in Gabon, forming barricades blocking the path of female turtles coming ashore to lay eggs above the tide line. 
 From George Mobus: Earth is a system. Systems are like that.
 From Nancy Ogg: What is driving the intensive logging in Gabon? Who stands to gain, and therefore should be penalized for wasteful & destructive logging practices?
 TierneyLab
 From John Tierney's blog, nytimes.com/tierneylab. 
 Hundreds of skeptics in the global-warming debate are convening in New York this week. The meeting, sponsored by the Heartland Institute, is an assortment of climate scientists, economists and free-market think tankers -- some with impressive credentials, some listed simply as ''scientist'' or ''meteorologist.'' 
 Sorting wheat from chaff will not be easy, but here's one way to start: Check out this report, being presented at the conference, accusing the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change of ''errors and misstatements.'' 
 In an introduction written in advance of the conference, Frederick Seitz, a physicist and past president of the National Academy of Sciences, writes that ''we do not currently have any convincing evidence or observations of significant climate change from other than natural causes.''
 That is hardly the majority view among scientists. But what, specifically, is wrong in this new report? What's right in it? Does it identify genuine problems, or are the authors cherry-picking data?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); LOGGING INDUSTRY (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (89%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (87%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (87%); FORESTRY & LOGGING (86%); METEOROLOGY (78%); WRITERS (77%); EVIDENCE (75%); RESEARCH REPORTS (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%); WILDLIFE (70%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (70%); BEACHES (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (65%); GLOBAL WARMING (60%); RIVERS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) GABON (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2008



87 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1305 words

HEADLINE: Mourning Resonates From Staten Island to Sri Lanka

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
It sounds like a throwback to another century: A healthy, middle-class woman sickens late in her pregnancy, gives birth and dies two and a half weeks later, leaving her young husband to care for their newborn son alone.
 Even the new father, Indika S. Arachchige, 34, grieving in their Staten Island home under balloons and streamers that exclaim, ''It's a Boy,'' still cannot quite believe that so much everyday American happiness could be swept away so fast. 
 A pending autopsy may explain the death of his wife, Tai Ling Feng, 36, a Taiwan-born United States citizen who worked in a bank. But to the young widower and the multiethnic circle of friends who had cheered on the couple's courtship as a uniquely New York love story, immigration law now seems to be compounding a New York tragedy. 
 Mr. Arachchige, a legal permanent resident from Sri Lanka who manages two Subway sandwich shops on Staten Island, finds himself without a relative in the United States, struggling to adjust to life with a newborn while mourning his wife, who died three weeks ago. 
 He ''desperately needs the support of his family in this time of need,'' a social worker at Staten Island University Hospital wrote to the United States Embassy in Sri Lanka, urging American officials to grant Mr. Arachchige's 24-year-old sister permission to visit to help care for the baby. 
 But despite pleas from doctors and hospital administrators, beginning before the mother's death, American officials have denied the sister a tourist visa -- apparently because they are not convinced that she would ever return to Sri Lanka, a poor country torn by civil war.
 Such denials are routine, said Cyril Ferenchak, a spokesman for the State Department, noting that he could not discuss individual cases because of confidentiality laws. While people with European passports can just get on a plane and expect to be granted a 90-day visit, citizens from less prosperous countries must apply for a visa under rules designed to prevent illegal immigration. And a young, unmarried, unemployed woman responding to her brother's need would have great difficulty showing she had ''compelling ties'' to Sri Lanka to guarantee her return, Mr. Ferenchak said.
 Moreover, he said, her care for the baby might be construed as working -- that is, taking an American's job -- because she would be ''filling a void as a caregiver.'' 
 So the father's buddies from the sandwich shop and the mother's girlfriends from the bank were trying to fill the void after the infant left the hospital on Feb. 24, the day after his mother's burial. 
 While the new father was at prayers for the dead at a Buddhist temple, the mother's girlfriends, most of them Hispanic, decorated the house with balloons for the baby's homecoming. The sole female employee at the sandwich shop, an Irish-American mother of three who had sat beside the father at the wake as he sobbed uncontrollably, gave up her days off to baby-sit. And his mostly Sri Lankan male co-workers, knowing that he dreaded being alone, dropped by with food every evening and stayed for hours.
 Still, when his son, Brian, began to cry, it was up to the dad to scoop him up from the crib and try to comfort him with a bottle, a fresh diaper or a rocking embrace, as the nurses in the hospital had taught him.
 On a Friday at the end of that first week, after a night when the baby had awakened three times and a snowstorm kept friends away, the father seemed dazed by grief and exhaustion. 
 Softly, he recounted the days and nights since Jan 17, when Ms. Feng was admitted to the hospital with a fever that baffled medical specialists -- as a doctor involved in her care confirmed. Hospital officials would not discuss her case, citing privacy laws. Labor was induced on Jan. 24, a month before her due date, and she gave birth to a healthy 6 pound 4 ounce boy.
 But her condition worsened. Mr. Arachchige (pronounced ah-rah-TCHIG-ay) told of shuttling from the hospital nursery on Staten Island to his wife's bedside at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan, where she was transferred about two weeks after the baby's birth, and where she died five days later, on Feb. 11, just before she was to undergo an emergency liver transplant. ''I was crying, crying,'' he recalled. ''I told the nurses, 'Please, do something, I can't see her like this.' But nothing they did worked.''
 Through the baby monitor, his son's whimpers grew louder, and Mr. Arachchige loped upstairs, past a framed photo of himself and Ms. Feng beaming in a flower-filled marriage ceremony in Sri Lanka last October, two years after their simple 2006 wedding at Staten Island's Borough Hall.
 Was the baby wet again? Hungry? No. His father cradled him, stroked his cheek and laid him down to sleep.
 ''When he gets older, how am I going to say to him, 'Two weeks after you're born, your mother passed away, maybe because you came to the world?' '' the father said. ''Everybody's going to ask, 'Where is your mom?' ''
 His own mother, a retired teacher, is undergoing chemotherapy for colon cancer in Sri Lanka. His mother-in-law, 61, offered to help with the baby, but then said she had to return to work in a Staten Island nursing home so she could qualify for Social Security. 
 His friends hope that public attention can help his sister to obtain a visa. 
 ''That's really his only answer,'' said Patricia Carroll Owdziej, 55, the sandwich shop co-worker who calls herself ''Indika's American mom.''
 ''He's the primary caregiver at night, and then he's getting up and going to work, and it's killing him,'' she added. ''In his culture, the men don't do anything with the babies. It's totally a woman's job.''
 Mr. Arachchige, a trained accountant who came here in 1999 and rose from making sandwiches for $5.50 an hour to mastering the sandwich chain's computer system, seems to have overcome any cultural barrier to hands-on fatherhood. But whether talking about Brian's first bath, efforts to soothe the infant's crying fits or his own panicked waking from dreams of loss, he used one phrase again and again: ''I'm so afraid.''
 Eventually there will be some life insurance and Social Security survivor's benefits to help raise Brian. For now there is a mortgage to pay, and a baby who shows no signs of sleeping through the night. 
 Last week, Grace Bello, 31, one of Ms. Feng's closest friends, enlisted a friend's mother to pitch in four days a week. Mrs. Owdziej covered two more, and stayed over on Thursday, ''so he can at least get one night's sleep.'' 
 They are mourning, too. Ms. Bello, an American citizen who came from Colombia in 1995, choked up as she spoke of her close friendship with Ms. Feng, who had come here 1985.
 ''That's the beauty of New York,'' she said, recalling how they traded holidays, with Ms. Feng helping her decorate every Christmas, while she learned to celebrate the Chinese New Year.
 On Amboy Road, where the sandwich shop is two doors away from the bank, that was also the beauty of the couple's romance, both a small-town love story and a global affair. It started five years ago with eye contact and banter. Soon she was learning the names of Sri Lankan dishes, and he mastered a few phrases in Mandarin. But English was the language of their love, and together, they explored a new world.
 ''He was her life, and she was his life,'' Mrs. Owdziej said. ''You had to be there to witness it.''
 Now his parents tell him to come back to Sri Lanka with the baby, but he does not want to abandon the place that feels like home, he said. He began to name places he and Ms. Feng had beentogether -- restaurants in Queens and Brooklyn, Cape May on their honeymoon, the races at Saratoga Springs.
 ''I keep everything for the memories,'' he said, as his son slept nearby. ''I have to explain, 'You have a great mother.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Since his wife died three weeks ago, Indika S. Arachchige has been overwhelmed by grief and a newborn son. Friends and co-workers have been helping him with the day-to-day struggles. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Tai Ling Feng, a United States citizen who was born in Taiwan. Her son, Brian, was born on Jan. 24, and she died on Feb. 11. (PHOTOGRAPH BY INDIKA S. ARACHCHIGE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (91%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); US STATE IMMIGRATION LAW (75%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (74%); IMMIGRATION (73%); AUTOPSIES (73%); IMMIGRATION LAW (73%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (70%); HOSPITALS (70%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (68%); RELIGION (60%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (96%); SRI LANKA (95%); TAIWAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2008



88 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1688 words

HEADLINE: As Consumers Struggle to Save, Companies Are Piling Up Cash

BYLINE: By DIANA B. HENRIQUES

 BODY:
At least someone knows how to fill a piggy bank.
 Unlike most American consumers, whose failure to save has exasperated economists for years, the typical American corporation has increased its savings so sharply that it probably has enough cash on hand to completely pay off its debts.
 That should be good news in an economy unsettled by rising energy prices, tightening credit, gyrating stock prices and declining values for the dollar and the family homestead. Indeed, the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, cited strong corporate balance sheets as a bright spot in the darkening forecast he presented to Congress last week. 
 Some analysts also speculate that these cash-rich companies may start sharing their wealth with investors through special dividends, providing welcome stimulus for the economy. 
 Corporate spending on equipment and other capital expenditures has declined as savings have soared, suggesting that companies could stimulate the economy now by going on a hiring and spending spree. But that raises worries among some analysts that companies will spend their cash unwisely, making them more vulnerable in the future. 
 The increase over the last decade in the amount of cash, as a percent of total assets, for the companies in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index has been steep. One study shows that the average cash ratio doubled from 1998 to 2004 and the median ratio more than tripled, while debt levels fell. According to S.& P., the total cash held by companies in its industrial index exceeded $600 billion in February, up from about $203 billion in 1998.
 Rene M. Stulz, who holds the Reese chair in banking and monetary economics at the Fisher College of Business at Ohio State University, said research he conducted with two otherprofessors on corporate cash levels since 1980 indicated that growing cash holdings over that period most likely reflected the simple fact that the world became a much riskier place for business. 
 ''Companies responded to those rising risks by saving more,'' said Professor Stulz, whose study excluded utilities and financial companies because their cash reserves are monitored by regulators.
 An even longer savings trend was spotted by Jason DeSena Trennert, managing partner and chief investment strategist at Strategas Research Partners in New York, who said his own rough examination of corporate balance sheets shows that ''cash, as a percent of total assets, is as high as it's been since the 1960s.''
 The ledgers of many individual companies bear out these findings. For example, the cash ratio at Paychex -- cash and short-term investments as a percent of total assets -- has more than doubled, from less than 30 percent in 1988 to more than 70 percent by last summer. Over the same period, Apple's cash ratio grew to more than 60 percent, from just over 38 percent. 
 The cash ratio at Avon Products, just under 3 percent in 1988, was nearly 17 percent by last December. And Microsoft's savings account is so large that its chief financial officer has observed that the company could, if it wished, cover most of the $20 billion cash component of its pending $44.6 billion offer for Yahoo from its own reserves.
 This cash-saving trend may have a downside, though. Because companies can spend from their own account without scrutiny from the investment bankers or commercial bankers who might otherwise lend them money, corporate executives can do some really dumb things with their cash, said Amy Dittmar, an assistant professor at the Ross School of Business at the University of Michigan, who has studied corporate spending habits in the United States and abroad.
 ''There is a subtle line between having enough money to do what you have to do versus having enough money to do anything you want to do,'' Professor Dittmar said.
 Manny Weintraub, a former managing director and top-performing money manager for Neuberger Berman who formed his own investment advisory firm in late 2003, agreed. ''Like your mother told you, the rule should be that if you don't have anything nice to buy, don't buy anything,'' he said. 
 The Stulz team's study showed that this trend of rising cash ratios was not limited to very large corporations -- indeed, the average increase is more pronounced among firms below the top one-fifth of the sample. 
 Over the same time, the study found, one measure of corporate debt -- the net debt ratio, or debt minus cash as a percent of total assets -- fell so sharply that, by 2004, it was below zero, where it stayed at least through 2006. 
 ''In other words,'' the researchers noted, ''on average, firms could have paid off their debt with their cash holdings.''
 Those who study corporate balance sheets suggest that several factors have contributed to this change in corporate savings patterns.
 In the last 25 years, the speed and scale of globalization have increased sharply. That shift to worldwide markets confronted companies with increased currency risks, political risks and new competition -- all adding to the overall risk of doing business.
 During the same period, conglomerates and similarly diversified companies fell out of favor, as Wall Street looked for ''pure plays'' and companies narrowed their focus to a few core businesses -- in effect, putting more of their eggs in fewer baskets.
 That left those companies more vulnerable to any event that shook those baskets, Professor Dittmar explained. ''When firms become less diverse and more focused, they become more volatile,'' she said. And when that happens, they need cash to cushion the bumps.
 While rising risks may explain most of these changing patterns, other business trends may also have had an impact.
 For example, the Stulz team's paper shows that rising cash levels were, to some degree, influenced by a drop in capital spending on hard assets, which can be used as collateral for borrowing. Similarly, the study found, as companies increased their focus on research and development investments, which are not as useful for borrowing purposes, cash levels rose.
 Moreover, cash has traditionally been just one component of ''working capital,'' along with inventories and accounts receivable. But innovations like ''just in time'' supply chains and faster payment systems have reduced the role of inventories and accounts receivable and, conversely, raised the role of cash on corporate balance sheets, Professor Dittmar said. 
 Adding to that, the corporate universe now contains a higher percentage of the companies that have traditionally held lots of cash, notably technology companies. These companies now make up about 45 percent of the economy, up from less than 30 percent in 1980. That would inevitably increase the overall averages for cash ratios. 
 The study by the Stulz team, however, specifically allowed for that change -- and found that even among technology companies, the ratio of cash on the balance sheets has grown sharply over that period. 
 According to Mr. Trennert, the cash ratios at technology companies have doubled since 2000.
 With cash levels this high, Mr. Trennert said he expected that some companies -- those that also have high levels of insider ownership -- may elect to pay a special dividend in the coming year, ahead of any future change in the favorable tax treatment those dividends now receive. ''If I were a C.E.O.'s tax lawyer, that would certainly be my advice,'' he said.
 As the Stulz team noted, this trend is in many ways paradoxical and unexpected. In the last 25 years there has been an explosion in financial products intended to help companies manage risk -- from currencydevaluations to commodity shortages. 
 ''We would expect improvements in financial technology to reduce cash holdings,'' the researchers noted.
 And yet, corporations have continued to cope with risk the old-fashioned way: by saving for a rainy day. That suggests that either corporations are not making sufficient use of risk-management tools, or that the tools themselves -- while helpful -- are inadequate to cope with the increased levels of risk that companies now confront, Professor Stulz said.
 Some veteran investors also suggest another factor that may have encouraged the growth in cash ratios. Mr. Weintraub, the money manager, pointed out that in the years examined in the Stulz team's study, Wall Street started giving greater weight to balance-sheet strength. 
 Though that focus clearly faltered during the technology stock bubble of the late 1990s, it is coming back into vogue in today's uncertain times, said Quincy Krosby, an economist and chief investment strategist at the Hartford, an insurance and financial services company. 
 With the markets so unsteady, companies with soft stock prices and solid balance sheets are attracting attention from institutional investors, she said, in part because the companies, especially in the technology realm, have enough cash to expand their market share through acquisitions.
 But won't big cash cushions turn these companies into sitting ducks for leveraged-buyout firms or foreign buyers spending today's remarkably cheap dollars? 
 Maybe not -- or, at least, maybe not yet.
 Professor Dittmar noted that the credit squeeze has made it less likely that highly leveraged private equity funds can go gunning for cash-rich companies, as they have in the past.
 Political pressures, meanwhile, are likely to protect American companies from hostile foreign buyers -- certainly through an election year, and even longer if the Democrats take the White House and make gains in Congress, Mr. Weintraub noted.
 But, with the debt-burdened American consumer cutting back, wouldn't the risk of a recession decline if companies with overstuffed wallets took their cash out and spent it?
 Emphatically not, said Professor Stulz. Research strongly suggests that companies are holding more cash because they need it to operate more safely in a risky environment, he said. 
 ''If they spend it, they will become more fragile,'' he added. ''And an increase in the number of fragile firms is not in the best interests of the economy.''

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: FEELING FLUSH: Since the early 1980s, cash on hand for companies has steadily increased while their debt has fallen. (Sources: Prof. Thomas W. Bates, Univ. of Arizona
Kathleen M. Kahle, Univ. of Arizona
 Rene M. Stulz, Ohio State Univ., Thomson Proprietary Research) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); TRENDS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (74%); DIVIDENDS (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (60%); PAYCHEX INC (51%); AVON PRODUCTS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA (84%); OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (59%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (60%); PAYX (NASDAQ) (51%); AVP (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (60%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (60%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (60%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (60%); NAICS561330 PROFESSIONAL EMPLOYER ORGANIZATIONS (51%); NAICS541214 PAYROLL SERVICES (51%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (51%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (51%); NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (50%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2008



89 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 189 words

HEADLINE: U.S. President of Starbucks Resigns

BYLINE: By REUTERS

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
Starbucks said Monday that Launi Skinner resigned as president of its United States business, a post she held for less than a year, to spend more time with her family. 
 Ms. Skinner will be succeeded by Cliff Burrows, who is president of the company's business in Europe, Middle East and Africa, Starbucks said.
 The company, the world's largest coffee chain, is trying to spur slowing domestic growth.
 ''This is absolutely her choice,'' a Starbucks spokeswoman, Valerie O'Neil, said when asked if the company had otherwise planned to move Ms. Skinner out of the position. Ms. Skinner declined an interview request through the Starbucks' spokeswoman.
 Starbucks has seen numerous management changes in recent months, most notably the return of Howard Schultz to the chief executive's job in January to lead the effort to revamp its United States business and step up international expansion plans.
 Starbucks has faced a slumping American economy, soaring milk prices and increased competition from companies like McDonald's, which has been expanding its coffee offerings.
 Starbucks shares were down 13 cents at $17.85 Monday on Nasdaq. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); COFFEE & TEA (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (70%); PRICE INCREASES (65%); MILK (51%)

COMPANY: STARBUCKS CORP (93%)

TICKER: SBUX (NASDAQ) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (93%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (93%)

PERSON: HOWARD SCHULTZ (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (91%); MIDDLE EAST (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2008



90 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and Europe Protest A Chinese News Regulation

BYLINE: By STEVEN R. WEISMAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
In a new escalation of trade disputes with China, the Bush administration joined with the European Union on Monday in filing a suit at the World Trade Organization to protest China's requirement that foreign financial news services operate through a government-designated distributor.
 The action, which would affect Dow Jones, Reuters, Bloomberg and other foreign suppliers of stock prices and other financial information, followed months of negotiations by the United States to get China to lift its requirement that these suppliers distribute their data and news reports through Xinhua, the Chinese government news agency. 
 ''China's restrictive treatment of outside suppliers of financial information services places U.S. and other foreign suppliers at a serious competitive disadvantage,'' said Susan C. Schwab, the United States trade envoy.
 Ms. Schwab said that since Chinese regulations bar foreign suppliers of financial information from directly soliciting customers for their services, they are in effect required to develop new customers only by going through a major Chinese competitor.
 The European and American action was in the form of an official request for ''dispute settlement consultations'' with China under the auspices of the W.T.O. in Geneva, a step that without a resolution would eventually lead to asking the organization to rule on the matter.
 The filing of this petition with the W.T.O. continued a trend of the Bush administration's taking a more confrontational approach toward China on trade issues. 
 While Republicans and Democrats in Congress have increasingly denounced Chinese practices, particularly on the safety of food and toys and China's steps to keep the value of its currency low in relation to the dollar, the administration has increased its demands on several fronts.
 Since mid-2005, under American pressure, China has allowed the value of the yuan to appreciate more than 16 percent, which many economists say has caused the trade deficit with China to narrow somewhat. The appreciation has made exports to China cheaper and imports from China more expensive.
 Beyond the currency dispute, the administration has charged that China has used other tactics to keep out American products, in some cases adopting regulations that put foreign producers of goods at a disadvantage. 
 The Commerce Department also changed its policy in 2006 and widened the number of cases in which it would impose duties on Chinese goods -- like paper, steel and tires -- on the ground that China was dumping them in the United States at below cost or engaging in illegal subsidies.
 In another action, the United States in 2006 challenged what it said were restrictions on the sale of American-made auto parts in China. An initial finding in favor of the United States position was issued by the W.T.O. last month.
 The Bush administration has also gone to the W.T.O. arguing that China has unfairly and illegally curbed market access of American and other foreign films, music and software programs, while at the same time failing to enforce laws against piracy of these products.
 The Chinese, in what appeared to be their own protest against the American action on films and music, acted in December to suspend imports of American movies for Chinese consumers. 
 The issue became so bitter that in December, while they were in China for high-level economic talks, Ms. Schwab joined with the Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., and the commerce secretary, Carlos M. Gutierrez, to protest to President Hu Jintao. 
 Since then, administration officials say that China has begun opening its market to American movies, at least somewhat. China, however, restricts foreign films distributed in China to only 20 a year, out of hundreds that Europeans and Americans say could find audiences in China.
 The United States argues that these restrictions have the effect of encouraging piracy. 
 On financial information, according to the United States trade representative's office, China has since 2006 required foreign financial information suppliers to go through an entity designated by its regulators. The same regulation bars users of such services from directly purchasing them from foreign suppliers, the United States charges.
 These restrictions, the Bush administration asserts, are more severe than the ones in place when China acceded to the W.T.O. in 2001. 
 In 1997, the United States won an agreement with China to ease restrictions on the distribution of financial news from foreign sources, but the administration says China has imposed new curbs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); TRADE DISPUTES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); LITIGATION (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); PETITIONS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); EXPORT PRICES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); TRENDS (70%); PRODUCT SAFETY (64%); FOOD SAFETY (50%)

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); SWITZERLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2008



91 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW 'THE REAL HOUSEWIVES OF NEW YORK CITY'; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: New Yorkers Sure Love To Spend. Who Knew?

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
We're in the wrong business. All of us. 
 Alex's husband is a hotel manager, yet the couple lives in a $2.2 million town house, employs a live-in French au pair and vacations in the Hamptons and St. Bart's. Ramona buys excess inventory and resells it to discount stores, her husband runs a family business -- manufacturing religious items -- and they have a large estate on the water in Southampton. Jill and her husband sell fabric and upholstery, and they live just as lavishly as the others. And so on.
 ''The Real Housewives of New York City,'' a new reality series on Bravo, has no real entree into high society, even if its five heroines are aspiring socialites, but it is an eye-opening look at the economic realities of New York at the dawn of the 21st century. 
 Not all the preposterous wealth and vulgar extravagances are in the hands of fund managers or Internet moguls. It seems there is still lots of new money to be made in old-fashioned manufacturing and service industries: angel bracelets, sofa cushions and hotel reservations. Either that or the Bush tax cuts really were a bonanza for the already rich. 
 Bravo describes the genre as ''docu-soap,'' and the New York series is an East Coast version of Bravo's ''Real Housewives of Orange County.'' It is not focused on how these fortunate few made their fortunes, but on how they spend them. And there is nothing very surprising about their conspicuous consumption: a house in the Hamptons, condos on the Upper East Side, private schools, limousines, jewelry, tennis lessons and designer clothes. 
 Their personalities are not particularly unusual or distinct, either. The New York housewives are the same kind of brash, well-preserved extroverts as their sisters in Orange County; it's their milieu that is a bit more sophisticated. The Californians are rich and pampered but still middle class -- they have big houses, patios and pool parties -- but live within the limits of the Orange County lifestyle. New York has broader, and more expensive, tastes. 
 ''I believe New Yorkers who live in New York, there is a chicness about us,'' Ramona explains. ''Everyone aspires to being like New Yorkers.''
 They are not chic, not even LuAnn, whose husband, Alexandre, is a French count. The housewives are hungry for attention, and even a bit desperate, and their entwined vanity and vulnerability distinguishes these kinds of arriviste reality series from competitions like ''Project Runway'' or ''Top Chef.'' On those, viewers judge the contestants' ability to make clothes or prepare a meal. On ''Real Housewives'' they measure the gap between the image the heroines hope to project and what they actually look like through the lens of a reality television camera. 
 Ramona, blond and shapely, says she is ''proud of being a sexy mom,'' and rummages through her closets looking for skirts short enough to wear in the Hamptons, while her 12-year-old daughter, Avery, cringes. Ramona has a bit of the Orange County in her soul: she flirts with her tennis coach, and when drinking by the pool, not so playfully tries to push a girlfriend -- and the friend's tiny dog -- into the pool. Later, Avery tells the camera that her mother and her friends are hard to take. ''They'll just do things that are unladylike,'' she says primly.
 The show's allure isn't sex or even social climbing, it is spending. Alex, whose husband, Simon, is the general manager of a boutique hotel in midtown Manhattan, is the most risque: she invites the camera to record the pair having their toenails clipped during a his-and-hers pedicure at a salon, frolicking on the beach in his-and-hers micro bathing suits and shopping for evening gowns in St. Bart's, a spree in which Simon helps Alex select shoes and handbags. They even reveal the exact value of their $2.2 million Brooklyn town house. (Most of the other couples more demurely choose real estate striptease: beneath the awning of Jill's high-rise the show superimposes a banner, ''Avg. 4 Bedroom Condo Upper East Side $4.4 million.'')
 At the moment there is a glut of series focused on high-heeled and high-stepping New York women, notably ''Lipstick Jungle'' on NBC and ''Cashmere Mafia'' on ABC, which could mean that television shows about lifestyles of the rich and famous are recession-proof. If nothing else ''The Real Housewives of New York City'' helps test the market. 
 THE REAL HOUSEWIVES
 of New York City
 Bravo, Tuesday night at 11, Eastern and Pacific times; 10, Central time.
 Scott Dunlop, series creator and executive producer; Douglas Ross, Gregory Stewart and Kathleen French, executive producers. Produced by Evolution Film & Tape Inc.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Ramona with her daughter, Avery, on ''Housewives.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY GIOVANNI RUFINO/BRAVO) (pg.E1)
 And here's to conspicuous consumption: From left, Alex, Jill and Bethenny on ''The Real Housewives of New York City.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY GIOVANNI RUFINO/BRAVO) (pg.F7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTEL STAFF (90%); REALITY TELEVISION (88%); FAMILY COMPANIES (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (76%); FASHION & APPAREL (68%); FASHION DESIGN (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (97%)

TITLE: Real Housewives of New YorkCity, The (TV Program)>; Real Housewives of New YorkCity, The (TV Program)>

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2008



92 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: Confessions on Climate

 BODY:
The Bush administration has now provided the rationale for its lamentable decision to deny California permission to develop its own stricter rules to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from vehicles. The explanation was full of holes, but it was not a total setback for those who want urgent action on global warming.
 The essence of the administration's reasoning was that California had failed to demonstrate ''extraordinary and compelling'' circumstances justifying stricter rules. To make that case, Stephen Johnson, the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, was forced to argue that climate change gravely endangered not only California but the entire country. As hard as it is to believe, this was the first time that any senior administration official had explicitly conceded that greenhouse gases endanger public health and welfare. 
 Even more startling for an administration that has spent seven years in denial, Mr. Johnson acknowledged that ''warming of the climate system is unequivocal,'' that man-made emissions are largely responsible and that the consequences could be devastating -- more wildfires, more droughts, rising sea levels, more intense hurricanes, more outbreaks of insect-borne diseases.
 Given all that, one would assume that Mr. Johnson is at last ready to champion a national program of controls on greenhouse gas emissions, something the administration has long resisted. At the very least, he would now seem obliged to begin regulating greenhouse gases, at least from vehicles. The Supreme Court in effect ordered the E.P.A. to do just that last April, when it declared carbon dioxide a pollutant subject to regulatory control. Nearly a year has gone by, and Mr. Johnson has not announced any new regulations. 
 Meanwhile, Mr. Johnson's decision to deny California the right to set its own emission standards is unquestionably a blow to anyone worried about climate change and its consequences. With neither the administration nor Congress willing to take aggressive action -- the Senate is only now beginning to entertain a broad program of emissions reductions -- there were hopes that the states could fill the gap. 
 California's program was intended to take effect in 2009 and aimed to cut greenhouse gases from vehicles by nearly one-third by 2016. These are double the reductions that would be achieved by the new fuel economy standards contained in last year's energy bill, the best the federal government has been able to do so far.
 The Clean Air Act of 1970 allows California to set stricter standards than the federal government (in part because its own clean air laws predate the federal statute) as long as it first receives a federal waiver. Once that waiver is granted, other states can adopt the same standards. In anticipation of a waiver, 12 other states -- including New York, New Jersey and Connecticut -- had adopted California's greenhouse gas standards and a half-dozen more are in the process of doing so. The states are now stuck with the weaker targets called for in the energy bill. 
 The states and various environmental groups will rightly challenge this latest decision in court. We have no doubt that the law and sound public policy are on California's side. Meanwhile, the way Mr. Johnson framed his case leaves him and the administration no choice except to seek a national regulatory solution. As Lisa Heinzerling, the Georgetown professor who wrote the plaintiffs' briefs in last year's Supreme Court case, observed: Mr. Johnson ''cannot avoid the consequences of his own decisions.''
 We hope she is right. It is past time for this administration to do what is required by law and the planet. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (91%); GREENHOUSE GASES (91%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (72%); WEATHER (72%); FIRES (67%); LEGISLATION (67%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (57%)

PERSON: STEVE CASE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2008



93 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: Today In Business

 BODY:
CASH TO SPARE Credit may be tight, but the typical American corporation probably has enough cash on hand to completely pay off its debts. 
 FEES CAN LEAD TO FORECLOSURE An Ohio couple's case illustrates a growing problem facing borrowers in foreclosure: they might be losing their homes because they paid onerous fees. [C1.] 
 The Bush administration says lenders are more willing to ease loan terms for subprime borrowers in danger of losing their houses. ''I am encouraged that the number of borrowers receiving help is faster than the number entering foreclosure,'' Henry M. Paulson Jr., the Treasury secretary, above, said. [C7.] 
 RECORD TRADING PRICE FOR OIL Oil prices reached to record trading price of $103.95, then dropped back to close below that. [C1.]
 The Dow closed off seven points after some moderately wild swings as investors sought safety in commodities. [C4.]
 AUTO SALES FALL AGAIN Sales of cars and trucks in the United States fell 10 percent in February as higher oil prices and anxiety about a recession undermined buyer confidence. [C1.]
 Porsche, the sports car maker, is nearing a takeover of Volkswagen. [C3.]
 BOON FOR A BIOTECH COMPANY Stock in Cepheid, which sells a genetic test to detect a antibiotic-resistant superbug, has tripled in a year as some states make the test mandatory. [C1.]
 AN UNWARRANTED REPUTATION The money-losing reputation of Edgar Bronfman Jr. may appear to be deserved, but it isn't. DealBook: Andrew Ross Sorkin. [C1.]
 U.S. SHUT WEB SITES Using a little-known Treasury Department black list, the United States government shut the Web sites of a European travel agent who helps non-Americans visit Cuba. Sidebar: Adam Liptak. [A16.] 
 ONLY INDEPENDENT APPRAISALSFannie Mae and Freddie Mac have agreed to stop buying loans from lenders that do not use independent home appraisers. [C3.]
 OBESITY DOCTOR RESIGNS The incoming president of a national group of obesity doctors and researchers has resigned after he wrote an affidavit as a paid consultant on behalf of the restaurant industry. [C2.] 
 VIOXX SETTLEMENTS More than 44,000 people have signed up for a piece of a $4.85 billion settlement over the withdrawn painkiller Vioxx. [C11.]
 DIEBOLD SAYS NO Diebold, maker of A.T.M.'s and voting machines, has turned down a takeover bid from United Technologies. [C11.]
 A HEFTY SALARY AT G.E.General Electric's chief executive, Jeffrey R. Immelt, was awarded $14.2 million in compensation last year, the company reported. [C3.]
 SHOE COMPANIES WON'T MERGE The footwear retailers Genesco and Finish Line have ended merger plans. [C4.]
 ALL IN THE PACKAGING Sometimes the best way to market a product is to put it in a unique package. Advertising. [C2.]
 A RIDE LESS TAKEN The airline shuttles from New York to Boston and Washington aren't what they used to be. [C8.]
 IT'S JENN FROM ALASKA AIRLINES Alaska Airlines has introduced a ''virtual assistant named Jenn'' on its Web site. Believe it or not, she's helpful. On the Road: Joe Sharkey. [C8.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); TAKEOVERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (88%); MERGERS (79%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); FOOTWEAR (74%); RETAIL SALES (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (72%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (72%); REAL ESTATE APPRAISALS (72%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); BACTERIA (70%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); RETAILERS (68%); GENETIC SCREENING (66%); ANTIBIOTICS (65%); ANTIBIOTIC RESISTANCE (65%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (62%); EXECUTIVES (62%); RESIGNATIONS (62%); VOTERS & VOTING (62%); SHOE STORES (60%); RESTAURANTS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (51%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (51%)

TICKER: UTX (NYSE) (51%); GNE (PAR) (51%); GEC (LSE) (51%); GE (SWX) (51%); GE (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (56%); JEFFREY IMMELT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2008



94 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: Vehicle Sales Fell by 10% Last Month

BYLINE: By NICK BUNKLEY

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
Sales of cars and trucks in the United States fell 10 percent in February as oil prices climbed past $100 a barrel and worries about a recession rattled consumer confidence.
 Honda was the only major automaker that sold more vehicles last month than in February 2007, though the increase was just 0.7 percent. The Detroit Three, whose lineups are still heavy in sport utility vehicles and pickup trucks despite their introduction of new passenger cars and crossovers, each reported double-digit percentage declines when adjusted for one additional selling day this year.
 Sales of light trucks plunged 26 percent at Chrysler and 23 percent at General Motors, according to the Autodata Corporation, which tracks industry statistics. 
 The carmakers largely blame the housing slump for the lackluster demand, particularly for the pickups used by building contractors, but steadily rising gas prices are yet another concern.
 ''I think $3 seems to be the invisible barrier that makes a difference,'' said Steven J. Landry, Chrysler's executive vice president for North American sales. Chrysler is owned by Cerberus Capital Management. 
 Americans were paying an average of $3.165 for a gallon of regular gas Monday, 69.8 cents more than a year ago, according to the AAA motor club. That increase adds more than $18 to the cost of a full tank for a Ford F-150 or Chevrolet Tahoe.
 Gas prices typically rise in the spring, and analysts say that $4 a gallon is possible within months. 
 The Ford Motor Company said it was cutting second-quarter production by 10 percent from the period in 2007, and G.M. reduced its second-quarter production forecast by 5 percent.
 ''We're in the midst of consumers rethinking what kind of vehicle they truly need,'' said Jesse Toprak, director of industry analysis at Edmunds.com, a Web site that gives car-buying advice to consumers.
 For many people, that means driving a smaller car off the dealership lot than they have in the past. And for automakers, that means considerably less income, because small cars have much smaller price tags. In contrast, a big truck could generate as much as $10,000 in profits.
 ''Small cars are hot, but the profits are very thin,'' said Ron Pinelli, the president of Autodata. ''The pickup trucks and the large utes, this was the bread and butter for Detroit. That was a money pump for them.''
 The Detroit automakers have introduced several small cars recently that are proving popular. Last month, Ford dealerships sold 36 percent more of the Focus, a compact sedan that was redesigned for 2008, though much of that increase was offset by an intentional reduction in deliveries to rental car companies. Sales of the compact Chevrolet Cobalt rose 50 percent.
 But selling thousands more of those cars brings in only as much money as a few hundred more pickups could.
 Over all, Ford was the only Detroit company that did not lose market share in February, staying flat at 15.7 percent. G.M.'s share fell to 22.7 percent, from 24.4 percent, and Chrysler's fell to 12.8 percent, from 13.9 percent.
 All three Japanese carmakers gained market share. But Toyota's sales were lower for a second month, a sign of how much the market has deteriorated.
 ''When there's a downturn in the economy and people are nervous about their jobs, the last thing they want to do is make a big purchase,'' Mr. Pinelli said.
 Last month, Carlos Ghosn, the chief executive of Nissan, said he believed that the United States car market was in recession even if the broader economy was not. Mark LaNeve, G.M.'s vice president for North American sales and marketing, said on Monday that even talk about a recession can deter car shoppers.
 ''The discussion of, 'We're in a recession,' 'We might be in a recession,' 'When are we going in a recession?' -- I think that that hurts consumer confidence,'' Mr. LaNeve said. ''I'd almost like to say, 'Hey, we were in one in the fourth quarter, and when are we going to get out of it?' I think it's better in terms of consumer mind-set in buying new vehicles.''
 Mr. LaNeve said sales had not been affected by a weeklong strike at one of its biggest parts suppliers, which has forced G.M. to halt production at six factories. G.M. idled another plant, in Moraine, Ohio, on Monday after running out of parts for three sport utility vehicles built there. A Hummer plant in Mishawaka, Ind., operated by AM General is scheduled to shut down Tuesday.
 G.M. temporarily closed four of its five pickup plants last week as a result of the strike by 3,650 members of the United Automobile Workers union at American Axle and Manufacturing.
 No talks have occurred since the strike began Feb. 26. G.M. has about five months' worth of its pickup trucks in inventory.
 ''It'll be a long time before we run out of pickups to sell,'' Mr. LaNeve said. ''We are in great shape for 60 to 90 days easy on our full-size pickups.''
 Chrysler said it had enough minivans for the time being, even though the plant in Windsor, Ontario, that builds them had to close last week because of another supplier strike.
 Operating Officer for G.M.
 DETROIT (AP) -- The General Motors Corporation said Monday that its board had elected its vice chairman and chief financial officer, Frederick A. Henderson, to the post of president and chief operating officer.
 Mr. Henderson's financial duties will be taken over by Ray Young, who will become executive vice president and chief financial officer.
 G.M. said it previously had a chief operating officer position, and it was now time to re-establish the post.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: HOW THE INDUSTRY FARED
HOW AUTOMAKERS FARED
 MOST POPULAR CARS AND TRUCKS (Surce: Autodata) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (94%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); PICKUP TRUCKS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); NEW CAR MODELS (89%); RECESSION (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (79%); REAL ESTATE (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); NEW CAR DEALERS (77%); SEDANS (77%); SPORTS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); STATISTICS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (50%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); FORD MOTOR CO (93%); CERBERUS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT LP (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (93%); F (NYSE) (93%); GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2008



95 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 465 words

HEADLINE: Putin's Mini-Me (or Not?)

 BODY:
And so it came to pass as Vladimir Putin decreed: Dmitri Medvedev will be Russia's next president. There were no surprises in Sunday's balloting. After eight years as Russia's head of state, Mr. Putin ruthlessly and efficiently engineered the selection -- none dare call it an election in any credible democratic sense -- of his successor, who won slightly more than 70 percent of the vote. 
 Mr. Medvedev owes his career to Mr. Putin and promoted his candidacy as one that will ensure continuance of the former Soviet spy master's agenda. But is that the best we can expect, four more years of a Putin-like Kremlin that uses its full powers to quash all serious political opposition, intimidate neighboring states and encourage a macho confrontation with the West? Is Medvedev, who agreed in advance to make Mr. Putin prime minister, merely Mr. Putin's clone or will he prove to be his own man, as did Mr. Putin when he succeeded Boris Yeltsin?
 During the controlled process that passes for a political campaign in Russia, Mr. Medvedev dropped tantalizing hints that he might not be in complete lock step with his patron. He indicated that he might not be as strident toward the West and might have some reform tendencies, vowing to crack down on corruption and promote the rule of law. 
 We hope those are truly his instincts and that Mr. Medvedev nurtures them as he matures in office and operates -- increasingly independently -- from Mr. Putin. Early signs are troubling. Hours after the election, Russia reduced gas supplies to Western-inclined Ukraine. Mr. Medvedev heads Gazprom, Russia's gas monopoly.
 The United States and its allies need Russia as a partner to address many international challenges, including Iran, Kosovo and arms control. They must deal pragmatically with the realities of Russian power, as the administrations of Richard Nixon and George H.W. Bush once did. But they cannot pretend that Mr. Putin and his allies operate from democratic intentions. They must push for more open elections and political and journalistic freedoms. America and its partners should deliver that message strongly at this year's Group of 8 meeting of industrialized nations. 
 After years of post-cold war decline, Russians understandably want their leaders to reassert a world role and take firm charge of the country's many problems. Mr. Putin helped stabilize Russia and reaped the benefits of its surging oil and gas wealth, but he went overboard in reverting to a corrosive authoritarianism. Mr. Medvedev takes office in May as daunting new challenges -- including rising inflation, slow economic growth and a health care system in shambles -- must be addressed. We hope he returns Russia to a democratic path and ensures that he is not just a footnote to Putin's place in history.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); COLD WAR (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (69%); CORRUPTION (65%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (64%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (64%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (62%)

COMPANY: OAO GAZPROM (66%)

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (66%); GAZP (RTS) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (66%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (66%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (66%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (66%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (66%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (66%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (93%); DMITRY MEDVEDEV (91%); GEORGE H W BUSH (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UKRAINE (79%); KOSOVO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2008



96 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ITINERARIES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: The Shuttle Loses Attitude

BYLINE: By BARBARA S. PETERSON

 BODY:
The Delta and US Airways shuttles from New York to Boston and Washington are the archetypal power flights, relied upon by politicians, Wall Street executives and other business travelers for their hourly service and privileged ambience. 
 But in the last few years, security lines, delays and the end of the guaranteed-seat policy have undermined the shuttles' basic formula, which long depended on a dedicated fleet and quick airport turnarounds to deliver more reliable service than on the major airlines' hub-and-spoke networks.
 ''There was a time when the shuttle routes were the busiest markets in the country,'' said Joe Brancatelli, who runs a business travel Web site, joesentme.com. ''But the shuttle's moment, and it was a glorious moment, may have passed.'' 
 Airline executives acknowledge that today's shuttle is a far cry from the service pioneered by Eastern Airlines in 1961, when passengers could waltz up to the gate without a reservation minutes before takeoff.
 Eastern also guaranteed a seat to anyone who showed up on time, even if it meant rolling out an extra plane.
 ''Customers were used to walking up and getting on; that was the hallmark of that service,'' said Kelley Moore, a Delta executive who oversees the operation in New York City. ''But after 9/11, security lines were sometimes longer than the flight itself, and it really did send a lot of customers to alternative choices,'' like the Acela trains operated by Amtrak.
 The New York-Washington route is still among the top 10 to 15 domestic routes, with more two million passengers a year, according to the Bureau of Transportation Statistics in Washington. The New York-Boston route is not far behind.
 But New York is No. 1 in a less favorable category -- the most flight delays, counting the area's three airports. Over all, 2007 was the second-worst year on record for airline delays, according to the Transportation Department.
 ''I check the weather frequently, and if there's a question, I'll take the train,'' said Michael Derchin, a senior transportation analyst with FTN Midwest Securities in New York.
 Perhaps the biggest change came in 2005, when both shuttle airlines quietly phased out the guaranteed-seat policy. ''Airline economics changed so much in 2001, and to keep an extra aircraft standing by just became prohibitively expensive,'' said Andrew Nocella, US Airways' senior vice president for scheduling, planning and alliances.
 All this has blurred the distinction between the shuttles and regularly scheduled flights on other airlines.
 The shuttles can rightfully argue that they are still the only lines flying hourly on the original shuttle routes. (Delta leaves on the half-hour, and US Airways, the direct descendant of the original Eastern shuttle, has the on-the-hour slot.)
 But other airlines offer flights that can serve as alternatives to the shuttle. Continental, for example, offers frequent flights to the shuttle cities, but from Newark, and American Airlines offers regional jet flights from La Guardia, though not every hour.
 Now, the shuttle lines are emphasizing the experience of flying the shuttle, whose published fares can reach nearly $700 round trip, though many regulars receive corporate discounts.
 US Airways now offers a first-class compartment, a change partly born of necessity, since the airline wanted the flexibility to move aircraft between the shuttle and its mainline operation. On the day of departure the airline allows fliers to upgrade from coach for $50.
 US Airways also allows fliers to reserve seats in advance, while Delta has an open-seating policy in its cabins. Both offer free wine, beer, coffee and snacks, more generous legroom and dispense free newspapers and magazines in their boarding lounges. 
 And at La Guardia, Delta has what amounts to a business-class lounge, with computer stations and monitors for checking stock prices; at US Airways' New York shuttle area there is a cluster of cubicles for laptop users.
 Those amenities are attractive to some business fliers. Meghan McCartan of Berkeley Heights, N.J., regularly flies Continental out of Newark, but last year she decided to try the Delta shuttle for a one-day business trip to Boston. Arriving at La Guardia's Art Deco-style Marine Air Terminal, she stepped into a scene that contrasted sharply with the motley crowds that jam most airports these days.
 ''It was so civilized,'' she said in a post to the Web site she founded, Detours and OnRamps, which addresses concerns of working mothers. ''No crowds of kids and suitcases ... it's all just business.'' 
 But her next shuttle trip was a different experience. A canceled flight and a long line at security left her cooling her heels for two hours at Logan International Airport in Boston. 
 But she is still a shuttle fan. ''Maybe it's the free wine and the crackers and cheese they give you,'' she joked in an interview, ''but it's still better than coach on another airline.'' 
 As for the delays, some shuttle fliers have their own strategies for coping.
 ''My policy is always take the earliest flight out, and return early,'' said Vivian Deuschl, an executive with the Ritz-Carlton hotel chain who said she flies the shuttle at least twice a month.
 For her, the shuttle's main attraction is the civilized clientele and the chance to spot boldface names. ''I must have seen Larry King 25 times,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Delta's shuttle service in New York flies out of the Marine Air Terminal at La Guardia Airport. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); AIRPORTS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (77%); TRAINS (77%); AIR SERVICE (76%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (70%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (64%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (63%)

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (97%); EASTERN AIR LINES INC (70%); NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (54%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (97%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (97%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (54%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2008



97 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Senate Approves Paid Leave to Care for Kin

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
After an unusually emotional debate bursting with political indignation and personal anguish, the State Senate narrowly approved legislation Monday that would make New Jersey the third state in the nation to give employees the right to take paid leave to care for a newborn or a sick relative.
 The measure would be financed by employee payroll deductions that would cost every worker in New Jersey a maximum of 64 cents a week, or $33 a year. Those taking the leave would be eligible for two-thirds of their salary, up to a maximum of $524 a week, for six weeks. The benefit falls short of the $917 a week that California offers but is more than double what Washington State will offer starting next year. 
 The bill now goes to the Assembly, which is expected to approve it on March 13. Gov. Jon S. Corzine, who has said he will sign the measure, said Monday that it was ''an important step in the right direction for working families in New Jersey.'' If the bill becomes law, it will take effect on Jan. 1, 2009.
 The fate of the measure, which hung in the balance during the 75-minute debate as 13 of the 80 senators took the floor, never seemed more in doubt than when Paul A. Sarlo, a Democrat from Bergen County, declared, ''The timing is just wrong.''
 But when the voting began, Mr. Sarlo and another Democrat who had criticized the timing of the bill, Senator Nia H. Gill from Essex County, joined their colleagues as well as the one Republican who supported the measure, Senator Bill Baroni from Mercer County, in approving it 22 to 16.
 The vote, the first of the new Legislature, had the broad support of powerful unions, which took up the issue 12 years ago. That support was evident in the dozens of people wearing ''Family Leave Now'' stickers milling around the State House.
 But to critics like Senator Kevin J. O'Toole, a Republican from Cedar Grove, the timing was ill-advised and the cost too great. 
 ''We have the heart for it,'' Mr. O'Toole said. ''We don't have the wallet for it.''
 Less than a week ago, Mr. Corzine unveiled a $33 billion budget that would cut spending by $2.7 billion, and days later economic data showed that New Jersey had lost 9,500 jobs in January, the most of any state.
 But to supporters, like the Senate majority leader, Stephen M. Sweeney of Gloucester County, the measure was a humane gesture. When his daughter, who weighed two pounds at birth, required neonatal care for 75 days, he said, he was fortunate to be able take time off, adding that most people were not as fortunate.
 ''I can't imagine having to choose between spending time with my daughter, who was clinging to life, and going to work to be able to put food on the table for my wife and then 4-year-old son,'' Mr. Sweeney said.
 Technically speaking, the bill expands the state's temporary disability insurance program. According to an analysis from the nonpartisan Office of Legislative Services, about 38,000 workers are expected to take advantage of the law each year, at a cost to employees of $98 million in the first full year. The bill says companies with more than 50 employees must give the workers their jobs back when they return, but makes no such provision for workers at smaller companies. 
 In New York, similar legislation offering paid family leave for 12 weeks, but for only $170 a week, has stalled.
 An earlier version of the New Jersey paid family-leave bill appeared close to passage in the Republican-led Legislature in 2001, but business advocates derailed the plan by arguing that companies would suffer hardships and exorbitant expenses through hiring temporary workers.
 Last year, Mr. Sweeney and other sponsors proposed a new bill, offering 10 weeks of paid family leave. That measure never made it out of the lame-duck session after intense lobbying, coupled with criticism from legislators about the timing of such a measure, given the state's fiscal woes. 
 This time, Mr. Sweeney said significant compromises were made, including reducing the leave to six weeks.
 As Monday's vote approached, discussions of the issue became quite heated. After Mr. Corzine's budget address last week, Senator Ronald L. Rice, a Democrat from Newark, got into an argument in the hallways of the State House with Charles Wowkanech, president of the New Jersey A.F.L.-C.I.O.
 On Monday, Mr. Rice delivered an impassioned speech saying that while he loved his friends in organized labor, he was concerned about how the measure would affect small businesses in his district. ''I'm not willing to roll the dice,'' he said, before abstaining.
 And Mr. Wowkanech? He was all smiles. ''We've worked on this for so long,'' he said. ''I almost had tears in my eyes.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 7, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about a vote by the New Jersey Senate to give employees the right to take paid leave to care for a newborn or a sick relative misstated the number of state senators. There are 40 -- not 80, the number of members in the Assembly. (The article correctly noted the vote. It was 22 to 16, with one senator abstaining and one absent.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Stephen M. Sweeney of Gloucester County recalled his need to attend his daughter when she was born prematurely. (PHOTOGRAPH BY COLIN ARCHER/AGENCY NEW JERSEY) (pg.B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); APPROVALS (90%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (90%); FAMILY LEAVE (90%); SICK LEAVE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (77%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); FAMILY (72%); BUDGETS (71%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2008



98 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONALA3-15
 Israeli Ground Forces Pull Out of Gaza Strip
 As Israel withdrew its forces from the Gaza Strip after a two-day assault on Hamas militants, and as Palestinians emerged from their houses to inspect the damage, Hamas leaders seemed to be following the playbook of their Lebanese ally, Hezbollah, in its 2006 war with Israel. A12 
 Iraq's Disillusioned Youth 
 Many young Iraqis, exhausted by constant exposure to the violence of religious extremism after five years of war, say they have grown disillusioned with religious leaders. A1 
 President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran, on the second day of his visit in Baghdad, called for the withdrawal of American troops from Iraqi soil. A15 
 U.N. Votes Sanctions on Iran
 The United Nations Security Council adopted its third resolution imposing sanctions on Iran for its refusal to cease enriching uranium. A8 
 Andes Standoff Escalates
 The diplomatic standoff in the Andes escalated as Ecuador broke off diplomatic relations with Colombia, and Venezuela expelled Colombia's ambassador and other diplomats. A3 
 Admiral Arrives in Pakistan
 The chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Adm. Mike Mullen, arrived in Pakistan to emphasize America's eagerness to help Pakistan in its fight against foreign and homegrown terrorists. A6 Kenyan Praises Foreign Role
 Kenya's top opposition leader credited pressure by the European Union and the United States with persuading the declared winner of Kenya's flawed presidential election to agree to a coalition government. A9 
 NATIONALA16-23 
 A Last-Minute Dash Before 4 States Vote
 With less than 24 hours to go before voting in Ohio, Rhode Island, Texas and Vermont, Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton and Barack Obama battled over national security and trade in a frantic burst of last-minute campaigning. Mrs. Clinton accused Mr. Obama of deception, and new evidence of discord surfaced within her own camp. A1 
 Political Paraphernalia
 As the battle for the Democratic presidential nomination continues to draw enthusiasm and crowds, the Clinton and Obama campaigns have experienced a serious shortage of ''chum'' -- the stickers, lawn signs and T-shirts that political experts liken to the bloody bait used to drive sharks into a feeding frenzy. A20 Two Dead in Florida Shooting
 A gunman walked into a Wendy's fast food restaurant in West Palm Beach, Fla., and opened fire, killing one customer and wounding four others before he shot and killed himself. A23 
 'Green' Homes Destroyed
 Five luxury homes in a subdivision outside Seattle that were marketed as ''built green'' were destroyed by fire, and evidence at the scene suggested that radical environmentalists might be responsible. A16 
 Drug Lawsuit Will Proceed
 A 4-to-4 vote left the Supreme Court unable to decide a pharmaceutical pre-emption case that was argued a week ago. The tie vote will permit a suit to proceed against Warner-Lambert, the maker of a diabetes drug, Rezulin. The plaintiffs are 27 diabetes patients from Michigan who suffered liver damage while taking the drug. A21 
 NEW YORK/REGIONB1-8
 Spitzer Persuades Donors To Keep On Giving
 Despite Gov. Eliot Spitzer's pledge to limit contributions to his campaign, a step he described as unilaterally disarming, he and his aides have raised more than a million dollars for the state's Democratic Party from donors who had already contributed $10,000 to his campaign.A1 
 Paid Leave Approved
 The State Senate narrowly approved legislation that would make New Jersey the third state to give employees the right to take paid leave to care for a newborn or a sick relative.B1 
 BUSINESS DAYC1-12 
 Company Savings Plans
 American corporations have raised their savings sharply, and some analysts speculate that these companies could help stimulate the economy -- yet some worry that they will spend their cash unwisely. A1 
 Safety in Commodities
 The surge in energy prices -- oil hit a record high of $103.95 a barrel -- is taking place as investors seek refuge in commodities to offset a slowing economy and a declining dollar. C1 
 Today in BusinessC2 
 SCIENCE TIMESF1-10
 Hyenas' Clues About Humans
 Scientists turn to the hyena to understand how humans ended up with such a strange organ, the brain. In both species, a complex social world has driven the evolution of a big, complex brain. F1 
 Health & FitnessF5
 OBITUARIESB5-6
 Giuseppe di Stefano
 A flamboyant, sometimes erratic opera star who in his prime after World War II was lauded as the most thrilling Italian tenor in a generation, he was 86. B6
 EDITORIALA24-25
 Editorials: Building fences; confessions on climate; Putin's Mini-Me (or not?).
 Columns: David Brooks and Bob Herbert.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HAMAS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); EVIDENCE (85%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (84%); HEZBOLLAH (78%); TERRORISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (76%); ELECTIONS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); ARMED FORCES (74%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); RELIGION (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (69%); FINES & PENALTIES (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (68%); FIRES (64%); FAST FOOD (64%); PHARMACEUTICAL DRUG & DEVICES LITIGATION (61%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (60%); LITIGATION (60%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (60%); RESTAURANTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (91%); HEZBOLLAH (58%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (56%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (75%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (72%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ANDES (56%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); ISRAEL (94%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); KENYA (93%); PAKISTAN (93%); COLOMBIA (92%); LEBANON (91%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2008



99 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: Relief for Homeowners Is Given to a Relative Few

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Bush administration, releasing new data on Monday, said that mortgage companies were showing more willingness to relax the loan terms for subprime borrowers who are in danger of losing their houses.
 But while the data showed an increase in forbearance, it also showed that only a tiny fraction of troubled borrowers are getting either a reduction in their interest rate or in their loan amount. 
 Of about six million people who have subprime mortgages, about 16.7 percent are behind in their payments and 6.8 percent are in foreclosure. Industry analysts predict that as many as three million subprime mortgages could end up in foreclosure over the next several years. 
 Hope Now, an industry alliance created last fall in response to the mortgage crisis, reported that almost 150,000 subprime borrowers have received some kind of ''loan modification'' since September and that the number of modifications jumped 16 percent in January, to 45,320 loans.
 ''I am encouraged that the number of borrowers receiving help is faster than the number entering foreclosure,'' Henry M. Paulson Jr., the Treasury secretary, said in a speech on Monday.
 Despite the increased willingness of mortgage companies to give troubled homeowners a break, only a tiny share of the subprime borrowers received any help and more than half of those who did get help received only a ''repayment plan'' to catch up on their missed payments.
 When Mr. Paulson and President Bush announced an agreement with lenders in December on a voluntary framework to help homeowners, one idea was to freeze the interest rates for many of the 1.5 million people whose introductory teaser rates were about to expire.
 Since then, the danger from abrupt rate increases has receded because short-term interest rates have declined. But analysts recognize that expiring teaser rates are only part of a much broader problem. Many buyers borrowed more than they could afford to repay, often putting no money down.
 With housing prices falling, analysts estimate that about 30 percent of all subprime loans written in 2005 and 2006 are for more than the current sales value of the homes that secure them.
 According to the data from Hope Now, lenders completed ''loan workouts'' for 638,000 troubled subprime borrowers from July through the end of January. But about two-thirds of the people who received any help were put on repayment plans that simply allowed them to catch up on missed payments and back interest.
 In January, as lenders and mortgage-servicing companies began to ramp up efforts to modify loans, about half of the 93,000 workouts for subprime borrowers involved actual modifications.
 But while loan modifications can entail reductions in a homeowner's interest rate or in the principal amount, industry executives acknowledged that many and perhaps most of the loan modifications so far simply stretched out the original repayment terms. Such extensions can reduce a borrower's monthly payment, but the interest rate and loan amount remain unchanged and the borrower incurs more interest costs by taking longer to repay.
 In an interview, Mr. Paulson, said the big news was that the Federal Reserve's push to reduce interest rates had reduced the payment shock that subprime borrowers were likely to face as their teaser rates expired.
 ''Many of these borrowers won't have to make any adjustment to their loans,'' he said. ''This low interest-rate environment has made the rate resets less likely to create an affordability problem.''
 Mr. Paulson reiterated his opposition to proposals for a government bailout of subprime borrowers, which would also bail out many lenders. But he acknowledged that mortgage lenders and mortgage-servicing companies were not moving as rapidly on loan modifications as he would have liked.
 ''Am I satisfied? No,'' he said. ''Am I surprised? Not really.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Henry M. Paulson Jr., secretary of the Treasury, on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEFAN ZAKLIN/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); SUBPRIME LENDING (91%); FORECLOSURE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (73%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (69%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2008



100 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; OHIO; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 500 words

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS

 BODY:
Classic Swing State
 That Is a Challenge
 A confession: I had never been to Ohio until I arrived here two weeks ago with the task of writing about voters, the campaigns and a state that defies easy categorization. During my travels I have discovered a remarkable diversity of people, places and political thinking. 
 In many ways, Ohio, population 11 million, is a microcosm of the country. It is a Rust Belt state, with proud cities reeling from the loss of industry, but is also a prosperous farming state, with some of the most fertile soil in the nation. 
 Political experts will tell you there are actually five distinct Ohios -- the Appalachian east with its remote hamlets and hardscrabble ethos; the Cincinnati region, adjacent to Kentucky, with its vaguely Southern flavor; the white-collar exurbs that envelope Columbus; the no-nonsense, black-dirt farming belt of the northwest; and the industrialized urban northeast, with its ethnic diversity, solid union credentials and economic despair.
 It makes for great richness, but as Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York and Barack Obama of Illinois have discovered as they race around the state, it means that campaigning here is exhausting and politically fraught. (There are eight major media markets, which makes advertising expensive.)
 But more than geography, it is Ohio's political complexion that can challenge even the savviest politician. It is at once a blue state and a red one, home to roughly even numbers of Republicans and Democrats. It is also a classic swing state, whose voters will switch sides depending on the candidate and the season. Political wisdom says that to win the White House, you have to win Ohio. Indeed, the state has been behind nearly every victorious presidential candidate of the past century.
 The trick, political strategists say, is to tap into the anxiety of the moment. Right now, that would be the economy, which is decidedly worse here than most other places in the country.
 Foreclosures and housing abandonment are devastating parts of Akron, Cleveland, Dayton and Toledo. Many cities -- especially Youngstown, a former plant there shown above -- never really emerged from the recession of 2001. Hard-core manufacturing, like automobiles and steel, has been disappearing for decades.
 It seems that two out of three people in Ohio pin the state's ailments on President Bush, whom they voted for twice. With that in mind, the Democratic rivals, Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama, have been trying to outdo each other in their criticism of his administration. Their speeches are also brimming with pledges to revive industry and to halt foreclosures, as well as condemnations of the North American Free Trade Agreement, which many people here believe is the root of their economic woes.
 One thing I can say, though, is that Democrats and like-minded independents are optimistic that either Democrat will do well against the likely Republican nominee, Senator John McCain of Arizona.
 ANDREW JACOBS

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (75%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); FORECLOSURE (69%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); RECESSION (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (73%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (73%); AKRON, OH, USA (58%); DAYTON, OH, USA (58%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (58%) OHIO, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2008



101 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE 2008 CAMPAIGN BATTLEGROUNDS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1081 words

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
Barack Obama
 FEB. 25 ''Ten years after Nafta passed, Senator Clinton said it was good for America. Well, I don't think Nafta has been good for America -- and I never have. The fact is, she was saying great things about Nafta until she started running for president.''
 SUNDAY ''Globalization is not going away. If Senator Clinton talks about a pause in our trade deals, the world will not pause. China's not pausing. India's not pausing.''
 MONDAY ''Nobody reached out to the Canadians to try to assure them of anything.'' ''The Clinton campaign has been true to its word in employing a kitchen sink strategy. We've seen what three, four things a day -- this is one for them. It doesn't, I think, change the facts.'' 
 FRIDAY ''They're the kind that play on people's fears to try to scare up votes.'' ''The question is not about picking up the phone. The question is what kind of judgment will you exercise when you pick up that phone? In fact, we have had a red phone moment. It was the decision to invade Iraq. And Senator Clinton gave the wrong answer.''
 SUNDAY ''She didn't read the National Intelligence Estimates. I don't know what all that experience got her. Because I have the experience to know that when you have a National Intelligence Estimate and the chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee says, 'You should read this, this is why I voted against the war,' then you should probably read it.''
 Hillary Clinton
 FEB. 26 ''I have been a critic of Nafta from the very beginning. I didn't have a public position on it, because I was part of the administration.'' ''I would immediately have a trade timeout, and I would take that time to try to fix Nafta.''
 MONDAY ''If you come to Ohio and both give speeches that are very critical of Nafta and you send out misleading and false information about my position regarding Nafta, and then we find out that your chief economic adviser has gone to a foreign government and basically done the old 'wink, wink, don't pay attention, this is just political rhetoric,' I think that raises serious questions.''
 FRIDAY A new Clinton advertisement in Texas hints strongly that, in national security matters, Mrs. Clinton has the edge in experience over Mr. Obama: ''It's 3 a.m. and your children are safe and asleep. Who do you want answering the phone?''
 SATURDAY ''We have real enemies who are sitting in some cave somewhere trying to figure out how to hurt us again. We're not going to be able to ignore the reality of the world in which we live. And we need a president who can become a commander in chief immediately.''
 MONDAY ''I have a lifetime of experience that I will bring to the White House. I know Senator McCain has a lifetime of experience that he will bring to the White House. Senator Obama has a speech he gave in 2002.''
 Recent Endorsements
 Barack Obama
 John D. Rockefeller IV, chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee ''The indisputable fact is Barack Obama was right about Iraq when many of us were wrong. It was a tough call and the single greatest national security question, and mistake, of our time.'' ''The stakes have never been higher, and that is why we must take a stand.''
 Christopher J. Dodd, senator and former presidential candidate ''This is a moment of unity in our country, a time when we need to come together as the Democratic Party and get behind a candidacy that expresses the hopes, aspirations and ambitions of millions and millions of Americans.''
 Samuel L. Jackson, actor ''There are only two classes of people -- haves and have-nots. I'm one of the fortunate ones that has become a have. I want others to have the same opportunity. He speaks out for those people. The 'Leave It to Beaver' family is what he's all about.''
 Hillary Clinton
 Henry H. Shelton, Army general and former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff ''I've been with Senator Clinton when she has been with our military men and women. I know from those experiences that she understands the demands and sacrifice of military life.'' ''She is ready to be commander in chief.''
 John Cook, mayor of El Paso ''I'm endorsing Hillary Clinton because only she has the experience we need to bring real change in this country. Hillary Clinton has a long history in our state: Hillary knows Texas and understands the challenges border communities like ours face. I know she will make an outstanding president.''
 Eva Longoria Parker, actress ''I'm thrilled to support Hillary Clinton for president. As a native of Texas, I know our state and our nation face big challenges ahead of us. Hillary has proven she has the strength and experience to deliver the change we need.''
 The Contests
 Texas 193 PLEDGED DELEGATES / 35 UNPLEDEGED The polls are razor close. Mrs. Clinton is counting on large margins of Latino voters, although their turnout has often been low. Mr. Obama expects to show strength in heavily Democratic areas, like Austin and inner-city Dallas, which get more delegates under Texas' rules. His campaign also counts on its organizing prowess to turn out voters at the caucus that accompanies the primary, where about 35 percent of pledged delegates are chosen.
 Ohio 141 PLEDGED DELEGATES / 21 UNPLEDEGED Last-minute polls show a close race. While Mrs. Clinton holds a 12-point lead in one, she has much smaller leads that are within the sampling error on two other surveys. Mr. Obama outspent Mrs. Clinton on advertising by a wide margin in the last week. Thousands of volunteers for both candidates have fanned out across the state, knocking on nearly every Democratic door.
 Vermont 15 PLEDGED DELEGATES / 8 UNPLEDEGED Vermont may be surrounded by three of Mrs. Clinton's best states, but its electorate tends toward liberalism and iconoclasm -- Brattleboro votes Tuesday on whether to charge President Bush and Vice President Dick Cheney for war crimes. But even her campaign manager says it will be an uphill battle. Mr. Obama's campaign manager has suggested his candidate may net more delegates here than in closely contested Ohio.
 Rhode Island 21 PLEDGED DELEGATES / 12 UNPLEDEGED High union membership, blue-collar workers and Latinos, an older population and an old-fashioned Democratic political machine: What more could Mrs. Clinton want in a state? She won neighboring Massachusetts on Feb. 5, but that was a long time ago. Representative Patrick J. Kennedy supports Mr. Obama, and Michelle Obama's brother coaches the Brown University basketball team. Polls say Mrs. Clinton has a lead.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (88%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (64%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (79%); CANADA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2008



102 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 4, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: Memo Gives Canada's Account of Obama Campaign's Meeting on Nafta

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO; Ian Austen contributed reporting from Ottawa, and Michael Powell from San Antonio.

 BODY:
The denials were sweeping when Senator Barack Obama's campaign mobilized last week to refute a report that a senior official had given back-channel reassurances to Canada soft-pedaling Mr. Obama's tough talk on Nafta. 
 While campaigning in Ohio, Mr. Obama has harshly criticized the North American Free Trade Agreement, which many Ohioans blame for an exodus of jobs. He agreed last week at a debate with Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton that the United States should consider leaving the pact if it could not be renegotiated. 
 On Monday, a memorandum surfaced, obtained by The Associated Press, showing that Austan D. Goolsbee, a professor of economics at the University of Chicago who is Mr. Obama's senior economic policy adviser, met officials last month at the Canadian consulate in Chicago. 
 According to the writer of the memorandum, Joseph De Mora, a political and economic affairs consular officer, Professor Goolsbee assured them that Mr. Obama's protectionist stand on the trail was ''more reflective of political maneuvering than policy.'' 
 It also said the professor had assured the Canadians that Mr. Obama's language ''should be viewed as more about political positioning than a clear articulation of policy plans.''
 Campaign officials said the memorandum inaccurately described Professor Goolsbee's comments, as well as Mr. Obama's position. 
 ''At no point did anyone in our campaign convey to anyone that there had been any backing away from Obama's position on Nafta,'' a campaign spokesman, Bill Burton, said Monday.
 Mr. De Mora did not respond to requests for an interview, nor did Professor Goolsbee, who campaign officials said was unavailable for comment.
 Nevertheless, the controversy, which drew fierce attacks from Mrs. Clinton and Senator John McCain, the likely Republican nominee, put Mr. Obama's campaign on the defensive at a crucial moment. He and Mrs. Clinton are locked in a tight battle for the Ohio primary on Tuesday.
 The memorandum exposed Mr. Obama to accusations of hypocrisy on a touchstone issue, although Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Obama have engaged in posturing on Nafta as they scrapped for votes in Ohio. The two have used language that has been much more hostile in tone on free trade than the nuanced positions that they had staked out in the past.
 The memorandum raises questions about the transparency and the ability of the campaign to address problems before they grow. 
 The controversy began last week when CTV, a Canadian television network, reported that an Obama official had called the Canadian ambassador in Washington to play down the significance of Mr. Obama's criticism of Nafta. 
 The campaign and the Canadian Embassy issued denials that were, it appears, technically accurate. But they were incomplete because they did not address Mr. Goolsbee's meeting with Canadian officials.
 When WKYC-TV in Ohio asked Mr. Obama about the CTV report, he said: ''I don't have to clarify it. The Canadian Embassy already clarified it by saying the story was not true. And our office has said the story was not. And so I think it's important for viewers to understand that it was not true.'' When pressed, he said, ''It did not happen.''
 ABC News then reported that the Nafta conversation involved the Canadian consul general in Chicago, Georges Rioux, not the ambassador. ABC News identified Professor Goolsbee as the official who met the Canadians.
 Mr. Burton issued another strong denial, although he declined to respond to a question about Professor Goolsbee's discussions with Canadian officials.
 The spokesman focused instead on the CTV report and attacks from Mrs. Clinton's campaign based on it. 
 ''Again, this story is not true,'' Mr. Burton said. ''There was no one at any level of our campaign, at any point, anywhere, who said or otherwise implied Obama was backing away from his consistent position on trade.''
 When the memorandum emerged, it confirmed the meeting and that Nafta was discussed. 
 According to The A.P., the note reads, ''On Nafta Goolsbee suggested that Obama is less about fundamentally changing the agreement and more in favor of strengthening/clarifying language on labor mobility and environment and trying to establish these as more 'core' principles of the agreement.''
 On Monday, Mr. Burton stood by his earlier statements, adding that the policy articulated in the memorandum does not contradict anything that Mr. Obama has said on Nafta in the campaign. 
 Mr. Obama reiterated that point at a news conference in San Antonio, saying he favors free trade but wants to renegotiate existing agreements to include safeguards for the environment and labor rights. 
 But in Ohio, his tone has been harsher. In the debate in Cleveland, he agreed with Mrs. Clinton that he would leave Nafta unless it was renegotiated in terms more favorable to American workers. Mrs. Clinton, who has also found herself on the defensive about positive comments she has made about Nafta, has stoked the controversy.
 When asked about his past denials, Mr. Obama said he had responded with what he knew. 
 ''That was the information I had at the time,'' he said. 
 He added that the Canadians had reached out to Professor Goolsbee and that he met them as a ''courtesy.''
 ''At some point,'' he added, ''they started talking about trade and Nafta, and the Canadian Embassy confirmed that he said exactly what I have been saying on the campaign trail.'' Campaign officials said Professor Goolsbee went to the consulate as a professor, not as an adviser to Mr. Obama and that other campaign officials did not know about the meeting when it was held. 
 In a statement, the Canadian Embassy in Washington suggested that the consulate had sought out Professor Goolsbee specifically because of his ties to Mr. Obama's campaign. 
 ''The Canadian Embassy and our consulates general,'' the statement said, ''regularly contact those involved in all of the presidential campaigns and, periodically, report on these contacts to interested officials.
 ''There was no intention to convey, in any way, that Senator Obama and his campaign team were taking a different position in public from views expressed in private, including about Nafta.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Barack Obama at a briefing on Monday in San Antonio. His senior economic policy adviser, Prof. Austan D. Goolsbee of the University of Chicago, left, met Canadians on Nafta last month at the Canadian consulate in Chicago, a memorandum says. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JASON REED/REUTERS
 DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); PROTECTIONISM (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%)

COMPANY: NAFTA AS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (63%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); AUSTAN GOOLSBEE (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%) CANADA (99%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2008



103 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: Packed Powder as a Corporate Amenity

BYLINE: By MORRIS NEWMAN

DATELINE: OGDEN, Utah 

 BODY:
Michael Dowse was talking on the telephone one day in January and watching the snow build up outside the windows of his newly rehabbed office in a 1915 factory complex in this historic railroad town, where his company, Amer Sports Winter and Outdoor Americas, has made its headquarters since last summer. 
 ''We're getting pounded,'' said a cheerful Mr. Dowse, who is president of the company, a unit of Amer Sports, a Finnish concern with subsidiaries that make skis and snowboards. 
 ''We've got seven or eight inches already.'' He sounded hopeful for more.
 Fresh powder snow has marketing advantages to the company, which recently played host to nearly 100 retailers from across the country to test equipment personally on local slopes, some as close as 20 minutes from the old factory building. 
 Amer Sports signed a 10-year lease last year for 57,000 square feet, with an option to renew the lease, in the 209,000-square-foot former American Can building. The company moved in with 300 employees last August.
 The building is owned by Jon Peddie, a developer based in Steamboat Springs, Colo., who renovated a portion of the complex for Amer Sports. Mr. Peddie would not disclose costs. 
 Amer Sports is the latest sports-related company to move into Ogden, a former manufacturing town that is emerging from hard times as a center of skiing and other outdoor sports.
 Other companies that have relocated here in the last five years include Rossignol, the French ski maker; Scott Sport, a maker of sportswear and bicycles; Goode Ski Technologies; and Nidecker, a Swiss snowboard maker. Kahuna Creatives, another snowboard maker, and Descente North America, a unit of a Japanese ski-wear maker, also have their headquarters in the city. 
 There were a number of attractions, both natural and financial, that drew Amer Sports to Ogden, a city of 87,000 people 22 miles north of Salt Lake City. A commuter rail line connecting the two cities is scheduled to open next month. 
 The recreational advantages can be seen on the helicopter rides that Matthew R. Godfrey, the city's boosterish mayor, likes to give to business owners.
 There are two separate kayak parks in the city, where two rivers converge. Rock climbing and hang gliding are also available nearby, while extreme sports enthusiasts who want to sample rock climbing in a safe environment can do so in Salomon Center, an enclosed year-round facility. Salomon, an Amer Sports subsidiary that makes winter sports equipment, recently acquired the naming rights to the attraction.
 City officials are also studying the possibility of building a gondola to carry skiers directly from downtown Ogden to nearby slopes. 
 A Los Angeles developer, Gadi Leshem, has proposed three waterfront developments along the Ogden River and has offered to clean up a portion of the waterway.
 Subsidies from the state of Utah totaling $7.94 million may have been as instrumental in recruiting Amer Sports as good ski conditions, however. The state provided $2.5 million in an upfront grant to Amer Sports to cover relocation and building improvement costs. In addition, the company can collect up to $5.44 million in the next 10 years in the form of a property tax rebates. 
 In the end, ''the city had the mayor, the mountains and the money,'' Mr. Dowse said.
 The subsidies reflect efforts by state officials to attract makers of sports gear and other industries. ''Land economics and the cost of doing business in Utah are very low, and our labor force is young and very well educated,'' said Jason P. Perry, executive director of the governor's Office of Economic Development. 
 Ogden's hopes of turning itself into a resort town contrast with the torpor that hung over the city for much of the last 40 years. Ogden had been the state's industrial center, largely because of its location along the original transcontinental railroad line. Many of the prominent buildings and factories in the town date from the first two decades of the 20th century, perhaps the height of the city's prosperity as Utah's industrial and transportation hub. 
 The growth of the Interstate highway system, however, began to hurt Ogden in the 1950s and '60s. The American Can building closed in 1979, and remained empty until Mr. Peddie started to restore it in 2005. 
 Mr. Godfrey, who was first elected mayor in 1999, has spent much of his time in office buttonholing business prospects for the city. He approached Amer Sports officials early this decade, but ''kind of got the brush off,'' he recalled.
 Mr. Dowse, who grew up in Salt Lake City, was looking for a United States headquarters site for the company, which had operations in Portland, Ore.; Amherst, N.H.; and Carlsbad, Calif. But he acknowledges Ogden was not on the list. 
 ''I had a perception of Ogden as a boarded-up railroad town,'' he said.
 When Mr. Godfrey and state officials persuaded some company officials to visit the city during a swing through the state in 2004, however, a brief meeting turned into a full-day discussion. 
 The image of the old American Can complex -- a group of handsome structures in buff-colored brick with atrium-style factory spaces lined in sash windows and set off by a smokestack that rises 65 feet from the ground -- may have persuaded Mr. Dowse. 
 When Amer Sports officials saw the factory complex, ''they just came alive,'' Mr. Godfrey said. The idea of being part of an effort to salvage an old building, rather than building a new one, was also appealing to a company with a strong environmental ethos, the mayor added. 
 ''Being able to preserve the building was very important to them,'' he said.
 Mr. Dowse concurred. ''The building was perfect,'' he said. His new office space is supported by columns made of heavy square-edged timbers. 
 Beyond architecture, there are other advantages to working close to the mountains, including a lenient attitude toward winter recreation. When the snowfall reaches 20 inches or so, he said, ''we close the doors and tell the staff to go skiing.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Michael Dowse, president of Amer Sports Winter and Outdoor Americas, liked the architecture of the atrium-style factory space in Ogden, Utah, and moved the company's headquarters there. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEFFREY D. ALLRED FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SKIING (90%); EXTREME SPORTS (89%); SPORTS EQUIPMENT MFG (89%); SPORTS (89%); CITIES (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); SNOWBOARDING (89%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); WINTER SPORTS (78%); MAYORS (78%); CLIMBING (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); SPORTS FANS (72%); APPAREL MFG (72%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (68%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (67%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (64%); HELICOPTERS (50%)

COMPANY: AMER SPORTS CORP (91%)

TICKER: AMEAS (HEL) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339920 SPORTING & ATHLETIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3949 SPORTING & ATHLETIC GOODS, NEC (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OGDEN, UT, USA (94%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%) UTAH, USA (94%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2008



104 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: A Game Where Resources Dwindle and Partners Shift

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:
THE SECOND WORLD 
 Empires and Influence in the New Global Order 
 By Parag Khanna 
 Illustrated. 466 pages. Random House. $29. 
 In the 21st century the empires strike back. The United States, the European Union and China dare not call themselves imperial powers, Parag Khanna argues in ''The Second World,'' his sweeping, often audacious survey of contemporary geopolitics, but they are busy reshaping the globe to suit their interests. The game is afoot, with the natural resources and potential wealth of countries like Ukraine, Turkey and Brazil as the prize.
 Mr. Khanna is the director of the Global Governance Initiative at the New America Foundation, a public policy institute. He strides the world in seven-league boots, armed with a powerful thesis: in the postcolonial, post-cold-war era, three superpowers have emerged with a ravenous appetite for energy and natural resources. Restlessly, they look to the second-tier economies of Latin America, the former Soviet bloc, the Middle East and Asia for partners or patsies. This argument was laid out recently in The New York Times Magazine in an excerpt it published from the book. 
 No shots will be fired. Instead the three imperial rivals will woo and coerce, relying on distinct styles. The United States offers military protection, along with the promise of democracy and human rights. The European Union dangles the prospect of membership in, or affiliation with, the world's most successful economic club, provided that applicants undertake specific reforms. China talks trade, investment and infrastructure projects, with no annoying demands for political reform in its would-be client states.
 ''To a large extent, the future of the second world hinges on how it relates to the three superpowers,'' Mr. Khanna writes, ''and the future of the superpowers depends on how they manage the second world.''
 Like a geopolitical tour guide, he moves at lightning speed across the scattered countries of the second world to assess the prospects of, say, Russia or Malaysia, and to see how the superpowers are faring in their courtship rituals.
 Russia will be much smaller, its dwindling population ''spread so thinly across a territory so vast that it no longer even makes demographic sense as a country.'' The allure of European Union membership has already drawn Eastern Europe into the union's orbit, while China controls vast swaths of Central Asia, almost by default.
 Malaysia's future looks bright. Playing a shrewd second-world game, it cultivates good relations with both the United States and China (just as elusive Kazahkstan has made sure that its oil pipelines run north, south, east and west), while channeling oil revenues into diversifying its economy and building its infrastructure.
 Malaysia makes a stark contrast to Indonesia, ''a sprawling, waterborne golf course in which a mix of foreign companies and countries claim ownership of different holes,'' Mr. Khanna writes. He has a knack for reducing a country to a phrase. Taiwan is ''a stateless economic node,'' with a relationship to China he describes as ''mutual colonization.''
 ''The Second World'' is rewarding simply as a primer on contemporary geopolitics. Anyone curious about the lay of the land in Algeria or Tajikistan can get answers, and a dash of local color, in Mr. Khanna's succinct chapters, which envelop the reader in a whirlwind of facts and figures, some eye-opening, others merely perplexing.
 ''Elderly couples learn to tango at night by the illuminated Ming-era city walls,'' Mr. Khanna observes of Beijing.
 This is fascinating, or perhaps not. Like Arthur Frommer with an economics degree, Mr. Khanna loves to set a scene in 10 words or fewer, getting a few carts carrying bales of mint into the picture frame as he strolls through a Moroccan medina. He seasons the narrative with brief quotations from anonymous taxi drivers, journalists and government officials, each allowed one culturally relevant action, like the engineering student who comments on Egypt's leadership crisis ''while devouring a plate of kebabs.''
 Mr. Khanna is not averse to the bland ''time will tell'' summation either, and on occasion the crystal ball becomes cloudy. ''It is hard to overestimate the fluidity of the early-21st-century landscape,'' Mr. Khanna writes sagely.
 Mr. Khanna, who was born in India but raised in the United Arab Emirates, the United States and Germany, takes a dim view of India's future, bets on Chile as the South American country most likely to advance to first-world status and predicts, quite calmly, the dissolution of Iraq. 
 ''Iraq has been terminated before, and history will do so again,'' he writes. ''In the long term, the region could be the better for it.''
 Among the superpowers, the big loser could be the United States, which Mr. Khanna describes in contemptuous terms. His admiration for the European Union, which has skillfully concentrated on the long-term transformation and stabilization of prospective partners, knows no bounds. China also wins his admiration, despite its human-rights record. In general, Mr. Khanna, who argues that democracy is a luxury that wealthy nations can afford, more than tolerates the enlightened despotism of countries like Singapore and Malaysia.
 The United States, by contrast, is described as naive and arrogant, a musclebound superpower searching for a brain. The State Department, he writes, is run like ''the world's largest travel agency.'' With its special envoys and troubleshooters rushing around the planet to put out brush fires, the United States practices a ''diplomacy by dilettantism'' unworthy of a great power.
 In his polemical conclusion Mr. Khanna becomes a little unhinged in his analysis of the ills afflicting the United States, which, by his description, should collapse sometime in the middle of next month. He works himself into a lather over the popularity of police car chases on television, football and ''wasteful motor sports.'' 
 ''American socioeconomic attitudes would be laughable if they were not so scary,'' he writes.
 A prime example of imperial overstretch, the United States faces a highly uncertain future, Mr. Khanna argues, somewhat more coherently, with economic decline and waning international influence distinct possibilities. From a position of world dominance, it must readjust to a fluid international order in which it is ''merely one of several competing vendors or brands on the catwalk of credibility.'' You sense that Mr. Khanna will enjoy the show.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY NUSRAT DURRANI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); COLD WAR (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); INFRASTRUCTURE (71%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (69%); GOLF (64%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (60%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MALAYSIA (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); ASIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); TURKEY (79%); UKRAINE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); INDONESIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%)

TITLE: Second World, The (Book)>; Second World, The (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2008



105 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1449 words

HEADLINE: Next Question: Can Students Be Paid to Excel?

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

 BODY:
The fourth graders squirmed in their seats, waiting for their prizes. In a few minutes, they would learn how much money they had earned for their scores on recent reading and math exams. Some would receive nearly $50 for acing the standardized tests, a small fortune for many at this school, P.S. 188 on the Lower East Side of Manhattan. 
 When the rewards were handed out, Jazmin Roman was eager to celebrate her $39.72. She whispered to her friend Abigail Ortega, ''How much did you get?'' Abigail mouthed a barely audible answer: $36.87. Edgar Berlanga pumped his fist in the air to celebrate his $34.50. 
 The children were unaware that their teacher, Ruth Lopez, also stood to gain financially from their achievement. If students show marked improvement on state tests during the school year, each teacher at Public School 188 could receive a bonus of as much as $3,000. 
 School districts nationwide have seized on the idea that a key to improving schools is to pay for performance, whether through bonuses for teachers and principals, or rewards like cash prizes for students. New York City, with the largest public school system in the country, is in the forefront of this movement, with more than 200 schools experimenting with one incentive or another. In more than a dozen schools, students, teachers and principals are all eligible for extra money, based on students' performance on standardized tests. 
 Each of these schools has become a test to measure whether, as Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg posits, tangible cash rewards can turn a school around. Can money make academic success cool for students disdainful of achievement? Will teachers pressure one another to do better to get a schoolwide bonus?
 So far, the city has handed out more than $500,000 to 5,237 students in 58 schools as rewards for taking several of the 10 standardized tests on the schedule for this school year. The schools, which had to choose to participate in the program, are all over the city.
 ''I'm not saying I know this is going to fix everything,'' said Roland G. Fryer, the Harvard economist who designed the student incentive program, ''but I am saying it's worth trying. What we need to try to do is start that spark.''
 Nationally, school districts have experimented with a range of approaches. Some are giving students gift certificates, McDonald's meals and class pizza parties. Baltimore is planning to pay struggling students who raise their state test scores.
 Critics of these efforts say that children should be inspired to learn for knowledge's sake, not to earn money, and question whether prizes will ultimately lift achievement. Anticipating this kind of argument, New York City was careful to start the student experiment with private donations, not taxpayer money, avoiding some of the controversy that has followed the Baltimore program, which uses public money. 
 Some principals had no qualms about entering the student reward program. Virginia Connelly, the principal of Junior High School 123, in the Soundview section of the Bronx, has experimented with incentives for years, like rewarding good behavior, attendance and grades with play money that can be spent in the student store.
 ''We're in competition with the streets,'' Ms. Connelly said. ''They can go out there and make $50 illegally any day of the week. We have to do something to compete with that.''
 Barbara Slatin, the principal of P.S. 188, on the other hand, said she was initially skeptical about paying students for doing well. Her students, many of whom live in the nearby housing projects along Avenue D, would surely welcome the money, she said, but she worried about sending the wrong message. ''I didn't want to connect the notion of money with academic success,'' she said. 
 But after a sales pitch by Dr. Fryer, Ms. Slatin said she was persuaded to try. ''We say we want to do whatever it takes, so if this is it, I am going to get on board,'' she said. 
 In 1996, P.S. 188 was considered to be failing by the State Education Department, but it has improved dramatically over the last decade. In the fall, it received an A on the city's report card. Still, fewer than 60 percent of the students passed the state math test last year, and fewer than 40 percent did so in reading. 
 Teachers at the school said that this year, they had noticed a better attitude among the students, which they attributed to the incentive program. One recent day, fourth graders talked eagerly about the computer games they have been playing to get ready for this week's state math exam. During the school's recent winter break, dozens of students showed up for extra tutoring to prepare. 
 ''My teacher told me to study more, so I study,'' said Jazmin, who had already taken eight standardized exams this school year. ''I did multiplication tables. I learned to divide.'' When asked why she took so many tests, Jazmin replied earnestly, ''To show them we have education and we learn stuff from education and the tests.''
 The students spoke excitedly about their plans for the money. Several boys said they were saving for video games. Abigail said she would use it to pay for ''a car, a house and college,'' apparently unaware that the roughly $100 she's earned this school year might not stretch that far. Another little girl said she would use the money simply for food. When asked to elaborate, she answered quietly, ''Spaghetti.'' 
 Changing the attitudes of seventh graders seems to be more complicated. At J.H.S. 123 in the Bronx, for example, a seventh-grade English class was asked one morning if there were too many standardized tests. Every hand in the room shot up to answer with a defiant yes. But at the same time, the students all agreed that receiving money for doing well on a test was a good idea, saying it made school more exciting, and made doing well more socially acceptable. 
 ''This is the hardest grade to pass,'' said Adonis Flores, a 13-year-old who has struggled in his classes at times. ''This motivates us better. Everybody wants some money, and nobody wants to get left behind.''
 Would it be better to get the money as college scholarships? Shouts of ''No way!'' echoed through the room. ''We might not all go to college,'' one student protested. 
 So is doing well in school cool? A few hands slowly inched up. But when their principal, Ms. Connelly, asked what could be done to make being the A-plus student seem as important as being the star basketball player, she was met with silence. 
 For teachers, bonuses come with ambivalence. So toxic was the idea of merit pay for individual teachers that the union insisted that bonus pools be awarded to whole schools to be divided up by joint labor-management committees, either evenly among union members or by singling out exceptional teachers.
 Still, nearly 90 percent of the 200 schools offered the chance to join the teacher bonus program are participating, after a vote with each school's chapter of the teachers' union. At many schools this year, including P.S. 188 and J.H.S. 123, a decision has already been made to distribute any money they get across the board, and they are trying to include secretaries and other staff members as well. 
 No teachers were willing to say the rewards were unwelcome, but few said the potential windfall would push them to work harder. 
 ''It's better than a slap in the face,'' said Ms. Lopez, who has taught at P.S. 188 for more than a decade. ''But honestly, I don't think about it. We're here every day working and pushing; that's what we've been doing for years. We don't come into this for the money, and most of us don'tleave it because of the money.'' 
 Newer teachers seemed more positive, saying the bonus was a rare chance to be rewarded. 
 ''I tell my students all the time that I can sit in the back and hand them worksheets and get the same amount of money as I do if I stand in front of the class working with high energy the entire time,'' said Christina Varghese, the lead math teacher at J.H.S. 123, who is in her 10th year of teaching. ''What's the motivation there? At least this gives us something to work toward.''
 It will be months before Ms. Slatin and her teachers know whether they have earned the bonus, but initial test scores are promising. On one test designed to mimic the state math exam, 77 percent of fourth graders met state standards. Roughly half of those who did not were just below the cutoff, making it possible that more than 80 percent of the students would pass the test this year -- a virtual dream for the school.
 ''We want to believe it, but it makes me nervous,'' Ms. Slatin said. ''Those are not numbers we are used to seeing.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 6, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption on Wednesday with a front-page article about cash incentives for students, teachers and principals in New York City public schools misidentified the position held by Dalia Johnson at Public School 188 in Manhattan. She is director of the middle school, not the school's overall director.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Masudur Rahman receives his ''earnings'' record from Dalia Johnson, the director of Public School 188 in Manhattan. The amount is determined by his scores on reading and math tests. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANNIE TRITT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Part of the tally sheet that students at participating schools receive if they do well on standardized math and reading tests. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 At Junior High School 123 in the Bronx, Jerome Johnson, a seventh-grade math student, also received cash awards. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (88%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (77%); MERIT PAY (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2008



106 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: Unemployed, And Skewing The Picture

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
In 1878, Carroll D. Wright set out to do something that nobody in the United States had apparently ever done before. He tried to count the number of unemployed.
 As is the case today, the 1870s were a time of economic anxiety, with a financial crisis -- the panic of 1873 -- having spread into the broader economy. But Wright, then the chief of the Massachusetts Bureau of the Statistics of Labor, thought there weren't nearly as many people out of work as commonly believed. He lamented the ''industrial hypochondria'' then making the rounds, and to combat it, he created the first survey of unemployment.
 The survey asked town assessors to estimate the number of local people out of work. Wright, however, added a crucial qualification. He wanted the assessors to count only adult men who ''really want employment,'' according to the historian Alexander Keyssar. By doing this, Wright said he understood that he was excluding a large number of men who would have liked to work if they could have found a job that paid as much as they had been earning before. 
 Just as Wright hoped, his results were encouraging. Officially, there were only 22,000 unemployed in Massachusetts, less than one-tenth as many as one widely circulated (and patently wrong) guess had suggested. Wright announced that his ''intelligent canvas'' had proven the ''croakers'' wrong. 
 From Massachusetts, he went to Washington, where he served as the inaugural director of the federal government's Bureau of Labor Statistics and later as the head of the United States Census. His method for counting -- and not counting -- the unemployed became the basis for Census tallies of the jobless and, eventually, for the monthly employment report put out by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Wright is the father of the modern unemployment rate.
 This Friday, the government will release the latest employment report, which will help clarify whether the economy is slipping into a recession. Wall Street forecasters are predicting that the February unemployment rate will have inched up to 5 percent, from 4.9 percent in January. 
 Whatever the survey ends up showing, however, you can be sure of one thing: Politicians will be quick to point out that joblessness remains low by historical standards. ''Five percent is still a low unemployment rate,'' Ed Lazear, the chairman of President Bush's Council of Economic Advisers, said recently. ''It's below the average for the last three decades.'' 
 The president and Senator John McCain also recently noted that unemployment remained low. Senators Judd Gregg of New Hampshire and Johnny Isakson of Georgia, both Republicans, have said the economy continues to be at ''full employment.'' Two Democratic governors, Christine Gregoire of Washington and Joe Manchin III of West Virginia, have bragged that their states recently recorded their lowest unemployment rates in history.
 Statistically, all this is true enough. But it's also deeply misleading. 
 Over the last few decades, there has been an enormous increase in the number of people who fall into the no man's land of the labor market that Carroll Wright created 130 years ago. These people are not employed, but they also don't fit the government's definition of the unemployed -- those who ''do not have a job, have actively looked for work in the prior four weeks, and are currently available for work.''
 Consider this: the average unemployment rate in this decade, just above 5 percent, has been lower than in any decade since the 1960s. Yet the percentage of prime-age men (those 25 to 54 years old) who are not working has been higher than in any decade since World War II. In January, almost 13 percent of prime-age men did not hold a job, up from 11 percent in 1998, 11 percent in 1988, 9 percent in 1978 and just 6 percent in 1968. 
 Even prime-age women, who flooded into the work force in the 1970s and 1980s, aren't working at quite the same rate they were when this decade began. About 27 percent of them don't hold a job today, up from 25 percent in early 2000. 
 There are only two possible explanations for this bizarre combination of a falling employment rate and a falling unemployment rate. The first is that there has been a big increase in the number of people not working purely by their own choice. You can think of them as the self-unemployed. They include retirees, as well as stay-at-home parents, people caring for aging parents and others doing unpaid work. 
 If growth in this group were the reason for the confusing statistics, we wouldn't need to worry. It would be perfectly fair to say that unemployment was historically low.
 The second possible explanation -- a jump in the number of people who aren't working, who aren't actively looking but who would, in fact, like to find a good job -- is less comforting. It also appears to be the more accurate explanation.
 Various studies have shown that the new nonemployed are not mainly dot-com millionaires or stay-at-home dads. (Men who have dropped out of the labor force actually do less housework on average than working women, according to Harley Frazis and Jay Stewart of the Bureau of Labor Statistics.)
 Instead, these nonemployed workers tend to be those who have been left behind by the economic changes of the last generation. Their jobs have been replaced by technology or have gone overseas, and they can no longer find work that pays as well. West Virginia, a mining state, is a great example. It may have a record-low unemployment rate, but it has also had an enormous rise in the number of out-of-work men. 
 These nonemployed remain a distinct minority of the population. But the growth in their numbers is one reason that overall wage growth has been so weak lately. With such a large pool of people who aren't employed -- but willing to work for the right price -- those who do have jobs find themselves with less bargaining power. Since 2003, total compensation, including the value of health insurance and other benefits, has failed to keep pace with inflation for most workers, according to Jared Bernstein of the Economic Policy Institute. 
 I'm not suggesting that the government change its definition of the unemployment rate after all these years. (The government has tried to come up with various alternate measures of joblessness, which are broader but not especially useful.) I'm also not suggesting that the Bureau of Labor Statistics somehow cooks the books. Both Republican and Democratic economists praise the bureau as a model of professional nonpartisanship.
 Yet there is no doubt that the unemployment rate is a less telling measure than it once was. It's simply no longer the best barometer of the country's economic health. A truer picture can be found elsewhere, by looking at compensation growth, for instance, or to changes in the percentage of the employed. 
 No less than Tom Nardone -- who, as the economist overseeing the unemployment survey, might reasonably be considered the Carroll Wright of today -- made a similar point to me the other day. 
 ''Just saying the unemployment rate is 5 percent, without any other context, really doesn't tell you much,'' Mr. Nardone said. ''It's far more complicated than that.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: THE MISLEADING JOBLESS RATE: Although the unemployment rate among men ages 25 to 54 is now at a relatively low level (4 percent in January 2008), the percentage of adult men not working has risen from about 9 percent in January 1978 to almost 13 percent today. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STATISTICS (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); MEN (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); HISTORY (68%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (58%); ED LAZEAR (57%); JOE MANCHIN (50%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%); JOHNNY ISAKSON (50%); JUDD GREGG (50%); CHRISTINE GREGOIRE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2008



107 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: Filings for Bankruptcy Up 18% in February

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON

 BODY:
Americans filed for bankruptcy in growing numbers in February, buckling under the combined weight of rising energy prices, a weakening housing market and sky-high personal debts. 
 An average of 3,960 bankruptcy petitions were filed per day nationwide last month, up 18 percent from January and up 28 percent from a year earlier, according to Automated Access to Court Electronic Records, a bankruptcy data and management company. 
 February was the busiest month for filings since Congress overhauled the bankruptcy law in 2005. Bankruptcy experts said the rise was particularly worrisome because those changes made filing for bankruptcy more complicated and expensive. 
 ''This number of bankruptcies may be under-representative of the true financial distress consumers are feeling because of the steps Congress has taken,'' said Jack Williams, a scholar in residence at the American Bankruptcy Institute and a professor at Georgia State University. 
 The latest figures show the financial pain is spreading from states like California and Florida, which exemplified the housing boom and subsequent bust, to those along the Eastern Seaboard like Maryland, Virginia and Delaware, which were among the 10 states with the largest percentage increase in filings in January and February. ''You are seeing a good-size uptick everywhere,'' said Mike Bickford, president of Automated Access. 
 Bankruptcy experts caution, however, that data from just one or two months can be misleading. 
 ''The monthly bankruptcy filing rate has a lot of cyclicality,'' Robert M. Lawless, a professor of law at the University of Illinois College of Law, wrote on Tuesday on the widely read bankruptcy blog, Creditslips.org. Some experts, for example, say bankruptcies often seem to rise in February as debts from the holiday season come due. Even so, the trend is definitely upward, Mr. Lawless wrote. States as disparate as Kentucky and Rhode Island joined the top 10 list, and the absolute number of filings rose significantly. 
 Mr. Williams expects the number of bankruptcies nationwide to reach 1.2 million to 1.4 million this year, up from 826,732 in 2007; Mr. Lawless expects more than one million. (In 2004, the last year with a normalized set of data, 1,597,462 petitions were filed, according to Automated Access.)
 The states with the most significant increase in bankruptcy filings during the first two months of 2008 were California, with a 33 percent increase; Maryland, up 29 percent; and Florida, with a 26 percent rise, the data shows. Filings fell in 16 states, including Colorado, Indiana, Ohio, South Dakota, Kansas, and Wyoming.
 Proponents of the bankruptcy law argued in 2005 that some consumers were abusing the law, using Chapter 7, or liquidation, to shed credit card debt. The bill, supported by both Republicans and Democrats, ''increased the expense for everyone and reduced the protections for everyone,'' said Mr. Williams. 
 Elizabeth Warren, a professor at Harvard Law School and the author of books on bankruptcy, said, ''The credit industry did its best to drive up the cost of filing but when families are in enough trouble they will fight their way through the paper thicket and higher attorneys' fees to get help.'' 
 Ms. Warren says that the increase also reflects changing attitudes about bankruptcy. Many Americans now understand that filing bankruptcy is legal, something many did not appreciate a few years ago. Studies last year showed that one of seven families were dealing with debt collectors, who often encourage families not to file for bankruptcy, she said.
 ''The word is leaking out that the bankruptcy courts are open for business,'' Ms. Warren says. 
 Record home foreclosures have contributed to the rise in bankruptcies but on their own do not account for the latest increase. 
 ''Rising bankruptcy certainly understates the stress because bankruptcy is not a refuge from foreclosure,'' Mark Zandi, chief economist at Moody'sEconomy.com, said. Under the current bankruptcy code, the courts cannot alter the terms of first mortgages. Proposed legislation in Congress seeks to change this, but few think it will pass. 
 This suggests more trouble for the broader economy. 
 ''Everything is going wrong for households,'' Mr. Zandi said. ''They are struggling with rising unemployment; high debt loads, heavier because of mortgage resets and plunging housing values; soaring gasoline prices; wobbly stock prices. The data suggest bankruptcies will rise measurably through the remainder of the decade.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (97%); PETITIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US CHAPTER 7 BANKRUPTCY (78%); TRENDS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (68%); WRITERS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BANKRUPTCY INSTITUTE (56%); GEORGIA STATE UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: ELIZABETH WARREN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2008



108 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 407 words

HEADLINE: Canada's Central Bank Cuts Overnight Rate a Half-Point

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

DATELINE: OTTAWA 

 BODY:
The Bank of Canada said on Tuesday that it had reduced its benchmark lending rate by half a percentage point, to 3.5 percent, despite the continued robustness of Canada's energy and mining industries. 
 In its announcement, the bank said that employment, income growth and consumer demand remained high in Canada, thanks to high energy and commodity prices. But it added that the rate cut was necessary because of the increasing weakness of the United States economy.
 ''There are clear signs that the U.S. economy is likely to experience a deeper and more prolonged slowdown than had been projected in January,'' the bank said in a statement that cited the credit market turmoil in the United States. ''The deterioration in economic and financial conditions in the United States can be expected to have significant spillover effects on the global economy.''
 Mark J. Carney, who took over as governor of the central bank last month, faces a difficult balancing act. Oil projects, particularly the development of Alberta's tar sands, have led to shortages of labor, materials, equipment and housing in parts of western Canada, a situation that would seem to risk inflation.
 But the slowdown in the United States is already affecting other parts of the country. Ontario, the most populous province, is heavily dependent on the export of automobiles and car parts to the United States. While assembly plants operated by Toyota and Honda in that region continue at full pace, parts makers and factories owned by the Detroit-based manufacturers are already cutting back. 
 Automobile production fell by 27 percent during December, the government statistics agency reported on Monday. It was the largest monthly decline since January 1990.
 Some export-dependent manufacturers in other sectors of Canada's economy are also struggling with the Canadian dollar's move to nearly the same value as the United States dollar. In the fourth quarter of last year, exports from Canada fell sharply, by 2.2 percent, Statistics Canada said.
 ''It is a bit of a split personality we're seeing,'' said Craig Wright, the chief economist of the Royal Bank of Canada. ''In many instances we have the best and the worst of all possible outcomes.''
 Mr. Wright expects the central bank to continue cutting its overnight rate until it reaches 3 percent. He added that even at that level, it was unlikely that Canada would experience any significant inflation until 2009.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); STATISTICS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); LABOR SHORTAGES (77%); CURRENCIES (72%); MINES & MINING (72%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (70%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (70%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (70%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (70%); GLOBALIZATION (68%); OIL SANDS (67%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); ROYAL BANK OF CANADA (81%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); RY (TSX) (81%); RY (SWX) (81%); RY (NYSE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (81%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (81%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ALBERTA, CANADA (58%); ONTARIO, CANADA (58%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2008



109 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1039 words

HEADLINE: Double Bubble Trouble

BYLINE: By STEPHEN S. ROACH. 
Stephen S. Roach is the chairman of Morgan Stanley Asia.

DATELINE: Hong Kong 

 BODY:
 AMID increasingly turbulent credit markets and ever-weaker reports on the economy, the Federal Reserve has been unusually swift and determined in its lowering of the overnight lending rate. The White House and Congress have moved quickly as well, approving rebates for families and tax breaks for businesses. And more monetary easing from the Fed could well be on the way.
 The central question for the economy is this: Will this medicine work? The same question was asked repeatedly in Japan during its ''lost decade'' of the 1990s. Unfortunately, as was the case in Japan, the answer may be no. 
 If the American economy were entering a standard cyclical downturn, there would be good reason to believe that a timely countercyclical stimulus like that devised by Washington would be effective. But this is not a standard cyclical downturn. It is a post-bubble recession.
 The United States is now going through its second post-bubble downturn in seven years. Yet this one stands in sharp contrast to the post-bubble shakeout in the stock market during 2000 and 2001. Back then, there was a collapse in business capital spending, a sector that peaked at only 13 percent of real gross domestic product. 
 The current recession has been set off by the simultaneous bursting of property and credit bubbles. The unwinding of these excesses is likely to exact a lasting toll on both homebuilders and American consumers. Those two economic sectors collectively peaked at 78 percent of gross domestic product, or fully six times the share of the sector that pushed the country into recession seven years ago. 
 For asset-dependent, bubble-prone economies, a cyclical recovery -- even when assisted by aggressive monetary and fiscal accommodation -- isn't a given. Over the past six years, income-short consumers made up for the weak increases in their paychecks by extracting equity from the housing bubble through cut-rate borrowing that was subsidized by the credit bubble. That game is now over. 
 Washington policymakers may not be able to arrest this post-bubble downturn. Interest rate cuts are unlikely to halt the decline in nationwide home prices. Given the outsize imbalance between supply and demand for new homes, housing prices may need to fall an additional 20 percent to clear the market. 
 Aggressive interest rate cuts have not done much to contain the lethal contagion spreading in credit and capital markets. Now that their houses are worth less and loans are harder to come by, hard-pressed consumers are unlikely to be helped by lower interest rates.
 Japan's experience demonstrates how difficult it may be for traditional policies to ignite recovery after a bubble. In the early 1990s, Japan's property and stock market bubbles burst. That implosion was worsened by a banking crisis and excess corporate debt. Nearly 20 years later, Japan is still struggling. 
 There are eerie similarities between the United States now and Japan then. The Bank of Japan ran an excessively accommodative monetary policy for most of the 1980s. In the United States, the Federal Reserve did the same thing beginning in the late 1990s. In both cases, loose money fueled liquidity booms that led to major bubbles. 
 Moreover, Japan's central bank initially denied the perils caused by the bubbles. Similarly, it's hard to forget the Fed's blase approach to the asset bubbles of the past decade, especially as the subprime mortgage crisis exploded last August.
 In Japan, a banking crisis constricted lending for years. In the United States, a full-blown credit crisis could do the same. 
 The unwinding of excessive corporate indebtedness in Japan and a ''kereitsu'' culture of companies buying one another's equity shares put extraordinary pressures on business spending. In America, an excess of household indebtedness could put equally serious and lasting restrictions on consumer spending.
 Like their counterparts in Japan in the 1990s, American authorities may be deluding themselves into believing they can forestall the endgame of post-bubble adjustments. Government aid is being aimed, mistakenly, at maintaining unsustainably high rates of personal consumption. Yet that's precisely what got the United States into this mess in the first place -- pushing down the savings rate, fostering a huge trade deficit and stretching consumers to take on an untenable amount of debt. 
 A more effective strategy would be to try to tilt the economy away from consumption and toward exports and long-needed investments in infrastructure. 
 That won't be easy to achieve. Such a shift in the mix of the economy will require export-friendly measures like a weaker dollar and increased consumption by the rest of the world, which would strengthen demand for American-made goods. Fiscal initiatives should be directed at laying the groundwork for future growth, especially by upgrading the nation's antiquated highways, bridges and ports. 
 That's not to say Washington shouldn't help the innocent victims of the bubble's aftermath -- especially lower- and middle-income families. But the emphasis should be on providing income support for those who have been blindsided by this credit crisis rather than on rekindling excess spending by overextended consumers. 
 By focusing on exports and on infrastructure spending, we might be able to limit the recession. Such an approach might also set the stage for a more balanced and sustainable economic upturn in the next cycle. A stimulus package aimed at exports and infrastructure investment would be an important step in that direction. 
 The toughest, and potentially most relevant, lesson to take from Japan's economy in the 1990s was that the interplay between financial and real economic bubbles causes serious damage. An equally lethal interplay between the bursting of housing and credit bubbles is now at work in the United States. 
 American authorities, especially Federal Reserve officials, harbor the mistaken belief that swift action can forestall a Japan-like collapse. The greater imperative is to avoid toxic asset bubbles in the first place. Steeped in denial and engulfed by election-year myopia, Washington remains oblivious of the dangers ahead. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); RECESSION (90%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); HOUSING BUBBLE (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (73%); CORPORATE DEBT (67%); BANK FAILURES (66%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2008



110 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 410 words

HEADLINE: Mass Transit Needs Congestion Pricing

 BODY:
The Metropolitan Transportation Authority says it will need $29.5 billion over the next five years for system improvements, including buying new subway cars, upgrading signals and expanding. Anyone who rides New York's subways, buses and commuter rails would have to concede that the system badly needs the help. The question is how to find all that cash without sticking up riders again. A big part of the answer should be congestion pricing. 
 New York riders pay a considerably higher share of the cost of mass transit than riders in other cities. Fares for buses, subways and commuter rails increased again this week to help pay the M.T.A.'s operating costs. It is time for New York drivers to help carry the burden. Congestion pricing fees can produce significant and recurring new money for mass transit's capital expenses. 
 Congestion pricing, of course, has many other virtues. New Yorkers would enjoy the health and economic benefits of less gridlock and tailpipe emissions -- and faster commutes. Getting money to help fix mass transit is yet another reason why the City Council and state lawmakers should approve congestion pricing before the end of the month -- when a deadline to receive more than $350 million in federal funds expires. 
 A proposal by a joint state-city commission calls for charging most drivers $8 to use Manhattan's busiest streets. The commission projects that it would bring in nearly $500 million annually for mass transit. If the M.T.A. devotes all the money to capital costs -- as it should -- it would be able to borrow as much as $6 billion against that revenue for use in its five-year improvement and expansion plan. 
 Even if the M.T.A. gets that money, it would still need more. To finance its capital plan, the authority is also counting on the by-no-means-certain generosity of the city, state and federal governments. And even then there is still a projected $9 billion budget gap. Unless another source of money is found, the M.T.A. chief executive, Lee Sander, may have to further delay some projects, perhaps the next leg of the Second Avenue subway, to pare costs.
 The onus now is on lawmakers. They -- especially Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, Senate Majority Leader Joe Bruno and City Council Speaker Christine Quinn -- will determine whether New York's mass transit system remains safe, dependable and available to a growing population. As a first step, they need to quickly approve congestion pricing. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (92%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (91%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); CITIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (73%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (61%); EXECUTIVES (60%); EMISSIONS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2008



111 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 287 words

HEADLINE: Pinched by Gas Prices? There Is Another Way

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Gas Prices Soar, Posing a Threat to Family Budget'' (front page, Feb. 27):
 Would it not be a novel approach if Americans, instead of cutting back on other expenditures to compensate for the rising price of gas, made a serious effort to cut back on fuel consumption? 
 In New York City and other areas where effective, affordable public transportation is readily available, this could mean taking the train or bus whenever possible, or (revolutionary thought!) even walking or biking from time to time when manageable distances are involved. 
 In more car-dependent parts of the country, it could mean ride-sharing, or trading in those gas-guzzling monsters for a greener model -- maybe even a hybrid! All of this would be a win-win situation for the economy, the environment and the health (both physical and financial) of the average citizen and perhaps even decrease our dependence on foreign oil.
 No wonder no one in our dysfunctional, hand-wringing government has made the slightest move -- much less offered any practical incentive -- to encourage it. Louise T. Guinther
 Forest Hills, Queens, Feb. 27, 2008
 To the Editor:
 European countries have become accustomed to gasoline at $4 a gallon. In several countries it has been above $5 for years. These countries have long taxed motor vehicle fuel at a much higher rate than the United States does and used the revenue to build mass transit systems that really work. 
 Gas will reach $4 and $5 a gallon here as well, but unless our politicians show more courage and foresight than they have in the past, we still will not have mass transit that works well enough to park or sell our cars. 
 Lane Anderson
 Marina Del Rey, Calif., Feb. 27, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY OLIVER MUNDAY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (72%); TRAINS (71%); WALKING & JOGGING (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2008



112 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 397 words

HEADLINE: Interest Rates in Australia Are Raised to a 12-Year High

BYLINE: By TIM JOHNSTON

DATELINE: SYDNEY, Australia 

 BODY:
Australia's central bank raised interest rates to a 12-year high Tuesday in another attempt to contain inflationary pressures in an economy fueled by China's hunger for resources. 
 The increase was the second in two months and the 12th since 2002. It runs counter to the trend among many other central banks, which are cutting rates as subprime mortgage problems in the United States have hurt global growth.
 ''This adjustment was made in order to contain and reduce inflation over the medium term,'' Glenn Stevens, governor of the Reserve Bank of Australia, said in a statement after raising the cash rate target 25 basis points, to 7.25 percent.
 Even if China's expansion gives Asia a measure of protection from a slowdown in the United States, the region's financial markets have no such umbrella.
 Along with exchanges in much of the rest of the region, Australia's stock market has been falling in the last three months, and it dropped 1 percent Tuesday. It is now more than 21 percent off its high in November.
 Mr. Stevens said that although consumer price inflation was running at 3 percent in December, the underlying rate was about 3.5 percent, well above the bank's target of 2 percent to 3 percent.
 ''Inflation is likely to remain relatively high in the short term,'' he said, ''and will probably rise further in year-ended terms, before moderating next year in response to slower growth in demand.'' 
 His comments added fuel to market speculation that this would not be the last rate increase this year.
 Australia is the world's largest exporter of coal and iron ore, and despite the slowing American economy, demand for raw materials by China shows little sign of dropping off.
 The reserve bank seems to have concluded that for Australia, which is already experiencing significant capacity constraints in terms of labor and infrastructure, the net effect is still likely to be inflationary.
 ''The world economy is slowing, and it appears likely that global growth will be below trend in 2008,'' Mr. Stevens said. ''Recent trends in world commodity markets, however, have further strengthened prospects for Australia's terms of trade.'' 
 In a statement last month, the reserve bank said it expected overall growth of gross domestic product in Australia's major trading partners to slow from 5 percent in 2007, to 3.75 percent to 4 percent in 2008 and 2009.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INFLATION (92%); INTEREST RATES (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TRENDS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); FUEL MARKETS (73%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (56%); SUBPRIME LENDING (56%); COAL INDUSTRY (50%)

COMPANY: RESERVE BANK OF AUSTRALIA (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (57%); SIC6019 CENTRAL RESERVE DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS, NEC (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (79%) NEW SOUTH WALES, AUSTRALIA (79%) AUSTRALIA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2008



113 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: For Israel and Gaza, a Perilous Time

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''Slipping Away'' (editorial, March 3) and ''Gaza Pitfalls in Every Path'' (news analysis, front page, March 3) accurately depict the multifaceted nature of the deteriorating situation in Gaza. But the bottom line that remains is that a sovereign, democratic nation unilaterally withdrew from a disputed territory, handing same to its adversaries without any preconditions. 
 The response was an essentially nonstop barrage of thousands of rockets aimed at its civilians who do not reside in disputed territory. And many of these rockets were launched before Hamas took control of Gaza. 
 How would any other country on the planet react to such a provocation? Think, for example, of Russia or China or the United States. 
 The rocket fire must stop, or there will continue to be no realistic hope for a peaceful resolution of this depressing conflict. Jerry Rapp
 New York, March 3, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''As Israeli Forces Withdraw From Northern Gaza, Hamas Celebrates Its Rocketry'' (news article, March 4):
 There is one course of action for Israel to take to break out of the endless cycle of reprisal and retaliation in its struggle with Palestinians and to generate a new and more hopeful dynamic. 
 It should repudiate and accept responsibility for the consequences of its fateful decision to build settlements in the occupied West Bank to achieve the extremist goal of a ''Greater Israel,'' sovereignty over all the Holy Land. 
 This territorial transgression is the root cause of today's perilous and volatile deadlock. It rejected the possibility in time for an exchange of land for peace and greatly ratcheted up the cycle of violence, suffering and poisonous hatred. 
 An admission by Israel that it committed a grievous wrong would be a remarkable act but one in accord with the age-old Jewish tradition of truth and justice. It would send shock waves throughout the region and after the dust had settled, create a firmer basis for talks that could lead to a viable two-state agreement. Benjamin Solomon
 Evanston, Ill., March 4, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Criticism that Israel's response in Gaza is disproportionate effectively denies Israel's sovereign duty to provide security for its citizens. What would a ''proportionate'' response be -- randomly firing rockets into Gaza classrooms? 
 Israel's military and economic pressure on Gaza is a result of, not the cause of, the almost daily rocket attacks from Gaza into Israel. The United States would not stand for such attacks, and we should not expect Israel to stand for them either. Steve Sheffey
 Highland Park, Ill., March 3, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Gaza Pitfalls in Every Path'' (news analysis, front page, March 3): 
 The Israelis deserve criticism for their actions in Gaza. Their response has been disproportionate, and the reckless killing of civilians and children is unforgivable. 
 The article states that Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice cannot stop the rocket attacks onto Israel from Gaza because the United States does not talk to Hamas. Why not? 
 To make the blanket statement ''You can't talk to them, you can't deal with them'' is ridiculous. No one has tried.
 Martha Jones
 Cincinnati, March 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (75%); BOMBINGS (75%); JEWS & JUDAISM (72%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (92%) ISRAEL (97%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2008



114 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: With McCain Atop Ticket, Talk Shifts To Spot No. 2

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

DATELINE: DALLAS 

 BODY:
Now that Senator John McCain is headed to the nomination, he can begin thinking seriously about perhaps the most important decision he will have to make as the Republican presidential nominee: the selection of a running mate. 
 Mr. McCain and several senior campaign advisers insist that there is no short list of names, and no process to help him make his choice -- merely a process to find a process. He directed his campaign to study past methods.
 ''If I win tonight, we will sit down tomorrow or the next day, whatever it is, and say, O.K., what's the process that you are recommending that we start into, and that will be the first step,'' Mr. McCain said on his bus Tuesday as it rolled through Dallas.
 Mr. McCain said he was particularly interested in learning ''what other processes were used in previous selections of the vice president, and, frankly, the ones that seemed to come out with a good product and those that maybe did not.''
 The choice of a running mate is always important, but it may be particularly so in Mr. McCain's case, given that, at 71, he is seeking to become the oldest candidate ever elected to a first term as president.
 Several governors have been mentioned as potential running mates; their executive experience and ability to cast themselves as Washington outsiders are perceived as strengths. They include Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota, an early supporter; Charlie Crist of Florida, whose last-minute endorsement helped Mr. McCain win that crucial swing state's primary; Jon Huntsman Jr. of Utah, an early supporter despite Mitt Romney's popularity in his state; and Mark Sanford of South Carolina, whose conservative reputation could help Mr. McCain with the base but who did not endorse him.
 Former governors have been mentioned as well, including Tom Ridge of Pennsylvania, whose support of abortion rights could cause Mr. McCain trouble with conservatives who are already wary of him. Two of his primary opponents -- Mr. Romney and Mike Huckabee -- also fall into the ex-governor category.
 Mr. Huckabee, a former governor of Arkansas, has a reputation as a good campaigner but is distrusted by some economic conservatives for raising taxes. Mr. Romney, a former Massachusetts governor with a business background, often sparred brutally with Mr. McCain, but endorsed him swiftly and would bring a financial background to the ticket. 
 Rob Portman, a former Ohio congressman and director of the Office of Management and Budget, is also mentioned as someone who could bring a financial background to the ticket. 
 Michael Nelson, a professor of political science at Rhodes College who has written about the vice presidency, said there were three ways Mr. McCain could go: try to consolidate the party base by tapping a conservative, try to reinforce his appeal to independent voters by picking someone with crossover appeal, or try to win a swing state or region by taking geography into account.
 The strategies could be equal, Professor Nelson said, as the selection seems presidential.
 ''I think that ever since the development of ICBMs,'' he said in a recent interview, ''there's been a concern among voters that the vice president be someone who could step into the presidency literally at a moment's notice.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); POLITICS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (71%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (70%); BUDGETS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); ABORTION (50%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (92%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (78%); ROB PORTMAN (58%); MARK SANFORD (57%); CHARLIE CRIST (57%); TIM PAWLENTY (57%); JON HUNTSMAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2008



115 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE TV WATCH; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: TV Networks Resort to the 'Crawl' Instead of Real News Coverage

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
It's official: the networks no longer cover news, they slap it onto the bottom edge of their regular programming like Post-it notes. 
 There were crawls (''Huckabee drops out'') and brief updates, but viewers who wanted to immerse themselves in the speculation and suspense -- and Tuesday night was arguably a more critical and dramatic election than Super Tuesday -- were relegated to cable news. 
 Not that CNN and its brethren did a bad job. It's just that Tuesday night's showdown between Senators Barack Obama and Hillary Rodham Clinton was momentous. Not having a prime-time election report on ABC, CBS or NBC was a little like celebrating an anniversary at an all-you-can-eat buffet instead of a fancy French restaurant: nobody leaves hungry, but it would have been nice to mark the event with a decent wine and starched linen napkins. 
 NBC, at least, had the luxury of dispatching its star political reporters -- Tim Russert, Brian Williams and the emeritus anchor Tom Brokaw -- to its sister cable station, MSNBC, and jazzing up coverage of the returns. But CBS and ABC did not. All three networks stuck to their scheduled shows, even though none of them had anything remarkable to offer: NBC showed obese people climbing ropes on ''The Biggest Loser'' then a rerun of ''Law & Order: SVU.'' CBS held on to ''Big Brother'' and its low-rated drama ''Jericho,'' and on ABC even ''Primetime,'' which is part of the news division, stayed with a lurid hidden-camera show, ''What Would You Do?'' 
 Network executives could hardly argue that viewers don't care about politics. Last week's Democratic debate on MSNBC drew almost eight million viewers, and won higher ratings than any of the three network's shows -- including NBC's ill-fated debut of its made-for-the-Internet series, ''Quarterlife.'' That debate was the highest-rated program in MSNBC's history -- before that, the cable news station's highest rating was 3.7 million on March 19, 2002, the night the invasion of Iraq began.
 And at the beginning of the war, network and cable coverage of the invasion drove some viewers to switch to the BBC, complaining that American news organizations were too jingoistic and intimidated by the Bush administration. Last night, ''BBC World News America'' broadcast a special election report. At 10 p.m., when Senator John McCain went on the air as the official Republican nominee and denounced his Democratic opponents' primary process as ''an uncivil brawl for the spoils of power,'' BBC America showed his speech live, and so did all the cable networks. The networks ignored it. 
 The BBC wasn't as quick on all breaking news -- it didn't bother to call Vermont for Mr. Obama and Mr. McCain at 7 p.m. the way CNN and the other American cable news shows did. But it did stay on the election, offering a long, somewhat pitying feature about economic conditions in Ohio. 
 The BBC correspondent, Matt Frei, roamed around Youngstown, Ohio, and narrated bleak images of decline -- broken windows, locked factory gates, piles of rusted metal -- that rivaled Walker Evans's photographs of the Great Depression. (He also interviewed a local woman who complained that the only available jobs were in the exotic dancing industry, and disqualified herself. ''If I go down a pole,'' she said. ''You'd have to use a crane to pick me back up.'')
 Cable news alternated between live news and animated panel discussions. Campbell Brown, who recently left NBC for CNN, added some welcome pizazz to CNN's ever-steady but staid election night coverage; on MSNBC, Chuck Todd, NBC's political director, provided welcome restraint to the bubbly loquacity of Keith Olbermann and Chris Matthews; Mr. Todd, who is a whiz at delegate counting, is the designated driver of MSNBC's political coverage, keeping his eyes on the road while the school boys get punch-drunk on exit polls.
 The networks did occasionally add crawls to sitcoms, dramas and reality shows, and anchors like Charles Gibson of ABC made brief stand-ups to announce the projected winners, but those were so hurried that they looked less like network news updates than subliminal messages. 
 At 10:50, Katie Couric interrupted ''Jericho'' with results and said that Mrs. Clinton was leading in Ohio, but did not call it. A few minutes later, MSNBC called Ohio for Mrs. Clinton. Even though Texas was too close to call during prime time, the waiting, guessing and exit-poll reading have a real appeal for viewers this election year. ''Primetime'' preferred to stage beatings of pretend homeless people to see if unsuspecting citizens would intervene.
 ''What Would You Do?'' had an obvious answer: switch to CNN.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 6, 2008

 CORRECTION:
The TV Watch column, in some editions on Wednesday, about coverage of the presidential primaries on Tuesday night, misstated the year the war in Iraq started, a night on which MSNBC drew its highest rating until its broadcast of the Democratic debate last week. It was March 19, 2003 -- not 2002.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); NEWS REPORTING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); CABLE TELEVISION (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICAL DEBATES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); HISTORY (74%); ANNIVERSARIES (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); RESTAURANTS (68%); IRAQ WAR (64%); OBESITY (50%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); JOHN MCCAIN (56%); TIM RUSSERT (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2008



116 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: Assembly Plan Would Add To Taxes of More Affluent

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
With the economy weakening and tax collections slowing, members of the State Assembly are discussing a plan that would raise income taxes on the wealthiest 3 to 4 percent of New Yorkers.
 The proposal, which is being promoted heavily in the Legislature by the politically influential Working Families Party, calls for a ''relatively modest'' income tax increase coupled with property tax rebates as a way to increase revenue and stimulate the state's economy.
 Discussion of the plan is still in the early stages, but its basic elements already have the backing of Sheldon Silver, the Assembly speaker, and of Assembly Democrats who represent some of the wealthiest parts of the state. 
 ''Not only do I think it's a good idea, I think it's really the only alternative at this point,'' said Assemblyman Micah Z. Kellner, who represents part of the Upper East Side. ''I believe people at higher income levels are prepared to take a slightly bigger hit on taxes if they know that money is going to be spent wisely.''
 The plan is sure to meet opposition in the Republican-controlled State Senate. On Tuesday, the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, reiterated his opposition to any new taxes. The emergence of the tax increase measure may also reinforce claims by Republicans that Democrats will raise taxes if they gain control of the Senate in the November elections.
 And Gov. Eliot Spitzer has come out strongly against a tax increase as part of next year's budget. But as the economic outlook clouds, the governor and the Legislature face limited options. On Tuesday, Mr. Spitzer's budget director, Laura L. Anglin, repeated the administration's objections to a tax rise, but she did not rule one out entirely.
 ''At this point, we would say that we put forward a budget that closes the gap and funds vital services and core priorities without having to raise taxes,'' Ms. Anglin said. ''Our concern is that we don't want a lot of additional spending, which you tend to see often when the Legislature adds to the budget.''
 But momentum for the proposal has been building among Assembly Democrats, who plan to include it in their version of the state budget for the next fiscal year, which begins on April 1. ''There's growing support for it,'' said Dan Cantor, the executive director of the Working Families Party. ''Can we get it all done? We'll see. Part of it will depend on how we can persuade the governor, and that's going to take some work.''
 The Working Families Party, a left-leaning, labor-backed group that has gained prominence by providing critical grass-roots support in special legislative elections, officially notified Mr. Spitzer of its proposal on Tuesday. ''If we are willing to be bold, we can take this opportunity to balance the budget fairly, and to start reducing taxes on working New Yorkers,'' the letter said.
 The party strongly backed Mr. Spitzer when he ran for governor, and has been instrumental in supporting the Democratic effort to recapture the State Senate.
 The plan has two major elements. The first would raise income taxes on households with income above $250,000. While the proposal offers options for the size of the increase, under one option, the household would be taxed an extra percentage point on income it earns above $250,000. Currently that income is taxed at a rate of 6.85 percent.
 The additional tax rate would gradually increase, to two percentage points on income over $500,000 and three points on income over $1 million.
 Roughly half of the revenues would be used to pay for a property tax rebate for most homeowners in the state, and the rest would be used to pay for the state's operations.
 According to the Working Families Party projections, the state could raise $3 billion to $6.4 billion from the tax increases.
 Budget experts have long debated the wisdom of raising taxes on the rich as a finance tool. 
 ''You either have to cut spending or raise taxes,'' said James Parrott, chief economist of the Fiscal Policy Institute, a left-leaning research group. ''Neither of those is good. But the question is which is less bad for the economy.''
 Mr. Parrott, who supports the income tax increase, noted that when the state last raised taxes on wealthier residents in 2003, in a temporary measure affecting those earning $150,000 or more, predictions that New York's economy would suffer as wealthy people moved away proved wrong. ''Hopefully, rational people in Albany will revisit what happened in 2003 and conclude that was not such a bad outcome.''
 But E. J. McMahon, the director of the Empire Center for New York State Policy, a division of the conservative-leaning Manhattan Institute, said it was misleading to compare the 2003 tax increase with this proposal, because that measure came at the same time that federal income taxes were reduced on upper-income people.
 ''There's nothing like raising taxes when you're entering a recession,'' he said. ''The timing couldn't be worse.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX INCREASES (93%); TAX LAW (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); FAMILY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); TAX RELIEF (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%)

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2008



117 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: Blaming the State, Mayor Orders Cuts in City Budget

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL and RAY RIVERA; Jennifer Medina and Jeremy W. Peters contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The simmering tensions between Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Gov. Eliot Spitzer spilled over into the city budget on Tuesday as the mayor ordered new spending reductions to account for diminished state aid in the next fiscal year, and state officials called the mayor's numbers ''inaccurate and highly misleading.''
 In a letter to city agency leaders, Mark Page, the city's budget director, took aim at the governor and ordered all agencies to make 3 percent cuts for the fiscal year beginning in July, a move that would shrink city spending after years of almost constant growth. 
 ''These reductions will not be easy,'' Mr. Page wrote, ''and will not fully compensate for the fiscal damage to the city's ability to balance its operations proposed in the state's executive budget and the serious damage to our ongoing ability to provide vital services, which that proposal, if not substantially revised before adoption, will cause.'' 
 Mr. Bloomberg and Mr. Page sent signals that although they could probably keep a $400 property tax rebate for homeowners, they might raise property taxes to plug the hole from what they described as a $747 million reduction in aid from Albany.
 ''Our intention is to try to maintain the 7 percent cut in the rate that we had last time,'' Mr. Bloomberg said at a news conference at City Hall. ''We have a long time between now and the budget adoption; we'll see what happens to the economy.''
 Still, Mr. Bloomberg sought to reassure New Yorkers that the cuts would not hurt services ''materially'' and emphasized that officials would look to trim all they could before raising taxes.
 But officials have already shaved roughly 2.7 percent from the current fiscal year's budget and about 4.4 percent from next year's, including a rare $324 million cut to the Department of Education that Schools Chancellor Joel I. Klein had said would lead to an average reduction of $100,000 per school. A survey of 375 schools by an educational advocacy group, Keep the Promises, found that $100 million in trims imposed for the current fiscal year had resulted in sharp reductions in after-school programs and instructional supplies.
 And officials had already been planning to scale back subsidies for garbage collection, public libraries, cultural programs, meals for the elderly, tutoring at the City University of New York and summer jobs for youth.
 Budget officials said that although they are looking for the agencies to offer $600 million in potential reductions, they were seeking to put only $500 million worth in place. Even so, it was not immediately clear if city officials truly expected to make the cuts, and some officials hinted that the administration was hoping to pressure Mr. Spitzer into coming up with additional aid.
 Mr. Page first announced the additional cuts to the City Council's Finance Committee on Tuesday, sharply criticizing the governor's budget. 
 The testimony comes at a time when the mayor has been at odds with Albany over his gifts to Republicans, the Javits Convention Center and congestion pricing. Mr. Page said that unless Mr. Spitzer's budget was realigned, the latest proposed cuts might not even compensate for the hit the city's budget would take. 
 Although he did not attack the governor by name, Mr. Page accused Mr. Spitzer of failing to live up to several financial commitments he said were made to the city last spring.
 Among them, he said, were $350 million in aid to city schools and an additional $100 million annually to the school's capital budget. Mr. Page also faulted the state for not restoring all of the $328 million in unrestricted aid payments promised during last year's budget negotiations. Instead, the governor's budget includes only $164 million, a 50 percent cut from the amount included in the mayor's preliminary plan announced in January.
 State officials quickly disputed Mr. Page's assertions, with Laura L. Anglin, the state budget director, calling a briefing with reporters and following up with detailed background materials and an e-mailed statement calling the city stance ''inaccurate and highly misleading.''
 ''In tough fiscal times, it's important to understand that we believe the budget is still going to provide a substantial benefit to New York City,'' the statement read. ''In all, the governor's budget would add $671 million in funding for the city and save another $520 million in 2009.''
 Ms. Anglin said the state committed to and delivered an additional $537 million in school aid as part of a plan to provide $3.1 billion over a four-year period. 
 In unusually frank terms, Mr. Page responded that the $537 million was far less than the city had been promised. ''It's not something we dreamed up,'' he said. ''We had it from the state, which is why we put it in our preliminary budget in January.''
 Underscoring the web of political interests connecting Albany and New York City, state officials tossed out a veiled reminder that Mr. Bloomberg might need help in advancing other parts of an ambitious agenda. 
 ''Despite these misleading comments by Mark Page, the governor and the mayor share many priorities, such as helping build a new Moynihan Station and passing congestion pricing,'' Ms. Anglin's statement read.
 Ms. Anglin said the language was not meant as a threat but as a reminder of the city's and the state's shared interests. Neither project, however, has direct bearing on the budget issues in contention between Mr. Page and Ms. Anglin.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (94%); MAYORS (93%); BUDGETS (93%); CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); CITIES (89%); PROPERTY TAX (87%); GOVERNORS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (76%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (73%); TAX LAW (73%); TAX INCREASES (71%); TAX RELIEF (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (64%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (61%); LIBRARIES (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%); ELIOT SPITZER (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2008



118 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1490 words

HEADLINE: Chavez Employs Colombia Feud As Flashpoint for Feud With U.S.

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO; Jenny Carolina Gonzalez contributed reporting from Bogota, Colombia, Uta Harnischfeger from Zurich and Ginger Thompson from Washington.

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela 

 BODY:
In the four days since Colombian forces crossed into Ecuador and killed a guerrilla leader taking refuge there, tensions between Colombia -- Washington's top regional ally -- and its leftist neighbors have erupted, highlighting the fact that Colombia and its policies are increasingly viewed here as American proxies.
 President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela called Colombia the ''Israel of Latin America'' saying both countries bombed and invaded neighbors by invoking ''a supposed right to defense'' that he said was ordered by the United States. He has sent troops to the border and expelled Colombia's ambassador. His agriculture minister said Tuesday that the frontier with Colombia would be closed to stop commerce.
 In turn, Colombia said it would file charges against Mr. Chavez with the International Criminal Court, accusing him of assisting Colombia's largest rebel group. 
 Meanwhile, President Bush fiercely defended Colombia, which receives $600 million a year in American aid to fight the leftist rebels and drug trafficking. He used the diplomatic crisis to push Congress to approve a Colombia trade deal that has languished for more than a year because of concerns among senior Democrats over human rights abuses there.
 Mr. Bush, who telephoned Colombia's president, Alvaro Uribe, on Tuesday morning, told reporters at the White House, ''I told the president that America fully supports Colombia's democracy, and that we firmly oppose any acts of aggression that could destabilize the region.'' 
 Employing a new strategy to portray the trade agreement with Colombia as an issue of national security, Mr. Bush used the occasion to call on Congress to ratify the deal as a way of countering leaders like Mr. Chavez who had emerged as scourges of American policies in the region.
 ''If we fail to approve this agreement, we will let down our close ally, we will damage our credibility in the region and we will embolden the demagogues in our hemisphere,'' Mr. Bush said.
 Although Colombia violated the sovereignty of Ecuador, not Venezuela, in its raid, Mr. Chavez, an ally of Ecuador, has taken the lead in accusing Colombia of being an American stooge. That has been a favorite theme of his, especially since November, when Colombia abruptly withdrew support for Mr. Chavez's mediation with the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, or FARC.
 Adding to the tensions on Tuesday, Colombia's vice president, Francisco Santos, said Colombian forces had found evidence that the FARC had been seeking the ingredients to make a radioactive dirty bomb.
 Material found on a laptop computer recovered in the raid into Ecuador provided the basis for Mr. Santos's accusations about a dirty bomb, a weapon that combines highly radioactive material with conventional explosives to disperse deadly dust that people would inhale.
 ''This shows that these terrorist groups, supported by the economic power provided by drug trafficking, constitute a grave threat not just to our country but to the entire Andean region and Latin America,'' Mr. Santos said at a United Nations disarmament meeting in Geneva, in a statement that was posted in Spanish on the conference's Web site. The rebels were ''negotiating to get radioactive material, the primary base for making dirty weapons of destruction and terrorism,'' he said.
 It was unclear from Mr. Santos's statement with whom the rebels were negotiating.
 Mr. Santos made his claim based on information provided Monday in Bogota by Colombia's national police chief about the FARC's negotiations for 110 pounds of uranium, obtained from the laptop computer of Raul Reyes, the senior FARC commander killed Saturday in Ecuador.
 Colombia's government also said this week that it had obtained information on the computer showing that Mr. Chavez was channeling $300 million to the FARC. The information is the basis for its plan to file charges against Mr. Chavez in the International Criminal Court, Mr. Uribe said Tuesday in Bogota.
 The tensions produced a heated diplomatic exchange during an emergency meeting convened Tuesday by the Organization of American States in Washington, during which several countries denounced Colombia's actions as a violation of Ecuadorean sovereignty.
 Foreign Minister Maria Isabel Salvador of Ecuador demanded that the O.A.S. formally condemn the actions by Colombia, dispatch a fact-finding mission to investigate the events on its border, and call a meeting of regional foreign ministers to consider further action.
 ''Ecuador rejects any effort by Colombia to avoid responsibility for violating its sovereignty, which is a right that secures the peaceful coexistence of all nations,'' Ms. Salvador said. ''Diplomatic apologies are not enough.''
 An apology was not all she got. Ambassador Camilo Ospina of Colombia strongly denied accusations that Colombian troops used military force on Ecuadorean territory, saying that aircraft fired into Ecuador from the Colombian side of the border. 
 He acknowledged that after the bombing, Colombian forces entered Ecuador to examine the FARC camp. And what they found, he said, was evidence that Ecuador had been harboring members of the FARC.
 Mr. Ospina said that, in addition to the alleged payment by Mr. Chavez, the information found on the laptops that Colombian troops seized indicated that President Rafael Correa's government had met several times with the FARC and allowed them to set up permanent bases in Ecuadorean territory. He said Colombia would seek charges against President Chavez at the International Criminal Court.
 ''There is not the least doubt that the governments of Venezuela and Ecuador have been negotiating with terrorists,'' Mr. Ospina said. ''Allowing terrorist groups to keep camps on their territory border for the planning and execution of terrorist acts is a crime and a clear violation of international treaties.'' Television in Venezuela also broadcast images of tank battalions heading to the border, following a threat by Mr. Chavez on Sunday that Colombia would be inviting war if it carried out an incursion in Venezuela similar to the one on Saturday in a remote Amazonian province of Ecuador that killed 21 guerrillas.
 Mr. Chavez's threat, which included a taunt that Venezuela would use its Russian-made Sukhoi fighter jets to attack Colombia, has been interpreted here as a sign that Mr. Chavez stands ready to defend the FARC, a group classified as terrorists in the United States and Europe that is reported to operate without hindrance along Venezuela's porous 1,300-mile border with Colombia.
 Contrasting the FARC's image in Colombia as a group that finances itself through cocaine trafficking and abductions and still plants land mines in rural areas, documentaries on state television here in Venezuela portray the FARC as an insurgency born out of efforts to combat Colombia's moneyed elite.
 On his Sunday television program, Mr. Chavez went further by calling for a minute of silence to mourn for Mr. Reyes, the fallen guerrilla leader whose real name was Luis Edgar Devia.
 ''Chavez is effectively supporting narcoterrorists who take refuge in Venezuela and Ecuador while saying a democratically elected leader of Colombia cannot fight back,'' said Diego Arria, a former Venezuelan ambassador to the United Nations who is a vocal critic of Mr. Chavez.
 Still, Mr. Uribe, Colombia's president, is struggling to convince other countries in the region of Colombia's need to carry out the foray into Ecuador. Even if they might agree with Mr. Uribe in private, leaders are hesitant to publicly back him, given sensitivities over territorial sovereignty.
 ''Uribe hasn't developed much of a foreign policy strategy beyond depending on the United States,'' said Michael Shifter, vice president for policy at Inter-American Dialogue, a research group in Washington. ''This puts him into a bit of a bind.''
 Indeed, few places can profess such longstanding support for the United States as Colombia, which sent battalions to fight alongside American troops in the Korean War.
 Despite remaining the largest supplier of cocaine to the United States, Colombia has emerged as a top ally of the Bush administration, with hundreds of American military advisers welcomed there to assist Colombian security forces in counterinsurgency and antinarcotics operations.
 But just as Mr. Uribe may be suffering because of his close ties to the United States, he may also be fortunate to have Mr. Chavez as his main adversary. Other countries in the region are increasingly uncomfortable with Mr. Chavez's belligerence as concern emerges over Venezuela's intervention in a matter involving Colombia and Ecuador.
 ''South America is not prepared for conflicts, and we do not want conflicts,'' Brazil's president, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, told reporters in Brazil on Tuesday, explaining that his government would try to negotiate a solution to the dispute along with other countries.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Venezuelan National Guard members searched cars Tuesday at the Colombian border. A Venezuelan official said the border would be closed to halt commerce. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RODRIGO ARANGUA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
 At a meeting in Washington, Foreign Minister Maria Isabel Salvador of Ecuador, right, asked for condemnation of Colombia. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES) MAP: Colombian forces crossed into Ecuador over the weekend. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (89%); DIRTY BOMBS (89%); NARCOTERRORISM (87%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (87%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (85%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); TERRORISM (73%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); ARMED FORCES (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (68%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (66%); EXPLOSIVES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT (56%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (76%); ALVARO URIBE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA (99%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); ECUADOR (94%); ISRAEL (92%); LATIN AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2008



119 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: Facebook Hires a Google Veteran, Sheryl Sandberg, as Its Operating Chief

BYLINE: By BRAD STONE and MIGUEL HELFT

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
Mark Zuckerberg of Facebook is not stepping aside for a chief executive as Larry Page and Sergey Brin did at Google or as Jerry Yang and David Filo did at Yahoo. He is following the Bill Gates model and holding the top post as he hires a Google executive, Sheryl Sandberg, as chief operating officer.
 Ms. Sandberg, currently vice president for global online sales and operations at Google, joined the search giant in 2001 and helped to develop its immensely lucrative online advertising programs, AdWords and AdSense. She will join Facebook this month to work closely with Mr. Zuckerberg, a co-founder of Facebook, the company said Tuesday. 
 ''A big theme of this hire is that there are parts of our operations that to use a pretty trite phrase, need to be taken to the next level,'' Mr. Zuckerberg said in an interview. 
 Ms. Sandberg will help Facebook expand overseas and develop an advertising network that will help justify its $15 billion valuation, set last year when Microsoft invested $240 million for 1.6 percent of the company. She will also oversee Facebook's marketing, human resources and privacy departments -- essentially guiding how Facebook presents itself and its intentions to the outside world.
 Ms. Sandberg's departure is a blow to Google, where she was a well-regarded executive. ''Sheryl was a valued member of the Google team, and we wish her well in her new endeavors,'' Omid Kordestani, Google's senior vice president for global sales and business development, said in an e-mail statement. 
 Mr. Kordestani said David Fischer would take over Ms. Sandberg's job. Until now, Mr. Fischer was vice president for online sales and operation, reporting to Ms. Sandberg.
 Facebook has more than 66 million users and is growing rapidly, but the company, based in Palo Alto, Calif., has been dogged by criticism over its business practices. For example, its effort to allow advertisers to exploit the social connections between friends on a service called Beacon encountered stiff resistance from users. 
 ''Communicating what we are about clearly is an important thing for us to do,'' Mr. Zuckerberg said. ''We can do that better, and Beacon showed that, as did a handful of other things.''
 Mr. Zuckerberg had a chief deputy once before. Owen Van Natta, a former Amazon executive, held the title of chief operating officer before he was given the narrower role of chief revenue officer last year. Last month, he announced he was leaving Facebook to pursue opportunities as a chief executive elsewhere.
 Mr. Zuckerberg is 23 and Ms. Sandberg is 38, but the age difference did not stand in the way of building a working relationship. The pair met at a Christmas party last December. Roger McNamee, a prominent venture capitalist and an investor and occasional adviser to Mr. Zuckerberg, helped broker ensuing conversations with a recommendation of Ms. Sandberg. 
 Mr. Zuckerberg and Ms. Sandberg then spent time discussing Facebook's future at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, in January and over a series of dinners at Ms. Sandberg's home in Atherton, Calif.
 Ms. Sandberg joined Google three years before it went public, when it had only 260 employees. Like many veteran Googlers, she is a multimillionaire. In building the online operations of AdWords and AdSense, the two programs that accounted for the overwhelming majority of Google's $16.6 billion in 2007, she saw the size of her department swell from four people to thousands of employees. 
 She says that Facebook today reminds her of Google back then. ''For me that is part of the excitement,'' she said. ''I've loved being part of the process of helping to build Google. The opportunity to help another young company to grow into a global leader is the opportunity of a lifetime.''
 Ms. Sandberg is only one of a handful of top executives to have made for the exits at Google, including George Reyes, the chief financial officer, who announced in August that he would retire but has agreed to remain in his post until Google hires a successor.
 The company has suffered a larger number of defections among vice presidents, senior managers and engineers in recent months as its size has ballooned to more than 16,000 workers. Most employees who joined before the company's 2004 initial public offering have seen their initial grant of stock options fully vested.
 Ms. Sandberg's appointment comes as the competition between Google and Facebook intensifies. The two companies are growing rapidly and find themselves going after many of the same top engineering talent in Silicon Valley. 
 In addition, Google competed furiously for a part of Facebook's advertising business last year and lost to Microsoft.
 Google, which has had mixed success with its own social network initiatives, subsequently announced that it was leading an alliance of social networks to promote a new standard for third party developers to create programs that run on their sites. The alliance, which includes the leading social network MySpace, was seen as a way to counter Facebook's growing popularity with software developers.
 Google's own social network, Orkut, is popular in Brazil and other countries, but not in the United States. Still Google's social networking ambitions go beyond Orkut, and the company has begun allowing users of Google's mapping, blog reading and other online services to share their activities with friends.
 When asked if she thought Facebook and Google were competitors, Ms. Sandberg said she thought ''they are at their core very different companies.''
 Before joining Google, Ms. Sandberg was chief of staff to Lawrence H. Summers when he was Treasury secretary in the Clinton administration. The experience in government could serve Facebook well if the company again encounters federal or state inquiries over its privacy policies.
 Ms. Sandberg, who serves as a director of Google's philanthropy, Google.org, wields influence in Silicon Valley political circles, where she is backer of Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton. 
 Ms. Sandberg is married to David Goldberg, a former vice president at Yahoo, where he ran that company's music business. He left last year to become an entrepreneur-in-residence at Benchmark Capital, a venture capital firm. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (77%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (76%); CHRISTMAS (71%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (71%); VENTURE CAPITAL (67%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (96%); FACEBOOK INC (90%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (96%); FB (NASDAQ) (90%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (96%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%)

PERSON: MARK ZUCKERBERG (94%); SHERYL SANDBERG (93%); DAVID FILO (77%); BILL GATES (73%); JERRY YANG (73%); SERGEY BRIN (73%); LARRY PAGE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (75%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2008



120 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1368 words

HEADLINE: Texas and Ohio to Clinton; McCain Is In as Choice for the G.O.P.

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY; Marjorie Connelly and Megan Thee contributed reporting from New York, and John M. Broder from Columbus, Ohio.

 BODY:
Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton defeated Senator Barack Obama in Ohio and Texas on Tuesday, ending a string of defeats and allowing her to soldier on in a Democratic presidential nomination race that now seems unlikely to end any time soon.
 Mrs. Clinton also won Rhode Island, while Mr. Obama won in Vermont. But the results mean that Mrs. Clinton won the two states she most needed to keep her candidacy alive. 
 Her victory in Texas was razor thin and came only after most Americans had gone to bed. But by winning decisively in Ohio earlier in the evening, Mrs. Clinton was able to deliver a televised victory speech in time for the late-night news. And the result there allowed her to cast Tuesday as the beginning of a comeback even though she stood a good chance of gaining no ground against Mr. Obama in the hunt for delegates.
 ''No candidate in recent history -- Democratic or Republican -- has won the White House without winning the Ohio primary,'' Mrs. Clinton, of New York, said at a rally in Columbus, Ohio. ''We all know that if we want a Democratic president, we need a Democratic nominee who can win Democratic states just like Ohio.'' 
 On the Republican side, Senator John McCain swept to victory in Ohio, Rhode Island, Texas and Vermont and claimed his party's nomination, capping a remarkable comeback in his second bid for the presidency.
 Mr. McCain's main remaining rival, Mike Huckabee, a former governor of Arkansas, announced he was dropping out minutes after the polls closed and pledged his cooperation to Mr. McCain. Aides to Mr. McCain said he would head Wednesday morning to Washington to go to the White House and accept the endorsement of President Bush, his one-time foe, and begin gathering his party around him. 
 Mr. McCain, of Arizona, delivered his victory speech in subdued tones to a boisterous crowd of supporters in Dallas.
 ''Now, we begin the most important part of our campaign,'' he said, ''to make a respectful, determined and convincing case to the American people that our campaign and my election as president, given the alternatives presented by our friends in the other party, are in the best interests of the country we love.''
 Mr. McCain proceeded to offer a preview of attacks for his Democratic rival. ''I will leave it to my opponent to propose returning to the failed, big-government mandates of the '60s and '70s to address problems such as the lack of health care insurance for some Americans,'' he said. ''I will campaign to make health care more accessible to more Americans with reforms that will bring down costs in the health care industry without ruining the quality of the world's best medical care.''
 Mrs. Clinton's twin victories in Ohio and Texas gave her, at the least, a psychological boost after a tough month in which she watched Mr. Obama, of Illinois, roll up victory after victory and build a lead in delegates. There was virtually no chance that Mrs. Clinton could have survived had she lost Ohio and Texas; her husband, former President Bill Clinton, said last month that his wife needed to win both states.
 Mrs. Clinton was already planning ways to capitalize on her performance; she was scheduled to appear Wednesday on all the morning news programs. But she will continue to find herself in a difficult position mathematically. Given the way the Democratic party allocates delegates, it remained unclear whether Mrs. Clinton would close Mr. Obama's lead on that front.
 Even before the polls closed, Mr. Obama's aides said that given their lead in delegates over Mrs. Clinton, it was not possible for her to catch up in the few remaining contests. 
 Mr. Obama came out shortly before midnight to speak to a crowd in San Antonio, and laid out the argument his campaign would make in the days ahead.
 ''No matter what happens tonight,'' he said, ''we have nearly the same delegate lead that we did this morning, and we are on our way to winning this nomination.''
 But Mrs. Clinton's supporters, exultant over the victory, tried to cast the results in Ohio and Texas as a turning point. 
 Mrs. Clinton took the stage in Columbus before a sea of waving white-and-blue ''Hillary'' signs and immediately portrayed her victory in Ohio as an indication of her electability in a general election. And she reprised a line of criticism against Mr. Obama that appeared to have gained her some traction in this contest.
 ''Americans don't need more promises,'' she said. ''They've heard plenty of speeches. They deserve solutions, and they deserve them now.''
 As she spoke, the crowd responded with chants of ''Yes, she will!'' -- apparently an orchestrated response to Mr. Obama's trademark ''Yes, we can!''
 Turning one of Mr. Obama's themes against him, she said, ''Together, we will turn promises into action, words into solutions and hope into reality.''
 The results left the two parties at very different stages of the race. Mr. McCain's nomination has been all but assured for almost a month. His campaign looked to the results on Tuesday as an opportunity to begin framing the contest ahead. In contrast to his previous victory speeches, Mr. McCain made no mention of Mr. Obama, presumably because the result when he spoke was hardly clear.
 Nonetheless, Mr. Obama called Mr. McCain at 8:30 p.m. on Tuesday from his hotel room in San Antonio to congratulate him and to say he looked forward to running against him, said Mr. Obama's press secretary, Robert Gibbs. Mrs. Clinton said much the same in her speech.
 The voting proceeded on a day of problems at the polls in both states, in part because of a recurrence of the huge turnouts that almost every contest to date has experienced. In Ohio, the Obama campaign asked a judge on Tuesday to keep polls open longer in Cuyahoga County because of paper ballot shortages. 
 The Texas vote was actually two contests: a primary, where two-thirds of the delegates were selected, followed by a caucus, where the remaining one-third were selected. The Clinton campaign claimed irregularities by Mr. Obama's supporters who, Mrs. Clinton's aides said, sought to gain improper advantage in the caucuses.
 In an illustration of the tension between the two campaigns, Bob Bauer, an election lawyer for Mr. Obama, called into a conference call arranged by the Clinton campaign. The call had been set up to discuss the Texas caucuses, and Mr. Bauer challenged the assertions being made by Howard Wolfson, Mrs. Clinton's communications director. The men, referring to each other by first names, engaged in a testy seven-minute exchange.
 For Democrats, and particularly for Mrs. Clinton, the contests were as consequential as any to date. To that end, Mrs. Clinton delivered some of the toughest attacks of her campaign over the weekend, including a television advertisement in Texas that challenged Mr. Obama's national security credentials and attacks on Mr. Obama in Ohio over free trade and a meeting his economic adviser had with a Canadian diplomat about the North American Free Trade Agreement. 
 There was evidence that the attacks had some effects. Mrs. Clinton did well among the 20 percent of voters in both states who said they made their decision in the last three days. She won about 60 percent of those voters in Texas and about 55 percent of those who voted in Ohio, according to exit polls conducted statewide by Edison/Mitofsky for the National Election Pool.
 Surveys of voters leaving the polls showed Mrs. Clinton doing well among Hispanics in Texas, a major target for her there, as well as among lower-income voters and women in Ohio, suggesting that she was reassembling the coalition that had broken down in her losing 11 straight state contests to Mr. Obama over the past month. Mr. Obama was showing strength among black voters who made up 20 percent of the Democratic electorate in both states. 
 In Ohio, Mrs. Clinton's emphasis on economic issues helped her to some extent. Three-quarters of respondents said they were concerned about their families' financial situation, and more than half of those voted for Mrs. Clinton. She also won a majority of union households in Ohio and, in a reversal of her standing in early races, won decisively among white men.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 8, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A headline on Wednesday with the continuation of a front-page article about results from four presidential primaries on Tuesday misidentified, in some editions, one of the states that voted. It was Ohio, not Iowa.
A picture in some editions on Wednesday of Hillary Rodham Clinton with supporters in Ohio carried an erroneous credit. It was by Todd Heisler of The New York Times, not by David Ahntholz. Another photograph on Wednesday, of a polling place in Cleveland, omitted a credit for Mr. Ahntholz.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator John McCain, at a rally Tuesday night in Dallas, claimed the Republican nomination. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
 Supporters of Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton cheered as they watched results on television Tuesday night at the Columbus Athenaeum in Ohio. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID AHNTHOLZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (94%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); HEALTH CARE (83%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); GOVERNORS (72%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (60%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (92%); DALLAS, TX, USA (91%) OHIO, USA (99%); TEXAS, USA (96%); VERMONT, USA (93%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (91%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2008



121 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 456 words

 BODY:
AGGRESSIVE STEPS The Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, called for more effective actions to prevent distressed homeowners from falling into foreclosure. 
 SLEUTH TO THE STARS Anthony Pellicano, below, a private detective accused of wiretapping, will go on trial in Los Angeles in a racketeering case that includes its share of familiar Hollywood names who might be called to testify. [C1.] 
 FINDING HIS NO. 2 Mark Zuckerberg, chief executive of Facebook, has hired a Google executive, Sheryl Sandberg, as the company's chief operating officer. [C6.]
 A NETWORK REBOUNDS Jim Walton, president of CNN Worldwide, has streamlined top management, raised profits and increased ratings. [C1.]
 BUYING TIME In an effort to delay a proxy fight with Microsoft, Yahoo is considering a plan to postpone its annual meeting. [C1.]
 CITIGROUP'S WOES Citigroup's shares dropped as concern spread that huge losses might force Citigroup to go to foreign investors to raise capital. [C1.]
 LITERARY FALLOUT After Margaret Seltzer admitted fabricating her gang-life memoir, book and newspaper editors scrambled to cover their tracks. [E1.] 
 PICKING UP THE PACE Advanced Micro Devices said it was on track to produce faster processing technology this year, closing the gap with its rival, Intel. [C2.]
 JOINT VENTURE Germany and France announced a high-technology partnership as Europe seeks to compete with market leaders from the United States and Asia. [C2.]
 RISE IN BANKRUPTCIES Bankruptcy filings increased in February as Americans struggled with higher energy prices, a weakening housing market and mounting personal debt. [C3.]
 FIGHTING TAX HAVENS The dispute with Liechtenstein has given the European Commission new impetus in its effort to clamp down on tax evasion. [C3.]
 GAS DISPUTE A conflict between the Russian natural gas company Gazprom and Ukraine intensified as the gas giant reduced the flow of gas a second time. [C3.]
 THE COMEBACK KID Bayer is reviving Speedy Alka-Seltzer, the elf who sold the effervescent tablets for nearly three decades. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C4.]
 WHAT GOES UP . . . In an attempt to contain inflation, Australia's central bank raised interest rates, counter to the trend among many of its counterparts. [C7.]
 . . . MUST COME DOWN The Bank of Canada cut its benchmark interest rate by half a percentage point, blaming a weakening United States economy. [C7.]
 GIFT LOOPHOLE A new study suggests that top executives time stock gifts to claim the maximum possible tax deduction and escape capital gains taxes. [A10.]
 SEVENTH PLANT TO CLOSE General Motors said it would shut down a plant in Toledo, Ohio, because of the strike by the United Automobile Workers union against a parts supplier. [C9.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIVE SERVICES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); TAX FRAUD (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); TRENDS (78%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (75%); LABOR UNIONS (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (73%); JOINT VENTURES (73%); WIRETAPPING (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); TAX LAW (69%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (69%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (68%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (68%); PERSONAL DEBT (64%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (63%); INTEREST RATES (60%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); GOOGLE INC (84%); OAO GAZPROM (65%); FACEBOOK INC (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (55%); INTEL CORP (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (84%); OGZD (LSE) (65%); GAZP (RTS) (65%); FB (NASDAQ) (57%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); AMD (NYSE) (55%); AMD (FRA) (55%); INTC (NASDAQ) (55%); GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (65%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (65%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (65%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (65%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (65%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (65%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: SHERYL SANDBERG (79%); MARK ZUCKERBERG (79%); BEN BERNANKE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (91%); UKRAINE (79%); ASIA (79%); LIECHTENSTEIN (79%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (74%); AUSTRALIA (71%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (67%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2008



122 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONALA3-9
 Foes of Colombia's Foray Focus on Its Ties to U.S.
 Since Colombian forces crossed into Ecuador and killed a guerrilla leader taking refuge there, tensions between Colombia -- Washington's top regional ally -- and its leftist neighbors have erupted, highlighting the fact that Colombia and its policies are increasingly viewed in Venezuela as American proxies. A1 
 Abbas Equivocates on Talks 
 Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian president, refused to publicly commit to restarting suspended talks with Israel, frustrating Bush administration officials who contend that he is giving Hamas a tactical victory by allowing it to hijack Arab-Israeli peace negotiations. A3 
 Kosovo's Uncertain Economy
 Two weeks after Kosovo declared independence from Serbia, the capital, Pristina, continues to pulsate with young crowds at new cafes and shopping malls. But such superficial signs of economic success mask the harsh uncertainties of a newborn nation. A8 
 Struggles in Pakistan Politics
 The parties that won Pakistan's elections say they will select a prime minister any day now, but that is not expected to calm the country's turbulent politics, as the incoming government refocuses opposition to President Pervez Musharraf. A9 
 Two suicide bombers attacked a naval war college in the eastern Pakistani city of Lahore, killing at least four people, including three in the Pakistani Navy, naval officials said. A9 
 Iraqi Helicopter Crash Kills 8
 An Iraqi Army helicopter that was flying through a sandstorm crashed in northern Iraq, killing all eight people on board, including one American serviceman, military officials said. A8 
 NATIONALA10-21 
 Clinton Triumphs in Ohio; McCain Wins Nomination
 Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton defeated Senator Barack Obama in Ohio, ending a string of defeats and giving her a chance to soldier on in a Democratic presidential race. Mrs. Clinton also won Rhode Island, while Mr. Obama won in Vermont. The rivals were locked in a fierce battle for delegates in Texas. 
 Senator John S. McCain of Arizona claimed the Republican presidential nomination, sweeping to victory in Ohio, Texas, Vermont and Rhode Island to cap a remarkable political comeback. Mr. McCain's remaining rival, Mike Huckabee, the former governor of Arkansas, dropped out of the race. A1 
 Now that Senator McCain has earned the nomination, he can begin thinking seriously about who he will ask to run for vice president. Senior campaign advisers say there is no short list of names, and no process yet to help him make his choice. A18 The Press on the Trail
 The tone of the Democratic contest recently seems to have shifted, with Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's campaign more buoyant and Senator Barack Obama's more defensive. A18 
 Lesions Tied to Colon Cancer
 In a new study of colonoscopy, an easily overlooked type of abnormality in the colon is the most likely to turn cancerous and is more common in this country than previously thought. A1 
 Bearing Arms at School
 An Arizona state senator sponsored a bill that would allow people with a concealed weapons permit to carry firearms at public colleges and universities. The measure was approved by the State Senate Judiciary Committee last week. A10 
 NEW YORK/REGIONB1-8 
 Cash-for-Grades System Welcomed by Students
 Across the country, school districts have seized on the idea that a key to improving schools is to pay for performance, whether through bonuses for teachers and principals or cash prizes for students. New York City, in the forefront of this movement, has handed out more than $500,000 to 5,237 students this school year. A1 
 Meadowlands Muddle
 A $1 billion golf course project near the New Jersey Turnpike, and Xanadu, a 2.3 million-square-foot complex across Route 3 in East Rutherford, are reminders of what can go wrong when trying to build in the Meadowlands. The problem-plagued projects also provide a window into New Jersey's pay-to-play culture.B1 
 BUSINESS DAYC1-11 
 Inching Toward a Bailout
 As much as they might oppose it on ideological grounds, the Bush administration and the Federal Reserve are inching closer toward a government rescue of distressed homeowners and mortgage lenders. A1 
 Facebook Makes Moves
 Facebook has lured Sheryl Sandberg away from Google to be chief operating officer. C1 
 Today in Business C2 
 ARTSE1-10 
 Focus Redirected to Publisher
 After the author of ''Love and Consequences'' confessed that she had made up the memoir about her supposed life as a foster child in gang-infested South-Central Los Angeles, the focus turned to her publisher and the news organizations that helped publicize what appeared to be an autobiography. E1 
 SPORTSD1-6 Favre Announces Retirement
 Brett Favre, the quarterback of the Green Bay Packers and one of the most crowd-pleasing players in football history, told the Packers he was retiring. D1 
 EDITORIALA22-23 
 Editorials: A clean, fair fight; hope when?; getting teenagers home safely; mass transit needs congestion pricing. 
 Columns: Maureen Dowd.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POLITICS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (87%); COLORECTAL CANCER (83%); NAVIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ARMIES (78%); TERRORISM (78%); HIJACKING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); HAMAS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (74%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (71%); HELICOPTERS (70%); GOVERNORS (67%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (66%); ENDOSCOPY (60%); PEACE PROCESS (56%); RETAILERS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (57%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); BARACK OBAMA (76%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (72%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (55%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) COLOMBIA (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOSOVO (93%); PAKISTAN (93%); SERBIA (93%); IRAQ (93%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); ISRAEL (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2008



123 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1249 words

HEADLINE: Step by Step, Bush and Fed Move on Mortgage Rescue

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS and VIKAS BAJAJ

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
However much they might oppose it on ideological grounds, the Bush administration and the Federal Reserve are inching closer toward a government rescue of distressed homeowners and mortgage lenders.
 Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, told a group of bankers in Florida on Tuesday that ''more can and should be done'' to help millions of people with mortgages that are often bigger than the value of their homes. 
 Though Mr. Bernanke stopped well short of calling for a government bailout, he used his bully pulpit to try to push the banking industry into forgiving portions of many mortgages and signaled his concern that market forces would not be enough to prevent a broader economic calamity.
 He also suggested that the Federal Housing Administration expand its insurance program to let more people switch from expensive subprime mortgages to federally insured loans. 
 And he urged the two government-sponsored mortgage companies, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, to raise more capital so they could buy more mortgages. The companies already guarantee or hold as investments about $1.5 trillion in mortgages. 
 Similarly, the Bush administration, despite its public opposition to bailouts, has set the stage for a bigger government role.
 One month ago, President Bush signed an economic stimulus bill that greatly increased the size of loans the F.H.A. can insure, while allowing Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to purchase significantly larger mortgages from lenders and guarantee them against default by homeowners. 
 The move, which administration officials had previously opposed, increases the limits on F.H.A., Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae mortgages from $417,000 to as much as $729,750.
 Historically, the F.H.A. and the mortgage companies have focused on conservative mortgages for people borrowing relatively modest sums. But they are now being encouraged to finance much bigger mortgages, in some cases to people who put almost no money down.
 Last week, the administration went further by removing limits on the volume of mortgages that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac can hold in their own portfolios. That means the two companies could buy up billions of dollars in mortgages that other investors have been too frightened to touch.
 In theory, the change should not cost taxpayers. But because the companies are chartered by Congress, investors have assumed that Congress would bail them out if needed. Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac can borrow money more cheaply than private banks largely because of the assumed government backing.
 The Fed has been offering its own resources to soften the credit squeeze that began when investors started to panic about subprime loans. In addition to sharply cutting interest rates, the Fed has lent more than $160 billion to banks since mid-December through a new program, the Term Auction Facility.
 Under the program, banks have been able to borrow money for up to a month or so, pledging collateral that includes mortgage-backed securities, even if the securities are not tradable in today's markets. 
 In Congress, Democratic lawmakers pounced on Mr. Bernanke's comments in Orlando, Fla., to bolster their arguments for much costlier rescue plans.
 ''It is now clear that we will not be able to avert a more serious and prolonged economic slowdown if we don't address the problem of increasing mortgage foreclosures,'' Representative Barney Frank, chairman of the House Financial Services Committtee, said on Tuesday. 
 Mr. Frank, who praised the Fed chairman's ''willingness to work with us,'' proposed legislation last week to allow the F.H.A. to insure up to $20 billion in troubled mortgages if the lenders first agree to forgive a big part of the original loan amounts. 
 But even without new legislation, the Federal Housing Administration has been active. It has insured 110,000 mortgage refinancings worth $15 billion since it started a program, F.H.A. Secure, in October. It is hard to know how many of the loans would have come to the agency because of the mortgage crisis, but officials estimate as many as 90 percent of the borrowers were previously in subprime loans.
 The F.H.A. figures prominently in the proposals being put forth by regulators and lawmakers. The agency insures mortgage loans made by approved lenders.
 A longstanding bill to modernize the program would lower the down payment needed for F.H.A. loans to 1.5 percent of a home's value, from 3 percent. The bill would also let the agency price insurance based on each loan's risks. The F.H.A. now charges everyone the same premium.
 ''We will not back loans that do not make sense and cost taxpayers money,'' said D. J. Nordquist, a spokeswoman for the Department of Housing and Urban Development, which runs the F.H.A. 
 But skeptics worry that the plans to expand the scope of the F.H.A. will put taxpayers at risk. They note that home prices are likely to fall further. If the government moves to insure or buy mortgages now, it might help arrest the price decline -- but only temporarily.
 ''The reality is, prices will fall; there is no way to keep them up,'' said Dean Baker, co-director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research, a liberal group in Washington. ''If we have the government get in, either as the owner of the debt or the guarantor of the debt, a lot of the decline will be shouldered by the taxpayer.''
 Created during the Depression to support the mortgage market, the F.H.A. has played a critical role in the housing industry in the past, though in recent years it lost ground to subprime lenders.
 Administration officials say the program was meant to step in during tumultuous times like these. They further note that its conservative underwriting standards will ensure that the F.H.A. program's losses will be within its traditional range.
 Congress and the Bush administration are also hoping to soften the mortgage debacle through Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
 Even before President Bush signed legislation allowing the two government-sponsored companies to guarantee mortgages as big as $729,750 in high-cost markets, Fannie Mae had begun offering personal loans to some borrowers who were behind on their house payments. Known as HomeSaver Advance, the loans could help Fannie Mae keep mortgages current for borrowers who have a temporary setback.
 The two companies are now trying to decide how to guarantee the bigger and potentially riskier mortgages. Both want to exclude ''no-documentation'' loans, but Congress authorized them to buy up big mortgages going back to last July -- when a high percentage of such loans were approved without verification of the borrower's income. As a result, company executives are debating whether to buy up at least some ''no-doc'' loans made last year.
 ''One could argue that these things are steps on the bailout continuum, although they are baby steps,'' said Karen Weaver, head of securitization research at Deutsche Bank. 
 Democratic leaders in Congress are pushing for bolder action. The House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, will hold a closed meeting on Wednesday with some of the leading advocates for more extensive rescue measures.
 Administration officials remain opposed, but some are at least discussing such ideas.
 ''Whether government intervention is necessary is something we should all be thinking about,'' Sheila C. Bair, chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, said at a hearing of the Senate Banking Committee on Tuesday. ''But I don't think we are there yet.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In Orlando, Ben Bernanke said ''more can and should be done.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS LIVINGSTON/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (pg.A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (92%); MORTGAGE LOANS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BAILOUTS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SUBPRIME LENDING (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (77%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (77%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (77%); POLITICS (75%); HOME PRICES (73%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2008



124 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: News Coverage Changes, and So Does Tone of the Campaign

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
Over the last few days, the tone of the Democratic contest seems to have shifted, with Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's campaign more buoyant and Senator Barack Obama's more defensive. 
 That shift may be traceable in part to the ''Saturday Night Live'' show on Feb. 23, when, back from the writers' strike, it mocked the news media for treating Mr. Obama more gently than it treated Mrs. Clinton.
 Mrs. Clinton amplified that view later in a debate, and her aides stoked it all week, practically browbeating reporters. 
 Now comes evidence that the publicizing by the Clinton campaign and the news media may have helped flip the coverage as it questioned Mr. Obama more aggressively.
 Mr. Obama was the subject of 69 percent of all campaign articles last week, from Feb. 25 to March 2, and Mrs. Clinton was the subject of 58 percent of articles about the election, according to a study by the Project for Excellence in Journalism. 
 The organization, part of the Pew Research Center, specializes in empirical methods to evaluate the news media.
 Mr. Obama generated more coverage than any candidate in any other week this year.
 ''The media scrutinized everything from his legislative record to his connections to Louis Farrakhan, and frequently addressed the question of whether journalists have been too soft on the front-runner for the Democratic nomination,'' the study said.
 In addition, many articles about Antoin Rezko, a Chicago builder who was a fund-raiser for Mr. Obama, reported on the start of his trial on kickback charges. Mr. Obama is not implicated in the case. But the two were involved in a land deal. Mrs. Clinton's coverage level last week was also the highest for her, the report said, and it was less negative than it had been.
 ''With the Clinton media narrative focused on her being a candidate firmly in combat mode, she enjoyed a respite from recent coverage that had focused on her post-Super Tuesday losing streak and her campaign's strategic shortcomings,'' the study said.
 While Mr. Obama dominated the coverage, the total of campaign news decreased in the week, accounting for 38 percent of articles. That is the lowest level since the project began in January, perhaps reflecting the absence of primaries last week and some pundits' saying the race was over for Mrs. Clinton. 
 Yet the campaign outpaced all other topics. The economy was second, with 7 percent of coverage.
 The project examined 48 news sources, 15 cable television programs, 13 daily newspapers, 8 radio programs, 7 network television programs and 5 Web sites. 
 ''Saturday Night Live'' thrust itself into the relative vacuum, portraying the news media as swooning over Mr. Obama and badgering Mrs. Clinton. Her campaign grabbed the pop-culture moment and stoked the idea, even rewarding the show with a surprise appearance by the candidate.
 In the last few days, reports suggested that Mr. Obama was on the ropes and that Mrs. Clinton's camp had been reinvigorated. The researchers suggested that the change stemmed at least in part from deeper scrutiny of Mr. Obama as the front-runner and to rethinking by news organizations about whether they had been fair. 
 At the same time, Mrs. Clinton became more aggressive, beginning to cast doubt on Mr. Obama's readiness to be commander in chief.
 No less an authority than Mr. Obama said Tuesday that he believed that reporters had been influenced by the Clinton campaign's flood of complaints about news media bias. 
 ''I am a little surprised that all the complaining about the refs has actually worked as well as it has for them,'' he said, using a sports allusion to the news media as referees. ''This whole spin of how the press has just been so tough on them and not tough on us -- I didn't expect that you guys would bite on that.'' 
 Mr. Obama said later that he wanted to meet Tina Fey, the comedy writer and actress who was the guest host on ''Saturday Night Live'' when it all but endorsed Mrs. Clinton.
 ''Clearly, Tina Fey and I are going to have to have a conversation,'' Mr. Obama said.
 In a conference call with reporters on Tuesday, Clinton aides passed up the chance to continue the line of attack against the news media. They would not say that the coverage had evened out, but they did not berate reporters. 
 ''With regard to the media, I frankly don't find it productive to comment,'' said Howard Wolfson, Mrs. Clinton's spokesman. ''I'm clearly not an unbiased source in this regard.''
 When this article was posted on Tuesday on The New York Times Web site, several readers said the news media had been unfair to Mrs. Clinton. Many said reporters had not been tough enough on her. Many also focused on the role of ''Saturday Night Live.''
 ''The line between politics and entertainment has become almost fatally blurred now, and I am uncomfortable with that,'' a reader wrote. ''SNL is NOT journalism, and it's a sad statement that a late night comedy show might have a greater impact on our political path than a debate.''
 Another reader wrote: ''Don't kid yourselves, the media didn't suddenly have some revelation because of SNL. They are trying to sink Obama to keep this race, which they seem to love more than life itself, going. SNL just provided them a justification.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Notebooks and cameras at Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's news conference in Austin, Tex. She had a respite from the focus on her losing streak and strategic shortcomings, a study said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); NEWS REPORTING (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); WRITERS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (74%); RESEARCH REPORTS (74%); FUNDRAISING (73%); NETWORK TELEVISION (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (63%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (75%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Saturday Night Live (TV Program)>; Saturday Night Live (TV Program)>

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2008



125 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: French-German Rivalry Slows Tech Efforts

BYLINE: By KEVIN J. O'BRIEN

DATELINE: HANOVER, Germany 

 BODY:
At the opening this week of Cebit, the European technology fair, President Nicolas Sarkozy of France surprised his hosts by suggesting that France and Germany work together to develop a supercomputer. 
 But the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, speaking after him, did not mention the offer. And a day later, the German and French economic ministries announced a high-technology partnership without endorsing Mr. Sarkozy's idea.
 A year ago, a German-French program to develop a software search engine to rival Google's collapsed. Since then, Germany's wariness of forming a new partnership is just one of the challenges facing Europe as it seeks to compete in technology with market leaders from the United States and Asia.
 ''An Airbus for the European I.T. industry, that is what we need,'' said August-Wilhelm Scheer, the president of Bitkom, the leading high-tech industry association in Germany.
 The two countries together will spend 258 billion euros ($392.5 billion) on information technology products and services this year. Mr. Scheer said the failure to coordinate those efforts was a lost opportunity for a continent whose greatest successes -- Airbus, the Ariane rocket program and the GSM mobile phone standard -- are all more than a decade old.
 But rivalries between German and French companies -- and financial concerns about committing to open-ended research without assurance of a commercial payoff -- could hinder the latest attempt at French-German cooperation, just as they torpedoed the search engine, Quaero. That project, initiated in 2005 by Mr. Sarkozy's predecessor, Jacques Chirac, dissolved last year after the countries could not agree on a common vision for the project.
 Taking different paths in joint technology projects is not uncommon for Germany and France. The two countries, for example, have used different approaches in introducing the so-called Vitale cards, national health cards with embedded computer chips to store vital patient information. 
 France's centralized government structure, which put the design, purchasing and distribution of cards in the hands of government agencies, aided its swift introduction in 2006. That was not the case in Germany, where government is decentralized. There, 250 government health payment agencies are devising their own cards, and German citizens are not expected to get the cards until the end of next year.
 ''In France, there is more willingness to experiment and to perfect in subsequent generations,'' said Guido Lenzen, the head of health sales for Sagem Orga, a maker of government health cards and card-reading machines in Paderborn, Germany. ''In Germany, the thinking is if you are going to do something, you should do it right and work out all of the bugs first. That has advantages, but it also means things take a while.''
 At times, that also holds true for decision making in Germany. And one official said the French president's plan to coordinate supercomputer research with Germany may not be dead after all.
 Bernd-Wolfgang Weismann, head of the information technology industry division in the German Economics Ministry, said the two countries were in exploratory talks about coordinating their supercomputer projects. But questions about financing a common project need to be clarified first, he said. ''Our answer to the French president was not no,'' Mr. Weismann said. ''There is no answer yet.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Nicolas Sarkozy of France and Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany addressed reporters Monday. Their nations began a high-tech partnership, but Germany appears wary. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SEBASTIAN WILLNOW/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBAL SYSTEM FOR MOBILE COMMUNICATION (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (76%); SEARCH ENGINES (75%); COMPUTER CHIPS (72%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); EMBEDDED SYSTEMS (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (66%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (91%); AIRBUS SAS (58%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (91%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (58%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (90%); ANGELA MERKEL (88%); JACQUES CHIRAC (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (99%); FRANCE (97%); CENTRAL EUROPE (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2008



126 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 5, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; MARKET PLACE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: Assurances From Citigroup, But Skepticism on Wall Street

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
Sanford I. Weill built Citigroup into one of the world's largest banking companies. Now, Vikram S. Pandit is watching Mr. Weill's creation wither in the stock market.
 Reflecting a punishing yearlong decline, Citigroup's stock price plummeted on Tuesday to its lowest level since 1998, when Mr. Weill formed the financial conglomerate through the merger of Travelers and Citicorp. 
 The shares sank 99 cents, or 4.3 percent, to $22.10, as concern spread that new multibillion-dollar losses might force Citigroup to go hat in hand to foreign investors once again. The market tumble left Citigroup shares down 56 percent in the last year, the worst showing among the 30 stocks that make up the Dow Jones industrials. 
 For now, executives say they are confident that the company is financially strong. On Tuesday evening, Mr. Pandit told employees on an internal conference call that Citigroup was ''well capitalized,'' according to a person close to the company. 
 The bank has no plans to seek funds from outside investors, another person close to the company said. Since November, Citigroup has raised about $30 billion from investors in Asia and the Middle East, as well as from the public. 
 But those investments may not be enough to shore up Citigroup, some investors fear. Sameer al-Ansari, the head of Dubai International Capital, a government-controlled investment fund, told Reuters on Tuesday that Citigroup might need ''a lot more money.'' 
 Adding to the gloom, two new analyst reports on Tuesday forecast that Citigroup would remain mired in red ink this quarter. Merrill Lynch predicted that Citigroup would take $15 billion in write-downs because of bad mortgage investments, leaving it with a net loss of $1.66 a share. Goldman Sachs estimated Citi's loss at $1 a share. 
 Since becoming chief executive in December, Mr. Pandit, 51, has rejiggered Citigroup's sprawling structure but has not made the radical overhaul many investors called for. On Monday, for example, he announced a reorganization of the company's wealth-management business.
 But investors and analysts say Mr. Pandit needs to take far bolder steps to turn around the bank, which has been pummeled by the turmoil in the credit markets. Some have urged him to break up the company, saying Citigroup has become too unwieldy to be managed effectively. Mr. Pandit, like his predecessor, Charles O. Prince III, has resisted that step.
 Mr. Pandit now confronts growing doubt about his leadership and management team at a time of uncertainty in the financial markets and the economy. ''There are a lot of balls in the air for Vikram Pandit,'' said David Hendler, a financial services analyst at CreditSights in New York. ''Pretty soon, that 100-day honeymoon is going to be over. In the meantime, they may have to act.''
 Citigroup's capital levels came under scrutiny in October when Meredith A. Whitney, now a banking analyst at Oppenheimer, issued a scathing report saying the company's weakening finances would force it to cut its dividend, sell assets and issue new stock. At the time, Citigroup executives brushed off those ideas. By the end of 2007, they were heeding Ms. Whitney's advice. 
 On Tuesday, the person close to Citigroup said the company was strong enough to maintain its dividend, which costs the company about $6 billion annually. Still, that leaves open the possibility that the board may elect to cut the dividend.
 Citigroup says it has more than enough capital to meet regulatory guidelines and its own internal benchmarks. The bank is in the process of raising several billion dollars by selling assets from several smaller fringe businesses and has pulled back from some domestic and international markets. It will also free up several billion dollars as the number of loans on its books shrink.
 Citigroup executives have said the bank is strong enough to withstand more shocks, including a further decline in the value of subprime mortgage investments and buyout loans, potential downgradings of bond insurance companies and big consumer-loan losses. 
 ''The exposures to these areas were stress-tested against an economic downturn with a variety of severity levels,'' Gary L. Crittenden, the chief financial officer, said in a conference call with investors in January. Taking all the factors together, he said, the company had addressed a potential capital shortfall.
 Still, many analysts question whether Citigroup has the earnings power to withstand the heavy losses that might come with a severe economic slump. 
 ''They might as well fess up and admit they need to raise a big chunk of money,'' said Christopher Whalen, managing partner of Institutional Risk Analytics. ''The issue with Citi is all the coming consumer credit losses.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); MERGERS (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (76%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (53%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%)

PERSON: SANDY WEILL (90%); VIKRAM PANDIT (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (75%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2008



127 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: Fed Says Real Estate And Retailing Are Soft

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve on Wednesday presented a snapshot of an economy that is gradually slowing, weighed down by creeping inflation pressures and a more hesitant consumer. 
 Retail sales, particularly of big-ticket items like automobiles and dishwashers, slowed considerably in the first two months of 2008, and regional banks reported fewer loans to businesses and individuals, according to the Fed's ''beige book,'' a regular report on economic conditions compiled by the districts of the central bank. 
 The report, released ahead of the Fed's policy-setting meeting on March 18, collected anecdotal information from across the country and noted that ''economic growth has slowed since the beginning of the year.'' Banks have made it more difficult to take out loans, and businesses said growth was ''weakening,'' ''subdued'' or ''slow.'' 
 ''The February beige book adds to the weight of evidence that the economy is struggling with recessionary forces,'' Brian Bethune, an economist at the forecasting firm Global Insight, wrote in a research note.
 Real estate markets, both residential and commercial, remained weak, the report said, noting that ''sales were low in every district with very few local exceptions.'' In some areas, including Boston, Minneapolis and St. Louis, home sales had fallen more than 20 percent, compared with a year earlier. 
 Home prices fell in every region, though Manhattan's condominium market was a notable exception. Demand for office and retail space fell as well, a possible harbinger for troubles in the commercial market. 
 On the inflation front, businesses said they were feeling pressure to raise prices, though some had trouble doing so. The rising cost of oil and other energy products was a particularly acute problem, and many businesses said they were being forced to pay higher transportation and shipping costs. 
 While costs are rising for consumers, wages are not: most regions reported ''moderate wage increases,'' and several said the pace of hiring had slowed. In Atlanta, New York, Philadelphia and St. Louis, hiring freezes and layoffs were on the rise.
 Stagnant salaries may explain reports that consumer spending softened in almost every region. That raises concern because personal spending accounts for more than two-thirds of gross domestic product. Tourists, however, continue to flock to large cities to take advantage of the cheap American dollar, and that trend could help prop up businesses. 
 Still, manufacturers warned that growth would continue to slacken, as orders and shipments were sluggish or declined in many regions. The housing crisis has hurt the market for products used to build or furnish homes, and auto production has fallen off. 
 A mixed outlook for the service sector dovetailed with a separate report on Wednesday that showed contraction among nonmanufacturing businesses. Investors were jittery last month after the Institute for Supply Management's index dropped to its lowest level since the period after the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, 2001. In February, the closely watched index recovered to 49.3, moving away from the levels associated with a recession but still below the level of 50 that denotes expansion. 
 Also on Wednesday, the Labor Department revised upward its estimate for productivity in the fourth quarter. Nonfarm output per hour grew at 1.9 percent in the period, a slight uptick from the 1.8 percent initial estimate, but a significant slowdown from the third quarter, when output grew 6.3 percent. 
 Wages also appeared to tick up, according to the report, though compensation declined when adjusted for inflation. Unit labor costs, a measure of inflation, rose 2.6 percent in the fourth quarter, up from the initial estimate of 2.1 percent and far faster than the third quarter, when those costs declined 2.7 percent.
 Factory orders plunged in January, declining 2.5 percent after rising 2 percent the month before, the Commerce Department reported. Orders for durable goods -- products made to last for several years -- dropped more than 5 percent, a sign that consumers are shying away from longer-term investments. A survey last week showed consumer confidence at a 16-year low.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Orders for durable goods, like washers and dryers, dropped more than 5 percent, a sign that consumers were shying away from longer-term investments. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANA MIXER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) CHARTS: MIXED GROWTH IN MOST REGIONS: A roundup of regional economic conditions in the Federal Reserve's 12 districts, according to survey results released by the Fed yesterday. Based on information collected on or before Feb. 25. (Source: Bloomberg News)
 FACTORY ORDERS: Manufacturers' total new orders, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INFLATION (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (85%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); RECESSION (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (77%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); CONDOMINIUMS (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); HOME PRICES (70%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); OFFICE PROPERTY (66%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (61%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2008



128 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE ENERGY CHALLENGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1461 words

HEADLINE: Turning Glare Into Watts

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: BOULDER CITY, Nev. 

 BODY:
At first, as he adjusted pumps and checked temperatures, Aaron Boucher looked like any technician in the control room of an electrical plant. Then he rushed to the window and scanned the sky, to check his fuel supply.
 Mr. Boucher was battling clouds, timing the operations of his power plant to get the most out of patchy sunshine. It is a skill that may soon be in greater demand, for the world appears to be on the verge of a boom in a little-known but promising type of solar power.
 It is not the kind that features shiny panels bolted to the roofs of houses. This type involves covering acres of desert with mirrors that focus intense sunlight on a fluid, heating it enough to make steam. The steam turns a turbine and generates electricity.
 The technology is not new, but it is suddenly in high demand. As prices rise for fossil fuels and worries grow about their contribution to global warming, solar thermal plants are being viewed as a renewable power source with huge potential. 
 After a decade of no activity, two prototype solar thermal plants were recently opened in the United States, with a capacity that could power several big hotels, neon included, on the Las Vegas Strip, about 20 miles north of here. Another 10 power plants are in advanced planning in California, Arizona and Nevada. 
 On sunny afternoons, those 10 plants would produce as much electricity as three nuclear reactors, but they can be built in as little as two years, compared with a decade or longer for a nuclear plant. Some of the new plants will feature systems that allow them to store heat and generate electricity for hours after sunset.
 Aside from the ones in the United States, eight plants are under construction in Spain, Algeria and Morocco. Another nine projects are in various stages of planning in those countries as well as Israel, Mexico, China, South Africa and Egypt, according to a count kept by Frederick H. Morse, formerly in charge of solar energy at the Energy Department and now a consultant.
 Mr. Morse and others say that solar thermal plants could meet most of the galloping growth in power demand in Phoenix, Las Vegas and the rest of the southwestern United States. In fact, experts say enough sunshine hits the deserts of the Southwest that such plants could theoretically power the entire United States. But that is a far-off dream, since it would require big new transmission cables.
 The workability of solar thermal power was established in the 1980s, when developers in California built a series of plants in the Mojave Desert, eventually reaching 354 megawatts of capacity. A megawatt is enough electricity to run 1,000 room air-conditioners at once. 
 The California plants grew more sophisticated and costs shrank as the project progressed. But then the price of a competing fuel, natural gas, collapsed in the 1990s and building new solar plants became uneconomic. 
 Today, natural gas prices are much higher, and political opposition is rising to construction of new coal-burning power plants. Many states, including California, are imposing mandates for renewable energy. All of that is reviving interest in solar thermal plants.
 The power they produce is still relatively expensive. Industry experts say the plant here produces power at a cost per kilowatt- hour of 15 to 20 cents. With a little more experience and some economies of scale, that could fall to about 10 cents, according to a recent report by Emerging Energy Research, a consulting firm in Cambridge, Mass. Newly built coal-fired plants are expected to produce power at about 7 cents per kilowatt-hour or more if carbon is taxed.
 The solar plants receive a federal tax subsidy, like other types of renewable energy, which makes the economics work for builders but also feeds skepticism about the technology's long-term potential. ''Unless there's a subsidy involved, it doesn't seem like a very attractive technology,'' said Revis James, a renewables expert at the Electric Power Research Institute, a utility industry consortium.
 Still, solar plants do tend to produce peak power during the hottest part of the day, when demand is highest and electricity is costly, so at certain times they are already competitive with plants using natural gas. And they have an advantage over the other widely available form of renewable power, wind turbines: they are more predictable.
 With California utilities struggling to meet a state quota of 20 percent renewable power by 2010, the state has grown interested in solar plants. Pacific Gas and Electric has committed to building several plants and is expected to make announcements about new solar plants soon. 
 In Phoenix on Feb. 21, the Arizona Public Service unit of Pinnacle West announced plans for a large plant to be built by a Spanish company, Abengoa, and finished in 2011. That one will store heat so that it can continue to produce power for up to six hours after sunset.
 Donald E. Brandt, the chief executive of Pinnacle West, said the decision to build the new solar plant was as important as his company's decision in 1973 to build the Palo Verde nuclear plant, the largest and most modern in the United States.
 ''The key is, the solar technology has advanced,'' Mr. Brandt said. At 280 megawatts, ''it's a critical size; it's a real power plant; it's meaningful; it's beyond the demonstration stage.'' 
 Companies that build the plants have been working on improving the technology, raising efficiency and lowering costs. A battle among competing approaches is expected over the next few years.
 The plant here, Nevada Solar One, built by a Spanish company, Acciona, is of a proven design. It uses a mirror in the shape of a parabola to focus light onto a black pipe with a heat-transfer fluid inside. The fluid is used to boil water into steam, which turns a generator that can produce 64 megawatts.
 That is small compared with a plant running on coal or natural gas, but far bigger than a typical installation involving solar photovoltaic panels, the type of solar power most people are familiar with. That technology, while good for some uses, is far more expensive than solar thermal power.
 Suppliers of thermal systems are gearing up for a boom. In Las Vegas, a company called Ausra is building a factory to make mirrors for one type of solar plant; it will double the world's manufacturing capacity. A German company, Schott, is building a factory in Albuquerque that will make heat-collecting tubes.
 The newest solar-thermal technology involves building a ''power tower,'' a tall structure flanked by thousands of mirrors, each of which pivots to focus light on the tower, heating fluid. That design can work even in places with weaker sunlight than a desert.
 One of the big advantages of these plants is that they can be built with the capacity to store heat in what amounts to a giant Thermos. Experts say that will smooth production and make it easier to integrate the plants into the electrical grid.
 If large numbers of plants are built, they will eventually pose some problems, even in the desert. They could take up immense amounts of land and damage the environment. Already, building a plant in California requires hiring a licensed tortoise wrangler to capture and relocate endangered desert tortoises.
 ''The one thing that's eventually going to raise its head is desert biodiversity, and the land area itself,'' said Terrence J. Collins, an environmental expert and professor at Carnegie Mellon University. 
 Building the plants in deserts poses another obvious problem: deserts are not exactly teeming with power lines. ''Whatever you do, you've got to have the wiring,'' Mr. Collins said. 
 Despite the difficulties, solar thermal plants have an other-worldly beauty as they run. 
 At Nevada Solar One the other day, Mr. Boucher, 30, ran the computerized control room. Dressed in a T-shirt, sneakers and a Boston Red Sox cap worn backwards, he looked a bit like a teenage gamer as he used a computer mouse to manipulate the plant. 
 He was trying to produce as much electricity as possible while saving heat to tide the plant over as clouds cast episodic shadows on the solar array. ''I've been fighting it all day,'' he said.
 Outside, row after row of U-shaped mirrors, covering nearly a square mile, stretched across the desert. In the center of each U, where the force of the sun was magnified 70 times, ran a pipe painted black, and inside it flowed oil that warmed to hundreds of degrees as it collected the heat needed to run a generator.
 The buzz in the control room, as Mr. Boucher worked, contrasted with the sanguine scene beyond the windows. Imperceptibly, in the dusty wind of the high desert, 182,000 mirrors moved from east to west, tracking the sun across the sky.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Especially in areas of intense sun, an array of reflectors can concentrate sunlight, heating a fluid to create steam and power. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ISAAC BREKKEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.E1)
 John S. O'Donnell's company, Ausra, is building a factory in Las Vegas to make mirrors for solar thermal plants. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ISAAC BREKKEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER PLANTS (90%); SOLAR POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); SOLAR ENERGY (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (77%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (77%); ENERGY DEMAND (77%); DESERTS (74%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); PROCESS STEAM UTILITIES (72%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (93%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (79%) NEVADA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MOJAVE DESERT (79%); SOUTHWEST, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EGYPT (79%); ISRAEL (77%); SPAIN (68%); MOROCCO (53%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2008



129 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 270 words

HEADLINE: Ziff Davis Media Seeks Bankruptcy; Ad Revenue Down

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Ziff Davis Media Inc., publisher of technology and video game magazines, filed for bankruptcy protection on Wednesday, citing a decrease in revenue from print advertising and subscriptions as contributing to its decline. 
 The company said it expected to reorganize quickly and exit court protection by summer.
 Ziff Davis, which is based in New York, said in a court filing that it had total debt of $500 million to $1 billion and total assets of $100 million to $500 million. 
 The company is the publisher of PC Magazine and Electronic Gaming Monthly and Web versions of those magazines.
 Ziff Davis reached an agreement with senior creditors, to whom it owes $225 million. Under the deal, the senior creditors will be owed $57.5 million and at least 88.8 percent of the common stock in the company once it emerges.
 The company was unable to reach an agreement with more junior creditors, and is looking to use the court process to resolve that dispute. Another 11.2 percent of the reorganized company's stock is available for distribution to those debt holders.
 Creditors have set aside $24.5 million to finance the company's operations during the case and after it concludes. 
 The company reaches 26 million consumers through 16 Web sites, 3 magazines and direct marketing. It is a remnant of a publishing empire established in the 1920s by William B. Ziff Sr. and Bernard G. Davis, who introduced titles like Popular Aviation and Popular Electronics.
 The bursting of the Internet bubble hurt Ziff Davis, which said its print advertising revenue dropped to $40 million last year from $215 million in 2001.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (91%); PRINT ADVERTISING (90%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); COMPUTER GAMES (78%); DIRECT MARKETING (78%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); COMMON STOCK (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (72%); PUBLISHING (58%)

COMPANY: ZIFF DAVIS MEDIA INC (96%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (96%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2008



130 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1024 words

PERSON: Frederick Seitz 

HEADLINE: Frederick Seitz, 96, Dies; Physicist Who Led Skeptics of Global Warming

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
Frederick Seitz, a renowned physicist who led both the National Academy of Sciences and Rockefeller University and became a prominent skeptic on the issue of global warming, died Sunday in Manhattan. He was 96 and lived in Key West, Fla.
 The death was confirmed by his son, Joachim. 
 Dr. Seitz was president of the National Academy of Sciences from 1962 to 1969 and president of Rockefeller University, one of the nation's leading research institutions, from 1968 to 1978. In 1973, President Richard M. Nixon presented him with the National Medal of Science for his contributions to the modern quantum theory of the solid state of matter.
 During World War II, Dr. Seitz, as a member of the National Defense Research Committee, was involved in research on ballistics and armor penetration, on the development of radar components and on the development of the atomic bomb. After the war, he directed the atomic energy training program at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Tennessee, and later served as science adviser to NATO.
 ''He was a pioneer in the field of condensed-matter physics, expanding the understanding of the physical and chemical properties of materials,'' Frank Press, a successor to Dr. Seitz as president of the National Academy of Sciences, said Tuesday. 
 Dr. Press said Dr. Seitz's 1940 textbook, ''The Modern Theory of Solids,'' was a ''very important contribution'' to the growth of solid-state physics -- the determination of the atomic properties of matter. ''Transistors,'' Dr. Press said, ''are an example of one of the discoveries of modern solid-state physics.''
 While a graduate student at Princeton in the 1930s, Dr. Seitz and his teacher Eugene P. Wigner developed the Wigner-Seitz method for calculating the cohesive energy of a metal. It was the first such calculation, based on the known properties of the atoms involved.
 In the 1990s, as consensus about global warming was building, Dr. Seitz's contrarian views became a spark for debate. 
 When, in 1998, Dr. Seitz issued a statement and circulated a petition attacking the scientific conclusions underlying international efforts to control emissions of industrial-waste gases, the National Academy of Sciences took the extraordinary step of refuting the position of one its former presidents. The petition called for the United States to reject the Kyoto Protocol, the 1997 treaty, negotiated by more than 150 countries, imposing limits on emissions of gases like carbon dioxide. 
 Dr. Seitz's petition was accompanied by an article concluding that emissions of carbon dioxide, the principal greenhouse gas, posed no climatic threat. Instead, the article said, the emissions amounted to ''a wonderful and unexpected gift from the Industrial Revolution'' by stimulating atmospheric carbon dioxide and increasing plant growth. 
 Dr. Press, who was also President Jimmy Carter's science adviser, said that while he and Dr. Seitz were good friends, Dr. Seitz ''was not a specialist in this field.''
 ''Most top scientists in the field disagreed with him, I among them,'' Dr. Press said. Asked if Dr. Seitz's beliefs had shifted in recent years, Dr. Press said they had not.
 From 1978 to 1988, Dr. Seitz was a member of the medical research committee of the R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company. His work for the company was the subject of a 2006 article in Vanity Fair magazine that criticized what it called an ''overlap'' between scientists who deny climate change and ''tobacco executives who denied the dangers of smoking.''
 The article, by Mark Hertsgaard, said that Dr. Seitz had helped R. J. Reynolds ''give away $45 million to fund medical research in the 1970s and 1980s,'' studies that ''avoided the central health issue'' of smoking and ''served the tobacco industry's purposes.''
 Dr. Seitz called the charges ''ridiculous, completely wrong.'' In an article for the technology journal TCSDaily, he wrote, ''The money was all spent on basic science, medical science,'' citing in particular research on mad cow disease and tuberculosis and for the work of the Nobel Prize winner Stanley B. Prusiner, the discoverer of prion, an agent that causes brain and neural infections. 
 Born in San Francisco on July 4, 1911, Dr. Seitz was a son of Frederick and Emily Hofman Seitz, the owners of a local bakery. 
 Besides his son, of Palo Alto, Calif., Dr. Seitz is survived by three grandchildren and four great-grandchildren. His wife of more than 50 years, the former Elizabeth Marshall, died in 1992.
 After receiving his bachelor's degree in mathematics at Stanford in 1932, Dr. Seitz earned a Ph.D. in physics at Princeton in 1934. Before being named president of Rockefeller University, in Manhattan, Dr. Seitz had served on the faculties of the University of Rochester, the University of Pennsylvania, the University of Illinois and the Carnegie Institute of Technology (now Carnegie Mellon University).
 In his time as president of Rockefeller, the university started research programs in reproductive biology, cell biology, molecular biology and the neurosciences. It also began a joint M.D.-Ph.D. program with Cornell University Medical College and established the 1,000-acre Center for Field Research in Ethology and Ecology in Millbrook, N.Y., where behavioral and biological scientists study natural phenomena related to animal behavior and environmental biology.
 In the early years of the cold war, Dr. Seitz warned of the Soviet Union's rapid development of nuclear weapons. In 1980, President-elect Ronald Reagan appointed Dr. Seitz to a 15-member advisory committee of scientists and engineers to study technical issues facing the new administration. The panel urged Reagan to strengthen programs in military, industrial and space technology as a means of reasserting American strategic and economic supremacy.
 Besides the National Medal of Science, Dr. Seitz received many other honors, including the United States Department of Defense Distinguished Service Award; the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's Distinguished Public Service Award; and the Compton Award, the highest honor of the American Institute of Physics.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Frederick Seitz (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROCKEFELLER UNIVERSITY, 1992) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); PHYSICS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); SCIENCE POLICY (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (84%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); QUANTUM MECHANICS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); CHEMISTRY (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); SCIENTIFIC METHOD (75%); WORLD WAR II (74%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (69%); PETITIONS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (93%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%)

JIMMY CARTER (56%); RICHARD NIXON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); KEY WEST, FL, USA (88%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

CATEGORY: Science and Technology

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2008



131 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: In Trial, Alaska Says Lilly Concealed Risks of a Schizophrenia Drug

BYLINE: By ALEX BERENSON

DATELINE: ANCHORAGE 

 BODY:
Eli Lilly, the drug maker, systematically hid the risks and side effects of Zyprexa, its best-selling schizophrenia medicine, a lawyer for the State of Alaska said Wednesday in opening arguments in a lawsuit that contends the drug caused many schizophrenic patients to develop diabetes.
 The lawyer, Scott Allen, said that memorandums from Lilly executives showed that the company knew of Zyprexa's dangers soon after the drug was introduced in 1996. But Lilly deliberately played down the side effects, Mr. Allen said, so that sales of Zyprexa would not be hurt. 
 Lilly's conduct was ''reprehensible,'' Mr. Allen said. In the suit, which is being heard in Alaska state court before Judge Mark Rindner, the state is asking Lilly to pay for the medical expenses of Medicaid patients who have contracted diabetes or other diseases after taking Zyprexa.
 The Alaska case is the first Zyprexa-related lawsuit to reach a jury trial and is being closely watched by other states and by federal prosecutors who are investigating Lilly for the way it marketed Zyprexa. A jury of seven women and five men is hearing the case in Anchorage.
 In their opening arguments, lawyers for Lilly said that the company had done nothing wrong and was proud to sell Zyprexa, which they described as a breakthrough treatment for people with severe mental illnesses.
 Even as the state's lawyers claimed that Zyprexa was dangerous, Alaska's Medicaid program continues to pay for the medicine, said Nina Gussack, a lawyer for Pepper Hamilton, which represents Lilly.
 Ms. Gussack said that Lilly would call Dr. R. Duane Hopson, the medical director of the state-financed Alaska Psychiatric Institute, to bolster its case that Zyprexa's benefits outweigh its risks.
 Another lawyer for Pepper, George A. Lehner, said that Lilly had always properly disclosed Zyprexa's side effects to the Food and Drug Administration.
 Judge Rinder has divided the trial into two parts. In the first part, the jury will determine whether Lilly is liable for hiding Zyprexa's risks. If it finds that Lilly did nothing wrong, the case will end.
 If it finds Lilly liable, a second jury will be chosen to hear a trial that will determine whether Zyprexa caused the maladies of people who took it and how much the company must pay in restitution.
 The state has not made a specific demand for restitution. Ed Sniffen, the senior assistant attorney general for Alaska, said that damages could rise to the ''hundreds of millions'' of dollars if the state wins and is awarded treble damages for the cost of the care it has provided.
 Zyprexa is among the world's top-selling medicines, with sales of $4.8 billion in 2007, about half that in the United States. About 23 million people have taken the drug since it was introduced.
 But Lilly has faced mounting legal problems over Zyprexa as evidence of the drug's tendency to cause weight gain and diabetes has emerged. Lilly has already spent about $1.2 billion to settle about 30,000 claims from people who say that Zyprexa caused them to develop diabetes or other diseases.
 In addition, federal prosecutors are conducting civil and criminal investigations into whether Lilly played down Zyprexa's risks and marketed the drug ''off label,'' for patients who did not have schizophrenia or bipolar disorder. 
 Federal law prohibits drug makers from promoting medicines for uses that have not been approved by the F.D.A., although doctors can prescribe drugs for any use they see fit.
 The company also faces suits from many states that want to be reimbursed for the cost of providing medical care to Medicaid patients who took Zyprexa. Most schizophrenia patients are unemployed and receive medical coverage through Medicaid. In all, states and the federal government spent about $1.5 billion on Zyprexa last year.
 Lilly and the prosecutors in Pennsylvania are discussing an overall settlement of the state and federal investigations and lawsuits that would require Lilly to pay $1 billion to $2 billion in fines and restitution to federal and state governments.
 The negotiations in Pennsylvania increase the importance of the Alaska trial, lawyers say. If Lilly wins, its hand will be strengthened in the settlement talks. If Alaska wins, other states and federal prosecutors are likely to demand even more money.
 Many of the memorandums and e-mail messages presented by Mr. Allen, the lawyer for the state, were disclosed in two articles in The New York Times in December 2006. They show that Lilly executives were concerned as early as 1999 that Zyprexa's sales might be hurt if doctors believed that the drug caused diabetes. 
 In one memorandum in October 2000, a Lilly manager wrote that a panel of doctors convened by the company had warned that ''unless we come clean on this, it might get much more serious.''
 Nonetheless, Lilly continued to encourage its sales representatives to play down the risk of weight gain and diabetes, the memorandums showed. In a July 2001 memorandum, a Lilly executive said the company was ''betting the farm on Zyprexa.''
 Only last year, under pressure from the F.D.A., did the company acknowledge in the label that Zyprexa appears to have bigger risks for high blood sugar than other medicines for schizophrenia.
 Mr. Allen ended his remarks with a reference to the July 2001 memorandum. ''It's time to call that bet,'' he told the jury.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Eli Lilly has faced legal problems over evidence that Zyprexa, a top-selling medicine, tends to cause weight gain and diabetes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JB REED/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHIZOPHRENIA (92%); LAWYERS (91%); MEDICAID (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); MENTAL ILLNESS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); PHARMACEUTICAL DRUG & DEVICES LITIGATION (79%); JUDGES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); DAMAGES (77%); DIABETES (77%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (67%)

COMPANY: ELI LILLY & CO (59%); PEPPER HAMILTON LLP (58%)

TICKER: LLY (SWX) (59%); LLY (NYSE) (59%); LEL (LSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (59%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (59%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (92%) ALASKA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2008



132 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1560 words

HEADLINE: New Generation Gap Emerges As Older Addicts Seek Help

BYLINE: By JANE GROSS

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. 

 BODY:
All is peaceful and orderly on the older adult unit at Hanley Center, where substance abusers over the age of 55 are spared the noisy swagger of addicts half their age across the campus.
 In their separate oasis, alcoholics and prescription drug abusers of a certain age do not curse at one another, raise their voices in anger or blast music at midnight. They don't brag about their macho pasts or stage drama-queen breakups on the communal pay phone. They show up on time for therapy groups. 
 ''We have different health issues, different emotional issues, different grief issues,'' said Patrick Gallagher, 66, who was treated here for a dual addiction to pain medication and alcohol. ''We need more peace and quiet and a different pace.''
 Across the country, substance abuse centers are reaching out to older addicts whose numbers are growing and who have historically been ignored. There are now residential and outpatient clinics dedicated to those over 50, special counselors just for them at clinics that serve all ages, and screenings at centers for older Americans and physicians' offices to identify older people unaware of their risk. 
 Addiction specialists and organizations for the elderly anticipate a tidal wave of baby boomers needing help for addictions, often for different substances and with different attitudes toward treatment than the generation that came before them. Federal data shows the shifting demographics: In 2005, 184,400 Americans who were admitted to drug treatment programs -- roughly 10 percent of the total -- were over 50, up from 143,000, or 8 percent of the total, in 2001. 
 The same report, by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, foresees 4.4 million older substance abusers by 2020, compared with 1.7 million in 2001 -- numbers that are ''likely to swamp the current system,'' said Deborah Trunzo, who coordinates research for the agency.
 At Hanley Center, Carol Colleran, a 71-year-old counselor, pioneered age-segregated residential treatment, challenging one-size-fits-all programs that mix people of all ages. Odyssey House in East Harlem, with its low-income clientele, has followed Hanley's lead. Older adults are harder to lure into treatment, officials say, because of a generational aversion to airing one's laundry in public. But once there, they are often highly motivated and more likely to complete a program. 
 ''We are reticent and don't readily share our feelings in a group,'' Mr. Gallagher said. ''That's not something we've grown up with.''
 But living with people of a similar background, he said, had given him a ''comfort level and a sense of belonging'' conducive to success. 
 Treatment providers are seeing signs that the 50-and-over group is not, in fact, monolithic. Rather, it is divided between the ''old old'' and the ''young old,'' the Silent Generation and the Me Generation. Neither feels much kinship with the Lindsay Lohan set. But neither do they necessarily feel much kinship with each other, and counselors are bracing for a collision of cultures. 
 According to the federal report, 83 percent of older addicts were 50 to 59, and the trailing edge of the baby boom, age 50 to 54, is the fastest-growing older group: They were 6 percent of all admissions in 2005, from 3 percent a decade earlier. 
 ''It's already changing,'' said Tom Early, a counselor on Hanley's older-adult unit, where the patients, all alcoholics or prescription drug abusers, are 55 to 78. ''We can see it. We can feel it.''
 Alcohol remains the dominant problem for both groups, although that is changing quickly. Among patients over 65, 76 percent abuse alcohol; many have allowed social drinking to get out of hand after the isolation of retirement or loss of a spouse. In the 50-to-54 age group, by contrast, 55 percent cite alcohol, followed by opiates, cocaine, marijuana and methamphetamines. Prescription drug abuse is climbing in both groups, led by anti-anxiety drugs like Xanax and pain-killers like Oxycontin.
 Ms. Colleran said prescription drug abuse among the ''old old'' was usually accidental. They have faith that anything a doctor prescribes must be safe, she said. In the younger group, these medications are knowingly abused, experts said, by buying them online or borrowing from friends.
 As the age group skews younger, Ms. Colleran said: ''They say, 'I'm not like anyone else.' They challenge everything.''
 These characteristics, she added, make treatment tricky and require new techniques, like cognitive behavior therapy and lectures on anger management by the noted male-consciousness-raiser Iron John (a k a Robert Bly). Anger and stubbornness are more prevalent among those in their 50s. At Senior Hope, an outpatient clinic for older adults in Albany, 55-year-old Ken Einbinder described fantasies of violence that seemed to dismay or embarrass group members in their 70s. 
 Only John Quinn, 54, nodded knowingly. He was struggling after a recent relapse and had been prescribed an antidepressant. Mr. Quinn tossed out the pills without telling anyone because, he told the group, they caused erectile dysfunction. Dr. William Rockwood, founder of Senior Hope, said older clients, even if they complained of the same side effect, would have complied with medical advice. 
 On Hanley's older-adult unit, there is disdain for street drugs, which ''very few of us have used,'' Mr. Gallagher said. On the patio where residents take cigarette breaks , a half dozen said the harmony of the group would be compromised by the addition of crack, heroin or even marijuana abusers. 
 One 61-year-old alcoholic said that ''if the numbers flipped so there were more of them than me, I'd be out of here.'' He added that he had stopped attending Alcoholic Anonymous meetings, and relapsed, because of an influx of young drug addicts. 
 The antipathy toward street drugs is a function of socio-economic class, said Frederic Blow, who studies elderly substance abuse at the Addiction Research Center at the University of Michigan. For Hanley's clients, who pay $24,500 for a 28-day rehab, ''it's not part of their culture.'' 
 Indeed, no such distinction is made at the unit for older adults at Odyssey House, where clients are mostly poor, addicted to heroin or crack, and remanded by the courts for 12 to 18 months of subsidized care. 
 But across social class, many older substance abusers said, they no longer consider themselves invincible. 
 A 66-year-old chief of staff at a veterans' hospital, recently treated at Hanley, said he had no patience with men in their 20s and 30s who ''aren't finished drinking and drugging and think their war stories are a badge of honor.'' 
 The doctor, since retired, pointed to ''all we have to lose -- the social binding'' that accumulates with age. In his case, that included a 40-year marriage and children and grandchildren who refused to see him until he was sober.
 ''I just wanted to stop drinking and get on with my life,'' he said. 
 At Odyssey House, Charles White, 57, said of the younger clients: ''They think they have another run in them. And as far as the ladies go, they have no respect.'' 
 Mr. White was dignified in a dark suit and tie and chivalrous as he held a chair for Doris Ellison, 55, another longtime heroin addict, also dressed in her Sunday best. 
 ''It was a different era,'' Ms. Ellison said. ''We had a lot of guidance growing up. They don't have that at home. Their parents -- and that includes some of us -- are out there drugging. But now, for however many years we have left, we can try and do the right thing.'' 
 For Ms. Ellison, that includes setting an example for 26-year-old Milagros Bonilla, who lives on a separate floor and attends separate therapy groups but got to know the older woman on long bus rides to high school equivalency classes. 
 Ms. Bonilla said people her age were ''kind of loud and obnoxious'' and often less disciplined than their elders. She credits Ms. Ellison with inspiring her to get clean, stick to her studies and remain hopeful that she will regain custody of three daughters in foster care. 
 ''She's more motivating to me than anyone my age, because she makes me feel anything is possible,'' Ms. Bonilla, whose own mother is dead, said of Ms. Ellison. 
 Officials at these age-segregated programs promote the success of their clients. But, Dr. Blow said, completion rates are poor statistical measures of long-term sobriety. Nevertheless, he is persuaded, based on years of observation, that age-specific treatment ''makes total sense.'' 
 At Senior Hope in Albany, Dan Fitzsimmons, 79, an executive for a major utility, and Tom Hyde, 76, who owned a sheet music business, became good friends. 
 Both let their drinking get out of hand in retirement, when they had too much time on their hands and a shrinking circle of companions. Both relapsed once and helped each other get back on the wagon. Now, they are determined to leave a proper legacy for their grandchildren.
 Mr. Fitzsimmons needs only to think back to his own adolescence, when he was assigned the task of finding his grandfather in neighborhood bars. All these years later, Mr. Fitzsimmons said, he carries the indelible memory of ''an old gray-haired guy out on another toot.'' 
 ''I'm not going to let that happen to me,'' he said. ''It's not the way I want to be remembered.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A light exercise class at the Hanley Center in West Palm Beach, Fla., where substance abusers are segregated by age. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHIKO KURISU FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
Chilene Barthelemy-Leconta, a vocational counselor, leading a class of elderly drug addicts at Odyssey House in East Harlem. Experts say older adults can be hard to lure into treatment, but tend to be highly motivated and more likely to complete programs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 With coffee and cake in hand, Dan Fitzsimmons talked to Ken Einbinder at Senior Hope, an outpatient clinic in Albany. (PHOTOGRAPH NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A24) CHART: SUBSTANCES ABUSE AMONG OLDER ADULTS: Alcohol was the dominant problem for most older adults admitted into drug treatment programs in 2005 but less so for baby boomers, who make up a majority of the older addicts. (Source: Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBSTANCE ABUSE (91%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); MENTAL HEALTH (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL SUBSTANCE ABUSE FACILITIES (78%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE FACILITIES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (72%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (72%); AGING (71%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (70%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (70%); BABY BOOMERS (70%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (67%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (67%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (67%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: SUBSTANCE ABUSE & MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (59%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (59%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2008



133 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1224 words

HEADLINE: A New Job Track for Single Mothers in Wyoming

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: CHEYENNE, Wyo. 

 BODY:
The lunch table was full of people in the same boat: Single mothers who are trainees in the hydraulics and pipe-fitting trades, thrown together and traveling to a place none of them could quite imagine.
 ''I don't know how I want to say this,'' said Lillian McEwan, who is 31 and a mother of four. ''But I trust you guys more than people that I've known all my life.''
 For a moment, silence. Then it seemed everyone spoke at once. Hands reached out to touch. Heads nodded in understanding.
 ''We've all had our hearts broken,'' said Shannon Heidelberg, 36, who is raising a 12-year-old and a 2-year-old. ''But there's no one here who's going to turn around and hurt you.'' 
 Here in a state with the highest gap in the nation between a woman's wage and a man's, and a divorce rate 30 percent above the national average, some women are finding a new way to storm the economic barricades.
 They are working with an unusual nonprofit organization, Climb Wyoming, which takes women who have absorbed a few of life's body blows -- bad or absent men, drugs, public assistance and jail are all common stories -- and combines free job training with psychological counseling.
 But Climb Wyoming's real core insight is female solidarity -- that the group, trained and forged together more like a platoon than a class, will become an anchor of future success. New skills can go only so far in changing a life, the group's trainers say; sometimes it takes a sisterhood.
 ''We look for groups that are ready to work together and make a change together,'' said Ray Fleming Dinneen, a psychologist and co-founder of Climb Wyoming, which four years ago began training go-it-alone mothers for male-dominated jobs that rule the state's industrial-energy economy.
 Wyoming has a reputation, well-earned, as a rawboned place where the wind blows hard and a two-hour drive to a one-horse town is not uncommon. Suicide rates and the number of people working more than one job are among the highest in the nation. Methamphetamine use, as in many other rural states, has become a social scourge. 
 But a thread of feminism, Western-style, also runs deep. In frontier days, it was about politics. Women demanded and received rights here that were long in coming elsewhere. They began voting in 1869, half a century before most other American women, and elected the first statewide female officeholder before 1900. In 1925, Nellie Tayloe Ross became the nation's first female governor, elected to complete the term of her late husband.
 But somehow cowboy egalitarianism bumped up into the hard reality of economics. Most jobs that Wyoming has created in recent years, as the state's oil, gas and coal industries have boomed, are tough, dirty, outdoor occupations that pay well and that are dominated by men. Service jobs that most women get have not kept up. Wyoming also ranks near the bottom among states in the proportion of women who have higher education degrees or own businesses.
 ''To have led in some of those areas and now to have fallen to be the worst in the country in the gender-wage gap, something's wrong,'' said Nancy Freudenthal, the wife of Gov. Dave Freudenthal, a Democrat. 
 Ms. Freudenthal, a lawyer who worked on women's economic issues in private life, kept at it as first lady and is credited with helping Climb Wyoming expand statewide from here in Cheyenne. The group's $1.8 million budget is about 70 percent public money, mostly federal grants, and 30 percent private donations and foundations.
 More than 500 women have gone through the course, about one-third in nontraditional fields like welding and truck driving, two-thirds in office and medical work like phlebotomy.
 Many women deemed unprepared for Climb Wyoming's journey are put on waiting lists and directed toward other programs that could help them get ready, like high school equivalency or drug-treatment programs. That self-selection keeps classes small, attention by counselors intense and success rates high, but it also means that not every woman is immediately helped to a new career. And some probably fall through the cracks.
 But for those who are accepted, the level of passion is often intense. Mr. Freudenthal was at the Home Depot in Cheyenne a while back, his wife said, when he was spotted by a group of early graduates buying their first tool belts. They told him how their lives had been changed for the better.
 Melissa Kutz, a 27-year-old mother of three who is in the current Climb Wyoming class, said it was all about escaping ''the rut.'' Originally from Wisconsin, Ms. Kutz was marooned in Wyoming nine years ago when a military marriage shattered. At times, she said, she has worked three jobs at once, mostly in food service and child care.
 Now she studies electricity, and imagines a day when she might have health insurance. (Her children are covered by the state.)
 ''I spent a lot of years trying to figure out what to do, how to make things work, and after a while you reach a point where you're completely hopeless,'' Ms. Kutz said recently at Climb Wyoming's training center. It is a barracks-like building at Laramie County Community College, where workstations are a jumble of computers, blowtorches, copper pipe and circuit boards.
 ''You hear it all: 'You're white trash. You're a welfare mom. Why'd you have kids if you can't feed them?' '' Ms. Kutz said. ''But I just have never been as hopeful as I have in the past few weeks.''
 Across most of the country, blue-collar training for women is an idea that has mostly failed, in the 1970s, when the women's movement set its sights on barriers and glass-ceilings of every kind. Many states financed training programs, said Randy Albelda, a professor of economics at the University of Massachusetts Boston, but many women at the vanguard were more interested in breaking through to other previously male-dominated areas like business and medical school. 
 Professor Albelda, who has written widely about women's economic equality, said she knew of no other program that combined the group concept of training and counseling.
 ''There is still some of that training out there, but a lot of it is, 'walk in the door, here's the training, go get a job,' '' she said. ''Single mothers need more support than that.''
 They also must be ready to cut the cord to their old lives, another way the new group becomes important. Sometimes, Climb Wyoming graduates and students said, old friends -- or people who seemed like friends -- can grow jealous or hostile when a person tries to better herself. 
 ''We all realized that we weren't calling our old friends anymore when we needed something -- we were calling each other,'' said Amy McGuire, a 25-year-old mother of three who went through the 10-week, part-time Climb Wyoming course last year and now repairs copiers and fax machines in Cheyenne. 
 There is also a certain practical reality to the Climb Wyoming sisterhood, the plain and simple sense that the new group is absorbing a lot of arcane, technical information that many other people cannot comprehend, like how to solder a brass pipe so it is straight and true and will not corrode from within.
 ''That's why this group is good,'' said Kristina Sheets, 31, who has worked as a waitress while raising her three children, ages, 9, 12 and 13. ''They know all the steps that went into it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Melissa Kutz, a 27-year-old single mother of three, said she had gained new hope from the Climb Wyoming job training program.
In its small classes, Climb Wyoming builds a sense of camaraderie for participants like Kristina Sheets, left, and Julie Avery.
 Shannon Heidelberg's training includes a class in hydraulics at the Laramie County Community College in Cheyenne, Wyo. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CARMEL ZUCKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGLE PARENTS (91%); WOMEN (78%); MEN (76%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); GOVERNORS (67%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (65%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (64%); SUICIDE (64%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%); METHAMPHETAMINE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHEYENNE, WY, USA (91%) WYOMING, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2008



134 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: Close Race to Replace Ex-Speaker in House

BYLINE: By SUSAN SAULNY

DATELINE: ELGIN, Ill. 

 BODY:
When Representative J. Dennis Hastert, the long-serving former House speaker, announced his retirement last year, both parties saw an opportunity to make a statement from his district here. 
 Although Mr. Hastert, a Republican, was popular in the traditionally Republican territory, Democrats saw an opportunity to seize an open seat riding a wave of enthusiasm in their party and capitalizing on the shifting demographics of the growing population. 
 The district stretches from bustling exurbs of Chicago to corn fields almost abutting Iowa. 
 Winning would be a symbolic boon going into the November elections.
 Republicans set out to prove their dominance of what had always been friendly turf, made more prominent by Mr. Hastert's leadership position. Losing would be a symbolic setback.
 As the clock ticks to a special election for the seat on Saturday, neither James D. Oberweis, the Republican candidate, nor Bill Foster, the Democrat, have secured the position of front-runner, and the race is a toss-up, the nonpartisan Cook Political Report says.
 The tightness surprises many people.
 ''The story is that there's a race here at all,'' said Dick W. Simpson, head of the political science department at the University of Illinois at Chicago. ''This is supposed to be the Republican heartland.''
 The money flow from the national parties underscores the importance of this slice of what was once prairie. As of this week, the National Republican Congressional Committee has invested $1.2 million, one-fifth of its cash, on the race. 
 The Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee contributed more than $620,000 and is running advertisements that link Mr. Foster to Senator Barack Obama, Democrat of Illinois.
 The two candidates are wealthy businessmen who have largely self-financed their campaigns. Mr. Oberweis, 61, is a dairy owner and the founder of financial companies; he has run three unsuccessful races in Illinois, two for the Senate and one for governor. 
 Mr. Foster, 52, is a physicist whose wealth stems from a national theater lighting company that he founded as a young man. 
 They are running standard party-line campaigns, with Mr. Oberweis, whom Mr. Hastert has endorsed, pushing for a continued American military presence in Iraq, an extension of President Bush's tax cuts and an end to illegal immigration. 
 Mr. Foster positions himself as the candidate for change, calling for an end to the Iraq war, comprehensive health care and an overhaul of energy policy.
 The two are knocking on doors and shaking hands at libraries, pancake breakfasts and street corners. 
 On Monday morning, Mr. Foster made his way around the tables at Paul's Family Restaurant here, introducing himself and listening to concerns about health care and the economy. Over an omelet, someone asked whether he really thought that a Democrat could win in Republican territory.
 ''There are a lot of secret Democrats here,'' Mr. Foster replied, ''and they're all going to come out on Saturday. It will be O.K. to be a Democrat again.''
 Mr. Oberweis, who spent Sunday morning reading a Dr. Seuss story to children in a library and at a civic group's pancake breakfast, said he had been interested in running for the House since the 1970s.
 But having five young children, he said, persuaded him to wait. More recently, he said, he liked Mr. Hastert's leadership and saw no reason to challenge it.
 ''We are cautiously optimistic,'' Mr. Oberweis said. ''Things certainly seem to be looking very good. It's going to be a question of who can get their voters out to vote.''
 At a side-by-side interview at a television station in Chicago, Mr. Oberweis made fun of Mr. Foster during a commercial break, perhaps playing on an assumption that as a novice candidate Mr. Foster is intimidated.
 ''I'm v-v-very n-n-nervous,'' Mr. Oberweis stuttered in a shaky voice while Mr. Foster sat next to him silent.
 Nonetheless, Mr. Oberweis is seen as running a softer campaign than in past races. An editorial in The Chicago Tribune endorsing Mr. Foster described Mr. Oberweis's campaign style as ''consistently nasty, smug, condescending ... and dishonest,'' with less emphasis on factors that might alienate some voters. 
 ''He has toned down a little bit of the social aspects of his campaign,'' said David Wasserman, the House editor for The Cook Political Report. 
 While the ghosts of past elections haunt Mr. Oberweis, Mr. Wasserman noted that the soft-spoken Mr. Foster, more academic than electric, was not without challenges as a first-time candidate.
 ''That's something that sort of neutralizes this race,'' Mr. Wasserman said. ''He's not the most dynamic candidate. There are members of Congress who have made the transition from the laboratory to the legislature. But they've gotten by with an affable personality and cut a more sympathetic figure than Foster.''
 In an interview, Mr. Foster said that despite being a career scientist, he had ''a strong recessive gene for political activism'' and chose to leave the laboratory two years ago after his younger child went to college. 
 ''I just said, 'O.K., it's time,' '' said Mr. Foster, whose Harvard doctorate is in particle physics. ''One of the really pleasant surprises about this is that it turns out I really do like people. It's only physicists who drive me crazy.''
 The winner on Saturday will fill the seat for the remainder of the term. Mr. Oberweis and Mr. Foster are also their parties' nominees to face off in November. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: James D. Oberweis in Aurora, Ill., on Feb. 5 after winning the Republican nomination. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HEATHER EIDSON/BEACON-NEWS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Bill Foster, the Democratic candidate in the 14th District, at a campaign party Feb. 5 in Aurora. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIANNE MATHER/BEACON-NEWS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Representative J. Dennis Hastert in his new office last year after Representative Nancy Pelosi became House speaker. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: A tight Congressional race in the Republican heartland (14th Congressional District.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (76%); POPULATION GROWTH (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (65%); TAX LAW (64%); BANKING & FINANCE (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); FAMILY COMPANIES (62%); IRAQ WAR (60%); RESTAURANTS (60%); IMMIGRATION (50%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%); ARMED FORCES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL REPUBLICAN CONGRESSIONAL COMMITTEE (54%)

PERSON: BILL FOSTER (89%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2008



135 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: Good News: Karlo Will Live

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

DATELINE: NUBA MOUNTAINS, Sudan 

 BODY:
 The farm families living in these rocky hills in central Sudan confront every disease imaginable, from leprosy to malaria, and perhaps one-quarter of children die by the age of five.
 Yet this is a ''good news'' column. Karlo will live.
 The number of children who die worldwide each year before the age of five has dropped below 10 million for the first time in recorded history -- compared with 20 million annually in 1960 -- Unicef noted in a report last month, ''Child Survival.'' Now the goal is to cut the death toll to four million by 2015. 
 Think about that accomplishment: The lives of 10 million children saved each year, 100 million lives per decade. 
 To put it another way, the late James P. Grant, a little-known American aid worker who headed Unicef from 1980 to 1995 and launched the child survival revolution with vaccinations and diarrhea treatments, probably saved more lives than were destroyed by Hitler, Mao and Stalin combined.
 One of the lives saved this year seems to be that of Karlo, an 8-month-old baby boy who lives in a thatch-roof hut here. His older brother, Kuti, had died a few days before I arrived: Kuti was taken to the hospital and tested positive for malaria, but the doctor believed that he probably died from meningitis.
 Then Karlo fell sick, and his mother was frantic at the thought that he would die as well. The father, Bolus Abdullah, was more fatalistic.
 ''Many children die here,'' Mr. Bolus explained to me as volunteers with an American aid group, Samaritan's Purse, drove the family to the nearest hospital over a fantastically rutted road. ''But if that's the will of God, then there's nothing we can do.''
 Yet there are things we can do -- and that brings us to the American presidential campaign.
 African children like Karlo may actually have more at stake in the outcome of the presidential election than children in the United States. Just imagine if the next president were to wage a serious war on malaria. At a tiny fraction of the cost of the war in Iraq (or a war on Iran!) such a campaign would save millions of lives and be a huge boost to African economies whose productivity is sapped by diseases.
 The hospital to which we took Karlo is run by an aid group, German Emergency Doctors, and is run by a husband-wife team of physicians, Karl Eiter and Gabi Kortmann. The hospital, whose ''wards'' are thatch-roof huts with no electricity, is perched on a rural mountainside to protect it from aerial bombings by the Sudanese government. (Sudan's main involvement in health care in contested areas like this has been to strafe hospitals.)
 Dr. Eiter ordered a blood test for Karlo, and it came back positive for malaria. He gave Karlo a medication that is almost always effective against malaria here, artemisinin combination therapy, costing just 50 cents for an entire course of treatment. 
 Saving children's lives in rural Africa or Asia, where millions die of ailments as simple as diarrhea, pneumonia or measles, is achingly simple and inexpensive. The starting point is vaccinations and basic sanitation.
 ''We never have all the vaccines that are required,'' Dr. Eiter said. 
 For years, the rationale for opposing foreign assistance has been that it doesn't work. It's true that humanitarian aid is devilishly difficult to get right, money is squandered and the impact of aid is often oversold.
 But President Bush's record underscores that other policies are difficult to get right as well: Iraq is a mess, and social security reform and immigration reform both failed. Mr. Bush's greatest single accomplishment is that his AIDS program in Africa is saving millions of lives.
 That makes it all the more stunning that Mr. Bush's proposed budget for 2009 cuts U.S. funding for child and maternal health programs around the world by nearly 18 percent.
 Fortunately, all the candidates are saying the right things about malaria, AIDS and support for education in Africa (although John McCain is fuzzier about commitments). You can compare the candidates' positions on global humanitarian issues at www.onevote08.org.
 Voters should remember this: A president may or may not be able to improve schools or protect manufacturing jobs in Ohio, but a president probably could help wipe out malaria. Compared with other challenges a president faces, saving a million children's lives a year is the low-hanging fruit.
 Karlo, bouncing in his mother's lap, underscores the hope. With the medicine, he recovered quickly and was sent home from the hospital after a few days. The news here is simple and giddy ... he's alive! 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (91%); MALARIA (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); FAMILY (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (85%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (76%); VACCINES (73%); MENINGITIS (73%); HISTORY (71%); HOSPITALS (70%); BOMBINGS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (66%); ELECTIONS (66%); IRAQ WAR (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SUDAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2008



136 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1586 words

HEADLINE: The Lords of Dumbo Make Room for the Arts, at Least for the Moment

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
George Dombek pays rent on his 1,400-square-foot, light-filled studio at 20 Jay Street with his paintings, which lately focus on water towers and upside-down tin pails on posts.
 The Galapagos Art Space will pay $6.82 per square foot a year when it moves into a 102-year-old, 10,000-square-foot former stable at 16 Main Street this spring. 
 St. Ann's Warehouse, a performance space in an old spice-milling factory at 38 Water Street, pays no rent at all.
 Some 1,000 artists and arts organizations are now working in the Dumbo section of Brooklyn, courtesy of the developers David Walentas and his son, Jed, partners in Two Trees Management. Operating on the principle that cultural ferment makes a neighborhood hot, Two Trees has offered creative people rents that they cannot refuse. 
 ''It adds value to any neighborhood,'' David Walentas said in an interview at a conference table in his unflashy Dumbo office. ''It's like good architecture. Good architecture is cheap and adds value. People will pay a premium for it.'' 
 Yet given the pace of gentrification, the future of the neighborhood's artists -- and of Dumbo's artistic character -- remains uncertain. Two months after Dumbo, named for its area Down Under the Manhattan Bridge Overpass, was designated a landmark in December, the City Planning Department proposed last week that the neighborhood be rezoned to allow taller buildings in high-density areas. Dumbo is historically considered to be the area between the Brooklyn and Manhattan Bridges and between the East River and Brooklyn-Queens Expressway, but blocks on the other side of the Manhattan Bridge are now often considered part of the area. 
 Mitchell L. Moss, a professor of urban policy and planning at New York University, gives David Walentas points for figuring out how to make a neighborhood vital. ''He understands that you have to have creative energy,'' Mr. Moss said. ''This is an intelligent and strategic move.''
 But some artists are troubled by the notion of developers using artists to help invigorate or market a neighborhood even as artists are priced out of more established areas. ''This really represents the broader picture, where cities are becoming impossible places for creative producers to live and work, where the notions of loft living and 'bohemian' become selling points in the development of real estate,'' the artist Barbara Kruger said. ''Artists have nowhere else to turn so they take those work spaces. It's their work to make the neighborhood cool; then they can be moved out.''
 Other artists say David Walentas has a long-term commitment to culture in Dumbo and is simply speeding along a process that can't easily happen on its own because of rising commercial real-estate prices. ''He's doing artificially what used to happen naturally over a longer period of time, like forcing a tulip bulb,'' said the artist Chuck Close, who serves on the board of the Marie Walsh Sharpe Art Foundation, which is based in Dumbo. ''It doesn't happen organically the way it used to. Now you need a break.''
 ''Clearly, he wants to make a buck,'' he added. ''But it's community building.''
 The Two Trees developers, who own about three million square feet of property in Dumbo, tell their tenants that they will try to find other places for them in the area if their spaces are sold or developed. But they make no guarantees. ''Things change,'' David Walentas said. ''Some will stay, some will die, some will move, some will go out of business. We can't solve all their problems. 
 ''It's like everything in life. It's not forever.''
 The developers are up front with the tenants about the short-term nature of their leases. ''It was always straightforward,'' said Kathleen Gilrain, the executive director of Smack Mellon. ''He doesn't spring stuff on us. Buildings are developed all over New York City, and those landlords don't give any space away.'' When Two Trees converted 70 Washington Street to condos, it offered almost every artist in the building below-market rates at one of its other buildings, 20 Jay Street or 55 Washington Street, and 80 percent accepted. ''We're in a unique position to do these things because we own the whole neighborhood,'' Jed Walentas said.
 They don't own all of it. While the Walentases say they would eventually like to move the St. Ann's Warehouse organization to the brick ruins of the 19th-century Tobacco Warehouse in Empire-Fulton Ferry State Park, that property belongs to the state. They also want to convert the Empire Stores Warehouse, on Water Street between Dock and Main Streets, into studio and gallery space, but the state owns that too. 
 Affordable studios, galleries and stages are hard to come by in New York City. The Galapagos Art Space was on the verge of leaving Williamsburg, Brooklyn, for Berlin because its monthly rent had risen by $10,000. David Walentas offered the company below-market space. ''He's doing what the city should be doing,'' said Robert Elmes, director of Galapagos. ''He's proving that it works.''
 The city, for its part, appreciates what Two Trees is doing. ''In an ideal world everyone would have space to work in perpetuity,'' said Kate D. Levin, the cultural affairs commissioner. ''That's not the reality of New York real estate.''
 ''He doesn't sweep in in the middle of the night and evict people,'' she added. ''Providing space for people to make work and for people to come see it is a huge commitment.''
 David Walentas clearly enjoys coming to the rescue. ''We've been very, very generous because I like it,'' he said. ''I don't need the money. It's a way of putting people in my buildings.'' 
 On a recent tour of Dumbo he walked through some of these buildings, like the paint-splattered studios of the Triangle Arts Association at 20 Jay Street (rent: free), where a visiting French artist, Gregory Forstner, was working on canvases of dogs in combat helmets. Mr. Walentas also showed off Smack Mellon's soaring new two-level gallery space on Plymouth Street, where huge pieces of sculpture were installed, and other tenants like the Brooklyn Arts Council, the Brooklyn Stained Glass Conservation Center and Dancing Diablo, an animation company (as well as the chocolate shop Jacques Torres and the bakery Almondine on Water Street). 
 ''I'm very proud,'' Mr. Walentas said. ''I tell people I've done a lot of things. They matter; they don't matter. In 100 years Dumbo will matter.''
 Two Trees has handpicked its tenants along the way, and David Walentas makes a point of saying that he is not responsible for Dumbo's Starbucks and doesn't want chain stores in the neighborhood. The rents the developers charge are all over the map. In the 55 Washington building, for example, the James Glass Studio pays $6.77 per square foot per year; Chris Perry Woodworking, $11.39; and the Robinson & Grisaru architectural firm, $19. At 45 Main Street, Lynn Veitzer, an artist, pays $14.61; Jennifer Riley, also an artist, $12.79; and the Dumbo Arts Center, zero. The Galapagos has a 15-year lease, but many leases are for two years.
 ''It depends on the space and who they are and what they contribute,'' David Walentas said. ''A number have personal relationships or catch us on a good day and get a slightly different deal.'' 
 As a result arts groups would seem to have to stay on their toes and in the good graces of the Walentas family. Since St. Ann's Warehouse moved to Dumbo in 2001 after 21 years in a Brooklyn Heights church, the performance organization has been drawing audiences and helping to attract retail stores and residents. But the developers have made it clear that the organization will eventually have to move. (David Walentas serves on the St. Ann's board.)
 ''They said, 'As long as you're contributing to the neighborhood, you can be our guests here,' '' said Susan Feldman, the artistic director. ''David and Jed kept saying: 'Don't get attached. We're going to take the building down.'''
 ''There are moments when it gets scary,'' she said. ''We're at their mercy.'' But she added: ''That was the deal when we came in. They are developers.''
 Because the situation is temporary, St. Ann's has held off on making some changes to the theater, like installing air conditioning. ''There are limitations with the building because we're only on borrowed time,'' Ms. Feldman said. 
 ''I always think in two-year increments,'' she said. ''I can live with that.''
 In 2003 the Walentases told Smack Mellon that it had to vacate its gallery and studio space at 56 Water Street to make room for a 1922 carousel restored by David Walentas's wife, Jane, an artist. But the developers moved Smack Mellon into a former boiler house at 92 Plymouth Street, gratis, and helped pay for the renovation. 
 ''It's a big undertaking to relocate a whole organization,'' said Suzanne Kim, the director of exhibitions at Smack Mellon. But she said the new space ''turned out to be even better'' and that ''free rent is always worth it,'' adding, ''There's no way we could afford a space like this.''
 Similarly Mr. Dombek said he was grateful for his studio, which allows him to have a New York presence, although he is based in Arkansas. But he concedes that the uncertainty can be unsettling. 
 ''I'm going to spend money and time putting up walls,'' he said. ''I'm concerned you're coming in someday and saying, 'Leave.' I don't know if it will take 5 years or 10 years or 2 years.''
 ''I would assume artists are going to be pushed out,'' he added. ''They always are.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The changing Dumbo: the Smack Mellon gallery's new space. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.E1)
Amanda C. Mathis installing her work at Smack Mellon gallery.
 David, left, and Jed Walentas of Two Trees developers. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.E5) MAP: The Dumbo area of Brooklyn, where artists are congregating. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); PAINTING (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); OFFICE FURNITURE (77%); ZONING (74%); INTERVIEWS (72%); CITY LIFE (71%); CITIES (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); HISTORIC SITES (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2008



137 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 446 words

 BODY:
OIL TENSIONS RISE OPEC left its oil production levels unchanged, saying that the market had plenty of oil and that high prices were the result of America's economic problems. 
 AMBAC TO RAISE CAPITAL The Ambac Financial Group said it would seek to raise $1.5 billion by selling stock and convertible securities to the public in an effort to protect its triple-A rating, news that sent the company's stock tumbling 20 percent. [C1.]
 CONTRASTING VIEWPOINTS The actions of the Federal Reserve chairman and his counterpart in the European Union reflect surprisingly different views on the two economies. [C1.]
 SUNNY FORECAST Solar thermal technology that was shelved in the 1990s is making a comeback in the Southwest. [C1.]
 HEPARIN CONTAMINATION Federal regulators discovered that a critical blood thinner linked to at least 19 deaths contained a counterfeit ingredient that mimicked the real drug. [A1.] 
 HIGH-PRICED PERKS Fidelity Investments agreed to pay $8 million to settle regulatory claims that current and former employees accepted what amounted to kickbacks from brokers. [C1.]
 ZYPREXA LAWSUIT A lawyer said in court that executives at Eli Lilly deliberately played down the side effects of its best-selling schizophrenia medicine to protect the drug's sales. [C3.]
 STRIKE NEGOTIATION Hoping to end a 10-day-old strike, the United Automobile Workers union and American Axle & Manufacturing, an auto parts manufacturer, agreed to hold talks. [C3.]
 NO COMPETITION Volvo sees a silver lining in being Ford's remaining European luxury brand. [C3.]
 GAS DISPUTE ENDS Gazprom, the Russian natural gas producer, settled its dispute with Ukraine before the situation affected supplies to the rest of Europe. [C4.]
 AWAITING THEIR FATE The inventors of a germ-fighting key fob are worried the government may decide to regulate their device as a pesticide. [C5.]
 GOING DISC-FREE Downloading is becoming handy for modifying existing video games and for reliving a favorite game from a generation ago. Basics. [C6.]
 DIRECT MARKETING Alaska Airlines has started using an online program that creates unique advertisements for people as they surf the Web. Advertising. [C7.]
 GLOOMY SNAPSHOT In its report on economic conditions, the Federal Reserve noted that growth had slowed since the beginning of the year. [C8.]
 ECONOMIC AUTOPILOT Although the five-year term of the governor of the Bank of Japan ends this month, a stalemate in Parliament has blocked the selection of a successor. [C9.]
 WARNING ON PENTAGON DEAL Lawmakers warned that they would kill a multibillion-dollar contract to replace Air Force fueling tankers if the Pentagon did not explain its decision. [A21.]

GRAPHIC: CHART: AMBAC: Price per share 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CARTELS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (75%); STRIKES (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); LABOR UNIONS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); ANTICOAGULANTS (74%); LUXURY GOODS (73%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (73%); DIRECT MARKETING (73%); PHARMACEUTICAL DRUG & DEVICES LITIGATION (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (72%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); AIR FORCES (70%); TOYS & GAMES (69%); LAWYERS (69%); LITIGATION (67%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (66%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (66%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (64%); COMPUTER GAMES (61%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (50%)

COMPANY: OAO GAZPROM (66%); AMBAC FINANCIAL GROUP INC (58%); FMR CORP (56%); ELI LILLY & CO (55%); AMERICAN AXLE & MANUFACTURING HOLDINGS INC (54%); BANK OF JAPAN (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (66%); GAZP (RTS) (66%); LLY (SWX) (55%); LLY (NYSE) (55%); LEL (LSE) (55%); AXL (NYSE) (54%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (66%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (66%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (66%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (66%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (66%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (66%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6351 SURETY INSURANCE (58%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (56%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (55%); NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); UKRAINE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (77%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2008



138 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: Data and Disappointment Don't Prevent Market Rise

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Wall Street managed moderate gains in an erratic session Wednesday as investors sorted through a downbeat Federal Reserve assessment of the economy and were disappointed by a plan to bail out a troubled bond insurer, the Ambac Financial Group. 
 Investors had hoped for contributions from global banks to help Ambac. Instead, Ambac said it planned to issue more than $1 billion in common stock to help shore up its battered balance sheet, a move that will dilute its existing shares.
 A quarterly Federal Reserve report on regional economies known as the beige book indicated that growth at the start of the year was sluggish and was accompanied by rising prices. The report also cited tighter credit standards.
 ''I think it's more the Ambac'' news, said Dave Rovelli, managing director for United States equity trading at Canaccord Adams, referring to traders' expectations of a bailout. The share offering, he said, was ''just not what they were looking for.''
 The Dow Jones industrial average was up more than 90 points in midsession after the Institute for Supply Management issued a stronger-than-expected reading on the health of the service industries and the Labor Department reported that worker productivity increased in the fourth quarter, if at a much slower pace than in the third quarter. It later lost those gains and more before recovering to close up 41.19 points, or 0.34 percent, at 12,254.99.
 Broader stock indicators were also higher. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index added 6.95 points, or 0.52 percent, to 1,333.70. The Nasdaq composite index rose 12.53 points, or 0.55 percent, closing at 2,272.81. And the Russell 2000 index of smaller-capitalization companies rose 2.76 points, or 0.41 percent, to 683.74.
 Advancing issues outnumbered decliners by 3 to 2 on the New York Stock Exchange. Volume came to 1.62 billion shares.
 Oil rose $5 a barrel in New York trading, over $104, after the Energy Department reported a surprising drop in crude oil supplies and OPEC held production levels steady. The price of gold again surged in New York, to $989.80 an ounce on the spot market. 
 Shares of Ambac plunged $2.02, or 18.8 percent, to $8.70. The stock, which was up steeply ahead of the announcement, once traded near $90 before the credit crisis began to unfold.
 The rival MBIA also fell, down 80 cents, or more than 6 percent, to $12.18. The company faces pressure, as well, to maintain high credit scores. 
 The Institute for Supply Management's report that service activity declined less than expected in February seemed gratifying to investors. A surprising drop for January sent stocks plunging a month ago.
 The Labor Department, in addition to reporting a 1.9 percent increase in worker productivity, said that labor costs increased at a 2.6 percent annual pace in the fourth quarter. Rising labor costs can make it harder for the Fed to justify again lowering interest rates to bolster the economy.
 On the bond market, the price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 14/32, to 98 19/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 3.67 percent from 3.62 percent.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: THE DOW MINUTE-BY-MINUTE (Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg)
 THE FAVORITES (Source: Charles Schwab) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (89%); PRODUCTIVITY (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (79%); STOCK OFFERINGS (79%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (77%); CREDIT BUREAUS (76%); COMMON STOCK (76%); SPOT MARKET (74%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (70%); AMBAC FINANCIAL GROUP INC (58%); CANACCORD GENUITY INC (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6351 SURETY INSURANCE (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2008



139 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: Hollywood Hopes to Laugh to the Bank

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CIEPLY

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Hollywood's big studios have found their cure for the surfeit of dour movies last fall and winter: a spring-summer comedy glut.
 Not inclined to half-measures, the film industry is about to swing from an awards season stuffed with bleak dramas like ''There Will Be Blood'' and the Oscar-winning ''No Country for Old Men'' toward a four-month stretch in which an unusual number of comedies will be crowding the screen.
 Roughly half the major-studio releases from April through early July -- the most valuable real estate on companies' film schedules -- will be live-action comedies starring some of the biggest box-office draws, including Adam Sandler, Will Ferrell, Will Smith, Eddie Murphy, Steve Carell and Mike Myers. Hollywood's hoped-for laugh riot stands in stark contrast to the same period last year, which was dominated by fantasy sequels like ''Spider-Man 3,''''Pirates of the Caribbean: At World's End'' and ''Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix.'' 
 The comic alignment probably owes more to the film industry's internal dynamics as pictures in the same genre just happened to fall into place -- and as executives, noting the success of ''Wild Hogs'' last March and ''Superbad'' last August, edged more comedies into the big-money months -- than to any pulse moving through the nation at large. Whatever the source, it will test the audience appetite for a whole lot of what is usually a good thing. 
 The onslaught begins in April, when Universal Pictures has scheduled three comedies. ''Leatherheads,'' directed by and starring George Clooney, is a screwball comedy about the early days of professional football. It opens two weeks before the love tangle ''Forgetting Sarah Marshall,'' produced by Judd Apatow. And that one is just a week ahead of ''Baby Mama,'' in which the ''Saturday Night Live'' veterans Tina Fey and Amy Poehler wrangle over surrogate motherhood.
 The next month Sony Pictures Entertainment will release four comedies in a row, beginning with ''Made of Honor,'' on May 2 about a male maid of honor played by Patrick Dempsey. It is followed in short order by ''You Don't Mess With the Zohan,'' with Mr. Sandler, about a hair stylist and Israeli secret agent; ''Hancock,'' with Mr. Smith, about a down-and-out superhero; and ''Step Brothers'' with Mr. Ferrell and John C. Reilly, about rival stepbrothers.
 But the main event will occur on June 20. If nobody blinks -- and both studios are standing firm at this point -- Paramount Pictures, Mr. Myers and ''The Love Guru'' will open that Friday against Warner Brothers, Steve Carell and the new movie version of ''Get Smart'' in a face-off of the kind that big companies with hundreds of millions of dollars at stake generally like to avoid.
 Rob Moore, Paramount's vice chairman, said there were enough laughs to go around. ''You have so much capacity in the summer, and there are only two movies opening that weekend,'' he said. 
 Few here would declare a cultural trend. ''Can you make an argument that the world is in such a depressed place that we're going to comedies?'' said Casey Silver, a producer of ''Leatherheads.'' ''Far be it from me to say.'' 
 Still, history has its lessons. Beset by a writers' strike and a weakening economy, Hollywood saw four comedies -- ''Who Framed Roger Rabbit,''''Coming to America,''''Big,'' and ''Crocodile Dundee II'' -- sweep the box office in the summer of 1988. In the last three presidential campaign years, however, the biggest comedy hit came after the election: ''Meet the Fockers'' in 2004, ''How the Grinch Stole Christmas'' in 2000 and ''Jerry Maguire'' in 1996.
 Lately studios have made the most money from comedies that stayed in theaters for many weeks, outlasting action or fantasy blockbusters that often fall off sharply after the first weekend. ''A good comedy has legs,'' said Shawn Levy, executive producer of ''What Happens in Vegas,'' set for release by 20th Century Fox on May 9, and the director of ''Night at the Museum,'' which took in more than $250 million at the domestic box office in a six-month run after its release in December 2006.
 This year comedy has come to the fore because of several unrelated factors. Sequels thinned out for a while -- ''The Chronicles of Narnia: Prince Caspian'' and ''Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull'' are the only two big fantasy follow-ups in the vicinity of Memorial Day. Comic mainstays who will show up with pictures include Mr. Myers; Mr. Sandler; Mr. Ferrell; Mr. Stiller, with ''Tropic Thunder,'' for Paramount (and now bumped to August), about actors whose war movie turns real; and Mr. Murphy, with ''Meet Dave,'' for Fox, about a human who is piloted by tiny aliens. 
 Mr. Clooney and Mr. Smith, at the same time, took a break from their more serious sides. And Mr. Apatow, a prolific writer, director and producer who has been involved with movies like ''The 40-Year-Old Virgin'' and ''Anchorman,'' suddenly spawned five pictures. It's a burst of activity that appears to outdo even the comic frenzy during which John Hughes gave birth to a clutch of movies like ''The Breakfast Club,''''Sixteen Candles'' and ''Weird Science'' in the 1980s. 
 This spring and summer Mr. Apatow, will have various credits on ''Drillbit Taylor,'' ''Zohan,'' ''Sarah Marshall,'' ''Step Brothers'' and ''Pineapple Express.''
 On a hot streak with hits like ''Knocked Up'' and ''Superbad,'' this filmmaker, who declined to be interviewed for this article, missed badly in December with his musical biopic spoof, ''Walk Hard: The Dewey Cox Story,'' for Columbia. Last weekend one of his occasional associates, Mr. Ferrell, underperformed expectations for New Line, when his 1970s basketball sendup, ''Semi-Pro,'' brought in a little more than $15 million. 
 The poor results sent a shiver through an industry that likes comedies because they are generally less expensive than animated films like ''Ratatouille'' or effects-driven spectacles like ''Transformers.'' But though more cost-effective, comedies still need a healthy turnout by American moviegoers because most do not play well abroad.
 Still, Valerie Van Galder, marketing president of Sony's Columbia-TriStar Motion Picture Group, said she was confident that the audience remained hungry for laughs. ''It's a communal experience,'' she said of the genre's enduring appeal.
 And Thomas Pollock, a partner in the Montecito Picture Company, whose ''Old School'' helped put Mr. Ferrell on the fast track five years ago, pointed out that heavily tested, carefully tuned comedies were on the whole wonderfully predictable.
 ''Multiply the number of big laughs in the movie times $10 million, and you get the ultimate domestic box office,'' Mr. Pollock said. ''Ten big laughs, $100 million.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 12, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article in The Arts on Thursday about plans by Hollywood's big studios to release several comedies in the coming months referred imprecisely to the role of Shawn Levy in the production of one, ''What Happens in Vegas,'' coming out in May from 20th Century Fox. He is a producer, not the executive producer. (The executive producers are Arnon Milchan, Joe Caracciolo Jr. and Dean Georgaris.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A summer face-off: Steve Carell, left, in ''Get Smart'' vs. Mike Myers in ''The Love Guru.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY WARNER BROTHERS PICTURES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMEDY FILMS (90%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (79%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (72%); SURROGATE MOTHERHOOD (60%)

COMPANY: UNIVERSAL PICTURES (53%); SONY PICTURES ENTERTAINMENT INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (52%); SIC7822 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE DISTRIBUTION (52%)

PERSON: WILL SMITH (79%); STEVE CARELL (73%); GEORGE CLOONEY (59%); EDDIE MURPHY (59%); PATRICK DEMPSEY (59%); ADAM SANDLER (58%); TINA FEY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2008



140 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: Time Is Short for Japan to Name a Central Banker

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
At a time when global financial turmoil would seem to require a firm hand at the economic tiller, Japan is facing the uncomfortable prospect of having no leader at its central bank.
 The five-year term of the current Bank of Japan governor, Toshihiko Fukui, ends March 19. But a stalemate in Parliament between the largest political parties has blocked the selection -- even the nomination -- of a successor.
 Neither the deputy governor, Toshiro Muto, who is the favorite of the governing Liberal Democratic Party, nor the other possible candidates are expected to deviate far from Mr. Fukui's cautiously conservative stance in monetary policy. Economists say that even a brief delay in filling risks putting Japan on autopilot as it navigates an increasingly stormy world of economic policy. 
 ''With the market going up and down, and subprime problems popping up, there may be need for a quick response,'' said Akio Makabe, a specialist in central bank policy at Shinshu University. 
 Lawmakers are beginning to talk of contingency plans, like asking Mr. Fukui to remain until a successor can be chosen. On Wednesday, Prime Minister Yasuo Fukuda sought to reassure the public that his government would not let the central bank post go vacant. ''You don't expect us to do such a foolish thing, do you?'' Mr. Fukuda said. 
 More efforts to reassure the public came Thursday. The Reuters news service reported that Japan's chief cabinet secretary, Nobutaka Machimura, who is the government's top spokesman, said the government would propose its candidate on Friday.
 Still, there is widespread worry that a delay could hurt the credibility of Japan, which has an economy, at almost $5 trillion, secondonly to that of the United States. Politicians and newspaper editorials have warned that Tokyo must not add to world economic uncertainty by appearing to set its monetary policy adrift. 
 The stalemate in Parliament began in July, when the main opposition Democratic Party of Japan took control of the upper house. With the Liberal Democrats holding the lower house, control of Japan's two-chamber Parliament was split. The inability of the two sides to find common ground has brought the passage of legislation to a virtual halt. The approval of both houses is needed for a nominee.
 Mr. Fukuda and his Liberal Democrats appear to have made the widely expected choice of backing Mr. Muto, an experienced political insider and former official at the finance ministry. Until recently, an endorsement by the Liberal Democrats would have all but sewn up the nomination for Mr. Muto.
 Instead, the Liberal Democrats have yet to even formally nominate him, or anyone else, for fear of losing face should the newly empowered Democratic Party of Japan reject its candidate.
 Many lawmakers from the Democratic Party have opposed the nomination of Mr. Muto for fear that his ties to the finance ministry would threaten the independence of the central bank, which was freed from the ministry's control a decade ago. His prospects were further clouded Saturday when the Democratic Party's leader, Ichiro Ozawa, threatened to reject him in retaliation for the governing party's pushing through of a budget bill.
 Economists and political analysts say a Muto nomination could still pass, but only if the Liberal Democratic Party made significant concessions elsewhere, like giving opposition lawmakers a larger voice in the budget and other major bills. Another increasingly likely possibility, they say, is nominating an alternative candidate.
 One such possibility is Yutaka Yamaguchi, another former Bank of Japan deputy governor and career central banker. While popular among the opposition Democrats, Mr. Yamaguchi has a reputation for being strong-willed, and that could hurt his chances with some Liberal Democrats who fear the bank might seek too much independence.
 No matter who is selected, economists say they do not expect any significant change in Japan's current monetary policy. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The five-year term of the current Bank of Japan governor, Toshihiko Fukui, ends March 19. A political stalemate in Parliament has blocked the selection of a successor. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YURIKO NAKAO/REUTERS)
 The deputy governor of the bank, Toshiro Muto, is the favorite candidate of the governing Liberal Democratic Party. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PUNIT PARANJPE/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (71%); CONSERVATISM (71%); APPROVALS (70%); SUBPRIME LENDING (69%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (56%)

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (58%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%)

PERSON: YASUO FUKUDA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (92%) JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2008



141 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1535 words

HEADLINE: In Europe, Central Banking Is Different

BYLINE: By CARTER DOUGHERTY

DATELINE: FRANKFURT 

 BODY:
On Jan. 21, the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, abruptly canceled plans to travel to New York so he could stay in Washington to engineer the largest one-day reduction of interest rates in recent times. 
 His counterpart at the European Central Bank, Jean-Claude Trichet, did not change his travel plans -- or his policy.
 Taking care to give the European bankers a heads-up before a public announcement, Mr. Bernanke sharply cut the Fed's benchmark lending rate by 0.75 percentage point early the next morning, partly in response to plunging global share prices.
 The next day, with Europe weathering market turmoil as well, Mr. Trichet coolly told the European Parliament in Brussels that the bank, based in Frankfurt, would keep rates steady despite the Fed's move. 
 ''There is no contradiction,'' he said later that week, ''between price stability and financial stability.''
 The contrasting ways Mr. Bernanke and Mr. Trichet responded to the crisis in the markets reflect something more than the differing economic and financial conditions in the United States and Europe.
 At a more fundamental level, they reflect surprisingly different views of how each economy responds to the underlying forces affecting growth and inflation.
 The Fed's mandate, balanced between fighting inflation and encouraging full employment, leads to a simple investor calculus: if growth sags, the Fed is virtually certain to cut interest rates.
 Usefully for the Fed, which seems likely to cut its benchmark short-term rate below the current 3 percent, inflation in the United States tends to fall as demand slackens during a slowdown. And even though inflation has lately been rising to worrisome levels, the Fed appears to be counting on that rule to apply again. 
 The European bank, by contrast, is skeptical of the notion that inflation automatically falls when growth cools, and it has a mandate, inherited from the German central bank, to keep prices stable above all else. So the view from the European bank's sleek silvery headquarters here is very different from the Fed's perspective in Washington, whatever market participants may think about the inevitability of lower European interest rates.
 Mr. Trichet is likely to drive home this point after the central bankers emerge from their monthly meeting here Thursday, when they are expected to leave rates unchanged at 4 percent.
 Many investors remain convinced that the European bank has little choice but to follow the Fed's lead, if only to ensure that recessionary conditions do not leach into Europe. As the Fed has cut rates, investors have bet that the bank here will follow and lower its benchmark rate, certainly by June and possibly earlier. 
 The rise of the euro, which breached the $1.50 threshold last week and settled in New York Wednesday at $1.5262, also increases the pressure on the bankers from European politicians to at least hint at lower borrowing costs. Falling interest rates in the United States have exerted a powerful force on currency values by damping the appeal of dollar-denominated assets.
 ''In the present circumstances, we are concerned about excessive exchange-rate moves,'' Jean-Claude Juncker, Luxembourg's prime minister, who is presiding over the group of 15 euro-zone finance ministers, said on Monday.
 But what sets off alarm among some politicians in Europe is far less likely to raise hackles at the central bank. That is because the euro's rise also helps curb inflation by lowering the cost of imported goods. And if the euro's appreciation is smooth, it supports the bankers' decision so far to stand pat. 
 At its core, the market expectations of a rate cut despite the European bank's warnings that inflation remains its primary concern stems from the bank's failure -- nearly 10 years after it was created as the steward of the euro, now the common currency of 15 nations -- to emerge from the Fed's shadow. 
 ''Markets tend to put a very high correlation on Fed interest rates and European interest rates,'' said Klaus Baader, chief Europe economist at Merrill Lynch and one of a minority of European bank watchers who maintain that it will keep rates steady all year. ''That was the case when European monetary policy was driven by the Bundesbank, and it is true now.''
 While the central bank could end up lowering rates if conditions change significantly, it is struggling over how to change the perception that a European rate cut is inevitable.
 Consider what happened when its council gathered behind closed doors in Frankfurt on Jan. 10 after a usual working dinner the night before. At that point, its members -- the 6 top bank officials and 15 central bankers of member countries -- found themselves embroiled in a lively and previously undisclosed debate linked to market expectations.
 They had already decided to leave rates steady. As a result of rising energy and food prices, inflation was running at an annual pace around 3 percent, above the bank's goal of keeping European inflation under 2 percent. 
 The council members were wrangling over a proposed statement that included a threat to act ''pre-emptively'' if labor unions tried to embed higher energy and food prices into new contracts, risking a new wage-price spiral.
 Mr. Trichet has long held that central banks do their best work when their threats to raise interest rates deter inflationary actions in the first place, avoiding the need for excessive swings in the benchmark rate. In a speech at the annual meeting of central bankers in Jackson Hole, Wyo., in August 2005, Mr. Trichet called this concept ''credible alertness.''
 But there was another reason for including it. The central bankers had agreed that they had to offer a slightly more downbeat view of the euro area's growth prospects in the opening paragraph of their monthly statement. 
 The financial market turmoil showed no sign of ending, and with each day, the risks rose that banks would constrict the flow of credit to the real economy, endangering business investment and consumer spending.
 European Central Bank officials knew that a message about slower growth would inevitably fuel speculation that it was opening the door to lower rates. So against the wishes of some council members, the threat was added to help counterbalance the message on growth.
 The episode has been widely viewed as a communications failure, and the word ''pre-emptively'' disappeared from the next month's statement. 
 ''In my view, this was a pretty clumsy move,'' said Charles Wyplosz, a professor of international economics at the Graduate Institute of International Studies in Geneva. ''They had to drop it unceremoniously when it didn't work out.''
 But despite the statement's awkwardness, it reflected the central bank's poorly understood view that strong employment protections coupled with muscular labor unions and generous social benefits act as a brake on falling demand. And if higher inflation is being imported through commodity prices, any automatic link between lower growth and lower inflation cannot be taken for granted.
 Moreover, the ups and downs of the European economy -- the distance it travels between strong growth and severe downturns -- have been less than in the United States in recent decades. So even if recession seems imminent to some in the United States, central bankers here say, Europe need not expect a similar outcome. 
 ''The U.S. economy is not the European economy,'' Mr. Trichet said last month, ''and both sides of the Atlantic are not in the same situation.''
 After the end of the Internet boom and the terrorist attacks in September 2001, the European Central Bank never went as far as the Fed, which cut rates to 1 percent. Nor did it tighten rates as much as the Fed did when times got better.
 ''The E.C.B. never followed the Fed on the upside,'' said Elga Bartsch, chief economist for the region at Morgan Stanley. ''They never lowered as far and they never got into restrictive territory the way the Fed did. So all these notions that the E.C.B. has to follow the Fed are misguided.''
 That did not stop investors from lurching to the conclusion early in February that a European rate cut might be imminent.
 By the time of the bank's Feb. 7 meeting, the outlook in Europe had dimmed, with real-time indicators showing a slight softening in the economy. That made any threat of a rate increase untenable, the council members concluded.
 Nonetheless, at his monthly news conference, Mr. Trichet underscored the bank's determination to focus on inflation.
 ''We have only one needle in our compass,'' Mr. Trichet said, ''which is that we have to deliver price stability.''
 Despite that message, the markets bid up the odds for a rate cut, with some traders speculating that it could come as early as March. In response, Mr. Trichet, by then in Tokyo for a meeting of Group of 7 finance ministers and central bankers, stressed that not one central banker at the last meeting in Frankfurt had proposed lower rates.
 ''We had no call for an increase of rates, but we had no call for a decrease in rates,'' Mr. Trichet said. ''So I would think that it is important that the two messages be fully understood.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jean-Claude Trichet seems to prefer a threat to a rise in rates. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SERGIO PEREZ/REUTERS)
 The Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, gave European central bankers a little notice before announcing a rate cut in January. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS LIVINGSTON/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (pg.C8) CHART: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK MAIN REFINANCING RATE: Behind the key rates of the European Central Bank and the Federal Reserve are different approaches to growth and inflation. (Sources: Federal Reserve, European Central Bank) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); EURO (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); RECESSION (72%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (72%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (56%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (90%); BEN BERNANKE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (78%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%) EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); BELGIUM (78%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2008



142 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1166 words

HEADLINE: President Fails To Budge OPEC On Production

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
OPEC on Wednesday rebuffed calls from President Bush to increase oil output, instead citing ''mismanagement'' of the American economy as a major factor driving prices up. 
 Record prices are suddenly creating the sharpest tensions in years between the oil cartel and the United States, the world's largest oil consumer. Two days after the president called for more oil on the global market, OPEC members, meeting in Vienna, chose to leave their production levels unchanged, declaring that the market has plenty of oil already. 
 The cartel's president blamed financial speculators and American economic problems, which have helped lower the value of the dollar, for the high oil prices. After the meeting, oil prices settled above $104 a barrel, a record.
 President Bush, who said this week that it would be a mistake for the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries not to raise production, was disappointed by the outcome of Wednesday's meeting, according to the White House. 
 It is the second time this year that OPEC had ignored public calls from the United States to increase supplies. In January, Mr. Bush traveled to Saudi Arabia and urged producers to open their taps. But the plea failed to sway OPEC. When the group met in February, it kept its production level unchanged. 
 The rally in oil prices on Wednesday was caused in part by tensions on the border between Venezuela, a major oil exporter, and Colombia, as well as by government data in the United States showing a drop in stockpiles of oil and some of the fuels made from it. 
 Oil prices settled at a record of $104.52 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange, a gain of $5. Prices, which have risen 73 percent during the last year, have settled above $100 a barrel for seven of the last 12 trading sessions. 
 While members of OPEC chose not to increase supplies, they were not entirely oblivious to the political and economic impact of $100 oil. Gasoline prices have been rising rapidly in the United States in recent weeks, hitting a nationwide average of $3.18 a gallon Wednesday. That is only a nickel below the record set last May.
 The sharp surge in oil prices in recent days has deterred the group from cutting its production, a move that some members like Algeria and Iran were seriously contemplating a few weeks ago. 
 With the United States economy slowing down, oil prices have risen as investors flee the stock market and seek refuge in hard assets like commodities. The fall in the value of the dollar gives OPEC an incentive to keep prices high. Since oil is sold in dollars, petroleum producers see the value of their exports decline any time the dollar drops.
 The dollar has lost 17 percent of its value against the euro in the last year. On Wednesday, it fell to a new low against the euro, trading at $1.53. 
 ''OPEC is angry that President Bush wants them to increase production while the dollar is sinking and the administration is doing nothing about that,'' said Fadel Gheit, an oil analyst at Oppenheimer & Company in New York. ''It's really not surprising that they have ignored him.''
 The falling dollar has complex economic effects in the United States, not all of them bad. The drop is helping to fuel a surge of American exports, one of the few bright spots in a struggling economy.
 Higher energy prices, which have been rising relentlessly for nearly a decade, are creating tensions between consuming nations and producers around the world. Oil-rich countries like Russia and Venezuela have become more demanding in their dealings with foreign oil companies, often restricting access to prime drilling locations.
 In the United States, rising energy costs are weighing on an economy that is struggling with a housing slump and a credit crisis. As a sign of growing impatience, Mr. Bush criticized OPEC this week for not increasing supplies. 
 ''I think it's a mistake to have your biggest customer's economy to slow down'' because of high energy prices, he said. 
 Most energy analysts dismissed the call for additional supplies as political rhetoric. In comments on Wednesday, the president said the United States needs to reduce consumption.
 ''America's got to change its habits; we've got to get off oil,'' Mr. Bush said at a conference on renewable fuels in Washington. ''Until we change our habits, there's going to be more dependency on oil.''
 Mr. Bush's earlier comments echo remarks he made more than eight years ago, while running for president. Then, the onetime Texas oilman said that if prices rose, he would not hesitate to call OPEC producers and persuade them to increase supplies.
 ''I would work with our friends in OPEC to convince them to open up the spigot, to increase the supply,'' Mr. Bush said at the time. ''Use the capital that my administration will earn, with the Kuwaitis or the Saudis, and convince them to open up the spigot.''
 But OPEC members are proving difficult to sway. Chakib Khelil, Algeria's oil minister and OPEC's president this year, said on Wednesday that the high price of oil was not because of a lack of supply, but instead resulted from the ''mismanagement of the U.S. economy'' that has helped send the dollar tumbling. 
 ''If the prices are high, definitely they are not due to a lack of crude,'' Mr. Khelil said in Vienna. ''They are due to what's happening in the U.S.'' 
 He added: ''There is sufficient supply. There's plenty of oil there.''
 Most energy analysts agree there is no shortage of oil. Commercial oil inventories are high, and refiners are not lacking oil. 
 ''The market continues to be well supplied,'' Rex W. Tillerson, the chairman and chief executive of Exxon Mobil, said at a conference in New York. ''There has been no interruption of supplies.''
 Still, OPEC recognizes the threat posed by a slowing economy on its business. In its final statement, the group said that the United States economic slowdown and housing crisis could damp global oil demand this year. 
 Ali al-Naimi, Saudi Arabia's oil minister, said there was no need to increase supplies by ''even one barrel of oil.'' But he stressed that Saudi Arabia, the world's top exporter, would keep oil markets well supplied. As a sign of how seriously it sees its role, Mr. Naimi told reporters that the kingdom was pumping 9.2 million barrels, ''day in, day out,'' or roughly 300,000 barrels a day above its formal OPEC target.
 The oil cartel, which is next scheduled to meet in September, indicated it might call for an emergency meeting earlier depending on ''market conditions.'' 
 OPEC producers account for about 40 percent of the world's oil exports. Some of its members, like Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, are United States allies; others, like Iran and Venezuela, are political foes. 
 ''OPEC's biggest fear is that this is a bubble and that prices will drop by $30 a barrel,'' said Roger Diwan, a managing director at PFC Energy, who was in Vienna to attend the meeting. ''So they keep tightening supplies and prices keep going up.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chakib Khelil, OPEC's president, in Vienna on Wednesday. He said the United States economy has been ''mismanaged.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS/HEINZ-PETER BADER) (pg.A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CARTELS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (90%); US DOLLAR (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (88%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); METALS MARKETS (77%); EXPORT PRICES (77%); BASE METALS MARKETS (76%); GASOLINE MARKETS (76%); FUEL MARKETS (76%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (68%); EURO (60%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (93%) UNITED STATES (95%); AUSTRIA (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2008



143 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 398 words

HEADLINE: Gift to Teach Business to Third-World Women

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM

 BODY:
Goldman Sachs & Company will donate $100 million to give at least 10,000 women a business education and, more broadly, to develop and enhance business education programs at universities in Africa, the Middle East and other developing regions, the firm announced Wednesday. 
 The gift is one of the largest corporate donations since 2000, according to the Center on Philanthropy at Indiana University.
 ''No country will ever achieve its full potential if half of its talent pool is stymied or underrepresented,'' said Lloyd C. Blankfein, Goldman's chairman and chief executive.
 The program will span five years and include programs to benefit disadvantaged women in the United States.
 Mr. Blankfein said investing in educating women in the developing world for managerial roles and in building educational programs to develop business expertise and talent would benefit the economies of the countries where Goldman's money will be spent, and that would be to the firm's benefit. Goldman follows economic growth around the world, Mr. Blankfein said, ''but also we try to create it, because that's how our bread gets buttered as a business.'' 
 Shareholders often object to spending corporate profits on philanthropy, and Mr. Blankfein said he expected he would get some objections to the gift. A few years ago, for instance, Goldman had to answer to shareholders angry at the company for donating a $35 million tract of 735,500 acres on the island of Tierra del Fuego, Chile, to the Wildlife Conservation Society.
 Goldman spent more than a year developing the program on business education. Its partners in the endeavor range from the Pan-African University in Lagos, Nigeria, to the Thunderbird School of Global Management in Arizona.
 Its focus on women mirrors the efforts of many nonprofit groups that are working to give women financial tools in the belief that it will benefit their communities.
 Marcellina Mvula Chijoriga, dean of the faculty of commerce and management at the University of Dar es Salaam in Tanzania, used her experience to illustrate women's broader impact on society. One of 10 children of parents who had no formal education, Dr. Chijoriga has four children of her own and supports 10 more children in her extended family.
 She said Goldman's gift to institutions like hers would enable women ''to be managers of computer companies instead of running salons.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGING MARKETS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); CORPORATE GIVING (90%); WOMEN (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); CHARITIES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); PHILANTHROPY (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); FAMILY (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); ISLANDS & REEFS (64%); WILDLIFE (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (66%)

ORGANIZATION: INDIANA UNIVERSITY (57%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION SOCIETY (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); PANASONIC (NSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: LLOYD BLANKFEIN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAGOS, NIGERIA (79%); DAR ES SALAAM, TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (78%) ARIZONA, USA (79%) AFRICA (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); NIGERIA (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHILE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2008



144 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 185 words

HEADLINE: Trump Entertainment Loss Grows

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Trump Entertainment Resorts, the casino company founded by Donald J. Trump, posted on Wednesday its biggest loss since emerging from bankruptcy in 2005. 
 The fourth-quarter loss swelled to $183.2 million, or $5.89 a share, from $9.68 million, or 31 cents, a year earlier, the company said. Revenue fell 6.4 percent, to $228.6 million.
 A fourth consecutive quarter of revenue declines led the company to declare that its three Atlantic City properties were worth $238.7 million less than it said they were last year.
 Trump Entertainment has been battered by a slowing economy and competition, both from slots-only casinos that opened in Pennsylvania after November 2006 and other Atlantic City properties that can spend more on marketing. The company's stock has plummeted since efforts to sell one of its casinos stalled in June. Analysts say a sale is necessary to pay off debt and diversify into other markets.
 Trump Entertainment declined 26 cents, or 7 percent, to close at $3.44 on Nasdaq. The shares have dropped 20 percent this year and 75 percent since the company emerged from bankruptcy in May 2005.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CASINOS (91%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%)

COMPANY: TRUMP ENTERTAINMENT RESORTS INC (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (96%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (96%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (93%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2008



145 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: Under Pressure, Abbas Says He'll Talk Peace, but Actual Dialogue May Be Remote

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER and ISABEL KERSHNER; Helene Cooper added later reporting from Brussels.

DATELINE: JERUSALEM 

 BODY:
After coming under heavy pressure from the United States, Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian president, said Wednesday that he intended to resume negotiations with Israel on a peace plan. 
 But he did not say when he would return to talks, and he is under political pressure at home not to do so if the Palestinian death toll continues to rise from Israeli attacks on Gaza. 
 Mr. Abbas suspended negotiations over the weekend during Israeli operations to stop rocket fire from Gaza that left 126 Palestinians, including civilians, dead since Feb. 27. Three Israelis also died, two soldiers in the fighting and one civilian in a rocket attack. 
 Mr. Abbas's decision to return to the negotiating table followed talks with Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice. 
 Even winning Mr. Abbas's somewhat vague agreement proved difficult.
 Ms. Rice apparently had interpreted talks with Mr. Abbas as having ended with his commitment to return unconditionally to peace talks, Israeli and American officials said. But then Mr. Abbas told reporters he would return only when Israel reached a truce with Hamas, the militant Palestinian group that controls Gaza. 
 That prompted Ms. Rice to interrupt her lunch with Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni and telephone Mr. Abbas, Israeli and American officials said. 
 Shortly afterward, the Palestinian president released a statement that the peace process was a ''strategic choice and we have the intention of resuming.'' He did not list any preconditions. 
 Mr. Abbas's hesitancy provides further evidence of just how hard it will be for President Bush to achieve his stated goal of a peace deal by January, the end of his term. And the resolute tone at Israel's security cabinet on Wednesday did not seem to suggest an imminent truce.
 The security cabinet refrained from approving a large-scale military operation of the kind that Defense Minister Ehud Barak has been threatening. But it decided that Israel would act ''continuously and systematically'' in order to bring an end to the rocket fire from Gaza.
 More than 200 rockets have been fired over the past week, according to Israeli military officials, including longer-range Katyusha-style rockets.
 On Wednesday morning, two rockets were launched against Israel, an army spokeswoman said. There were no reports of damage or casualties. 
 In Gaza, the militant groups Islamic Jihad and the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine claimed responsibility for the rocket fire, saying it was in retaliation for a limited Israeli army operation on Tuesday night aimed at a local Islamic Jihad leader. The militant leader was killed in clashes, and a month-old baby was killed in the cross-fire, Palestinian officials said.
 Israel had withdrawn its forces from the northern Gaza Strip just the day before, after a two-day assault.
 Ms. Livni said Wednesday that the violence was to be expected and that neither Israelis nor Palestinians should let it get in the way of the peace talks. She obliquely criticized Mr. Abbas for suspending the talks on Sunday and noted that Israel had not pulled out of the talks when rockets from Gaza hit Israel.
 ''I'm not going to enter a kind of blame game, but clearly I expect my co-partners to do the same, and I said that to them as well,'' she said during a news conference with Ms. Rice. 
 But several Middle East experts said Mr. Abbas needs something tangible to enable him to convince Palestinians that he -- and not Hamas's leaders -- can negotiate a peace that includes the establishment of a Palestinian state. The experts said the dismantling of roadblocks and some Israeli settlements would help Mr. Abbas. 
 On Wednesday morning, the Israelis did take one small step, but that effort fell short. The Israelis sent a small force to an illegal hilltop settlement outpost in the northern West Bank. The site, Esh Kodesh, falls into the category of outposts that Israel has pledged to dismantle.
 The forces disconnected a pipe bringing water from the settlement's tower, then left. An hour later, the settlers had reconnected the pipe, witnesses said.
 Ms. Rice was in the Middle East to move peace talks forward, but the increased violence meant that she had to spend much of her time trying to get Mr. Abbas back to the table.
 Ms. Rice said that an American general overseeing implementation of some parts of the peace deal would hold his first joint meeting with Israelis and Palestinians, where the United States would serve as arbiter over whether both sides are doing what they promised to do.
 ''I do understand the difficult circumstances for President Abbas, but I think he's made the right decision,'' Ms. Rice told reporters later on her flight from Jerusalem to Brussels, where she is to attend a NATO meeting. 
 A report on Wednesday by eight British-based relief and human rights organizations, including Amnesty International U.K., says the humanitarian situation in Gaza is now the worst it has been since the Israeli occupation began in 1967. 
 The report said 80 percent of Gaza's 1.5 million people were dependent on food aid, compared with 63 percent in 2006. Unemployment is close to 40 percent, and 95 percent of Gaza's industrial operations have been suspended because of a ban on the import of raw materials and on all exports, the report added.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In a symbolic gesture, Israel sent a small force on Wednesday to an illegal hilltop outpost in the West Bank, near Esh Kodesh. The forces disconnected a pipe bringing water from the settlement's water tower, then left. An hour later, the settlers reconnected the pipe, witnesses said. (RINA CASTELNUOVO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (95%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMIES (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); HAMAS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); BOMBINGS (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); ARMED FORCES (70%); RELIGION (60%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (55%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (92%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (79%); EHUD BARAK (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); TZIPORA LIVNI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (97%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2008



146 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 895 words

HEADLINE: What We'd Like to Hear

 BODY:
Like so many of the other supposedly decisive moments in this campaign -- the New Hampshire primary and Super Tuesday spring to mind -- Tuesday night's showdown in Texas and Ohio once again failed to resolve the Democratic presidential nominating contest. That does not trouble us. It means, at least, that the absurd front-loading of the primary season did not do what we feared: deprive the majority of Democratic voters of the chance to be heard.
 And it means that there is still a chance to take this campaign and elevate it, finally, to a serious debate about major issues. That is what American voters deserve. And that is what Democrats must do if they hope to break the Republican grip on the White House. 
 After eight damaging and divisive years, there is certainly a lot that needs to be debated starting with President Bush's disastrous war, his tax cuts for the rich, regulatory incompetence and neglect and unrelenting assaults on civil rights, civil liberties and the balance of powers in government.
 In other words, something quite different than the schoolyard shoving contest we've witnessed over the last few weeks between Senators Barack Obama and Hillary Rodham Clinton, and their increasingly out-of-control ''surrogates.'' Mrs. Clinton's camp continues to be responsible for most of the nastiness we've seen this primary season, and there were signs that they were drawing the wrong lesson from Tuesday's vote: that ''red phone'' ads and hardball tactics will win the day. Mr. Obama's team increasingly acts as though this exercise in democracy should be a coronation, and Mrs. Clinton should bow out of the room. 
 For Democrats, changing this dynamic is all the more urgent because Senator John McCain has now won the Republican nomination, and he visited the White House on Wednesday to collect the dubious blessing of Mr. Bush's endorsement. Mr. McCain is now free to enjoy the food fight knowing that whoever wins the Democratic nomination will be weakened. He can now hone his attack for the fall. 
 Democrats have certainly registered their interest in this election. The turnout has set new records all over the country, and both Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton have collected votes on a scale usually reserved for the winner of the nomination. 
 The quality of this contest has not reflected that interest or the candidates' intellect. Instead of a serious debate about trade, Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton have engaged in a depressing fit of pandering to voters in economically troubled Ohio. They tripped over each other in rushing to attack the 14-year-old North American Free Trade Agreement rather than offering voters honest answers about what government can and should do to help them adapt to globalization's challenges. 
 Instead of talking soberly about how to lead the United States out of the war in Iraq, Mrs. Clinton has been trying to scare Americans with ringing red phones and dark suggestions that Mr. Obama won't be able to keep America's children safe. Mr. Obama has belittled Mrs. Clinton's considerable experience, as first lady and as a senator, suggesting -- wrongly -- that her 2002 vote for the Iraq force resolution makes her incapable of now ending the war. The plain truth is that neither has been tested as a leader in a national crisis, which puts them in the same company as virtually every other presidential candidate in history, including Mr. McCain.
 Even if their differences on Iraq are negligible, Mr. Obama and Mrs. Clinton should still debate the issue, explaining how they plan to bring American troops home and contain the chaos. Iraq has receded for now, but it will be an important issue this fall in the competition against Mr. McCain, who offers not the slightest change from President Bush's tragically failed policies.
 Instead of talking seriously about reforming health care, each side has run attack ads distorting the other's proposals. There has been some discussion about taxes, the home-mortgage crisis and the slowing economy -- but mostly when the candidates are asked about these issues during debates. 
 The election seems stuck where it has been for months. Mrs. Clinton's distinctly more negative campaign has left her open to bad memories of her husband's administration. Mr. Obama's notions of transformational change are as airy and unformed as they were when he first began using them.
 Meanwhile, the candidates are spending obscene amounts of money. Now that he's the champion money-raiser, Mr. Obama has backed away from his proposal to run the general election on public funds. He should take up that pledge again -- now.
 Mrs. Clinton and Mr. McCain owe the American public far more transparency than they have given. Mrs. Clinton has not released her income tax returns or made public the donors to her husband's library and foundation. Mr. McCain is withholding medical records that Americans need to read before they are asked to vote for a 71-year-old man with a spotty medical history.
 It's unclear how the Democratic campaign will end. But that's fine. Nearly a third of the 50 states have yet to hold a nominating contest. Before they do, we'd like to hear fewer character attacks and a lot more discussion of the nation's many problems after nearly eight years of failed Republican rule. That is the Democrats' comparative advantage. They should start to use it now.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (76%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (61%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2008



147 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: Grand Old Protectionists

BYLINE: By ROBERT E. LIGHTHIZER. 
Robert E. Lighthizer, a trade lawyer, was a deputy trade representative in the Reagan administration and the treasurer of Bob Dole's 1996 presidential campaign.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
 NOW that John McCain is, formally, the presumptive presidential nominee of the Republican Party, he can stop worrying about winning primaries and caucuses and start worrying about winning over conservatives. Mr. McCain still faces a large challenge from his right in the fall, as many conservatives suspect he isn't really one of them.
 To prove his bona fides as a conservative, Mr. McCain and his defenders often cite his support for free trade. A writer in National Review, for example, suggested last year that conservatives should support Senator McCain because he is, in Mr. McCain's own estimation, the strongest free trader in the Senate since Phil Gramm (an adviser to Mr. McCain) left that body. 
 Mr. McCain may be a conservative. But his unbridled free-trade policies don't help make that case.
 Free trade has long been popular with liberals, and it remains so with liberal elites today. The editorial pages of major newspapers consistently support free trade. Ted Kennedy supported the advance of free trade. President Bill Clinton fought hard to win approval of the North American Free Trade Agreement. Despite some of his campaign rhetoric, Barack Obama is careful to express qualified support for free trade, even when stumping in the industrial Midwest.
 Moreover, many American conservatives have opposed free trade. Jesse Helms, the most outspoken conservative in the Senate for three decades, was no free trader. Neither was Alexander Hamilton, who could be considered the founder of American conservatism. 
 For almost 100 years after the Civil War, the Republican Party (led by men like Lincoln and McKinley) was overtly protectionist. Theodore Roosevelt, a hero of John McCain's, wrote that ''pernicious indulgence in the doctrine of free trade seems inevitably to produce fatty degeneration of the moral fiber.''
 The first significant Republican free trader was President Dwight Eisenhower. But Harry Truman tried to recruit him to run for the White House as a Democrat, and his political affiliation was not clear until he actually began running for the 1952 Republican nomination. Conservatives in 1952 supported the presidential bid of Robert Taft, a steadfast opponent of free trade.
 If you watched the Republican presidential debates -- and had no other knowledge of economic history -- you might believe that Ronald Reagan, the personification of modern conservatism, was a pure free trader. During a debate in Michigan, for example, Mr. McCain said that President Reagan ''must be spinning in his grave'' to hear Republicans expressing concerns about free trade. But while free traders like to quote some of President Reagan's open-markets rhetoric, they did not like many of his actual trade policies.
 President Reagan often broke with free-trade dogma. He arranged for voluntary restraint agreements to limit imports of automobiles and steel (an industry whose interests, by the way, I have represented). He provided temporary import relief for Harley-Davidson. He limited imports of sugar and textiles. His administration pushed for the ''Plaza accord'' of 1985, an agreement that made Japanese imports more expensive by raising the value of the yen. 
 Each of these measures prompted vociferous criticism from free traders. But they worked. By the early 1990s, doubts about Americans' ability to compete had been impressively reduced.
 President Reagan's pragmatism contrasted strongly with the utopian dreams of free traders. Ever since Edmund Burke criticized the French philosophes, Anglo-American conservatism has rejected ivory-tower theories that disregard the realities of everyday life. 
 Modern free traders, on the other hand, embrace their ideal with a passion that makes Robespierre seem prudent. They allow no room for practicality, nuance or flexibility. They embrace unbridled free trade, even as it helps China become a superpower. They see only bright lines, even when it means bowing to the whims of anti-American bureaucrats at the World Trade Organization. They oppose any trade limitations, even if we must depend on foreign countries to feed ourselves or equip our military. They see nothing but dogma -- no matter how many jobs are lost, how high the trade deficit rises or how low the dollar falls.
 Conservative statesmen from Alexander Hamilton to Ronald Reagan sometimes supported protectionism and at other times they leaned toward lowering barriers. But they always understood that trade policy was merely a tool for building a strong and independent country with a prosperous middle class.
 Free traders like Mr. McCain instead rely too often on the notion that we should change the country to suit their trade policy -- an approach that is not in the best traditions of American conservatism. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HARRY CAMPBELL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); CONSERVATISM (92%); CAUCUSES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (71%); WRITERS (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (60%); IMPORT CONTROLS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (55%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (93%); RONALD REAGAN (89%); PHIL GRAMM (58%); TED KENNEDY (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2008



148 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONALA3-12
 Cuban Youth Spread News With Underground Effort
 A growing underground network of young people armed with computer memory sticks, digital cameras and clandestine Internet hookups has been mounting some challenges to the Cuban government, spreading news the official state media try to suppress. A1 
 China Drug Ingredient Tainted 
 Federal drug regulators said they had discovered that a critical blood thinner linked to at least 19 deaths and whose raw components are produced in China contained a possibly counterfeit ingredient that mimicked the real drug. A1 
 Bloc Cites Colombian Raid
 The Organization of American States approved a resolution declaring the Colombian military raid into Ecuador a violation of sovereignty, in a move aimed at easing a diplomatic crisis in the Andes involving Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela. A3 
 India Pressed on Energy Pact
 A senior State Department official gave India a three-month deadline to complete negotiations on a landmark nuclear energy deal, delayed by opposition within India, so that Congress could vote on the issue before its summer recess. A6 
 Iraq in Talks Over Oil Fields
 The Iraqi government is negotiating with American and European oil companies to manage the development of new oil fields in northern and southern Iraq, an Oil Ministry official said. A10 
 NATIONALA14 - 25
 Voting Victories by Clinton Slow Move Toward Obama
 Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's victories in Tuesday's primaries barely dented Senator Barack Obama's lead in delegates but seemed to slow the party establishment's move in his direction. A1 
 Fighting for Momentum
 Senator Barack Obama allowed Senator Hillary Clinton to elude his grasp, leading to defeats in two of the nation's larger states. After a period in which he seemed invincible, he now faces questions about vulnerabilities as he tries to prove he can win states vital to a Democratic victory in November. A1 
 Battle Begins in Pennsylvania
 Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton wasted no time planting her flag in the next big battleground state, Pennsylvania, sending her daughter, Chelsea, to speak to students in Philadelphia. Mrs. Clinton is due in Scranton later in the week. A24 
 Counseling Older Addicts
 Substance abuse centers, including the Hanley Center in Florida, are reaching out to addicts over 50, whose numbers are growing and who have historically been ignored. A1 
 Eye on an Illinois District
 When Speaker J. Dennis Hastert, Republican of Illinois, announced his retirement, both parties saw an opportunity to make a statement from his district in Elgin, Ill.. A traditionally Republican territory, Democrats jumped on the open seat capitalizing on shifting demographics. A25 
 NEW YORK/REGIONB1-6
 Can't Find a Spot? Blame Parking Permits
 Perhaps one reason it is so hard to find a place to park in New York is that the city has given out 142,000 free parking permits to public employees and others. After two months of research, city officials cannot say who has them all, and the mayor has pledged a crackdown -- again. A1 
 Gay Unions Recognized
 Less than two years after New York's highest court refused to legalize gay marriage, courts in Rochester and Manhattan have begun granting reciprocity in New York to gay marriages solemnized in other jurisdictions, which some say is the de facto legalization of gay marriage.B1 
 ARTSE1-10
 Banking on Laughs
 Hollywood's big studios have found their cure for the surfeit of dour movies last fall and winter: a spring-summer comedy glut. E1
 BUSINESS DAYC1-12 
 No Change in Oil Output
 OPEC rebuffed calls from President Bush to increase oil output, saying ''mismanagement'' of the United States economy, not a supply shortage, was driving prices up. A1 
 Business DigestC2 
 OBITUARIESB6
 Frederick Seitz
 A renowned phyicist who later became a prominent skeptic on the issue of global warming, he was 96. B7
 EDITORIALA30-31
 Editorials: What we'd like to hear; take a deep breath; Florida's 'theory of ...'.
 Columns: Gail Collins and Nicholas D. Kristof.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (87%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); STUDENT SUBSTANCE ABUSE (77%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (77%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE FACILITIES (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (76%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (74%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); ANTICOAGULANTS (72%); COUNTERFEITING (70%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (68%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (67%); CITIES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF AMERICAN STATES (57%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); BARACK OBAMA (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SCRANTON, PA, USA (77%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (72%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ANDES (77%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (93%); IRAQ (93%); COLOMBIA (93%); CUBA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2008



149 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: Looking at the Math and the Map, and Hoping the Tide Can Turn

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

 BODY:
Now that Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton has shown that persistence pays off, with her comeback victories in the Ohio and Texas primaries on Tuesday, a new question immediately confronts her and her campaign: Can she persevere to ultimately win the nomination?
 Clinton advisers were publicly celebrating their fresh momentum on Wednesday, and privately plotting political and advertising strategy for the weeks ahead. Yet cutting through that hubbub were some clear, cold numbers: Senator Barack Obama of Illinois has about 90 delegates more than Mrs. Clinton, of New York, and she faces a steep uphill climb in trying to overtake him. 
 But it is doable. More than 13 weeks remain before the last contest -- the June 7 contest for Puerto Rico's 63 delegates -- and any number of game-changing gaffes, knockouts, debates, advertisements or world events could influence the race by then. To a large extent, the Clinton strategy is simply to run out the clock and hope -- by dint of primary victories and her candidacy's credibility -- that she compiles the most delegates by then.
 While Mr. Obama has enjoyed particular momentum recently in recruiting superdelegates -- the party leaders who can pick a candidate themselves -- Clinton advisers say they are urging the remaining 448 uncommitted superdelegates to sit tight and let the primary season play out before choosing a candidate.
 It is unclear if they can succeed: the Obama campaign has been announcing each day that a new superdelegate or two have aligned with his efforts, and his advisers say they expect to continue recruiting more.
 Unless they can freeze enough superdelegates in place, Clinton advisers acknowledge that the delegate arithmetic has them at a sharp disadvantage; Mr. Obama has 1,456.5 total delegates to Mrs. Clinton's 1,370. The remaining 12 primaries will award delegates proportionally to both the winner and the loser, meaning that future victories will not alter the delegate margins substantially. And it will be difficult if not impossible for either candidate to get the 2,025 delegates needed for the nomination, leaving the contest very likely in the hands of superdelegates.
 Part of Mrs. Clinton's case to superdelegates is that they should at least wait and see her and Mr. Obama perform in the next big contest, the April 22 Pennsylvania primary, which awards 188 delegates. She is ahead in polls there, and enjoys support from Gov. Edward G. Rendell and several city officials.
 A victory there, in turn, could give her good momentum heading into the Indiana primary two weeks later, her advisers say. The state's influential Democratic senator, Evan Bayh, a former two-term governor, was one of Mrs. Clinton's earliest supporters. Indiana has 84 delegates.
 The campaign advisers also believe that she has a shot in West Virginia, Kentucky and South Dakota, which have a combined 122 delegates, and that -- given her strong support among Hispanics -- she is likely to do very well in Puerto Rico, which has 63 delegates. But along the way are contests in North Carolina, where polls suggest Mr. Obama is well positioned, and Mississippi, which has a large black Democratic electorate. 
 Clinton advisers said Wednesday that they did not believe they had to open a significant new offensive against Mr. Obama to beat him in primaries or to freeze superdelegates in place. Rather, they argued that he was already on the defensive.
 Noting that Mrs. Clinton decisively won among voters who made up their minds in the days and hours before Tuesday's vote, her advisers credited that momentum to her recent ads challenging Mr. Obama's ability in a national security crisis, her campaign's complaints about media bias favoring Mr. Obama, and questions about his financial ties to a former donor and friend who is on trial in Chicago on corruption charges. (Mr. Obama is not connected to the trial.)
 Mark Penn, the Clinton campaign's chief strategist, predicted Wednesday that ''a fuller vetting process'' of Mr. Obama by the news media would heighten concerns among voters about Mr. Obama's candidacy and ''open up a number of other states'' where Mrs. Clinton could compete intensively for delegates.
 Senator Clinton's advisers were also discussing Wednesday how to add the delegates from Michigan and Florida to her column. The Democratic Party stripped the two states of their delegates after they moved their primaries to January. Mrs. Clinton remained on the ballot in each state (as did Mr. Obama in Florida); she won both.
 While Clinton advisers have publicly opposed talk of a ''do over'' contest in either state, some of her advisers said Wednesday that they were now inclined to support such a vote. They believe that her strength with Hispanics, women and Jewish voters in Florida, and with union workers and women in Michigan, would be enough to overtake Mr. Obama's advantage with black and young voters in both states.
 Mrs. Clinton and her top aides continue to oppose such a do-over, which could deeply split the Democratic Party. The alternative is waiting until July for the party to consider allowing the Florida and Michigan delegates to count at the August convention. But the Clinton advisers who support a new vote said they expected conversations on the issue to intensify in her camp.
 In the short term, the campaign announced Wednesday that Mrs. Clinton would campaign in Mississippi on Thursday and Friday; the primary there, with 40 delegates at stake, is on Tuesday. Former President Bill Clinton is also scheduled to campaign in Mississippi on Friday.
 Mr. Clinton will campaign in Wyoming on Thursday, in advance of the caucuses on Saturday (18 delegates), and Mrs. Clinton may head there Friday.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton at an election night rally Tuesday in Columbus, Ohio. Her camp is urging undecided superdelegates to wait on any endorsements. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHARTS: HOW CLINTON WON: Hillary Rodham Clinton rode the white vote to victory, handily swamping Barack Obama's margins in cities like Columbus. In Mahoning County in the northeast, home to many closed factories, she took two-thirds of the vote. In largely white counties along the Ohio River, like Scioto, where unemployment is high, it was 80 percent. In 17 counties that are at least 75 percent Latino, like Webb and El Paso, Senator Clinton gathered 164,000 votes, 16,000 more than Tony Sanchez, a Latino Democratic gubernatorial candidate in 2002. In 10 counties with the highest concentration of Baptists, like Throckmorton, she drew 64 percent to 24 percent for Senator Obama, whose strength was in cities like Dallas and Austin. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUPERDELEGATES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICS (76%); MARKETING STRATEGY (71%); CITIES (50%); CITY GOVERNMENT (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (94%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); EVAN BAYH (58%); ED RENDELL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (90%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (78%); DALLAS, TX, USA (58%); EL PASO, TX, USA (58%) OHIO, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); PUERTO RICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2008



150 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: Lesson of Defeat: Obama Comes Out Punching

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL and JEFF ZELENY

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
Senator Barack Obama woke up on Wednesday talking of his delegate lead and of taking the fight to Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton. But after defeats in two of the most populous states, he also sounded like a chastened candidate in search of his lost moment.
 Mr. Obama once again failed to administer an electoral coup de grace, and so allowed a tenacious rival to elude his grasp. Now, after appearing nearly invincible just last week, he faces questions about his toughness and vulnerabilities -- never mind seven weeks of tramping across Pennsylvania, the site of the next big primary showdown. His goal is to prove he can win states vital to a Democratic victory in November. 
 In Ohio and Texas, he drew vast and adoring crowds, yet he came up short on primary day, just as he did in New Hampshire in early January. Mrs. Clinton's attack on his readiness to serve as commander in chief seemed to resonate with some Texas voters.
 In Ohio, Mr. Obama failed to make much headway with voters who live paycheck to paycheck and feel the economic walls closing in, a troublesome sign as he heads to Pennsylvania.
 But his challenge now is about more than demographics. He must reassure supporters, and party leaders who had started to rally to his side, that he can absorb the lessons of Tuesday's defeats. And he faces a challenge of rebounding as quickly as he did from his loss in New Hampshire.
 Flying from Texas back home to Chicago on Wednesday morning, Mr. Obama delivered the message that he intended to counterpunch forcefully.
 His campaign aides on Wednesday urged Mrs. Clinton to release her tax returns from 2006, as well as her papers from her years as first lady, which Mr. Obama's chief strategist, David Axelrod, described as ''secreted in the Clinton library.''
 ''She's made the argument that she's thoroughly vetted, in contrast to me,'' Mr. Obama said to reporters aboard his campaign plane. ''I think it's important to examine that argument.''
 Over the last year, though, Mr. Obama has struggled to deliver that examination. He picks up the cudgel, and then sets it down. The problem is that Mr. Obama has built a campaign persona as the man of hope, a young candidate with oratorical skills who promises to build bridges across the ideological divide.
 If he indulges his inner Chicago pol, formed in a city where politics is conducted with crowbars, he risks taking the shine off. But his advisers say he has little choice.
 Mr. Obama took aim on Wednesday at Mrs. Clinton's claim that she is a seasoned hand in foreign policy. ''What exactly is this foreign experience that she's claiming?'' he said. ''I know she talks about visiting 80 countries. It is not clear. Was she negotiating treaties or agreements or was she handling crises during this period of time? 
 ''My sense is the answer's no.''
 Mr. Obama, finally, has tactical worries of his own. He won in states like Missouri by running up large margins in cities and suburbs. But in Ohio, he appeared outorganized. 
 Gov. Ted Strickland, who endorsed Mrs. Clinton, advised her to encircle the cities. Mr. Strickland led her deep into his base in the hills of Appalachia in southern Ohio; Bill Clinton also passed through the region when he was president. Mrs. Clinton ran up big margins in those rural counties.
 Mr. Obama retains significant advantages, including his lead among pledged delegates and a record-setting fund-raising operation. And he bridled at questions on Wednesday about his difficulties attracting working-class and middle-class support, noting his progress in that regard.
 ''I don't buy into this demographic argument,'' Mr. Obama said. ''In Missouri, Wisconsin, Virginia and many of these states, we've won the white vote and the blue-collar voters. I think it is very important not to somehow focus on a handful of states because the Clintons say that those states are important and the other states are unimportant.''
 His advisers pointed out that the Clinton campaign had built up 20-point leads in the polls in Ohio and Texas just two weeks ago and that Mrs. Clinton's tough tactics and negative advertisements forced the Obama campaign upon the shoals.
 But Mr. Obama is hardly a by-the-bootstraps insurgent. He had a decided financial advantage in both states, outspending the Clinton campaign more than two to one, and he could count on the support of powerful unions and the endorsement of a string of big-city mayors.
 ''I'll tell you what I would do now,'' said Mayor Michael B. Coleman of Columbus, Ohio, who had endorsed Mr. Obama. ''I would start to draw contrasts with her. I don't think Obama has focused on that, and there are opportunities to be explored there.''
 Mr. Obama seems likely to take a tougher stance toward Mrs. Clinton, if only because he saw how well such tactics worked against him. When the Clinton campaign attacked on multiple fronts last week, he sometimes sounded defensive, occasionally talking at his audiences rather than with them.
 ''There's no magic bullet that hurt him; it was a series of bullets,'' said Hank Sheinkopf, a Democratic consultant. ''She reduced his charisma and forced voters back to reality.''
 For now, Mr. Obama and his advisers are huddled in Chicago, plotting strategy.
 Asked on the plane whether he and Mrs. Clinton might make a good ticket, he smiled. ''It's very premature,'' he said, ''to start talking about a joint ticket.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Barack Obama heading home to Chicago on Wednesday, where he and his advisers are planning their next moves. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WIN MCNAMEE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (92%); DAVID AXELROD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2008



151 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: For One Party, the Race Is Still On

 BODY:
To the Editor: 
 Re ''Texas and Ohio to Clinton; McCain Is In as G.O.P. Choice'' (front page, March 5):
 The March 4 political primaries were historic in several ways. John McCain completed one of the most incredible comebacks in American political history. 
 A few short months ago, he was seemingly dead in the water, with no money or support. On March 4 he became the Republican nominee for president by capturing four primaries, becoming the second oldest first-time presidential nominee in American history. 
 Hillary Rodham Clinton was equally impressive, scoring victories in Ohio, Texas and Rhode Island. After a string of 11 consecutive primary losses, and rapidly losing support in Texas and Ohio, she was dangerously close to dropping out. But she surprisingly scored some badly needed victories, and is once again back in the race. 
 You might say the media and political pundits came to bury her, and instead witnessed a resounding resurrection. 
 Kenneth L. Zimmerman
 Huntington Beach, Calif.
 March 5, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''In 2 Battlegrounds, Voters Say, Not Yet'' (news analysis, front page, March 5): I think the voters are saying, ''We want you both.'' It is not surprising that the contest between Barack Obama and Hillary Rodham Clinton is tight. Democratic primary voters are being forced to make a choice between two tremendous candidates who have similar approaches on the major issues, and many, if not most, voters like them both. 
 This in turn has led the candidates to either campaign on personal charisma or on experience and to say negative things about the other.
 I think I am not alone among Democrats in saying I want both on the ticket and don't care which one heads it. What I am most concerned with is that by their continuing this contest, a supporter of the war in Iraq and of favoritism toward the wealthy will be elected in November and will continue the failed policies of the past seven years. Roy Weber
 Ridgewood, N.J., March 5, 2008
 To the Editor:
 In a race as closely contested as the Democratic primary and the accompanying emotions that seem to pour piping-hot in all directions, the participants need to be reminded that a viable candidate -- and party -- must run against John McCain and the Republicans.
 In the heat of battle, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton must remember that she might not win the presidency with the votes of Obama supporters, but she assuredly will not win it without them.
 The same holds for Senator Barack Obama's campaign; hence, both sides must avoid strategies that will do irreparable damage to both their opponent and party. David L. Evans
 Cambridge, Mass., March 5, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Hillary Rodham Clinton argues that despite his delegate lead, Barack Obama's ability to win battleground states in the general election is to be doubted because she has won big states like California, New York and now, Ohio.
 But surely Mrs. Clinton would expect Mr. Obama's supporters in Democratic primaries and caucuses to rally around her if she becomes the Democratic Party's nominee. And just as surely, most Clinton voters -- Democratic voters, after all -- would support Mr. Obama in those big states in the general election. 
 The fight for Ohio and Florida will be hard fought by either Democrat against John McCain. And the suggestion that Mr. Obama wouldn't win states that Democrats count on, like California, New York, New Jersey or Massachusetts, is just silly. Lee K. Crawford
 Los Angeles, March 5, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Duel of Historical Guilts'' (column, March 5):
 Maureen Dowd writes: ''People will have to choose which of America's sins are greater, and which stain will have to be removed first. Is misogyny worse than racism, or is racism worse than misogyny?''
 In fact, people need only ask themselves who will be the better president, regardless of race and sex. And Democrats have to ask themselves an additional question: who will be better able to beat John McCain?
 Mark T. Millkey
 Northport, N.Y., March 5, 2008
 To the Editor:
 In talking about the Democratic presidential candidates, Maureen Dowd says: ''It's all about the past. Will America's racial past be expunged or America's sexist past be expunged?'' 
 As a white, over-60 female and lifelong Democrat, I take offense. This election is all about the future -- the future of health care, of Iraq, of the economy, of America's reputation in the world. It's about the issues. Making it about anything else is a distraction and an insult to those who are struggling to get by with high gas prices, no health insurance and a sagging economy. Christina Simons
 Andersonville, Tenn., March 5, 2008
 To the Editor:
 I'm a black American, a woman and a feminist to boot. I have touched the glass ceiling with my own hands and felt the sting of racism. Neither is pleasant, but like most married, professional women in their 30s, I don't have time to weigh gender versus race on the pain scale. I'm too busy struggling with dinner, child care, gas prices and professional advancement. 
 Still, I recall that my feminist predecessors gave me a voice and a choice. If they're angry that I may use them to choose a male candidate to lead the nation, oh well. I'm afraid I learned my feminist lessons a bit too well; I do not live to please. Adrienne Gardner
 Honolulu, March 5, 2008
 To the Editor: 
 As a feminist of the ''shoulder pads'' generation, I am sorry that Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton's supporters can so readily overlook her early and enthusiastic support of the war in Iraq. Before many of us wore those suits, we were in the streets protesting the war in Vietnam. Fashion doesn't last; beliefs do. 
 Ellen D. Murphy
 Brooklyn, March 5, 2008
 To the Editor:
 Hillary Rodham Clinton is not a good litmus test for the first woman president of the United States. She bases her credentials in large part on years spent as a president's wife. And his name. What message does this send to little boys and girls?
 Barack Obama has achieved, all on his own, using his education and brains and the opportunities presented by this country, the chance to be president. What message does this send to little boys and girls? He is the ultimate feminist. Fanette Pollack
 Brooklyn, March 5, 2008

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY VICTOR-JOHN VILLANUEVA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); HISTORY (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); IRAQ WAR (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (63%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2008



152 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 6, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: Campaign Sends Its Youngest Clinton to Pennsylvania to Open the Next Round

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA 

 BODY:
Fresh off three important victories on Tuesday, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton wasted no time planting her flag in the next big battleground state, sending her daughter, Chelsea, here Wednesday to speak to students.
 ''I hope you don't get tired of seeing me or seeing my family, because I have a feeling we'll be here a lot over the next number of weeks,'' Ms. Clinton, 28, told a crowd of a few hundred people huddled in the cold at an outdoor question-and-answer session at the University of Pennsylvania.
 Mrs. Clinton is due in the state on Sunday, starting with a visit to Scranton, where her father grew up and where she was baptized. 
 Senator Barack Obama of Illinois is heading first to what he perceives as friendlier territory in Wyoming, which votes Saturday, and Mississippi, which votes Tuesday, before focusing on Pennsylvania. But his organizers have been here since early February and have already opened four offices.
 Polls here have shown Mrs. Clinton, of New York, with a double-digit lead that has been shrinking over the last month as Mr. Obama swept through February with 11 victories in a row.
 After Mississippi, Pennsylvania, which votes April 22, will be in the rarefied position of having no competition for candidates' attention for six weeks, a situation akin to the period before the Iowa caucuses on Jan. 3. In the eight weeks beginning with the Iowa vote, more than three dozen states have shared the kind of limelight that Pennsylvania -- the most populous state remaining on the calendar -- will now occupy alone.
 ''It could be like Iowa on steroids,'' T. J. Rooney, the state Democratic chairman, told The Philadelphia Inquirer.
 The stretch of time should allow the candidates to campaign in regions of the state that are usually ignored in national campaigns; Pennsylvania has not played a significant role in a Democratic primary since 1976.
 Even so, the campaign here is not expected to resolve much in the bigger picture. Even if one candidate took all of the state's 188 delegates (which will not happen because it is not a winner-take-all system), neither could reach the number needed to win the nomination.
 But analysts here say the state is fertile ground for Mrs. Clinton, who has opened two offices in the state and plans to open a half-dozen more by the weekend. They say that her victories Tuesday in Ohio, Texas and Rhode Island could change the dynamic.
 ''She comes here as the favorite,'' said G. Terry Madonna, a political scientist at Franklin and Marshall College who has surveyed the state for decades. ''Obama is playing on her turf. If he beats her here, it will devastate her argument that she can win the big industrial states.''
 The state's demographics reflect those of Clinton voters elsewhere. Pennsylvania has one of the largest populations of voters over 65 after Florida. It is largely blue collar and heavily Catholic. And, significantly, only registered Democrats can vote in the primary, denying independents the opportunity to bolster Mr. Obama's candidacy as they have in other states.
 But Mr. Obama has a receptive audience, too, with a significant number of black voters in Philadelphia, liberals here and elsewhere, and a vast number of college students. It was the students Ms. Clinton had been dispatched here to woo. 
 At this stage, various polls and analysts suggest that the state could break down this way: 
 Philadelphia, where more than half the voters are African-American, is likely to favor Mr. Obama. The Philadelphia media market reaches 40 percent of the state's voters.
 Pittsburgh and Western Pennsylvania, with its depressed steel industry, are generally similar to Ohio, with blue-collar workers and a struggling economy. That region could favor Mrs. Clinton.
 Mrs. Clinton is also likely to do well in the northeast, which is largely Catholic, conservative and blue collar, and is where her father was buried in 1993. 
 The upscale Philadelphia suburbs are almost always a crucial part of any winning coalition in the state. They are home to affluent, well-educated voters for whom the war in Iraq remains the most important issue, and Mr. Madonna said he expected they would favor Mr. Obama. 
 But Gov. Edward G. Rendell, Mrs. Clinton's chief champion in the state, said he intended to work the suburbs and would spend his considerable political capital there on her behalf. 
 ''In this area they have me, and that's where I'm the strongest, and I intend to communicate a lot with suburban voters,'' Mr. Rendell said in an interview.
 While the suburbs were long a Republican stronghold, they voted Democratic for the first time in the modern era in 1992 -- for Bill Clinton. Mr. Rendell said that both Clintons visited the area frequently during Mr. Clinton's presidency and had maintained many ties.
 Two other potential swing areas of the state are the Lehigh Valley and south-central Pennsylvania, around Lancaster and York Counties. Though largely Republican, those are growth areas with a significant number of Democrats.
 Perhaps the major swing constituency will be blue-collar white men, the Reagan Democrats of yore. Labor is stronger here than in many states, but the state A.F.L.-C.I.O. has not endorsed anyone.
 Mr. Rendell predicted that Mrs. Clinton would win the state. ''But,'' he said, ''you can't underestimate Senator Obama as a candidate. He's a great campaigner, and give him seven weeks to work the state and that will make this a great challenge.''
 The Obama campaign is pursuing the strategy it used successfully in Iowa and is conducting a heavy registration drive. Officials said their goal was to register as many new voters as possible by March 24, the deadline. So far, they said, they have added 40,000 voters to the rolls.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chelsea Clinton spoke to students Wednesday at the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia. The state primary is April 22. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA KOURKOUNIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CAUCUSES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); POLITICS (70%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (83%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%); SCRANTON, PA, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (95%); IOWA, USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2008



153 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Escapes; SKI REPORT; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: The Year It Snowed, and Snowed, and ....

BYLINE: By BILL PENNINGTON

 BODY:
IT was outside the general store in the sleepy central Vermont town of Rochester that the grizzled man in a worn hat and coat approached my car. He passed a pile of snow that rose 10 feet above the street. Behind him, on the village green, an ornate gazebo was nearly buried in drifting snow.
 Eyeing the New York license plates and the rooftop Thule, he asked, ''Are you one of those nice people who prayed for snow in Vermont?''
 When I smiled, he said before turning away: ''We in Vermont know your prayers have been answered.'' 
 That was Presidents' Day weekend last month, and it would snow as much as a foot that day, bringing the season-long total snowfall in the region at that point to about 18 feet. On the lifts at Sugarbush Mountain that afternoon, the snow was falling so fast you were completely blanketed -- helmet to boots -- in dry, white flakes by the time you reached the summit.
 It was snowing so hard there wasn't much point in trying to look more than five turns down the trail. Snow gathered on your goggles at the slightest pause and pelted your face with a nonstop pitter-patter.
 It was crazy. And all around me, I did not see anyone heading into the lodge. We would charge down the mountain, vague shadows in the blowing squall, stop during the 30-second lift line long enough to grin at each other, knock some snow off and head back up. You don't leave conditions like that until the lifts stop.
 Vermont and much of the rest of northern New England are enjoying an epic snow year. It was the snowiest February in more than 50 years, according to the Vermont Ski Areas Association, and the snowfall totals for the season already rank this winter as one of the 10 snowiest in 130 years. It is hard to imagine how it can get much better, unless it is another week from now, when the snow will still be plentiful, the temperatures warmer and the spring skiing and riding spectacular. And remember, March is typically the month when the most snow falls on the Northeast's largest mountains.
 Just north of Sugarbush, Stowe Mountain has reported that more than 26 feet of snow has fallen this winter. Killington in central Vermont has had nearly 20 feet of snow and the southern Vermont resorts, while not quite as blessed with outrageous snowfalls, have had dependable, six-foot base depths for several weeks. Okemo Mountain had its busiest day ever over Presidents' Day weekend. Mount Snow had so much snow late last month that its staff looked at a clearing under the area's Summit Local chairlift and decided to open it as a new trail.
 ''The snow was just too good,'' said Heath Woods, Mount Snow's ski patrol director. ''I guess now we have to name the thing.''
 There have been other benefits to the abundant snowfall at some resorts. Several, like Stowe and Sugarbush, recently started new real estate ventures. That might not seem like great timing, given the nationwide swoon in home sales, but a funny thing happens when there is a copious amount of snow in the hills. It draws people out of the valleys, and with great conditions they have a memorable experience.
 In second-home real estate, they are selling memorable experiences. The spectacular snow year has been a marketing bonanza disguised as a weather event.
 Walter Frame, director of operations for the 500-unit Spruce Peak development at Stowe, said he thought most buyers looking for luxury homes and residences were not easily dissuaded by economic downturns. But he conceded that the heavy snowfall has visitors in a good mood, and noted that even when it rained on the Monday of Presidents' Day weekend, it became a successful sales day.
 ''The day before was sunny and nobody wanted to get off the slopes, but the next day when people couldn't ski we had one of our best days,'' said Mr. Frame, whose Spruce Peak units have been selling for between $350,000 and $5.5 million. ''Let's face it, those people wouldn't have been here if there wasn't great snow.''
 At Sugarbush, the resort opened the resplendent 61-unit Clay Brook property in December 2006 and has sold about 80 percent of the whole-ownership and fractionally owned condos. Heather Loughlin, a Sugarbush vice president for real estate development, said sales have remained strong this winter and credited early December snowfall, which made the pivotal Christmas week a busy and happy one.
 ''It all starts with Christmas, when you've got people in the suites dreaming of coming back year after year,'' said Ms. Loughlin, whose fully furnished units range in price from $125,000 to $1.4 million. ''They leave happy, and it sets the tone for all the winter holidays.''
 I can attest to a lot of happy faces on Presidents' Day weekend, and it was not confined to central Vermont. In the middle of that weekend, I drove east across the Connecticut River into New Hampshire and headed to the Dartmouth Skiway, which is a jewel of a ski area.
 THE snow was consistent and deep, but that is not the best reason to visit the Dartmouth Skiway, which is in Lyme Center, N.H., and owned by nearby Dartmouth College. You go to the Dartmouth Skiway for 30 trails and a trip back in time of about 30 years. Let's start with the prices for lift tickets. When I got there after lunch on a holiday Saturday, there was a line of eight people for the half-day tickets about to go on sale. They were $32 for adults, $25 for teens and $20 for children under 12. The full-day prices were only about $5 more. If you're over 80 years old, or 5 years old or younger, it's free.
 The trails were split into two peaks on either side of a country road. It was classic New England terrain with winding trails separated by large groves of trees so that each path seemed remote. With nearly 1,000 vertical feet, it's no little bump, but the Winslow side of the area is very family friendly.
 Crossing the road to the Holt's Ledge side -- and you do just that, walk across the road carrying your skis -- there are some trails with a little more bite. And while the lift is slow by modern, high-speed standards, and while the slopes are not going to scare any truly advanced skiers or riders, there is a relaxed pace that is intoxicating. There was never a lift line, and this on a day that the Skiway's general manager, Doug Holler, called the busiest of the season.
 The Holt's Ledge lift also brings skiers to Don Worden's Schuss, the race trail used by Dartmouth's decorated race team, the N.C.A.A. 2007 men's and women's ski champions. Point your skis straight down this trail testing your inner racer and you won't feel like you're on some sleepy family mountain for long.
 The Dartmouth Skiway is a gem hidden away in the New Hampshire countryside. It's a little hard to find as you snake through narrow roads rippled with muffler-busting humps brought on by frost heaves, but once found, the Skiway is the kind of place not soon forgotten.
 And this is the year to discover it. The snow will never be better.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SHROUDED: Stowe, Vt., mantled by the exceptional amounts of snow that have fallen this year, with snowy March still in progress. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL O. BOISVERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (90%); SKIING (89%); WEATHER (89%); SKIING FACILITIES (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (73%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2008



154 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; INSIDE ART; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: Inside Art

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
 Confiscated Old Master
 Is Back on the Market
 A 16th-century painting that was confiscated by the East German government in 1985 and returned this year to its Berlin owners will be offered at Christie's in New York on April 15. 
 ''Hercules and Achelous,'' painted in 1590 by the Dutch master Cornelis van Haarlem, was acquired around 1925 by the Potschien family, collectors from Berlin. After its confiscation it was put on view at the Bode Museum in Berlin. The work depicts Hercules and the river god Achelous, in the form of a bull, fighting over the beautiful Deianeira. 
 Nicholas Hall, an international director of Christie's old master paintings department, noted that ''Hercules and Achelous'' is unusually large -- eight feet wide and more than six feet tall. It is estimated to sell for $1.5 million to $2 million.
 Christie's first learned about the painting from a Potschien family member, who casually walked into Christie's Berlin office to inquire if someone would be interested in evaluating it for possible sale. 
 Paintings by van Haarlem (1562-1638) rarely come on the market. ''This is a must-have picture for a number of public collections,'' Mr. Hall said. ''It is perhaps the most important Northern Mannerist painting to come on the market for about 20 years.'' 
 FROM TOY TO SKYSCRAPER
 The 35-foot-tall ''Electric Fountain'' that was unveiled last week at Rockefeller Center will seem small compared with the next sculpture to rise there.
 After the glowing fountain of 3,390 LED bulbs leaves the plaza in April, a skyscraper made with more than one million toy construction pieces will soar 65 feet over the entrance to Rockefeller Center's Channel Gardens from May 28 through July 13. 
 The skyscraper, created by the Los Angeles artist Chris Burden and titled ''What My Dad Gave Me,'' will weigh about 70 tons. Each piece is a steel replica of a part from an Erector set, the popular building toy. 
 Mr. Burden, who once had a friend shoot a copper bullet into his left arm as part of a 1971 conceptual art piece, likes the grand gesture. He spent seven years restoring 100 antique cast-iron lampposts for his ''Urban Light'' sculpture, recently installed at the entry pavilion of the Los Angeles County Museum of Art. 
 ''Chris has been interested in skyscrapers for a long time,'' said Rochelle Steiner, director of the Public Art Fund, the nonprofit organization that is organizing the project. ''This one is going right between two buildings, so it will seem as though there is another skyscraper popping up in Rockefeller Center.''
 Mr. Burden has spent the last decade using stainless steel metal parts, based on the original Erector set, to create sculptures of bridges. The Erector set, Ms. Steiner said, ''was inspired by the incredible buildings of the time -- especially the many skyscrapers.'' 
 NEW ORLEANS AS GALLERY
 Prospect.1, an international biennial scheduled to open in New Orleans on Nov. 1, plans to exhibit its art on sites from one end of the city to the other. 
 ''It's a global show that will be everywhere,'' said Dan Cameron, the biennial's director, ''from abandoned warehouses and homes ravaged by Katrina to museums.''
 The Los Angeles artist Mark Bradford, for example, is building a Noah's ark in the shell of a destroyed house. 
 The 11-week presentation of contemporary art by about 80 national and international artists is designed to help increase tourism and economic activity in New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina. 
 Among the well-known artists participating are Julie Mehretu (showing a suite of new canvases), Fred Tomaselli and Nari Ward. The local artists include Robin Rhode, who will exhibit her photographs of downtown New Orleans, and Srdjan Loncar, whose sculptures will depict stacks of money: small wooden boxes on which he pastes photocopied versions of large bills. 
 ''If 100,000 people come, it will boost the city's economy enormously,'' Mr. Cameron said. ''It's the concept of the city as a gallery.'' 
 GAGOSIAN EXPANDING
 Perhaps he just isn't satisfied with only three galleries in Manhattan, two in London, one in Los Angeles and one in Rome.
 The art dealer Larry Gagosian has now taken over more space in the building at 980 Madison Avenue that is home to his uptown gallery. He plans to show primarily 20th-century art in the new area and has hired John Richardson, the Picasso biographer, as an adviser. 
 ''I will be helping to organize exhibitions,'' Mr. Richardson said, ''particularly those about Picasso and all other aspects of classical 20th-century art.'' 
 ALBION'S NEW PARTNER
 With museums from the Metropolitan to the Guggenheim to Dia in the market for directors, David A. Ross is going commercial.
 ''I've always gone against the tide,'' said Mr. Ross, a former director of the Whitney Museum of American Art and the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art. 
 Mr. Ross is to be a partner in Albion, the London gallery founded by Michael Hue-Williams, and will lead its New York operation. 
 ''I've known Michael for a long time, and last year we started doing some projects,'' Mr. Ross said, referring to work with Vito Acconci and the video artist Peter Campus. ''Being in the museum world for 30 years, I found you get further and further away from working with artists, which is something I really miss.'' 
 Mr. Ross's first goal is to look for a Manhattan gallery. The business will operate out of an office on the Bowery, he said, until a temporary space can be found. Eventually Albion wants to build a gallery designed by the British architect David Adjaye. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Hercules and Achelous'' (1590) by Cornelis van Haarlem. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTIE'S) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAINTING (91%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); SCULPTURE (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (65%); LIGHT EMITTING DIODES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2008



155 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1170 words

HEADLINE: Builders and Homeowners Under Strain

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Defaults on home mortgages touched another historic high late last year as foreclosures on adjustable-rate mortgages surged, an industry group reported on Thursday.
 The figures are expected to increase pressure on policy makers and the mortgage industry to move faster to contain losses and help homeowners. In recent days, regulators and lawmakers have begun suggesting that the federal government might need to take a bigger role in the mortgage business.
 The Mortgage Bankers Association reported Thursday that loans past due or in foreclosure jumped to 7.9 percent of the total in the fourth quarter, from 7.3 percent at the end of September and 6.1 percent from December 2006. Before the third quarter, the rate had never exceeded 7 percent since 1979, the earliest year for which figures are available.
 The report, along with news that some investors were having trouble paying back their banks, helped drive down the stock and credit markets on Thursday. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 2.2 percent and the Dow Jones industrial average fell 1.8 percent. 
 Though defaults increased across the country, much of the rise came from a handful of large states like California and Florida. Those two states account for about 21 percent of all mortgages but 30 percent of the new foreclosures. Nevada, Arizona, Michigan and Ohio also had high default rates.
 Defaults were highest on adjustable-rate mortgages, those that start with lower fixed interest rates but reset to higher, variable rates after a few years. The mortgage bankers group, however, said the ''bulk'' of the troubled loans have been defaulting even before rates have been reset.
 ''The massive wave of foreclosure and delinquencies is overwhelming,'' said Rod Dubitsky, who heads asset-backed securities research at Credit Suisse. ''A large percent of people didn't have equity to begin with, and their ability to pay was stretched because of stated-income loans,'' for which lenders do not verify borrowers' incomes.
 While more than a quarter of loans made to people with blemished, or subprime, credit were past due or in foreclosure, the number of prime adjustable-rate loans in trouble also rose rapidly, to 8.1 percent from 4.3 percent in 2006. By contrast, only 3.1 percent of prime fixed-rate loans were past due or in foreclosure, up from 2.7 percent a year earlier.
 The Mortgage Bankers figures are based on a survey of 46 million first mortgages, about 85 percent of all home loans. Among the loans surveyed, about 3.6 million were past due or in foreclosure.
 Analysts and industry officials say they expect default rates will continue rising as home prices fall and banks and investors remain unwilling to lend and buy mortgage securities. Reinforcing that view, Citigroup, one of the nation's largest mortgage lenders, said Thursday that it would reduce its holdings of mortgage and home-equity loans by about 20 percent over the next year. 
 The Federal Reserve, meantime, released data on Thursday showing American households' combined net worth fell by $532.9 billion, or 3.6 percent, in the fourth quarter. Falling real estate values accounted for a third of the total decline.
 This week, the Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, called on lenders to move more aggressively to reduce the principal on delinquent loans to adjust them for the drop in home prices. He also said the Federal Housing Administration, a government mortgage insurance program, should guarantee more loans. The F.H.A. said Thursday that more than 20 counties across the country would see limits on mortgages backed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac rise to $729,750, the maximum set by the economic stimulus bill. 
 Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts and the chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, plans to unveil the details of a proposal to refinance hundreds of thousands of mortgages and provide the new loan insurance from the F.H.A. He has also said that some of the loans or homes could be bought by the federal government, a step that the Bush administration opposes.
 In a speech Thursday, the president of the Federal Reserve of Boston, Eric S. Rosengren, said a more aggressive plan that involves the F.H.A could benefit mortgage investors and borrowers by reducing the costs and delays associated with foreclosure. In exchange for writing down the amount owed on the loans, investors could receive a share of any profits from a sale of the home in the future, he added.
 Noting that others had proposed similar ideas, Mr. Rosengren said ''there may be a significant cost to delaying needed actions.''
 Still, even if politicians move quickly to agree on a plan, it will take time to implement any recovery effort and many delinquent borrowers will not qualify for help.
 Mr. Rosengren noted that a regional effort being coordinated by the Boston Fed with six banks had received over 1,000 inquiries and taken in 50 loan applications in two months. But only a dozen loans have been closed.
 He also said that an analysis of subprime loans in Rhode Island, Connecticut and Massachusetts showed that only 16 percent of those borrowers could refinance their loans with a mortgage backed by the F.H.A. under the program's current guidelines. A proposal to liberalize the program that Congress is considering could expand the program to 250,000 more borrowers, according to the administration.
 Further, the owners of 18 percent of the homes in foreclosure do not live in their properties, according to the Mortgage Bankers Association, indicating that they were owned by speculators who are walking away from soured investments. 
 In 1985, the last time delinquency and foreclosure rates were near today's rates, the problems were concentrated in a handful of states like Texas and Oklahoma that were suffering because of a big drop in oil prices. That forced many people to leave their homes to look for work in other states, said Jay Brinkman, a vice president for research and an economist at the Mortgage Bankers Association. 
 ''Those homes then went to foreclosure but you didn't have the same sort of national issue,'' Mr. Brinkman said. ''What we have now is a more broad-based oversupply of homes.''
 Loan Limits Raised
 WASHINGTON (AP) -- The government on Thursday raised the limits for loans that can be purchased by the mortgage companies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in more than 220 cities and counties.
 As result of the economic stimulus package signed by President Bush last month, the limits have been temporarily raised to a new maximum of $729,750 for the continental United States.
 Areas affected range from Flagstaff, Ariz., to Boston to Virginia Beach, and include more than 20 rural areas, according to the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, which regulates Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.
 The Department of Housing and Urban Development made a similar change for loans backed by the Federal Housing Administration, where limits were raised to as high as $729,750 in expensive areas.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Eric S. Rosengren, the president of the Federal Reserve of Boston, stresses reducing the costs and delays of foreclosures. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED BECKHAM/ASSOCIATED PRESS) GRAPH: MORTGAGE DELINQUENCIES AND FORECLOSURES: The number of home loans that are delinquent or in foreclosure has surged since the middle of 2006. A bigger percentage of mortgages are past due or in foreclosure than at any time since 1979, the earliest year for which data is available. (Source: Mortgage Bankers Association) (pg. C4) Graph showing mortgages hitting a high note. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (93%); MORTGAGE LOANS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); EQUITY RESEARCH (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); HOME PRICES (72%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (56%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (56%); CS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2008



156 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 380 words

HEADLINE: Glimpses of the 9/11 Stairway, and of 'Freedom'

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP

 BODY:
Something astonishing is now visible on Vesey Street: the Vesey Street staircase.
 Also known as the ''Survivors' Stairway'' for its vital role in the evacuation of hundreds of people from the World Trade Center on Sept. 11, 2001, the staircase has been largely obscured by fencing, equipment and its design. 
 The steps were part of a larger concrete bulkhead structure that presented a blank wall to Vesey Street. This week, however, in preparation for moving the staircase, workers cut away so much of the bulkhead that each individual step -- in fact, the granite panels of the treads and risers -- can clearly be seen in profile by passers-by.
 This vantage, which will not last long, is important because the stairway is the last above-ground remnant of the trade center still standing where it did on 9/11.
 Eventually, the stairway will be reinstalled in the National September 11 Memorial and Museum at the World Trade Center.
 Meanwhile, it is to be moved to a storage area closer to Vesey Street, getting it out of the way of construction for Tower 2, or 200 Greenwich Street, a 79-story office building.
 For protection, the granite treads of the ''Survivors' Stairway'' will be covered in plywood. And once the location and orientation of the staircase are changed, the last trace of the ghost outline of the old World Trade Center will have vanished.
 So look now.
 ''Freedom'' has disappeared from ground zero. The blue ''Freedom Tower'' legend on the very first column to rise there, visible for the last 14 months on the column's wide flanges, is covered in plywood forms. It will soon be encased in concrete.
 Gov. George E. Pataki presided over the column-setting ceremony on Dec. 19, 2006. He coined the name ''Freedom Tower.'' 
 Told that the lettering was obscured, Mr. Pataki said, ''It is another milestone that continues what I knew would be the case -- for all the difficulties, for all the naysayers, the brilliant master plan for downtown would move forward.''
 When it was pointed out that the building is increasingly referred to in official documents as 1 World Trade Center, Mr. Pataki said, ''I think the symbolic nature of 'Freedom Tower' is meaningful, but New Yorkers have a way of using, at the end of the day, what they think works best.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Workers this week prepared to move the Vesey Street staircase. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID W. DUNLAP/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (53%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2008



157 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 586 words

HEADLINE: Latinos Seek Citizenship In Time For Voting

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

 BODY:
A lawsuit filed Thursday in a federal court in New York by Latino immigrants seeks to force immigration authorities to complete hundreds of thousands of stalled naturalization petitions in time for the new citizens to vote in November.
 The class-action suit was brought by the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education Fund on behalf of legal Hispanic immigrants in the New York City area who are eager to vote and have been waiting for years for the federal Citizenship and Immigration Services agency to finish their applications. The suit demands that the agency meet a nationwide deadline of Sept. 22 to complete any naturalization petitions filed by March 26. 
 Latino groups hope to summon the clout of the federal courts to compel the Bush administration to reduce a backlog of citizenship applications that swelled last year. According to the Migration Policy Institute, a nonpartisan research group in Washington, more than one million citizenship petitions were backed up in the pipeline by the end of December, the majority from Latino immigrants. 
 Despite protests over the delays from lawmakers, Latino groups and immigrant advocates, the immigration agency is currently projecting wait times of 16 months to 18 months to process the petitions. 
 ''The reality is that large numbers of Latinos will not be able to vote in the elections because of these delays,'' said Cesar A. Perales, president of the defense fund. ''Now the world will know that the Latino community expects the Bush administration to get this done on time.''
 Christopher S. Bentley, a spokesman for Citizenship and Immigration Services, said he could not comment on pending litigation. 
 ''Our commitment is to work through the naturalization applications as quickly as we can without compromising the security and integrity of the process,'' Mr. Bentley said.
 The lawsuit, filed in the Southern District of New York, asserts that the agency violated immigrants' due process rights by routinely failing to finish their applications within a 180-day time period that Congress has set as a standard. It also asserts that the Bush administration did not follow regulatory procedures in November 2002 when it ordered the Federal Bureau of Investigation to deepen its background checks of citizenship applicants.
 Foster Maer, a lawyer for the defense fund, said it would soon file motions asking the court to order the agency immediately to meet the September deadline, which is intended to leave new citizens time to register to vote. 
 Manuel Martinez, 35, a legal immigrant from Mexico who is a plaintiff in the suit, filed his petition in January 2006. It has been delayed because the F.B.I. has not completed the required background check, he said. He said he suspected the problem was that he has a common Hispanic name. 
 ''I want to be a citizen yesterday, not tomorrow,'' said Mr. Martinez, who has lived in the United States since 1990. ''I am really worried about the economy, and the deficit is too much. I need to vote.''
 A fee increase, raising naturalization costs 80 percent to $595, went into effect on July 30. Legal immigrants were also spurred to seek citizenship by worries about the divisive debate over immigration and by citizenship campaigns by Latino groups.
 ''It is astonishing the government should be so unresponsive to immigrants who have enthusiastically taken all the steps to become Americans,'' said Janet Murguia, president of the National Council of La Raza, a Latino group that supported the suit. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIZENSHIP (95%); IMMIGRATION (94%); PETITIONS (91%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); NATURALIZATION (91%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); LITIGATION (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (86%); DUE PROCESS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); CLASS ACTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (78%); LAWYERS (75%)

ORGANIZATION: PUERTO RICAN LEGAL DEFENSE & EDUCATION FUND (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2008



158 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1473 words

HEADLINE: Builders and Homeowners Under Strain

BYLINE: By KATIE HAFNER; Katie Hafner reported from Yuba City in December and did additional reporting in San Francisco.

DATELINE: YUBA CITY, Calif. 

 BODY:
When George P. Dunmore started his business in Sacramento in the early 1950s, World War II was over and the building boom was on. Over the next several decades his company, Dunmore Construction, along with other respected builders, took the tabula rasa that was California's Central Valley and etched it with entire neighborhoods filled with well-built ranch houses on trim lawns.
 Mr. Dunmore lived through his share of lean years, of course; that is the rhythm of the home construction business. But for the most part, his company prospered. His son Sidney got into the business. And Sidney B. Dunmore's boys followed him.
 But by the time Mr. Dunmore died last October, at age 89, his son Sidney found himself caught in the middle of a real estate collapse. Overextended and pursued by a long line of creditors, the company bearing the family name, Dunmore Homes, was sold to a New York corporation owned by a Sacramento-area mortgage broker for $500, including the assumption of liabilities totaling more than $250 million. Two months later, the new owner filed for protection from creditors under Chapter 11 of the Federal Bankruptcy Code. 
 A bankruptcy court in Sacramento is left with the task of untangling a web of transactions, affidavits, property transfers, loans and liens that have come to symbolize the real estate crisis not just for Dunmore Homes, but for an entire industry. 
 Beyond that, George Dunmore's widow, Ruth, 84, is contending that her two grandsons -- who had also started real estate development companies carrying the Dunmore name -- forged her signature on bank loan documents and pressured her, according to documents filed in a California state court.
 The story of the Dunmores is the story of the nation's housing crisis writ small, familial and mean: three generations of home builders who got rich from the go-go years of the California real estate boom, only to fall victim to the housing bust. And it is a tale of greed, hubris and denial of economic reality. 
 Dysfunctional families, of course, can be found in every business, but the bursting of the housing bubble in the Central Valley, where there was once so much money to be made, accentuated any problems this family might have had.
 Not only was George Dunmore a fair businessman, friends and acquaintances say, but he was an avowed family man as well. Of Mr. Dunmore's three children, Sidney, now 53, showed the most interest in taking up the family trade. After years of apprenticing under his father, the younger Mr. Dunmore started his own firm, Dunmore Homes.
 Throughout the 1980s and 1990s, Dunmore Homes expanded. The company formed more than a dozen subsidiaries throughout the state, with more than two dozen developments, many of them catering to first-time home buyers in need of subprime and nonconventional loans. The company eventually built a total of 22,000 homes. 
 The region was one of the fastest-growing real estate markets in the country. In Sacramento County, from 2000 to 2005, the median price of homes more than tripled, to $385,000, according to DataQuick Information Systems. 
 ''It was the type of market that floated all boats,'' said Greg Paquin, president of the Gregory Group, a real estate market research firm in Folsom, Calif. ''Builders, buyers, investors: everyone was happy.''
 For Sidney Dunmore life was good. His own opulent home -- all 12,000 square feet of it -- is in Granite Bay, an affluent Sacramento suburb. He also has a $2 million 4,600-square-foot second home in the resort town of Palm Desert, Calif.
 Then, in late 2005, the housing slowdown hit the region, falling squarely on the corridor south of Sacramento, from Modesto to Merced, where the Dunmores had once been so successful. Builders began offering incentives to move homes as if they were cars on a dealer's lot: low-interest financing, free appliances, anything to make a sale. 
 By last year, the subprime mortgage industry was in crisis, credit had dried up and the younger Mr. Dunmore became no less reflective of an era than his father was of his. ''I think Sid always built a nice product, but he was always very aggressive,'' Mr. Paquin said. 
 Delbert Rapini, a longtime Sacramento contractor who said he was an admirer of George Dunmore, said, ''Sid had it made, but he acted like an idiot'' by extending himself too far. 
 Mr. Rapini, who does not do business with Sidney B. Dunmore, said that Mr. Dunmore would have been well advised to remember that downturns in real estate are ''all part of a cycle that happens every 10 or 12 years.''
 Mr. Dunmore refused several requests for an interview.
 By last August, the company had halted construction altogether, leaving vast tracts peppered with partly finished homes. 
 At one new ghost town in Yuba City, which is north of Sacramento, the scene looks as if construction workers just picked up and left. Some homes are mere frames, barely suggestive of a dwelling. 
 Dunmore's rapid expansion may have been unwise, analysts say, but it was not unusual. 
 ''Any builder, even the best-capitalized builders, drank the Kool-Aid and bought too much land and loaded up at the peak,'' said Ivy Zelman, a home building industry analyst. Ms. Zelman, who said she had no direct knowledge of Dunmore Homes, said she believed that the company might have taken on ''way too much risk and just assumed values would go up.''
 ''I imagine that's what they were thinking and didn't have good disciplines in place.''
 John Slaughter, a spokesman for Dunmore Homes who left the company this week, recalled how ''so much happened with the mortgage industry, and prices dropping, and all the foreclosures.'' 
 ''It got to where we were a private company, competing with the large billion-dollar companies that could continue to reduce prices, and we just couldn't compete with that,'' he said.
 In September, Dunmore Homes changed its name to DHI Development and sold its assets for $500 to a New York entity called Dunmore Homes Inc. The new Dunmore Homes is owned by Michael Kane, a Sacramento mortgage broker. He declined to comment.
 Mr. Kane got not just the assets, but debts amounting to more than $250 million owed to a lengthy list of creditors that includes banks, contractors, landscapers, electricians, plumbers and paving companies.
 Mr. Dunmore's creditors cried foul over the sale, as well as the bankruptcy court filing in New York, a continent away. 
 Mr. Dunmore apparently had his reasons for the quick, cheap sale. According to court documents, by declaring his losses in the sale of the business, Mr. Dunmore is due a 2007 tax refund of approximately $11 million -- money that he will use to pay off an $11 million obligation to Dunmore Homes. 
 ''He couldn't have financial gain without showing a loss,'' said James Curran, a lawyer representing Travelers Casualty and Surety Company of America, which has a separate lawsuit pending against DHI Development and Mr. Dunmore to recover $9.65 million. ''He went into bankruptcy for a reason, and it was to capture those losses for his financial gain.''
 In December a federal judge in San Francisco granted Travelers a writ of attachment against both of Mr. Dunmore's homes. 
 Meanwhile, William M. Niemi, the former president of Dunmore Homes, has sued Mr. Dunmore, contending, among other things, breach of contract. 
 ''It's about as horrible as it could be,'' said Howard Nevins, a lawyer who represents Hemington Landscape Services, which, according to legalpapers, is owed $827,941 by Dunmore Homes. ''There just appears to be inadequate resources to get creditors paid.''
 In January, a bankruptcy judge in New York agreed to have the case moved to California.
 ''It seems like the company is in a shambles, but Sidney Dunmore is still alive and well,'' Mr. Curran said. ''I'm sure we haven't seen the last of Mr. Dunmore or Dunmore Homes.''
 Indeed, the real estate vein runs deep in the Dunmores. People close to the family say that Sidney Dunmore keeps his distance from his two sons, Sidney and Jeremy, now in their 30s. Their company, Dunmore Capital, a real estate venture firm, has troubles of its own. Umpqua Bank, based in Oregon, is suing the two for repayment of several million dollars in loans. 
 The bank named Ruth Dunmore, their grandmother, and the estate of George Dunmore in that suit. Umpqua Bank points to them as cosignatories for the loans. But in her cross-complaint to that suit, the elderly Mrs. Dunmore says the two young entrepreneurs ''embarked on an aggressive and unending campaign to, among other things, scare, pressure and manipulate'' her.
 The booming real estate business in the Central Valley has ground to a halt, but another business is booming here. For Mr. Nevins, whose specialty is bankruptcy law, ''it's been very busy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In Elk Grove, Calif., a Dunmore Homes development remains half-built after work ceased last year. Dunmore had prospered in the fast-growing Central Valley. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAX WHITTAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. C4)
 Construction has stopped at a Dunmore Homes development in Yuba City, Calif. The company filed for bankruptcy last year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAX WHITTAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); CONSTRUCTION (91%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); FAMILY (76%); CHILDREN (75%); GRANDCHILDREN (75%); HOUSING BUBBLE (75%); WORLD WAR II (73%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (71%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (67%); SUBPRIME LENDING (67%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2008



159 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 512 words

HEADLINE: Her So-Called Life (Fact-Checking Required)

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Gang Memoir, Turning Page, Is Pure Fiction'' (front page, March 4):
 I was disappointed to read of Margaret Seltzer's attempt to pass off gang members' stories as her own in her memoir, ''Love and Consequences.'' 
 Her deception is not only a betrayal of her editor and publisher, it is also a betrayal of the community of readers and writers -- a community that relies on trust to share truth and meaning. 
 By pretending to have led a life she has not, and by passing off that lie as memoir, Ms. Seltzer has betrayed those of us who do have stories to tell and who attempt to write them honestly and faithfully. 
 Finally, she has betrayed what every nonfiction writer should hold sacred -- the stories of other people. 
 As a person of privilege, Ms. Seltzer has appropriated the experiences of those who live in violence and poverty. People who live in extreme uncertainty often have only one thing they can, with certainty, call their own: their stories.
 Kelly Grey Carlisle Lincoln, Neb., March 4, 2008
 To the Editor: 
 It's clear that Margaret Seltzer, author of ''Love and Consequences,'' is a gifted writer with a soaring imagination. It seems perverse, then, that she chooses to deny her destiny as a novelist. 
 Ms. Seltzer's insistence that only nonfiction can ''make people understand the conditions that people live in'' is way off the mark. 
 Has she never read Charles Dickens -- or even Jane Austen? 
 Anne Bernays Cambridge, Mass., March 4, 2008
 To the Editor:
 When a student in my fiction-writing seminar defends the credibility of her story with the claim, ''but it really happened!,'' I tell her that it doesn't matter. Fiction has to prove itself; it has to be so well done that the reader reacts to it as if it were true. 
 Memoirs, as we've seen once again in the case of ''Love and Consequences,'' by Margaret Seltzer, get a pass. Readers will dismiss a work of fiction when the character's story doesn't ring true, but call that same work a memoir, and they're gullible.
 Given the current appetite for sensational memoirs, it's not surprising that young writers eager to be heard will eschew the tradition of fiction -- where everything depends on the power of the prose -- for one where they can easily capture an audience through their titillating content. 
 Corinne Demas South Hadley, Mass., March 5, 2008
 The writer is a professor of English at Mount Holyoke College and the author of a memoir about growing up in Stuyvesant Town. 
 To the Editor:
 According to the publisher Nan A. Talese: ''I don't think there is any way you can fact-check every single book. It would be very insulting and divisive in the author-editor relationship.'' 
 As an author whose work gets routinely fact-checked by the research department at the magazine I write for, I would regard it as insulting and divisive in the writer-reader relationship if I were above fact-checking.
 Ms. Talese's main responsibility is to the readers who buy her books.
 Gene Epstein New York, March 5, 2008
 The writer is the economics editor for Barron's. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY KELLY BLAIR) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WRITERS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); LITERATURE (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LINCOLN, NE, USA (70%) NEBRASKA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2008



160 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1341 words

HEADLINE: At Charter School, High Hopes And Even Higher Teacher Pay

BYLINE: By ELISSA GOOTMAN

 BODY:
Would six-figure salaries attract better teachers?
 A New York City charter school set to open in 2009 in Washington Heights will test one of the most fundamental questions in education: Whether significantly higher pay for teachers is the key to improving schools. 
 The school, which will run from fifth to eighth grades, is promising to pay teachers $125,000, plus a potential bonus based on schoolwide performance. That is nearly twice as much as the average New York City public school teacher earns, roughly two and a half times the national average teacher salary and higher than the base salary of all but the most senior teachers in the most generous districts nationwide.
 The school's creator and first principal, Zeke M. Vanderhoek, contends that high salaries will lure the best teachers. He says he wants to put into practice the conclusion reached by a growing body of research: that teacher quality -- not star principals, laptop computers or abundant electives -- is the crucial ingredient for success. 
 ''I would much rather put a phenomenal, great teacher in a field with 30 kids and nothing else than take the mediocre teacher and give them half the number of students and give them all the technology in the world,'' said Mr. Vanderhoek, 31, a Yale graduate and former middle school teacher who built a test preparation company that pays its tutors far more than the competition. 
 In exchange for their high salaries, teachers at the new school, the Equity Project, will work a longer day and year and assume responsibilities that usually fall to other staff members, like attendance coordinators and discipline deans. To make ends meet, the school, which will use only public money and charter school grants for all but its building, will scrimp elsewhere. 
 The school will open with seven teachers and 120 students, most of them from low-income Hispanic families. At full capacity, it will have 28 teachers and 480 students. It will have no assistant principals, and only one or two social workers. Its classes will have 30 students. In an inversion of the traditional school hierarchy that is raising eyebrows among school administrators, the principal will start off earning just $90,000. In place of a menu of electives to round out the core curriculum, all students will take music and Latin. Period. 
 While the notion of raising teacher pay to attract better candidates may seem simple, the issue is at the crux of policy debates rippling through school systems nationwide, over how teachers should be selected, compensated and judged, and whether teacher quality matters more than, say, class size.
 Mr. Vanderhoek's school, which was approved by the city's Education Department and the State Board of Regents, is poised to be one of the country's most closely watched educational experiments, one that could pressure the city and its teachers' union to rethink the pay for teachers in traditional schools. 
 ''This is an approach that has not been tried in this way in American education, and it opens up a slew of fascinating opportunities,'' said Frederick M. Hess, director of education policy studies at the American Enterprise Institute. ''That $125,000 figure could have a catalytic effect.''
 Yet the model is raising questions. Will two social workers be enough? Will even the most skillful teachers be able to handle classes of 30, several students more than the city average?
 ''I think they'll have their hands full,'' said Alan B. Krueger, a Princeton professor who studies the economics of education. ''Paying teachers above market rate for hard-to-staff schools makes sense, don't get me wrong. The question is, 'How much do you want to tilt in that direction?' '' 
 Michael Thomas Duffy, the city's executive director for charter schools, said that even some Education Department staff members were skeptical, wondering, ''If you're putting all of your resources into teachers in the classroom, are you shorting some of the other aspects of what a good school requires?'' 
 Mr. Vanderhoek won approval for the school after presenting city and state officials with a detailed proposal and budget. Mr. Duffy said the school could have a ''tremendous impact'' throughout the country. ''If the department and the chancellor didn't feel that this had a likelihood of success, we wouldn't have approved it.'' 
 The school's students will be selected through a lottery weighted toward underperforming children and those who live nearby. It has generated so much buzz with its e-mail blasts and postings on education and employment Web sites that its voicemail message now implores prospective hires to please, make inquiries by e-mail. 
 ''People are sort of stunned,'' Mr. Vanderhoek said.
 Ernest A. Logan, president of the city principals' union, called the notion of paying the principal less than the teachers ''the craziest thing I've ever heard.'' 
 ''It's nice to have a first violinist, a first tuba, but you've got to have someone who brings them all together,'' Mr. Logan said. ''If you cheapen the role of the school leader, you're going to have anarchy and chaos.''
 Randi Weingarten, president of the United Federation of Teachers, called the hefty salaries ''a good experiment.'' But she said that when teachers were not unionized, and most charter school teachers are not, their performance can be hampered by a lack of power in dealing with the principal. ''What happens the first time a teacher says something like, 'I don't agree with you?' ''
 Mr. Vanderhoek spent three years teaching at Intermediate School 90 in Washington Heights through Teach for America, which places recent college graduates in challenging schools. He started tutoring to supplement his salary and created a test preparation company called Manhattan GMAT in 2000. 
 The secret to the company's success, he said, was to pay tutors $100 an hour as well as bonuses, compensation that was several times more than other companies paid. 
 Mr. Vanderhoek is trying to raise money to lease space in the neighborhood and build a permanent building. But he has made a strategic decision to cover other expenses with city, state and federal money, plus a few grants. ''We're saying, 'Look, we can do it on public funding, and we want to inspire other people to do it on public funding.' ''
 The school's teachers will be selected through a rigorous application process outlined on its Web site, www.tepcharter.org, and run by Mr. Vanderhoek. There will be telephone and in-person interviews, and applicants will have to submit multiple forms of evidence attesting to their students' achievement and their own prowess; only those scoring at the 90th percentile in the verbal section of the GRE, GMAT or similar tests need apply. The process will culminate in three live teaching auditions. 
 Among those who have applied are a candidate who began teaching in the 1960s, founded a residential school for troubled adolescents, has a Ph.D in Latin and is working on a scholarly translation; and a would-be science teacher who has taught for more than a dozen years at some of the country's top private schools. 
 Claudia Taylor, 29, applied to the Equity Project even though, she said, the thought of leaving the Harlem Village Academy, the charter school where she teaches reading, ''breaks my heart.''
 ''I'm tired of making decisions about whether or not I can afford to go to a movie on a Friday night when I work literally 55 hours a week,'' Ms. Taylor said. ''It's very frustrating. I'm feeling like I either have to leave New York City or leave teaching, because I don't want to have a roommate at 30 years old.''
 Ms. Taylor hesitated before applying, because the salary ''almost doesn't seem real.'' Then she thought back on her three years teaching in the traditional public schools and determined that it could be, saying, ''There is definitely a lot of money that you saw being wasted.''
 Mr. Vanderhoek said he planned to be principal for at least four years. After that, who knows? He could be promoted to teacher.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Zeke M. Vanderhoek, creator of a charter school opening in '09. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A17)
 Zeke M. Vanderhoek (pg. A1) CHART: COMPARING WAGES: A charter middle school scheduled to open in 2009 in Upper Manhattan will pay its teachers $125,000 as well as potential bonuses. For comparison, using nationwide 2006 figures, here are the average annual wages for some occupations. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (pg. A17) Chart showing the average annual wages for some occupations. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (95%); WAGES & SALARIES (92%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (91%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (91%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (78%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); TEACHER UNIONS (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); CORE CURRICULUM (61%); APPROVALS (60%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2008



161 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1770 words

HEADLINE: Mexico's New Frontier

BYLINE: By JIM ATKINSON

 BODY:
THE 8,000 acres of the Loreto Bay Resort on Baja California snuggle on flat, hard desert between the charismatically craggy Giganta range and the spookily glassy Sea of Cortez. The most basic elements of nature -- sun and water, rock and sand, the vertical and the horizontal -- collide with that particular grace that only nature can produce. 
 From a footbridge that gently arcs over a deep green estuary leading from the bay into the development, there's a good view of the resort taking shape on this once-isolated spot: a 150-room hotel with a beachside cafe and gardens; 240 two-story adobe houses with cupolas; some homes painted bright blue or yellow, others muted pink and beige or green; another 300 houses and condos in varying stages of construction. 
 But this is only a beginning. If the vision of the Mexican government and an American developer is realized, a decade from now Loreto Bay will include 6,000 homes, from small condos to 3,800-square-foot custom houses, most of them probably to be owned by American retirees or part-time residents. They will be formed into six groups called villages, themselves made up of clusters of five and six homes, each with its own small communal green space. 
 In the best tradition of the new urbanism, residents will travel about their villages on foot, by bicycle or in electric-powered golf carts, moving over flagstone streets purposely made too narrow for automobiles. They will have three golf courses, beach and tennis clubs and a marina at their disposal, with whale watching and other eco-tourism just a boat ride away. And everything will be built to the highest standards of environmental sustainability. The master plan includes not only solar-heated hot water, but a seawater desalination plant and a 500-acre wind farm. 
 The goals are so monumentally ambitious that it's impossible not to ask whether it can even work. But some buyers are not waiting for a consensus. They're grabbing Loreto Bay homes now.
 ''I came down for a weekend visit in 2005 after hearing about it,'' Brian Durnian, 45, himself a real estate broker in Napa Valley in California, said one day this winter as he sat in the living room of his 2,200-square-foot, neo-Spanish Colonial second home at Loreto Bay. ''There was nothing here except for the model homes. But I saw the mountains and the ocean. I like to kayak, golf, hike.'' And Los Cabos, the hyper-popular resort area at the tip of Baja that he had been frequenting, had become overwhelming. 
 One look at the house he could have here, Mr. Durnian said, and ''I was down for it.'' His brother wanted to buy one, too, and he suggested, ''Let's buy a bigger one together.''
 So, with his brother, Mr. Durnian bought a large lot; had a three-bedroom, two-bathroom adobe with roof terrace and cupola built on it for roughly $400,000; and hasn't looked back. 
 He likes the style of Loreto Bay homes, which range from $1.5 million custom houses to entry-level one-bedroom casitas at around $350,000 -- all uniformly airy and bright, with rooftop terraces facing the ocean or the mountains (in some cases, both), finished out with tile flooring, granite countertops in the kitchens and marbleized bathrooms. And he likes the neighbors, who are often free spirits with an easygoing sense of community. ''There's always a party at someone's place,'' he said. 
 Mr. Durnian has joined about a million Americans who now own property in Mexico, whether for investment or, more commonly, for personal use. There was a time when it was iffy business: public safety and health were questionable; titles to land sometimes unreliable. Now, with Mexico's leaders placing a premium on attracting foreign buyers, regulation is better and there are reliable agents, title searches and insurance. Financing is available through American lending giants like GE Capital and Citigroup -- whose property arm, is, in fact, the majority owner of the Loreto Bay Resort.
 Owning property in Mexico still has its quirks -- especially in coastal and border areas -- though Loreto has somewhat smoothed the requirement that foreigners buy through a bank trust that technically holds title. It has established an overarching trust relationship with a bank, allowing buyers to deal directly with the developer.
 Loreto has a long and twisty history. It was identified by the Mexican tourism agency in the 1970s as a target for development -- along with Los Cabos, Ixtapa, Cancun and Huatulco. All were to get special attention as tourist venues. In Loreto's case, the results were incomplete. The government put about $200 million into roads, water, sewers, electricity and a small airport, then promptly seemed to forget about the area as Los Cabos (including Cabo San Lucas) and Cancun began to blossom.
 For years after that, Loreto remained almost orphaned, known mostly to dedicated eco-tourists (the waters off its coast are a marine preserve) and to a few travelers who came for its beach and the charming village of Loreto nearby. Then in 2000, a Canadian new urbanist developer, David Butterfield, was invited to take a look at Loreto. He immediately saw the potential: with the infrastructure already in place, the large, sustainable community of as many as 15,000 transient residents that the Mexican government desired could definitely be created. 
 Mexican tourism officials wanted to do something original at Loreto, according to Karina Carretero, a spokeswoman for Loreto Bay Resort -- something different from the high-rises of Cancun and more in keeping with the area's fragile ecology. As the founder of the Trust for Sustainable Development, a nonprofit corporation dedicated to building environmentally friendly, sustainable communities, Mr. Butterfield had already displayed the ability to build green, notably at Shoal Point, a residential and retail development on the harbor in Victoria, British Columbia, and at Civano, a development of housing, commercial space, offices and schools in Tucson.
 Mr. Butterfield and a partner, the Phoenix developer Jim Grogan, had a master plan drawn up by Duany Plater-Zyberk, the architectural firm that designed Seaside, Fla. After quickly selling a couple of hundred lots and seeing some villas to completion, Mr. Butterfield and Mr. Grogan eventually bowed out, ceding control to an early investor, Citigroup Property Investors, which has the capital needed for such a large project. Although major elements like the wind farm and desalination plant have so far not materialized, Citigroup insists that the environmental commitment remains.
 As was its designers' wish, Loreto is best understood on foot. On a long, meandering walk one morning, I was able to note many of the elements of Mr. Butterfield's vision. No matter where you are standing, you can see either the sea or the Sierra de la Giganta; nature always feels close by. Landscaping consists of indigenous trees, shrubs, cactus and grass that are resistant to salt, don't need much water and can survive nicely on recycled waste water. All lighting is compact fluorescent. Even the building blocks fit the vision: they're a combination of concrete and recycled Styrofoam.
 Loreto's pioneering residents spend their days golfing, kayaking, deep-sea fishing and hiking. 
 For some second-home shoppers, accessibility is a problem -- Loreto is 700 miles south of San Diego via mainly two-lane roads. But air service has improved, now including flights on Alaska Airlines through Los Angeles, on Continental from Houston, and on Aero California and Aeromexico from Los Angeles, San Diego and Phoenix.
 Lots are continuing to sell -- about 800 so far -- and the dirt is flying. Many who do buy are drawn to the focus on environment and sustainability. And pricey as it seems, many also find Loreto a bargain.
 Jon Clark, 55, bought a 3,800-square-foot penthouse condo for $625,000 in the early days of 2004. As an executive with Prudential California Realty in San Diego, he's very familiar with Mexican real estate and his firm has often recommended Loreto to customers. ''A comparable property in Cabo,'' he said, ''would cost well over $2.5 million.'' And there's a bonus: Mexican property taxes run about a tenth of those in the United States.
 MR. CLARK'S house still isn't finished. Loreto Bay at first ''outsold their ability to build fast enough,'' he said, adding that Citigroup and a new management company, Replay Resorts, have that under control. Yet he shows no resentment toward the first developers. ''It was still the vision and the passion of the original team that captured my imagination,'' he said. And he likes the atmosphere they created. ''Loreto is anti-spring break,'' he said. ''My wife and I have seven kids. It's clean, peaceful, safe.''
 Another couple with children, Doug Brown and his wife, Ann, bought a lot in 2005 where their three-bedroom, two-bathroom villa now stands, expecting it to be their second home, but now making it their first. ''There are just certain places that feel right,'' Mr. Brown said. 
 After the house was finished last year, they sold their home in Carlsbad, Calif., packed up their possessions and their family and became full-time expatriates. ''We liked the people on our first visit. But no question, we also bought the mission of this place.'' 
 They use home schooling to supplement the education that their children, who learned some Spanish in kindergarten and first grade in California, receive at the public school in the town of Loreto. ''I'd lived all the over the world as a customer service rep for fabric companies,'' said Mr. Brown, 49. ''It had been a great education to live outside the States. I wanted my kids to have that chance.''
 Ms. Brown, 50, is similarly pleased. ''I don't feel isolated,'' she said. ''I don't feel like I'm missing anything. As for American popular culture, I wanted to get away from that anyway.''
 Like Mr. Durnian and Mr. Clark, the Browns have also watched their property appreciate. All estimated that their initial investments had nearly doubled, based on comparable current sales.
 Bob Toubman, vice president of the Loreto Bay Resort, said the fully realized Loreto Bay would probably take ''another 10 or so years to build out.'' As for cost, ''there's a number out there, but you're going to have to pick it,'' he said. Actually, estimates range from $3 billion to $6 billion -- a whopping build-out even by 21st-century standards. 
 But with the tens of millions of American baby boomers who are expected to retire or become semiretired over the next couple of decades, this just might be the shape of things to come. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CHOICES: Brian Durnian's home, above, is one of the custom houses at Loreto, which faces the Sea of Cortez. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ADRIANA ZEHBRAUSKAS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. F8)
NO PARKING: Villages have been designed green, with flagstone streets too narrow for cars, allowing Doug Brown and his children, Henry, above left, and Chandler, to enjoy a bike ride. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ADRIANA ZEHBRAUSKAS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. F8)
WORK IN PROGRESS: Loreto Bay, east of the Giganta mountains, was earmarked for development in the 1970s, but it was overshadowed by other resort areas. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADRIANA ZEHBRAUSKAS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. F8)
 SUN KISSED: Many Americans are heading for Loreto Bay, a resort community that's planning a total of 6,000 residences in the desert of Baja California. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ADRIANA ZEHBRAUSKAS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. F1) MAP (pg. F8) Map of Loreto on Baja California. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESORTS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); GOLF (89%); MARINE MAMMALS (78%); MOUNTAINS (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (77%); ECOTOURISM (77%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (77%); HIKING (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (73%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (63%); WIND ENERGY (57%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) PACIFIC OCEAN (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) MEXICO (93%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2008



162 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 3135 words

HEADLINE: Spare Times

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
AROUND TOWN
 Museums and Sites
 EDIBLE ESTATES Most New Yorkers don't have to worry about lawns; a stoop is luxury enough. But if the architect and artist Fritz Haeg has his way, everyone in the country will not only be fixated on their lawns, but they will also be harvesting them. 
 Mr. Haeg is the creator of Edible Estates, which aims to persuade homeowners to grow not grass but fruit, vegetables and nuts in their yards. The campaign began in 2005 with a commission from the Salina Art Center in Salina, Kan., the geographical center of the United States, where Mr. Haeg helped plant a mini-grove in the yard of a local couple. He was attracted to the area, he said, as a way to take a break from the ''cultural ghettos'' of New York and Los Angeles, where he had lived. More gardens were sown in New Jersey, California (above, his ''Edible Estates Regional Prototype Garden No. 2: Lakewood, Calif., 2006'') and London; Baltimore and Austin, Tex., are next. (Mr. Haeg hopes to do nine in all.) 
 The project is chronicled in a new book, ''Edible Estates: Attack on the Front Lawn,'' and on Friday night at the main branch of the New York Public Library, Mr. Haeg will discuss it with the theater director Peter Sellars; Dolores Hayden, an architecture professor at Yale; Frederick Kaufman, author of ''A Short History of the American Stomach''; and Shamim Momin, a curator of the Whitney Biennial, of which Mr. Haeg is a part. ''When I started this project, I immediately realized what a ripe target it is; it's very hard to defend the existence of the front lawn today,'' Mr. Haeg, a longtime gardener, said. He grew up mowing in suburban Minneapolis, unsuccessfully cultivating window box plants in the East Village and finally finding his green nirvana in his current home, a geodesic dome in Los Angeles. He does not grow the country's foremost suburban vegetation, grass.
 ''Before, if you ripped out your entire front lawn and planted food, people would just think you're a hippie,'' he said. ''But now there's a book and a title, and you can say, 'I'm planting my Edible Estate.' There's something more respectable about that, maybe.'' (Friday at 7 p.m., Celeste Bartos Forum at the Humanities and Social Sciences Library, 212-930-0830, nypl.org; $15.) MELENA RYZIK 
 MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK, Fifth Avenue at 103rd Street. Saturday at 3 p.m., in celebration of Women's History Month, the all-female ensemble ''Retumba!'' performs. Through March 16, ''Manhattan Noon,'' photographs by Gus Powell, featuring 30 color images taken during his lunch hour. Through April 13, ''Street Dance: The New York Photographs of Rudy Burckhardt,'' a display of 90 works. Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. (212) 534-1672; mcny.org. Suggested admission: $9; $5 for students and 62+; free for children under 12 and for everyone on Sundays, 10 a.m. to noon; $20 for families. 
 NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY, 170 Central Park West, at 77th Street. Monday at 7 p.m., ''The American Musicals Project Concert Series: The Master, Sir Noel,'' with the songs of Noel Coward, one of four musical performances celebrating Broadway composers of the 20th century; $30 to $45; (212) 873-3400, Ext. 305. Through March 16, ''Audubon's Aviary: Portraits of Endangered Species,'' a display of 40 watercolors, with recorded birdcalls and video. Through April 13, ''Here Is New York: Remembering 9/11/01,'' an exhibition of photographs, artifacts and oral histories documenting the terrorist attack. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; to 8 p.m. on Fridays; Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5:45 p.m. (212) 873-3400; nyhistory.org. $10; $7 for educators and 65+; $6 for students; free from 6 to 8 p.m. on Fridays; free at all times for children under 12. 
 NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY, Humanities and Social Sciences Research Library. Through June 14, ''John Milton at 400: 'A Life Beyond Life,' '' with portraits; documents that include a first edition of ''Paradise Lost''; and recordings featuring music inspired by Milton's poetry, from classical to heavy metal. Through March 16, ''Beatific Soul: Jack Kerouac on the Road,'' featuring his diaries, manuscripts, photographs and personal items. Mondays, and Thursdays through Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Tuesdays and Wednesdays, 11 a.m. to 7:30 p.m.; Sunday, 1 to 5 p.m. (except March 23). (212) 592-7730; nypl.org. Free.
 NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS, 111 Amsterdam Avenue, at 65th Street, Lincoln Center. Saturday at 3 p.m., ''Remembering Horowitz, Toscanini and Heifetz: Reflections by Byron Janis,'' a lecture by Mr. Janis, the pianist. Monday at 6 p.m., a performance by him, with cast members from some past and present Broadway shows. Both events are free, but tickets to the performance will be available beginning at 4 p.m. at the library entrance on Amsterdam Avenue, near 65th Street; (212) 642-0142; nypl.org/lpaprograms. 
 NEW YORK TRANSIT MUSEUM, Gallery Annex, Grand Central Terminal, adjacent to the stationmaster's office. Through July 6, ''A Railroad Reborn: Metro-North at 25,'' an exhibition of photographs and artifacts in celebration of the line's 25th anniversary. Mondays through Fridays, 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. (212) 878-0106. Free. 
 Gardens
 BROOKLYN BOTANIC GARDEN, 1000 Washington Avenue, Prospect Heights. Saturday through March 30, ''Remnants of the Garden: Photographs by Willard Traub,'' featuring large color and silver gelatin photographs, including a series on string beans resting on the vine through different seasons. Conservatory hours through mid-March: Tuesdays through Sundays, and holidays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Grounds hours, Tuesdays through Fridays, 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. and Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. (718) 623-7200; bbg.org. $8; $4 for students and 65+; free for under 12 and members at all times and for 65+ on Fridays. Free admission all day on Tuesdays and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to noon. 
 NEW YORK BOTANICAL GARDEN, Bronx River Parkway (Exit 7W) and Fordham Road, Bedford Park, the Bronx. Through April 6, the Orchid Show, with thousands of varieties on display, as well as lectures and gardening demonstrations. Open Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Tram tours daily, every 20 minutes. (718) 817-8700. nybg.org. During the Orchid Show, an All-Garden pass is $20; $18 for students and 62+; $7 for children 2 to 12; and free for children under 2. Grounds admission, $6 (Bronx residents, $5); $3 for 62+ and students; $1 for children 2 to 12; and free for children under 2. Parking, $12. 
 WAVE HILL, Independence Avenue and West 249th Street, Riverdale, the Bronx. Sunday at 1 p.m., an art workshop in making a two-panel wall hanging using botanical illustrations and natural objects. $55; $40 for members; registration required, (718) 549-3200, Ext. 305. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., (718) 549-3200, wavehill.org. $6; $3 for students and 65+; $2 for children 6 and older; free for members and under 6; Tuesdays, free all day; Saturdays, free 9 a.m. to noon.
 Events
 ARCHITECTURAL DIGEST HOME DESIGN SHOW at Pier 94, 12th Avenue at 55th Street, Clinton. Friday through Sunday, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. (800) 677-6278; archdigesthomeshow.com. $20 in advance; $25 at the door; price includes a six-month subscription to Architectural Digest. 
 BACH VESPERS AT HOLY TRINITY, Saturday at 7 p.m. and Sunday at 3 p.m., Bach's ''St. Matthew Passion'' at Holy Trinity Lutheran Church, Central Park West and 65th Street. (212) 877-6815. $20 suggested donation. 
 BRONX MUSEUM OF THE ARTS, 1040 Grand Concourse, at 165th Street, Morrisania. Through Aug. 4, ''Making It Together: Women's Collaborative Art and Community,'' an exhibition devoted to female artists. Through July 27, photographs by Jamel Shabazz. (718) 681-6000; bronxmuseum.org. Free. 
 BROOKLYN COLLEGE, Brooklyn Center for the Performing Arts, Flatbush and Nostrand Avenues, Flatbush. Sunday at 2 p.m., a screening of Paul Wegener's silent film ''The Golem,'' with accompaniment by the BQE Project, an eight-piece chamber ensemble. (718) 951-4500; brooklyncenteronline.org. $20. 
 BROOKLYN HISTORICAL SOCIETY, 128 Pierrepont Street, Brooklyn Heights. Through Aug. 31, ''Reflections on Community Development: Stories From Bedford-Stuyvesant Restoration Corporation,'' an exhibition on the area's economic and residential transformation told with recordings, documents and photographs. Through April 27, ''Lost in Transition: South Brooklyn, Williamsburg & Coney Island,'' an exhibition of photographs by high school students documenting changes in the neighborhoods, as well as works by the photographer Eugene Armbruster. Wednesdays through Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. $6; $4 for students with ID and 62+; free for children under 12 and members. (718) 222-4111; brooklynhistory.org.
 CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK GRADUATE CENTER, 365 Fifth Avenue, at 34th Street. Monday at 6:30 p.m., ''America on the Global Stage,'' scenes from ''Year One of the Empire,'' a play about the Philippine-American war of 1899-1902, followed by a discussion. (212) 817-2005. Free.
 COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM, 2 East 91st Street. Tuesday at 6:30 p.m., ''The Continuing Curve,'' a discussion held in conjunction with the exhibition ''Rococo: The Continuing Curve, 1730-2008,'' on view through July 6. (212) 849-8380. $10; $5 for members and students with ID.
 11TH ANNUAL USA MEMORY CHAMPIONSHIP, Saturday at 9 a.m. Memory skills are challenged with visual and verbal quizzes. $25 entry fee; free for participants ages 12 to 21 and spectators. Con Edison Grand Auditorium, 4 Irving Place, at 14th Street, Manhattan. Registration: usamemorychampionship.com.
 FEMINIST ART PROJECT, a celebration of women in the arts. Through March 30. Saturday at 1 p.m., ''Art Walk Chelsea,'' a tour of galleries exhibiting female artists, meeting at 529 West 20th Street, fifth floor. Sponsored by the A.I.R. Gallery and the National Women's History Project; $40. Sunday at 2 p.m., ''Documenting the Feminist Art Movement: Film and Personal Stories,'' a discussion at P.S. 1, 22-25 Jackson Avenue, Long Island City, Queens. Sponsored by P.S. 1, the Feminist Art Project, Rutgers Institute for Women and Art, and A.I.R. Gallery; feministartproject.rutgers.edu. 
 GREEN-WOOD CEMETERY HISTORIC CHAPEL, Fifth Avenue at 25th Street, Greenwood Heights, Brooklyn. Sunday at 1 p.m., Harold Schechter, author of ''The Devil's Gentlemen,'' will discuss notorious New York City murders of the late 1890s. Sponsored by the Green-Wood Historic Fund. Reservations: (718) 768-7300. $5 suggested donation. Trolley tour to the grave sites of the murder victims follows the discussion; $10. 
 JAMES IVORY IN PARIS, a film series, at Gould Hall, 55 East 59th Street, Manhattan. Tuesdays through March 25. This Tuesday ''Jefferson in Paris,'' directed by James Ivory, at 12:30 and 7 p.m., and ''The Proprietor,'' directed by Ismail Merchant, at 4 and 9:30 p.m. (212) 355-6160; fiaf.org. $10; $7 for students. 
 KIDNEY HEALTH SCREENING, Thursday, 7 a.m. to 7 p.m., at Grand Central Terminal, Vanderbilt Avenue Taxi Stand, 42nd Street and Vanderbilt Avenue. Sponsored by the National Kidney Foundation. Free.
 NEW YORK WINE EXPO, at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center, 655 West 34th Street, Manhattan. Featuring 600 wines to sample and seminars on wine culture. Friday, 7 to 10 p.m., and Saturday, 2 to 6 p.m. newyorkwineexpo.com. Admission: Friday, $85 ($75 in advance); Saturday, $95 ($85 in advance). 
 PROSPECT PARK AUDUBON CENTER, reachable from the entrances at Lincoln Road and Ocean Avenue, Parkside and Ocean Avenues, and Flatbush Avenue and Empire Boulevard, Brooklyn. Saturdays and Sundays through March 16, noon to 4 p.m., ''Snowflake Secrets,'' an exhibition of snowflake photography with activities and crafts. (718) 287-3400; prospectpark.org. Free. 
 PURIM CARNIVAL, Sunday at 10:30 a.m. at P.S. 234, Greenwich and Chambers Streets, Lower Manhattan. With carnival games, a skit, a concert and a parade. $15; $36 a family. 
 QUILT SHOW, at Block Institute, 376 Bay Street, Bensonhurst, Brooklyn. Featuring more than 100 quilts made by the Quilters Guild of Brooklyn. Saturday, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m., and Sunday, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. $7; $5 for 62+; free for children under 12. (646) 884-1212; quiltbrooklyn.org.
 SCHOOL OF VISUAL ARTS, 209 East 23rd Street, Manhattan. Through Saturday, ''Testimony to War: Art From the Battlegrounds of Iraq,'' an exhibition of paintings, drawings, sculpture, photography and video, some created by artists in the armed services. Friday, 9 a.m. to 7 p.m.; Saturday, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. (212) 592-2010.
 Spoken Word
 BROOKLYN MUSEUM, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park. Sunday at 2 p.m., ''Feminisms: Race, Gender and Generation,'' a panel discussion. in celebration of Women's History Month. (718) 638-5000. Free with museum admission, $8, $4 for 62+ and children. 
 CORNELIA STREET CAFE, 29 Cornelia Street, West Village. Saturday at 5:45 p.m., a reading to celebrate the 17th anniversary of readings by the Italian American Writers Association at the cafe. (212) 989-9319; corneliastreetcafe.com. $7.
 MCKIM, MEAD & WHITE LECTURE, Wednesday at 6:45 p.m., at the University Club, College Hall, 1 West 54th Street, Manhattan. Hilary Ballon, an architectural historian, will speak about the work of this historic architectural firm. Sponsored by the Institute of Classical Architecture and Classical America. Reservations: (212) 730-9646. $50; includes reception.
 Walking Tours
 ADVENTURE ON A SHOESTRING Sunday at 1 p.m., Jewish Lower East Side, meeting at the northwest corner of Delancey and Essex Streets. (212) 265-2663. $10.
 A TOUR GROWS IN BROOKLYN, a tour that focuses on Park Slope and Prospect Park. Daily at 10 a.m. and 1:30 p.m. (212) 209-3370; brooklynwalkingtour.com. $25; $15 for children, including lunch.
 ART GALLERY WALKING TOUR IN CHELSEA Saturday at 1 p.m., visiting eight modern-art galleries, meeting at 526 West 26th Street. Sponsored by nygallerytours.com. (212) 946-1548. $20. 
 BIG ONION WALKING TOURS Sunday at 1 p.m., ''Multi-Ethnic Eating Tour,'' a historic and gastronomic tour that includes snacking, meeting at the southeast corner of Essex and Delancey Streets, Lower East Side. Reservations requested. (212) 439-1090. $20; $17 for 63+; $15 for students and New-York Historical Society members. 
 CENTER FOR THE URBAN ENVIRONMENT Sunday at 11 a.m., ''The Old Jewish Lower East Side,'' meeting at the corner of First Avenue and Houston Street. (718) 788-8500, Ext. 217. $13; $10 for members; $8 for students and 62+. 
 EAST VILLAGE TOURS Lower Manhattan walks. Friday and Saturday and Tuesday at 11 a.m., a tour of the East Village, meeting at the Astor Place Cube. Saturday and Tuesday at 1 p.m., ''Gangsters, Murderers and Weirdos,'' meeting at the northwest corner of Second Avenue and Houston Street. Sunday at 2 p.m., the Five Points section, meeting on the southwest corner of Chambers and Centre Streets. (917) 215-2575; eastvillagetours.com. Each, $15; $10 for students. 
 I'LL TAKE MANHATTAN TOURS Saturday at 1 p.m., ''Historic Lower Manhattan,'' meeting in front of 1 Broadway, at Battery Place. Sunday at 1 p.m., ''SoHo, Yesterday and Today,'' meeting on the southeast corner of Houston Street and Broadway. (732) 270-5559. Each, $15.
 JOYCE GOLD HISTORY TOURS OF NEW YORK Sunday at 1 p.m., Grand Central Terminal, meeting at the southwest corner of 42nd Street and Park Avenue. (212) 242-5762. $15; $12 for 65+. 
 METRO TOUR SERVICE Friday through Sunday at 2 p.m., visiting Brooklyn Heights, Fort Greene and Clinton Hill, Brooklyn, meeting in front of the Marriott Hotel, Adams and Tillary Streets, downtown Brooklyn; (718) 789-0430. $25.
 MUNICIPAL ART SOCIETY Saturday at 11 a.m., ''High-Rise Brooklyn,'' an architectural tour of Brooklyn's skyline, meeting outside Chase Bank at the northeast corner of Montague and Clinton Streets, Brooklyn Heights. Sunday at 1 p.m., ''Back to the Bronx: Mott Haven,'' meeting at the southeast corner of 125th Street and Lexington Avenue, Harlem. (212) 439-1049. Each, $15; $12 for members. 
 NEW YORK CITY CULTURAL WALKING TOURS Sunday at 2 p.m., ''Stuyvesant Park Historic District,'' meeting on the northeast corner of 14th Street and First Avenue, East Village. (212) 979-2388. $15.
 NEW YORK TALKS AND WALKS Saturday at 7 p.m., ''Edgar Allan Poe and His Ghostly Neighbors of Greenwich Village,'' meeting at 84 West Third Street, in front of Fire Patrol Station No. 2. (888) 377-4455. $20, cash; $15, credit card.
 NYC DISCOVERY TOURS Saturday and Sunday at 2 p.m., ''Chinatown History and Tasting Tour.'' Reservations and meeting place: (212) 465-3331. $20, including food. 
 OUTDOORS CLUB Sunday at 1 p.m., ''Sun, Lights, Camera, Central Park,'' a hike through the park while testing your knowledge of movie trivia, meeting at the park entrance at 60th Street, west of Fifth Avenue. (212) 348-5344. $3.
 ROCK JUNKET -- ROCK 'N' ROLL WALKING TOURS Wednesday, Thursday and next Friday at 1 p.m., and March 15 at 11 a.m., covering the rock roots of the East Village, meeting on the southwest corner of East Ninth Street and Third Avenue. (212) 209-3370; rockjunket.com. $29. 
 SHOREWALKERS Saturday at 11 a.m., an eight-mile tour of outdoor monuments in Manhattan, meeting at the Sherman Monument, Fifth Avenue and 59th Street. (516) 812-0156 or (516) 238-8073. Sunday at 9:30 a.m., ''End of the Line Walk'' explores three areas of Queens -- Astoria, the north shore and Forest Hills -- meeting in front of Starbucks at Ditmars Boulevard and 31st Street, Astoria. (718) 478-2430 or (718) 230-2148. Each, $3.
 STREET SMARTS N.Y. Saturday at 2 p.m., Old Chelsea, meeting in front of the Flatiron Building at the intersection of Broadway, Fifth Avenue and 23rd Street. Sunday at 2 p.m., ''Manhattan Murder Mysteries'' visits old crime scenes, meeting in front of the Park Central Hotel on Seventh Avenue at 56th Street. (212) 969-8262. Each, $10.
 UNION SQUARE: CROSSROADS OF NEW YORK, Saturdays at 2 p.m., a tour that focuses on the political history of the area, meeting by the statue of Abraham Lincoln near the 16th Street transverse. Sponsored by the Union Square Partnership and Big Onion Walking Tours. (212) 517-1826; unionsquarenyc.org. Free. 
 Recreation
 FIFTH ANNUAL COLON CANCER CHALLENGE, Sunday in Central Park. The challenge includes three events: a four-mile run at 9 a.m. and a 15-kilometer run and a 1.7-mile walk, both at 10:15 a.m. On-site registration begins at 7:15 a.m. on Center Road, south of the 72nd Street Transverse. Fees, $8 to $35; proceeds benefit cancer prevention programs at the Albert Einstein Cancer Center and the Montefiore Medical Center. Also sponsored by the New York Road Runners. coloncancerchallenge.org.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); HISTORY (78%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (78%); GARDENING (78%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); BOOK REVIEWS (75%); LIBRARIES (71%); WRITERS (71%); THEATER & DRAMA (65%); THEATER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); SALINA, KS, USA (90%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); KANSAS, USA (90%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2008



163 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 886 words

PERSON: George Fredrickson 

HEADLINE: George Fredrickson, 73, Historian, Dies

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
George M. Fredrickson, a historian who cast new light on the study of race and who helped define the field of comparative history with a penetrating examination of racial relations in the United States and South Africa, died on Feb. 25 at his home in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 73.
 The cause was heart failure, his wife, Helene, said. 
 Mr. Fredrickson is often credited with breaking ground in the use of comparative history to escape provincialism and suggest broader, more thematic judgments about historical forces. This was particularly evident in his book ''White Supremacy: A Comparative Study in American and South African History'' (1981), which was a finalist for the Pulitzer Prize.
 David Brion Davis, a Yale historian, said in an interview Thursday that ''White Supremacy'' was ''a landmark book and a model that has not been superseded'' in the field of comparative history.
 In the early history of the United States, Mr. Fredrickson wrote, whites needed an ideology of racial superiority to justify importing slaves and uprooting and killing American Indians while pushing to establish an agrarian economy in their new land.
 South Africa, by contrast, historically had more tolerance of racial mixing and a more pragmatic definition of whiteness, in large part because of a shortage of ''pure'' Europeans, especially women, Mr. Fredrickson wrote.
 The countries differed in laws governing race. The United States had founding documents promising equality that over many years it tried, fitfully, to live up to. In Mr. Fredrickson's view, the United States, with its history of slavery before the Civil War, had a worse racial past than South Africa did but a better means, in law, to move on to better relations.
 South Africa's early race relations, while never smooth, were more benign, he said. But in contrast to the American experience, the country's race relations dramatically worsened, with the establishment of apartheid in 1948, laws that required irrevocable racial segregation. (In 1992, more than a decade after Mr. Fredrickson's book, South Africans voted to end apartheid.)
 Yet in Mr. Fredrickson's judgment both countries had a huge similarity: both required an ideology of equality of white males to justify ''dehumanization of blacks.''
 It is this sort of examination of historical differences that constitutes comparative history, with the aim of recognizing patterns and making generalizations. Mr. Davis said the approach had been used to ''globalize'' the understanding of American history.
 In a review of ''White Supremacy'' in The Washington Post, Jim Hoagland, who won a Pulitzer Prize for the paper for his coverage of apartheid in South Africa in 1971, wrote that the book ''deftly picks apart the tangled threads of two brands of white power and traces them back to their sources.''
 In Mr. Fredrickson's first book, ''The Inner Civil War: Northern Intellectuals and the Crisis of the Union'' (1965), he dug through mountains of original documents to tell of the dilemma abolitionists faced during the war: whether to criticize the Lincoln administration for lagging in its antislavery commitment or to remain silent in the hope that a Northern victory would free the slaves.
 One of Mr. Fredrickson's most-discussed books was ''Racism: A Short History'' (2002), in which he used specific examples like the Holocaust, apartheid and legal segregation in America's South to reach theoretical conclusions about the subject. He believed, for example, that the idea that racial differences are inherently unbridgeable could be traced to the Enlightenment.
 The argument of an earlier age, that all men are equal before God, lost force once rationality was seen to rule, Mr. Fredrickson wrote. Only by postulating scientific explanations for racial differences could slavery and colonial subjugation be justified.
 ''A line had been crossed that gave 'race' a new and more comprehensive significance,'' he wrote. His research showed that the word racism first came into present usage under the Nazis.
 George Marsh Fredrickson was born on July 16, 1934, in Bristol, Conn. He spent his high school years in Sioux Falls, S.D., graduated magna cum laude from Harvard in 1956, studied in Norway on a Fulbright scholarship, then served in the Navy for three years.
 He earned his doctorate from Harvard in 1964. He taught there for three years, then moved to Northwestern University, where he became the William Smith Mason professor of American History. In 1984 he became the Edgar E. Robinson professor of United States history at Stanford University, from which he retired in 2002.
 In addition to his wife of 52 years, the former Helene Osouf, Mr. Fredrickson is survived by his daughters Anne Hope Fredrickson, of Grass Valley, Calif., Laurel Fredrickson, of Durham, N.C., and Caroline Fredrickson, of Silver Spring, Md.; his son, Thomas, of Brooklyn; his sister, Lois Rose, of Great Barrington, Mass.; and four grandchildren.
 Mr. Fredrickson wrote eight books and edited four more. His last was published this year. It concerns Lincoln's changing, often ambiguous views on slavery, emancipation and states' rights. Mr. Fredrickson took the title from W. E. B. Du Bois's comment on the subject: ''Big Enough to Be Inconsistent: Abraham Lincoln Confronts Slavery and Race.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: George M. Fredrickson (PHOTOGRAPH BY LINDA A. CICERO/STANFORD NEWS SERVICE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (91%); RACE & RACISM (89%); SLAVERY (76%); NATIVE AMERICANS (72%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (69%); INTERVIEWS (69%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (50%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (98%); SOUTH AFRICA (96%)

CATEGORY: Education and Schools

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2008



164 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 5387 words

HEADLINE: Museum and Gallery Listings

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
ART
 Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. 
 JEAN LOWE: 'ACHIEVE AND MAINTAIN A MORE POWERFUL DELUSION' Here's a book that some people might find useful: ''10 Steps to Becoming a Published Author in Your Next Life.'' No? How about ''Napping: An Inexpensive Way to Stay Busy''? Or ''Craft Your Way to Mental Health,'' which has the picture of a heavily frosted gingerbread house on its cover?
 These are 3 of more than 200 volumes in Jean Lowe's laugh-out-loud exhibition. Based in San Diego, Ms. Lowe has specialized in constructing satiric museum-style period rooms out of papier-mache and enamel paint. For this show she has created a library of invented titles and displayed them on bookshelves covered with wood-grain-patterned paper, right. Also made of papier-mache and colorfully painted with a skillful, loose touch, the books imitate various genres, including self-help, children's storybooks, academic tomes, law books and popular potboilers. You can't open them -- they're blocky, sculptural volumes without inside pages -- which is just as well, because the covers are more than enough. 
 The action is mainly in the verbal and visual interplay. ''Get Thee Behind Me, Satan'' shows a fork digging into a big piece of chocolate cake. ''6 Simple Steps to a Better Attitude'' is illustrated by a half-dozen drinks in cocktail glasses. Some titles, like ''Torture Preparedness,'' are more sobering. Some are self-reflexive. In ''Conceptual Art: Subverting a Commodity Driven Practice Paradigm,'' which has a marked-down sticker price of $1.50, Ms. Lowe makes fun of her own intellectual pretensions. 
 While many of her books are individually hilarious, cumulatively they add up to something more: a fun-house-mirror reflection of the American consciousness industry, warts, blind spots and all. (Through March 15, McKenzie Fine Art, 511 West 25th Street, Chelsea, 212-989-5467, mckenziefineart.com.) KEN JOHNSON 
 Museums
 AMERICAN FOLK ART MUSEUM: 'GILDED LIONS AND JEWELED HORSES: THE SYNAGOGUE TO THE CAROUSEL,' through March 23. Skills and motifs used in sacred art resurface in a surprisingly secular place: the carousel. In this exhibition, models of elaborate wooden synagogues and photographs of Jewish cemeteries with intricately carved gravestones in Eastern Europe are alongside paper cuts, which look like giant, precision-cut snowflakes mounted on colored paper. The lineage from synagogue to carousel is made explicit in a display that juxtaposes carved Torah arks with carousel horses fashioned in the baroque Coney Island Style. The show reveals a vibrant Jewish visual culture, where Judaism is often seen as text-oriented. It is also a great immigrant story in which skills learned in the shtetls of Europe made their way to the New World and, for a brief moment, flourished. 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040, folkartmuseum.org. (Martha Schwendener) 
 EL MUSEO DEL BARRIO: 'ART DOES NOT EQUAL LIFE: ACTIONS BY ARTISTS OF THE AMERICAS, 1960-2000,' through May 18. The redefinition of modernism(s) through the illumination of its Latin American manifestations has been one of the joys of the current New York art season. This revelatory addition concentrates on the Happenings, Conceptual and Performance Art and Body Art and video that thrived in Latin America despite, or in response to, dire political and economic situations. With photographic and video documentation in the majority, the toughness and scope of the material, aided by a thoughtful installation, create their own fascination. 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, East Harlem, (212) 831-7272, elmuseo.org. (Roberta Smith) 
 THE FRICK COLLECTION: 'PARMIGIANINO'S ''ANTEA'': A BEAUTIFUL ARTIFICE,' through April 27. Exhibitions don't come any smaller than ''Parmigianino's 'Antea': A Beautiful Artifice.'' A painting, a wall text, a nugget of a scholarly catalog, and that's it. It's enough. Certain pictures, like certain performers, don't need troops of extras to make a large effect. Solo suits them. 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700, frick.org. (Holland Cotter)
 GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'CAI GUO-QIANG: I WANT TO BELIEVE,' through May 28. This museumwide survey of a leading Chinese artist indicates considerable command of cross-cultural references and extreme appropriation, including a gang of sculptors remaking a classic Social Realist ensemble of life-size figures while you watch. Gunpowder is a favored material, violence a frequent motif. A stop-action installation of seemingly exploding cars hangs in the atrium space. Scores of arrows make pincushions of snarling tigers (stuffed), and there are carved-wood religious sculptures and an entire fishing boat. Videos documenting pyrotechnical land-art pieces go boom. The show has far more than its share of hollow spectacle. The scorched, mural-size gunpowder drawings that combine elements of performance art, Abstract Expressionism and traditional Chinese and Japanese painting are the most believable. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Smith)
 HISPANIC SOCIETY OF AMERICA: 'FRANCIS AL$(YUML$)S FABIOLA,' through April 6. The first of three collaborations between the Dia Foundation for the Arts and the Hispanic Society of America is an astutely site-specific display of 300 Fabiola paintings collected by the artist Francis Als, who is based in Mexico. Made by devout amateurs worldwide, all are based on a lost original from 1885 and show Fabiola, the fourth-century saint, in profile, wearing a vibrant red veil. Mr. Als's 300 examples pepper dark-wood-paneled galleries with smoldering color and are consistent with the collaborative, subversive and open-ended nature of his art. North Building Galleries on Audubon Terrace, Broadway between 155th and 156th Streets, Washington Heights, (212) 926-2234, diaart.org. (Smith)
 INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'ARCHIVE FEVER: USES OF THE DOCUMENT IN CONTEMPORARY ART,' through May 4. You need no grounding in art theory to understand the messages generated by this powerful brain-pincher of a theme show. The archive of the title is less a thing or a place than a concept, an immersive environment: the sum total of documentary images, mostly photographic, circulating in the culture, on the street, in the media and finally in what is called the collective memory. From an Andy Warhol silk-screen of a black civil rights demonstrator attacked by police dogs, to a gallery wallpapered with the front pages of international newspapers reporting on the destruction of the twin towers, truth, untruth and their consequences make up the riveting story here. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0045, icp.org. (Cotter)
 INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'THE COLLECTIONS OF BARBARA BLOOM,' through May 4. Instead of the walk-in installations for which Ms. Bloom is best known, this survey displays pieces from different phases of her career as discrete works of sculpture, assemblage, collage, photography and design. This is confusing, but attentive viewers will profit from studying her ideologically subversive, dryly humorous and formally inventive play with many different forms of representation, from faux-antique plaster self-portrait busts to a found-object sculpture in the form of a Braille edition of Playboy magazine. (See above.) (Ken Johnson)
 THE JEWISH MUSEUM: 'FROM THE NEW YORKER TO SHREK: THE ART OF WILLIAM STEIG,' through March 16. Children may know William Steig as the creator of Shrek, but their grandparents can trace that ornery green ogre's roots through a body of children's books, New Yorker cartoons and drawings dating to the Depression. Neither group will be disappointed by this exhibition. With reading and activity nooks alongside drawings of contentious and alienated grown-ups, the show is a child pleaser that does not stint on the adult biography of the thrice-divorced, periodically depressed Steig. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200, jewishmuseum.org. (Karen Rosenberg)
 THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'DEPTH OF FIELD,' through March 23. The Met's recently acquired large-scale photographs finally have some room to breathe in the new Joyce and Robert Menschel Hall for Modern Photography, a high-ceilinged, gray-carpeted sanctuary on the second floor. Curators at MoMA need not worry: The inaugural installation (a sampler rather than a thematic slice) is dominated by white, mostly male Europeans and heavily weighted with references to history and landscape painting. Despite its limitations, ''Depth of Field'' is not a bad debut. We can also expect more from future installations, which will explore themes like ''photography about photography.'' (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
 THE MET: 'GUSTAVE COURBET,' through May 18. Starting with an amazing if claustrophobic gallery of self-portraits that emphasize Courbet's ambition, attention to the old masters and inborn truculence, this show offers a grand tour of one of 19th-century European painting's most unruly geniuses. Realism, at whose prow he is usually placed, is in many ways the least of it. Several works could easily date from the 20th century, by artists like Balthus, Picabia or Max Ernst. What Courbet made most real was the sheer, implicitly ironic uncanniness of painting itself, which he conveyed in a commanding discombobulation. Some paintings barely hold together; others collapse inward into strange, shapeless masses. No artist before Picasso put so much of himself on canvas; few since have built in so many spatial booby traps, ambiguous feelings or elements of rebellion and dissent. Some were conscious; others were left for us to discover, to feel in our bones. (See above.) (Smith)
 THE MET: 'JASPER JOHNS: GRAY,' through May 4. Since his paintings of targets and American flags took the art world by storm 50 years ago, Jasper Johns has been a cultural fact and the subject of numerous museum exhibitions. But this is one of the best. Moody, opulent and eloquent, it singles out his many paintings in gray, the color at the core of his sensibility, along with numerous sculptures, drawings and prints that are inherently gray. Together they chronicle his maturation from brilliant, methodical young artist to a deeper, more lyrical, less predictable one. And frankly, it is almost a relief to follow the incessant unfolding of this singular career without the brightly colored, better-known masterpieces. (See above.) (Smith)
 THE MET: 'POUSSIN AND NATURE: ARCADIAN VISIONS,' through May 11. If a painter can be judged by the love he inspires, Nicholas Poussin (1594-1665) was one of art history's great valentines. Corot, Delacroix, Constable and Cezanne all adored him. So did Picasso and Matisse. You can see why in this show of his post-Classical, pre-Romantic landscapes and drawings. Every age has a different style for ''serious'' in art; Poussin's was different from our own, but enthralling and moving in its moral gravity and poise. (See above.) (Cotter) 
 THE MET: 'SILVERSMITHS TO THE NATION: THOMAS FLETCHER AND SIDNEY GARDINER, 1808-1842,' through May 4. Blending neo-Classical kitsch, patriotic flair and superb craftsmanship, the Philadelphia silversmiths Thomas Fletcher and Sidney Gardiner pumped up the genre of the commemorative cup to works of awesome, small-scale monumentalism. Standing almost 30 inches from its hairy paw feet to the furrowed brow of a bellicose eagle mounted on the lid of its soup tureen bowl, an urn made in 1813 to honor Capt. Isaac Hull was at the time the heaviest, tallest and most complex work in silver ever produced in North America. It is still pretty impressive. (See above.) (Johnson)
 THE MET: 'ART OF TIME: EUROPEAN CLOCKS AND WATCHES FROM THE COLLECTION,' through April 27. This enthralling, compact show presents about 90 European timepieces, ranging from pocket watches to grandfather clocks and dating from the 16th through the 18th centuries. There are traditional mantel clocks in wooden, peaked-roofed houses and extravagantly fanciful forms like one from 1579 that has a revolving globe engraved with star charts and figures of the zodiac held up on the wingtips of a flying horse, all beautifully fashioned in silver. (See above.) (Johnson)
 THE MET: 'TIBETAN ARMS AND ARMOR FROM THE PERMANENT COLLECTION,' through fall 2009. The paradox of militant Buddhism inspired the Metropolitan's fascinating 2006 exhibition ''Warriors of the Himalayas: Rediscovering the Arms and Armor of Tibet.'' Now Donald LaRocca, the museum's arms and armor curator, has created a follow-up installation of 35 objects from the Met's collection (including 5 acquired in 2007). This time the focus is on defense rather than offense: examples of horse and body armor, dating from the 15th through the 20th centuries, outnumber swords, guns and spears. Most of these objects have seen more ceremonial than military action. All of them equate supreme craftsmanship with defense of the body and Buddhist principles. (See above.) (Rosenberg)
 MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: 'CLOSE ENCOUNTERS: IRVING PENN PORTRAITS OF ARTISTS AND WRITERS,' through April 13. Last spring, in its first foray into modern photography, the Morgan Library & Museum acquired 67 of Irving Penn's portraits of artists, writers and musicians. (Thirty-five were donated by Mr. Penn.) The entire group is temporarily on view in an exhibition that complements the library's collection of 20th-century drawings, manuscripts, books and musical scores. Organized by a guest curator, Peter Barberie, ''Close Encounters'' encompasses work from the 1940s, when Mr. Penn first started to work for Vogue, through portraits published in The New Yorker in 2006. Mr. Penn's subjects, including Marcel Duchamp, Arthur Miller and Truman Capote, emerged from their portrait sessions with their carefully shaped personas profoundly shaken. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Rosenberg)
 MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: 'MICHELANGELO, VASARI AND THEIR CONTEMPORARIES: DRAWINGS FROM THE UFFIZI,' through April 20. Michelangelo, with a couple of spectacular drawings, is the marquee name here, but many of the 16th-century Florentine artists he influenced fill the space, beginning with the extreme polymath Giorgio Vasari. A handful of drawings by Pontormo and Rosso Fiorentino will knock your socks off, as will work by a few less familiar artists, all working to make the Medici rulers of Florence look good. (See above.) (Cotter)
 MUSEUM OF ARTS & DESIGN: 'PRICKED: EXTREME EMBROIDERY,' through April 27. The second in a series of exhibitions (following last year's ''Radical Lace and Subversive Knitting''), ''Pricked'' makes another case for needlecraft without the ''craft.'' The show places widely known contemporary artists like Laura Owens and Ghada Amer alongside Elaine Reichek and others who have been working with thread and textiles since the '70s. In the best works historical and technical concerns overlap, just as they do in traditional embroidered samplers. 40 West 53rd Street, Manhattan, (212) 956-3535, madmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'JAN DE COCK: DENKMAL 11, MUSEUM OF MODERN ART, 11 WEST 53 STREET, NEW YORK, 2008,' through April 14. The word denkmal translates from German as monument or memorial. In Dutch it is a mold for thought. Both definitions fit the work of Jan De Cock, a 31-year-old Belgian artist who appropriates and arranges photographs in what might be viewed as an open-ended yet ultimately conservative encyclopedia. Overflowing with references to modern art, experimental film, photography and architecture, the project pulls most of the museum into its orbit. It incorporates elements of De Stijl, Russian Constructivism and Kurt Schwitters's collage/studio Merzbau, among other things. It is also the starting point of a yearlong project called ''American Odyssey,'' for which Mr. De Cock will travel to various and document cultural landmarks around the country. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Rosenberg)
 MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK: 'JOHN SLOAN'S NEW YORK,' through Mar. 23. Etchings by the Ashcan School artist Sloan suggest he was a better draftsman than painter. Few of the 34 prints on view are much bigger than postcards, but teeming as they are with affectionate, finely detailed observations of old, young, poor and rich people on sidewalks, in parks and in subways, they have a Dickensian amplitude. 1220 Fifth Avenue, at 103rd Street, (212) 534-1672, mcny.org. (Johnson)
 MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK: 'PICTURING NEW YORK: THE ART OF YVONNE JACQUETTE AND RUDY BURCKHARDT,' through April 13 (Burckhardt); through May 4 (Jacquette). This dual exhibition displays photographs by Burckhardt, who died at 85 in 1999, alongside paintings by Ms. Jacquette, his widow and 20 years his junior, who is still working. Burckhardt's black-and-white images approach the city from several angles, descending from rooftops to street level and even into the subways. Ms. Jacquette's works peer down into the canyons between high-rises. This pair of shows does not establish either artist as an unjustly overlooked talent, but it reveals the competing visions of the city behind a romantic and creative partnership. (See above.) (Rosenberg)
 NEUE GALERIE: 'GUSTAV KLIMT: THE RONALD S. LAUDER AND SERGE SABARSKY COLLECTIONS,' through June 30. The first New York museum show devoted exclusively to this Viennese master is less a coherent Klimt exhibition than a Klimt-o-rama. The main draw is a veritable retrospective of the drawings, erotic and otherwise, and a smattering of paintings starring the new-in-town, gold-on-gold ''Adele Bloch-Bauer I.'' Also here: a photo mural of sections of Klimt's most famous painted mural, the ''Beethoven Frieze''; a period room; photographs and personal effects, including one of the artist's signature caftans; and piped-in music, all written in Vienna of course, and available for purchase on CD. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Smith)
 NEW MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY ART: 'UNMONUMENTAL: THE OBJECT IN THE 21ST CENTURY,' through March 30. The New Museum has eked as much exhibition space as possible out of its new, elegantly bare-bones building and is devoting almost all of it to a raucous, polemical first show. The premise, as reflected in the work of 30 artists (among them, Rachel Harrison, Isa Genzken, Eliot Hundley, Carol Bove, Jock Bock and Sarah Lucas), is that assemblage sculpture is the most viable art form of the moment. Lo-tech, cheap, portable and rough around the edges if not actually falling apart, it reflects our fractured times and also resists easy absorption by the art market. While visually messy, way too hip and a tad monotonous, the show is a gauntlet thrown down to other New York museums. It says: Get your nerve on. Take a stand. Do something that inspires true argument, not just endless kvetching. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Smith)
 NOGUCHI MUSEUM: 'DESIGN: ISAMU KENMOCHI AND ISAMU NOGUCHI,' through May 25. The Bamboo Basket Chair was the result of a brief collaboration in 1950 between the Japanese-American sculptor and designer Isamu Noguchi (1904-88) and the Japanese industrial designer Isamu Kenmochi (1912-71). The chair was never manufactured, and the prototype was lost. The example here was recreated from photographs. Mostly, however, the chair provides an excuse to compare the design careers of Noguchi and Kenmochi and examine their roles in midcentury modern design, as well as the cultural relationship between Japan and the United States. Kenmochi's ''Japanese modern'' furniture is here, as well as a room devoted to Noguchi's most popular design achievement, the Akari light sculptures. 9-01 33rd Road, at Vernon Boulevard, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 204-7088, noguchi.org. (Martha Schwendener)
 P.S. 1 CONTEMPORARY ART CENTER: 'WACK! ART AND THE FEMINIST REVOLUTION,' through May 12. This big, messy, fascinating scrapbook of a show focuses on the years between the mid-1960s and the early '80s, when feminism had its most intense impact on contemporary art. Presenting works by 120 women, it is uneven in quality, but the overall effect is exciting. It takes you back to a heady time when women were throwing out old, patriarchal laws and reinventing art in all kinds of idiosyncratic and sometimes dangerously extreme terms. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Johnson)
 QUEENS MUSEUM OF ART: 'NEW YORK STATES OF MIND,' through March 23. Organized for the House of World Cultures in Berlin, where it appeared last fall, this show is too narrow, uneven and ideologically tendentious to represent truly the spirit of New York art. Nevertheless, it is an interesting, provocative exhibition, featuring high-profile artists like David Hammons, Terence Koh, Josephine Meckseper, Patty Chang and about two dozen others. If you want to have a lively argument about the real nature of New York art, it's a good place to start. Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, (718) 592-9700, www.queensmuseum.org. (Johnson)
 SCANDINAVIA HOUSE: 'ARS FENNICA: FINNISH ART NOW,' through April 12. Finland has its own version of the Turner Prize in Britain: the $50,000 Ars Fennica Prize. This sleepy show presents works by 2007's four finalists. It includes gimmicky sculptures by Markus Kahre; fairy-tale-like images painted and drawn by Elina Merenmies; Anna Tuori's brushy, mock-kitsch paintings of vaguely Asian landscapes; and, by Elina Brotherus, large, bland landscape photographs and a relaxing video triptych of people skinny dipping in peaceful, outdoor waters. 58 Park Avenue between 37th and 38th streets, (212) 879-9779, scandinaviahouse.org. (Johnson)
 Galleries: Uptown
 FRANZ KLINE Full advantage should be taken of any chance to tangle with the beams and rigging of Franz Kline's black-and-white abstractions, and to ponder their relationship to contemporary sculptors like David Smith and Mark Di Suvero. The works here span 1951 to 1960 and include two small, sprightly ink studies. The standouts are the complexly balanced, calligraphic ''Ninth Street'' (1951), made just before Kline's beams straightened out, and ''Heaume'' of 1958, a skewed, four-square hulk that evokes the artist's affection for all things railroad, including locomotives and ties. L&M Arts, 45 East 78th Street, (212) 861-0020, lmgallery.com, through March 15. (Smith)
 Galleries: SoHo
 MICHEL GONDRY: 'BE KIND REWIND' Acting on a populist, anti-corporate impulse, the director of the movie ''Be Kind Rewind'' has invited amateurs to make their own movies using a miniature version of a Hollywood back lot constructed in a gallery's industrial, garage-size space. Visitors not making films can wander among the sets and, in a simulation grungy video shop up front, watch short, intermittently amusing but woefully unskillful films that aspiring filmmakers have made thus far. Deitch Projects, 18 Wooster Street, near Grand Street, (212) 343-7300, deitch.com, through March 22. (Johnson)
 Galleries: Chelsea
 TOMMY HARTUNG The main draw in this solo debut is ''The Story of Edward Holmes,'' an enchanting if overly slow stop-action video animation made with small objects and table-top set-ups. The purposefully generic, slightly archaic, hard-to-follow voice-over -- written by Mr. Hartung -- concerns the determined captain of a storm-tossed frigate and his crew, most of them represented by little plastic replicas of 19th-century portrait busts. There are intimations of colonialism and exploitation, deft layers of visual and literary conventions and a wry sense of sculptural expediency. The objects that appear in the film complete the show; while nothing quite jells, it presents a multifaceted sensibility of unusual promise. Moti Hasson Gallery, 535 West 25th Street, (212) 268-4444, motihasson.com, through March 16. (Smith)
 SARAH PICKERING: 'FIRE SCENE' As an artist in residence at the Fire Service College in Moreton-in-Marsh, England, from 2006 to 2007, Sarah Pickering took pictures of ''burn units,'' set-dressed interiors set on fire to educate forensic teams and crime scene investigators. The blazes in these photographs provoke an immediate adrenaline response. More interesting, however, is the carefully orchestrated clutter of the imaginary households. In ''Electric Radiator,'' a space heater brushes up against a chintz sofa; in ''Makeshift Cooking,'' a similar device is being used to warm a teakettle. It all amounts to a broken-windows theory of disorder as the root of disaster. Daniel Cooney Fine Art, 511 West 25th Street, (212) 255-8158, danielcooneyfineart.com, through March 15. (Rosenberg)
 Galleries: Other
 BARBARA T. SMITH: '1965-1972' Including paintings, photographs, drawings and ''The Field,'' an installation piece consisting of 16 blades of grass over nine feet tall, this is the first New York gallery show of a California installation and performance artist now in her mid-70s. It provides a core sample of a fertile, fast-moving period in an innovative, little-known career whose through line is perception, the body and a sense of play. Maccarone, 630 Greenwich Street, at Morton Street, West Village, (212) 431-4977, maccarone.net, through March 21. (Smith)
 'DIEBENKORN IN NEW MEXICO' In graduate school in Albuquerque at the beginning of the 1950s, Richard Diebenkorn put his own spin on the drawing-painting fusion of Willem de Kooning's black-and-white paintings, interjecting an elegant, waggish sense of line borrowed from George Herriman's Krazy Kat cartoons, along with brushy, glowing layers of color. He would later go on to make grander, more complex works, but in many ways his painting was never freer, less predictable or more full of the future than in New Mexico. Grey Art Gallery, New York University, 100 Washington Square East, at Waverly Place, Greenwich Village, (212) 998-6780, nyu.edu/greyart, through April 5. (Smith)
 'UNDER PAIN OF DEATH' This uneven show about capital punishment has too many pieces that are only indirectly related to the theme, but it has some thought-provoking works, including ''The Last Supper,'' an Errol Morris-style documentary film by Mats Bigert and Lars Bergstrom, about preparing final meals for condemned prisoners; and an understated, oddly abstracted video by Harun Farocki in which surveillance tapes reveal murderous conditions in a maximum-security prison. Austrian Cultural Form, 11 East 52nd Street, (212) 319-5300, acfny.org, through May 10. (Johnson)
 Out of Town
 PHILADELPHIA MUSEUM OF ART: 'NOTATIONS/WILLIAM KENTRIDGE: TAPESTRIES,' through April 6. This uneven show of not-so-lively collages, sculptures and prints, and 11 large and much livelier tapestries based on the collages, confirms that the work of this South African artist is best in translation, filtered through a second process. In this case it is the craft of expert weavers; the degree to which their increase in scale, texture, intricacy and color improves on the collages is more than striking. The subject here is displacement, refugeeism and survival, conveyed by the imposing silhouettes of ''Porters'' that either carry or oddly merge with objects while seeming to move across 19th-century maps of Europe and other continents. The style is a kind of send-up of Baroque art, but the images point metaphorically and painfully toward the future. Benjamin Franklin Parkway, at 26th Street, (215) 763-8100, philamuseum.org. (Smith)
 Last Chance
 NAYLAND BLAKE: 'WHAT THE WHISKEY SAID, WHAT THE SUN IS SAYING' This solo show of recent work includes a set of terse, diaristic, cartoonlike drawings prompted by the death of a partner, as well as several small sculptures assembled from found materials, including wall pieces made from pins, wires, beads and little swags of filigreed chains that suggest antique jewelry, sexy punk accessories, carnival trinkets and rosaries. Matthew Marks Gallery, 523 West 24th Street, Chelsea, (212) 243-0200, matthewmarks.com; closes on Saturday. (Cotter)
 KIM JONES: 'YEAR OF THE RAT' While Kim Jones's performances as Mudman, a shaman-warrior-penitent covered in mud and harnessed with a bristling mass of sticks, have dwindled, his persona is vitally present here. One gallery is hung with stick apparatuses used in performances, assiduously worked and reworked over the years; each is part terrifying trap, part protective power figure. The other space contains drawings done in ink and acrylic over photographs of Mr. Jones in performance, heightening their oppressiveness, recasting Mudman as an underground comic character and making him more mythic. The persistent theme of the deprivation of war and the loss of civilization is especially relevant these days. Pierogi, 177 North Ninth Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn (718) 599-2144, pierogi2000.com; closes on Monday. (Smith)
 KLARA LIDEN This super-talented Swedish artist continues to explore the malleability of space in its social, material and architectural aspects. She has turned most of the gallery into a giant birdhouse for the neighborhood pigeons. Visitors are limited to a small, dark room where intimacy and even romance seem unavoidable, and the proximity of the birds is palpable (soundwise). You may find yourself wondering about light conditions in actual birdhouses. Don't miss the artist's pristine yet world-weary poster-paintings. Reena Spaulings Fine Art, 165 East Broadway, at Rutgers Street, Lower East Side, (212) 477-5006, reenaspaulings.com; closes on Sunday. (Smith)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'LUCIAN FREUD: THE PAINTER'S ETCHINGS' It would be simplifying things to say that the density, plasticity and color of oil paint provide Mr. Freud, if not the people he paints, with a place to hide. But by combining a life's worth of prints with selected canvases, this riveting exhibition suggests that his prints may be even starker. They resemble transparent scaffoldings partly draped with often hallucinatory nets of lines, gouges, hatching and cross-hatching that somehow also depict varying degrees of flesh, features and expression. The show gives a fascinating if partial account of how his etched line, like his painting surface, was liberated. (212) 708-9400, moma.org; closes on Monday. (Smith)
 SETH PRICE A resourceful and influential young conceptualist presents clunky, flat wall sculptures apparently illustrating a thesis about the obsolescence of the human and the natural. They revolve around photographs of hands downloaded from the Internet. The images have been blown up and abstracted into empty silhouettes surrounded by areas of printed color or by laser-cut sheets of transparent plastic backed by exotic wood veneers. Friedrich Petzel Gallery, 537 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 680-9467, petzel.com; closes on Saturday. (Johnson)
 THE STUDIO MUSEUM IN HARLEM: 'KORI NEWKIRK: 1997-2007' The Bronx-born artist Kori Newkirk, now based in Los Angeles, first came to New York's attention in the 2001 group show ''Freestyle'' at the Studio Museum. He is now having a solo at the museum, organized by its director and chief curator, Thelma Golden. This 10-year survey devotes plenty of room -- nearly the entire double-height main gallery -- to the shimmering pony-bead curtains for which Mr. Newkirk is best known. It also finds him pursuing more oblique forms of expression, particularly in his recent forays into video. It all adds up to a kind of maxed-out minimalism or, as Mr. Newkirk has described it, a ''ghetto-fabulous conceptualism.'' 144 West 125th Street, (212) 864-4500, studiomuseum.org; closes on Sunday.(Rosenberg)
 XU ZHEN For his New York solo debut, this young artist from Shanghai, who contributed to Performa 07, demonstrates that truth and fiction, if not entirely identical, can at least be comparably amusing. In videos and photographs he and his intrepid team remove the top of Mount Everest, invade Myanmar from China and cast serious doubt on the United States' claim to have landed the first man on the moon, the point in each case being a sly commentary on competitive imperialism. James Cohan Gallery, 533 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212) 714-9500, jamescohan.com; closes on Saturday. (Cotter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (87%); JEWS & JUDAISM (84%); TORAH & JUDAIC TEXTS (77%); BOOK REVIEWS (77%); WRITERS (77%); MENTAL HEALTH (70%); RELIGION (64%); CEMETERIES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (50%); EASTERN EUROPE (50%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2008



165 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2008
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: Shares Tumble as Credit Worries Worsen

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
The decline in the market that started Thursday morning in Europe and accelerated in New York hit the Asian markets hard in early trading Friday.
 Tokyo was down 3.30 percent at noon, reaching a six-week low, while markets in Hong Kong and Sydney were trading down more than 3 percent, setting the stage for what was shaping up to be a difficult day across Asia. Other markets, including Taiwan and Shanghai, were all opening lower.
 The declines came amid renewed anxiety about the availability of bank loans -- and fears that the Federal Reserve in Washington may be unable to curb the credit slump. 
 In New York trading, the broad Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 2.2 percent, or 29.36 points, reaching its lowest close since September 2006. The index, which closed at 1,304.34, is off more than 16 percent from its peak last fall.
 Shares of financial services firms led the sell-off, which spread to every major sector of the market. Investors were unnerved by high-profile loan defaults at Carlyle Capital, an investment firm based in Guernsey, Channel Islands, that handles $21.7 billion in assets. 
 It was a double-barreled bit of bad news. The assets of Carlyle have lost value in recent months, to the point where the firm cannot pay back some loans. And the fact that the banks called in the money in the first place suggests they are anxious about maintaining the size of their credit lines.
 That touched off fears among investors, who sent the Dow Jones industrial average down 214.60 points, or 1.75 percent, to 12,040.39. All but one of the Dow components declined. 
 The Nasdaq composite index fell 52.31 points, or 2.3 percent, to 2,220.50. 
 Few companies were spared. For every stock on the New York Stock Exchange that rose on Thursday, nearly eight fell. Smaller companies, more vulnerable to a squeeze in the credit market, were hit the hardest: the Russell 2000 small-cap index declined 3.1 percent, to 662.78.
 Yields on agency mortgage-backed securities rose to their highest level relative to Treasuries in 22 years.
 Investors were also discouraged by strong inflationary signals from the commodity and currency markets. Crude oil settled at another record, $105.47 a barrel, up 95 cents, or 0.9 percent. The euro hit another record against the dollar at $1.5370, before falling back to $1.5365, after European central banks chose to hold interest rates steady. 
 The yields on 10-year Treasury notes, which move in the opposite direction from the price, fell as investors rushed into government bonds. The price rose 23/32, to 99 10/32. The yield declined to 3.58 percent, from 3.67 percent.
 The credit market troubles arrived on the day of a report that home foreclosures reached a record in 2007. The percentage of loans past due or in foreclosure jumped to 7.9 percent at the end of last year. Before the third quarter, the rate had never risen above 7 percent since records began in 1979.
 Investors may also be looking ahead to Friday's employment report from the Labor Department, considered the most important indicator of the nation's economic health. Economists have predicted that payrolls rose by 25,000 jobs in February.
 ''Anything that is less than on target could throw Wall Street over the edge,'' said Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist at Standard & Poor's.
 The 2.2 percent decline in the S.& P. 500 means that the index has lost $2.39 trillion in value in 103 trading days, according to Howard Silverblatt, an analyst of the index.
 The sole spot of good news on Thursday came from a positive retail sales report for February. Wal-Mart Stores said sales at stores open more than a year increased 2.6 percent, beating expectations. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); BONDS (78%); FORECLOSURE (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (69%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (65%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%)

COMPANY: CARLYLE CAPITAL CORP LTD (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6726 UNIT INVESTMENT TRUSTS, FACE-AMOUNT CERTIFICATE OFFICES, & CLOSED-END MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) EUROPE (92%); TAIWAN (92%); ASIA (92%); HONG KONG (91%); UNITED STATES (90%); GUERNSEY (78%); CHANNEL ISLANDS (58%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2008



166 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW WHITNEY BIENNIAL 2008; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1911 words

HEADLINE: Art's Economic Indicator

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER

 BODY:
Advertisements for the 2008 Whitney Biennial promise a show that will tell us ''where American art stands today,'' although we basically already know. A lot of new art stands in the booths of international art fairs, where styles change fast, and one high-polish item instantly replaces another. The turnover is great for business, but it has made time-lag surveys like the biennial irrelevant as news. 
 Maybe this is changing with the iffy economy. Several fairs, including Pulse in London, have recently suspended operation. And this year we have a Whitney show that takes lowered expectations -- lessness, slowness, ephemerality, failure (in the words of its young curators, Henriette Huldisch and Shamim M. Momin) -- as its theme. 
 A biennial for a recession-bound time? That's one impression it gives. With more than 80 artists, this is the smallest edition of the show in a while, and it feels that way, sparsely populated, even as it fills three floors and more of the museum and continues at the Park Avenue Armory, that moldering pile at 67th Street, with an ambitious program of performance art (through March 23). 
 Past biennials have had a festive, party-time air. The 2004 show was all bright, pop fizz; the one two years ago exuded a sexy, punk perfume. The 2008 edition is, by contrast, an unglamorous, even prosaic affair. The installation is plain and focused, with many artists given niches of their own. The catalog is modest in design, with a long, idea-filled essay by Ms. Momin, hard-working, but with hardly a stylistic grace note in sight. A lot of the art is like this too: uncharismatic surfaces, complicated back stories. 
 There are certainly dynamic elements. A saggy, elephantine black vinyl sculpture by the Los Angeles artist Rodney McMillian is one. Phoebe Washburn's floral ecosystem is another. Spike Lee's enthralling, appalling HBO film about Katrina-wrecked New Orleans is a third. In addition, certain armory performances -- a 40-part vocal performance organized by Marina Rosenfeld; Kembra Pfahler and her group, the Voluptuous Horror of Karen Black commandeering the Drill Hall -- should make a splash. 
 But again, the overall tenor of the show is low-key, with work that seems to be in a transitional, questioning mode, art as conversation rather than as statement, testing this, trying that. Assemblage and collage are popular. Collaboration is common. So are down-market materials -- plastic, plywood, plexiglass -- and all kinds of found and recycled ingredients, otherwise known as trash. 
 Jedediah Caesar, one of the show's 29 West Coast artists, encases studio refuse -- wood scraps, disposable coffee cups, old socks -- in blocks of resin for display. Charles Long makes spidery, Giacometti-esque sculptures -- the shapes are based on traces of bird droppings -- from plaster-covered debris. Cheyney Thompson cannibalizes his own gallery shows to make new work. With thread and a box of nails Ry Rocklen transforms an abandoned box spring into a bejeweled thing, iridescent if the light is right. 
 Devotees of painting will be on a near-starvation diet, with the work of only Joe Bradley, Mary Heilmann, Karen Kilimnik, Olivier Mosset and (maybe) Mr. Thompson to sustain them. Hard-line believers in art as visual pleasure will have, poor things, a bitter slog. But if the show is heedless of traditional beauty, it is also firm in its faith in artists as thinkers and makers rather than production-line workers meeting market demands. 
 Not so long ago, Whitney biennials were little more than edited recaps of gallery seasons. Much of the art in them had already been exhibited in galleries and commercially preapproved. By contrast, the Whitney commissioned the bulk of what appears in the 2008 biennial expressly for the occasion. If some artists failed to meet curatorial hopes, others seized the chance to push in new directions. Whatever the outcome, the demonstration of institutional faith was important. It means that, for better or worse, the new art in this show is genuinely new.
 And new comes out of old. Almost every biennial includes a contingent of influential elders. This one does. Ms. Heilmann is one. Her pop-inflected, rigorously casual abstraction is a natural reference point for Ms. Kilimnik's brushy historical fantasies, for Frances Stark's free-associative collages, and for a very Heilmann-esque Rachel Harrison piece that includes a harlequin-patterned sculpture and the film ''Pirates of the Caribbean'' projected on the gallery wall. (Work by Ms. Harrison is also in the New Museum's ''Unmonumental: The Object in the 21st Century,'' a show that overlaps the biennial's sensibility.) 
 The California Conceptualist John Baldessari -- born in 1931 and deeply networked into the art world -- generates another, even wider sphere of influence. His hybrid forms -- not painting, not sculpture, not photography, but some of each -- offer a permissive model for a lot of new art, from Mr. Bradley's figure-shaped abstract paintings to Patrick Hill's tie-dyed sculptures to a multimedia installation by Mika Tajima who, with Howie Chen, goes by the collaborative moniker New Humans. 
 Mr. Baldessari's use of fragmented Hollywood film stills in his work has opened new paths for artists exploring narrative. And there's a wealth of narrative in this biennial, much of it in film. 
 The video called ''Can't Swallow It, Can't Spit It Out'' by Harry (Harriet) Dodge and Stanya Kahn, is a kind of lunatic's tour of an abject and empty Los Angeles. Amy Granat and Drew Heitzler turn Goethe's ''Sorrows of Young Werther'' into an Earth Art road trip. In a multichannel video piece called ''Cheese,'' with an elaborate, barnlike setting, Mika Rottenberg updates a 19th-century story of seven sisters who turned their freakishly long hair to enterprising ends. 
 And there's a beautiful new film by Javier Tellez, produced by Creative Time, that dramatizes an old Indian parable about the uncertainties of perception. In the film the artist introduces six blind New Yorkers to a live elephant and records their impressions, derived through touch. The encounters take place in what looks like the open, empty plaza in front of a temple or church, though the building is actually the vacant Depression-era bathhouse of the McCarren Park swimming pool in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. 
 Architecture and design form a subcategory of motifs in the biennial, partly as a sendup of the luxe environments that much new art is destined to inhabit, but also in line with the show's concern with transience and ruin. Alice Konitz's faux-modernist furniture sculpture, Matthew Brannon's wraparound graphics display, and Amanda Ross-Ho's fiercely busy domestic ensembles all mine this critical vein.
 But William Cordova's ''House That Frank Lloyd Wright Built 4 Fred Hampton and Mark Clark'' makes a specific historical reference. An openwork maze of wood risers, it may look unfinished, but it's as complete as it needs to be: its basic outline replicates the footprint of the Chicago apartment where two Black Panthers were ambushed and killed in a predawn police raid in 1969. Here the scene of a stealth attack is open for the world to see. 
 The passing of baldly political art from market fashion has been much noted during the past decade. But the 2008 Biennial is a political show, at least if you define politics, as Ms. Huldisch and Ms. Momin do, in terms of indirection, ambiguity; questions asked, not answered; truth that is and is not true. 
 An assemblage by Adler Guerrier impressionistically documents an explosion of racial violence that scarred Miami Beach, near his home, in 1968. While Mr. Guerrier attributes the piece to a fictional collective of African-American artists active around Miami at the time, the collective, like the piece itself, is entirely his invention.
 Omer Fast weaves together sex, lies, and a civilian shooting in Iraq in a film-within-a-film based on actor-improvised memories. William E. Jones takes a very personal tack on the subject of civilian surveillance by recycling an old police video of illicit homosexual activity shot in an Ohio men's room. The video dates from 1962, the year the artist, who is gay, was born, and the police sting triggered a wave of antigay sentiment in the town where he grew up. 
 There's more: videos by Natalia Almada and Robert Fenz dramatize, in utterly different ways, the border politics of Mexican-United States immigration. One of the show's largest pieces, ''Divine Violence,'' by Daniel Joseph Martinez, fills a substantial room with hundreds of gilded plaques carrying the names of what Mr. Martinez labels terrorist organizations, from Al Qaeda to tiny nationalist and religious groups.
 Mr. Martinez, an extremely interesting artist, is making a return biennial appearance. He contributed metal museum-admission tags reading ''I Can't Imagine Ever Wanting to Be White'' to the famously political biennial in 1993. (One of that show's curators, Thelma Golden, now director of the Studio Museum in Harlem, is an adviser to the current exhibition, along with Bill Horrigan of the Wexner Center for the Arts at Ohio State University and Linda Norden, an independent curator.)
 For a total immersion in the political and the personal, there's nothing quite like Mr. Lee's television film ''When the Levees Broke,'' which is on continuous view in the show, though for me Coco Fusco's hourlong video ''Operation Atropos'' is almost as powerful. For this exercise in creative nonfiction, Ms. Fusco and six other women submitted to a ''prisoner-of-war interrogation-resistance program'' conducted by former United States military personnel. Technically, the whole program is a species of docudrama performance, a highly specialized endurance challenge. Even knowing that, the sight of men making women gradually break down under pressure is hair-raising, as is a follow-up scene of the women being briefed on how they can do the same to others. 
 The growing presence of women as military interrogators will be the subject of a live performance by Ms. Fusco at the armory, the ideal setting for it. And under the auspices of the nonprofit Art Production Fund, several other biennial artists have made site-specific works in the building's outsize, baronial, wood-paneled halls. 
 In one Olaf Breuning has mustered a cute army of teapots with lava-lamp heads. Mario Ybarra Jr.'s ''Scarface Museum,'' composed entirely of memorabilia related to Brian De Palma's 1983 remake of that 1932 gangster film, is in another. In a third M K Guth, an artist from Portland, Ore., invites visitors to participate in therapeutic hair-braiding sessions, the hair being fake, the psychological benefits presumably not. 
 Ms. Guth's project has a sweet, New Agey expansiveness that is atypical for this year's hermetic, uningratiating show. Ms. Pfahler and the Voluptuous Horror of Karen Black, with their teased wigs, low-budget props and friends-of-friends underground roots are firmly in the 2008 picture. Ms. Pfahler's Biennial stint will include a seminar on an art movement she recently founded. Based on the idea of the attraction of abjection, it is called ''Beautalism,'' and a fair amount of what is in the Whitney show qualifies for inclusion. 
 ''Whitney Biennial 2008'' runs through June 1 at the Whitney Museum of American Art, 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, and through March 23 at the Park Avenue Armory at 67th Street. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Whitney Biennial 2008: The installation for ''Cheese'' (2008), a multichannel video piece by Mika Rottenberg, is one of scores of artworks in this show on view at the Whitney Museum of American Art and the Park Avenue Armory.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Clockwise from above, Olaf Breuning's ''Army'' (2008)
Phoebe Washburn's ''While Enhancing a Diminishing Deep Down Thirst, the Juice Broke Loose (the Birth of a Soda Shop)'' (2008)
Eduardo Sarabia's ''Gift'' (2008)
and M K Guth's ''Ties of Protection and Safekeeping'' (2007-8).(PHOTOGRAPHS BY, FROM LEFT, RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES
CENTER AND RIGHT, LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. E31)
Above, Olaf Breuning's installation, ''The Army'' (2008), is on view at the Park Avenue Armory. Below, a scene from a film by Javier Tellez being shown at the Whitney, in which six blind New Yorkers, like the man below, give their impressions after touching an elephant.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY SAM HORINE, COURTESY OF CREATIVE TIME)
A 2007 sculpture by Charles Long based on traces of bird droppings.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Mario Ybarra Jr.'s ''Scarface Museum,'' at the Park Avenue Armory. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. E34) MAP Map details area of the Whitney Museum of American Art (pg. E34) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); SCULPTURE (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); ART COLLECTING (78%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (77%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2008



167 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: Aversion to Risk Deepens Credit Woes

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
The credit markets came under renewed stress Thursday as investors sought absolute safety and even moved away from debt issued by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the government-sponsored mortgage lending enterprises.
 The intensifying credit crisis came as one regulator, Timothy F. Geithner, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, said that some banks had moved from being too willing to take on risks to being reluctant to take any chance of losing money, a move that was making the crisis worse.
 ''The rational actions taken by even the strongest financial institutions to reduce exposure to future losses have caused significant collateral damage to market functioning,'' Mr. Geithner said in a speech to the Council on Foreign Relations. ''This, in turn, has intensified the liquidity problems for a wide range of bank and nonbank financial institutions.'' 
 Those liquidity problems intensified Thursday as a new increase in the number of mortgage foreclosures was reported and two financial companies that had relied on borrowed money said they were unable to raise the cash demanded by their lenders. 
 Both Carlyle Capital, a company sponsored by the Carlyle Group, a major private equity fund, and Thornburg Mortgage, the second-largest independent mortgage lender in the United States after Countrywide, said they had been unable to meet the demands and had defaulted on some obligations. Their stock prices plunged.
 The credit market jitters were blamed for a sharp drop in stock prices, with the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index falling 2.2 percent. Financial stocks were the hardest hit, with an index of such shares falling to its lowest level in more than four years. Fannie Mae shares fell $2.57, or 10.6 percent, to $21.70, and Freddie Mac shares dropped $1.50, or 6.7 percent, to $20.14. Both are at their lowest level in more than a decade.
 As the economy grew through most of this decade, much of the growth was fueled by borrowing, both by individuals taking out mortgages and by investors who sought high returns through highly leveraged investments. Some of those investments are now unraveling because lenders will not lend enough money to enable investors to hold on to them. That reluctance forces the sale of investments, which lowers prices and makes lenders even less willing to risk their capital.
 ''Leverage is acceptable in a stable economic environment, but not in an economic crisis,'' Geraud Charpin, a strategist at UBS, wrote last week.
 At the end of last year, Carlyle Capital had $21.76 billion in assets, of which $21.69 billion had been pledged as collateral against loans. It had borrowed $31 for every dollar of equity, and even a $150 million line of credit from its parent, the Carlyle Group, was not enough to keep it out of trouble as lenders demanded more collateral to back up their loans.
 Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, whose debt has been viewed as almost as safe as that of the government itself, have played an essential role in keeping the mortgage markets functioning. That is because many mortgage companies have gone out of business and investors have been unwilling to buy mortgage-backed securities unless the government, or one of the enterprises, guaranteed the mortgages.
 The difference between the yield on long-term debt guaranteed by Fannie Mae and that of similar Treasury debt rose to its largest level in more than 20 years, providing a new sign of the nervousness that has affected financial markets.
 In Congressional testimony, William B. Shear, an official with the Government Accountability Office, warned that Fannie and Freddie, ''with more than $6 trillion in outstanding obligations,'' could pose ''significant risks to taxpayers'' if they ran into difficulty.
 Each of the two enterprises has a $2.25 billion line of credit with the Treasury, but that is a small fraction of what they owe. Mr. Shear said it was ''generally assumed on Wall Street that assistance would be provided in a financial emergency.''
 With the trading levels indicating that some traders were no longer as confident of that assumption as they had been, rumors swirled that the Treasury Department was preparing to issue an explicit guarantee of the debts of government-sponsored enterprises, or G.S.E.'s, to calm the market. A Treasury spokeswoman denied those rumors.
 ''The rumor of an explicit government guarantee for the G.S.E.'s speaks to the gravity of the current situation,'' said Margaret Kerins, a strategist at RBS Greenwich Capital. 
 The index of yields on Fannie Mae guaranteed loans rose to 5.96 percent on Thursday, an increase of 13 basis points from the previous day. (A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.) At the same time, the yield on 10-year Treasury bonds fell 9 basis points, to 3.58 percent.
 The difference in the two yields, of 2.38 percentage points, was the largest since 1986 and was more than twice the difference of a year ago, before credit fears began to grow.
 The credit crisis began last year with indications of rising defaults on subprime mortgage loans, a problem that bankers and regulators said could be easily contained. But it gradually spread as confidence declined in the financial engineering that has remade the financial system in recent years. 
 The bond rating agencies have been forced to reduce the ratings on some structured finance products -- many of them ultimately backed by mortgage loans -- from AAA to very low levels. That has damaged the credibility of the agencies at the same time that it has made investors wary of taking on any risk. 
 Many of those structured finance products had been guaranteed by bond insurers like MBIA and Ambac, and the fact that they could face significant claims has led to concerns about their solvency. 
 An effort to bail out Ambac with guarantees from banks foundered on the reluctance of banks to commit capital they might need for other purposes, and a plan announced Wednesday for the company to raise additional capital by selling stock was greeted with hostility by investors, causing its share price to lose nearly a third of its already depressed value in the last two days.
 Concerns have also grown about a recession, with economists forecasting an increase in the unemployment rate when February's job figures are released Friday. On Thursday, the Federal Reserve reported that the net worth of households fell in the first quarter, the first time that had happened since 2002. 
 The Mortgage Bankers Association reported that the proportion of borrowers more than 30 days delinquent rose to 5.82 percent, the highest since 1985. The situation was worst among subprime borrowers who had taken out adjustable rate mortgages, but the proportion of prime mortgages that were delinquent also rose, to 3.24 percent.

GRAPHIC: GRAPH: The difference between yields on Fannie Mae guaranteed loans and the 10-year Treasury has soared in recent weeks. (Source: Bloomberg)(pg. C1) Graph showing the difference between yields on Fannie Mae guaranteed loans and the 10-year Treasury. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (87%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (55%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (54%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (93%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (72%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (58%); CARLYLE CAPITAL CORP LTD (55%)

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (56%)

TICKER: CG (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (72%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (72%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (58%); SIC6726 UNIT INVESTMENT TRUSTS, FACE-AMOUNT CERTIFICATE OFFICES, & CLOSED-END MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES (55%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2008



168 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: Heard the One About the Farmer's Ethanol?

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:
 GUSHER OF LIES 
 The Dangerous Delusions of 'Energy Independence' 
 By Robert Bryce 
 Illustrated. 371 pages. PublicAffairs. $26.95. 
 After motherhood and apple pie, energy independence probably qualifies as the most popular political slogan in the land. It is, as they say, a no-brainer. Robert Bryce agrees: You have to have no brain to think it is possible or even desirable. 
 In ''Gusher of Lies,'' Mr. Bryce, a freelance journalist specializing in energy issues, mounts a savage attack on the concept of energy independence and the most popular technologies currently being promoted to achieve it. Ethanol? A scam. Wind power? Sheer fantasy. Solar power? Think again. For the foreseeable future, which is to say the next 30 to 50 years, fossil fuels will reign supreme, as they have for the last century. Deal with it. 
 With all the gusto of a hunter clubbing baby seals, Mr. Bryce goes after one cherished green belief after another, but he is an equal-opportunity smiter. Having kicked the props from under every green technology in sight, he goes after the political right.
 The current administration and its neoconservative allies, he argues, have made energy independence part of the war on terror, a moral and tactical blunder. ''Energy independence, at its root, means protectionism and isolationism, both of which are in direct opposition to America's long-term interests in the Persian Gulf and globally,'' he writes.
 Mr. Bryce begins coolly, then heats up and eventually approaches core meltdown. In a perspective-setting opening chapter, he reviews the history and current state of energy needs in the United States, whose situation is not nearly as desperate, he argues, as one might think. Yes, the United States depends on foreign oil and natural gas, as it has for many decades, but only 11 percent of its oil came from the Persian Gulf in 2005. It imports 80 percent of its semiconductors and 100 percent of strategic minerals like bauxite and manganese.
 Oil, Mr. Bryce argues, is simply a commodity. It also costs about the same, in real terms, as it always has. Oil producers need to sell just as badly as customers need to buy. It is undoubtedly true, as President Bush declared, that ''America is addicted to oil.'' To which Mr. Bryce answers, So what? Besides, he writes, ''America's appetite is simply too large and the global market is too sophisticated and too integrated for the U.S. to secede.''
 After clearing the ground, Mr. Bryce gets to work demolishing cherished green beliefs about alternative energy sources. Ethanol, in particular, drives him wild. Fuel derived from corn has channeled billions in subsidies to Midwestern farmers and agribusiness, he writes, despite glaring shortcomings. It is expensive to produce and requires enormous amounts of water when irrigation comes into play. It produces much less energy than gasoline while emitting more pollutants into the air. 
 Detroit loves ethanol because it can use it to inflate fuel-efficiency ratings on their cars artificially. The mammoth Chevy Suburban, produced as a flex-fuel vehicle capable of burning both ethanol and gasoline, magically boosted its fuel efficiency to 29 miles per gallon from 15, since under federal rules only a vehicle's gasoline consumption need be factored into the equation. Ethanol, in other words, has allowed American car manufacturers to produce more gas guzzlers and contribute to increased imports of foreign oil.
 The problem with corn and other alternative fuel sources boils down to cost and output. Fuel made from switch grass, another potential solution to the energy problem, costs a lot to produce, delivers a lot less energy than petroleum and would require, like corn, vast areas of farmland to meet a meaningful percentage of current energy needs. 
 Wind power and solar power have the added drawback of being intermittent and unpredictable. A town that relied entirely on solar or wind power would suffer constant service interruptions and wild fluctuations in output, which is why both technologies must be used in conjunction with traditional fossil-fuel generators.
 Mr. Bryce lands one telling blow after another, but he favors a slashing, ad-hominem style of attack that can undercut his credibility, especially when he moves away from economics and technology and ventures into politics, an arena to which he brings no particular expertise. He employs a peculiar, almost actuarial assessment of the risk posed by terrorism, which he compares to random events like lightning strikes. This completely misses the point about the threat posed by radical Islam. Using the word ''neocon'' seems to be enough, for him, to discredit an argument or an opponent.
 Fortunately, the book steers back to the high road at the end, when Mr. Bryce suggests that there is some light at the end of the tunnel, some of it solar-powered. Within modest limits, he argues, solar power can play a bigger role in meeting energy needs, especially with new technology that transforms infrared light into electricity. Algae look promising as a source of biodiesel. The major environmental groups may even, eventually, see the point of nuclear power, ''the only sector that has enough momentum and enough capital behind it to make a significant dent in the overall use of fossil fuels.''
 Mr. Bryce's pet idea, though, is something that does not exist, a superbattery capable of storing large quantities of electricity. As the magic wand to bring this ''silver bullet'' into existence Mr. Bryce proposes a Superbattery Prize awarded either by the Energy Department or private foundations: $1 billion, say, for a compact, affordable system that can store multiple kilowatt-hours, and $10 billion for a system that can store megawatt-hours. The hard-nosed Mr. Bryce reveals himself in the end as something of a visionary and perhaps even a revolutionary. Power to the people.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 11, 2008

 CORRECTION:
 The Books of The Times review in Weekend on Friday, about ''Gusher of Lies: The Dangerous Delusions of 'Energy Independence,' '' misstated the author's surname at several points, and a description of an online excerpt from the book misstated his surname as well. As the review noted elsewhere, he is Robert Bryce, not Bruce or Boyce. The bibliographical capsule with the review misidentified the publisher. It is PublicAffairs, not Basic Books.
 Gusher of Lies The Dangerous Delusions of 'Energy Independence' By Robert Bryce Illustrated. 371 pages. Basic Books. $26.95. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY WILL VAN OVERBEEK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLS (90%); ETHANOL (90%); BIOFUELS (89%); WIND ENERGY (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); AGRICULTURE (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); MARINE MAMMALS (73%); SOLAR ENERGY (73%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (71%); WRITERS (71%); TERRORISM (70%); PROTECTIONISM (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (69%); IMPORT TRADE (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (60%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

TITLE: Gusher of Lies (Book)>

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2008



169 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: Buy the Best Tanker

 BODY:
The Air Force's selection of a European supplier over Boeing for its next generation of tanker aircraft has sparked a frenzy of predictable bipartisan complaints: How could the military outsource these patriotic jobs? 
 Lawmakers from Washington State, where Boeing is a big employer, denounced the decision as a ''blow to the American aerospace industry, American workers and America's men and women in uniform.'' Representative John Murtha, the chairman of the House Defense Appropriations Subcommittee, warned that Congress could cut all funding for the multibillion-dollar contract if the Air Force didn't satisfactorily justify its choice.
 Fulminating politicians, unsurprisingly, have avoided explaining the consequences of their arguments: that they would rather have the Air Force buy a more expensive plane, and one that it says doesn't meet its needs nearly as well, if it were made by an American company. 
 According to Air Force officials, the refueler developed by the European Aeronautic Defense and Space Company, or EADS, the parent company of Airbus, in partnership with Northrop Grumman will perform better than Boeing's in many ways. Based on the Airbus A330, it is bigger and can transport more fuel, cargo and people than Boeing's 767. Boeing's delays in delivering tanker planes to Italy and Japan likely also hurt its bid.
 Defense procurement is a global business. Boeing sells military aircraft and other defense systems all over the world. It and other American companies could suffer if a move to wrest the tanker contract from EADS and Northrop provoked a protectionist backlash in European capitals. American allies are already dismayed by the protectionist tone of this year's presidential campaign.
 In 2003, Congress quashed a deal tailor-made for Boeing to lease 100 tankers to the Air Force because the top Air Force official negotiating the deal was also found to have been negotiating a job with Boeing. Now, Congressional critics say buying from EADS is unworthy because the United States is suing the company at the World Trade Organization over subsidies received from European governments. 
 The W.T.O.'s dispute settlement panel has not ruled on this charge, nor has it ruled on Brussels's accusation that Boeing receives hidden subsidies from Washington. Both companies should be taken off the public dole. But if the lawsuit was a deal breaker, EADS shouldn't have been allowed to bid.
 Boeing claimed that if it had won the contract, it would have created 44,000 jobs in this country. The EADS-Northrop group says its tanker will support 25,000 jobs here. The tanker would be assembled at a new facility in Alabama. General Electric would make the engines, mostly in the United States. These job projections, however, are estimates and not hard commitments. And procurement rules sensibly require the Air Force to choose the best aircraft. 
 The issue has already migrated to the campaign. Senator John McCain is being criticized by Congressional Democrats for leading the probe that upended Boeing's sweetheart deal in 2003. Fortunately, he hasn't expressed any regret. Senators Barack Obama and Hillary Rodham Clinton quickly added complaints about the Air Force's choice to their shrill anti-trade rhetoric. 
 The Air Force is expected to brief Boeing on Friday about the selection. If Boeing thinks it got a raw deal, it can appeal to the Government Accountability Office, the oversight arm of Congress. If the G.A.O. finds merit, it could tell the Air Force to reopen the competition. 
 For Congress to reverse the decision on ''Buy America'' grounds would be bad for taxpayers: requiring them to pay for aircraft that provide less value for the money. It would also be bad diplomacy and bad business. And that can't be good for the country. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE INDUSTRY (91%); AIR FORCES (91%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (91%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); PROTECTIONISM (86%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (78%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (78%); CONTRACT AWARDS (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); SPACE INDUSTRY (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); BUSINESS TORTS (75%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (75%); PARENT COMPANIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (63%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN AERONAUTIC DEFENCE & SPACE CO EADS NV (94%); BOEING CO (92%); AIRBUS SAS (90%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (94%)

TICKER: EAD (PAR) (94%); EAD (MCE) (94%); BOE (LSE) (92%); BAB (BRU) (92%); BA (NYSE) (92%); GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%); NOC (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (92%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (90%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (55%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (55%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (55%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (55%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (55%)

PERSON: JOHN P MURTHA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (78%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (92%); BELGIUM (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2008



170 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH & LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: Loophole Lets Bank Rewrite The Calendar

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and economics in his blog at norris.blogs.nytimes.com.

 BODY:
It is not often that a major international bank admits it is violating well-established accounting rules, but that is what Societe Generale has done in accounting for the fraud that caused the bank to lose 6.4 billion euros -- now worth about $9.7 billion -- in January.
 In its financial statements for 2007, the French bank takes the loss in that year, offsetting it against 1.5 billion euros in profit that it says was earned by a trader, Jerome Kerviel, who concealed from management the fact he was making huge bets in financial futures markets. 
 In moving the loss from 2008 -- when it actually occurred -- to 2007, Societe Generale has created a furor in accounting circles and raised questions about whether international accounting standards can be consistently applied in the many countries around the world that are converting to the standards. 
 While the London-based International Accounting Standards Board writes the rules, there is no international organization with the power to enforce them and assure that companies are in compliance.
 In its annual report released this week, Societe Generale invoked what is known as the ''true and fair'' provision of international accounting standards, which provides that ''in the extremely rare circumstances in which management concludes that compliance'' with the rules ''would be so misleading that it would conflict with the objective of financial statements,'' a company can depart from the rules.
 In the past, that provision has been rarely used in Europe, and a similar provision in the United States is almost never invoked. One European auditor said he had never seen the exemption used in four decades, and another said the only use he could recall dealt with an extremely complicated pension arrangement that had not been contemplated when the rules were written.
 Some of the people who wrote the rule took exception to its use by Societe Generale.
 ''It is inappropriate,'' said Anthony T. Cope, a retired member of both the I.A.S.B. and its American counterpart, the Financial Accounting Standards Board. ''They are manipulating earnings.''
 John Smith, a member of the I.A.S.B., said: ''There is nothing true about reporting a loss in 2007 when it clearly occurred in 2008. This raises a question as to just how creative they are in interpreting accounting rules in other areas.'' He said the board should consider repealing the ''true and fair'' exemption ''if it can be interpreted in the way they have interpreted it.''
 Societe Generale said that its two audit firms, Ernst & Young and Deloitte & Touche, approved of the accounting, as did French regulators. Calls to the international headquarters of both firms were not returned, and Societe Generale said no financial executives were available to be interviewed.
 In the United States, the Securities and Exchange Commission has the final say on whether companies are following the nation's accounting rules. But there is no similar body for the international rules, although there are consultative groups organized by a group of European regulators and by the International Organization of Securities Commissions. It seems likely that both groups will discuss the Societe Generale case, but they will not be able to act unless French regulators change their minds.
 ''Investors should be troubled by this in an I.A.S.B. world,'' said Jack Ciesielski, the editor of The Analyst's Accounting Observer, an American publication. ''While it makes sense to have a 'fair and true override' to allow for the fact that broad principles might not always make for the best reporting, you need to have good judgment exercised to make it fair for investors. SocGen and its auditors look like they were trying more to appease the class of investors or regulators who want to believe it's all over when they say it's over, whether it is or not.''
 Not only had the losses not occurred at the end of 2007, they would never have occurred had the activities of Mr. Kerviel been discovered then. According to a report by a special committee of Societe Generale's board, Mr. Kerviel had earned profits through the end of 2007, and entered 2008 with few if any outstanding positions. 
 But early in January he bet heavily that both the DAX index of German stocks and the Dow Jones Euro Stoxx index would go up. Instead they fell sharply. After the bank learned of the positions in mid-January, it sold them quickly on the days when the stock market was hitting its lowest levels so far this year.
 In its annual report, Societe Generale says that applying two accounting rules -- IAS 10, ''Events After the Balance Sheet Date,'' and IAS 39, ''Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement'' -- would have been inconsistent with a fair presentation of its results. But it does not go into detail as to why it believes that to be the case.
 One rule mentioned, IAS 39, has been highly controversial in France because banks feel it unreasonably restricts their accounting. The European Commission adopted a ''carve out'' that allows European companies to ignore part of the rule, and Societe Generale uses that carve out. The commission ordered the accounting standards board to meet with banks to find a rule they could accept, but numerous meetings over the past several years have not produced an agreement.
 Investors who read the 2007 annual report can learn the impact of the decision to invoke the ''true and fair'' exemption, but cannot determine how the bank's profits would have been affected if it had applied the full IAS 39.
 It appears that by pushing the entire affair into 2007, Societe Generale hoped both to put the incident behind it and to perhaps de-emphasize how much was lost in 2008. The net loss of 4.9 billion euros it has emphasized was computed by offsetting the 2007 profit against the 2008 loss.
 It may have accomplished those objectives, at the cost of igniting a debate over how well international accounting standards can be policed in a world with no international regulatory body.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (92%); ACCOUNTING (91%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); AUDITS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); FUTURES (70%)

COMPANY: SOCIETE GENERALE SA (92%); DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU (84%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (58%)

TICKER: GLE (PAR) (92%); GLE (BIT) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (84%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2008



171 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 297 words

HEADLINE: Alabama County Facing Deadline On Sewer Debt

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Jefferson County, Ala., is among the latest to become caught in troubles related to the faltering credit market.
 Officials in the county, which includes Birmingham, face a deadline Friday to put up $184 million in collateral or buy insurance to meet its obligations to four banks on $5.4 billion of interest-rate swaps linked to sewer debt. 
 Standard & Poor's and Moody's Investors Service began downgrading the sewer debt last week. On Thursday, the county said it would not pledge reserves against the swaps. While county officials say that filing for bankruptcy protection is not being considered, they acknowledge that it is an option. 
 The problems led S.& P. to lower the county's general obligation bond rating to A from AA. Earlier Thursday, it cut the $3.2 billion sewer debt three levels to CCC, a noninvestment grade.
 In response, the Jefferson County Commission president, Bettye Fine Collins, wrote to workers, saying that the ''commission faces difficult decisions on the sewer system debt.'' 
 The county's $270 million of general obligation debt was cut, reflecting ''uncertainty as to whether the sewer system's deteriorating credit quality could potentially disrupt other county revenue flows,'' S.& P. said.
 Compounding the problem, interest-rate swaps that the county bought from JPMorgan Chase, Bear Stearns, Bank of America and Lehman Brothers to shield it against rising borrowing costs have backfired. The floating rates it pays on its bonds have climbed while the variable rate banks pay the county under the agreements has declined, pushing interest costs higher.
 A JPMorgan spokesman, Brian Marchiony, and a Lehman Brothers spokeswoman, Kerrie Cohen, declined to comment. Representatives of Bear Stearns and Bank of America could not be reached.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATINGS (91%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); COUNTIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); BONDS (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (76%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (72%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (53%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (74%) ALABAMA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2008



172 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: European Bank Leaves Rate at 4%

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: FRANKFURT 

 BODY:
Moments after Jean-Claude Trichet explained on Thursday that fears about inflation had prompted the European Central Bank to leave interest rates unchanged, the euro touched a new high against the dollar, rising to $1.537.
 While European politicians and business executives have expressed alarm over the euro's sharp increase in exchange value, the bank is more worried about inflation, which at 3.2 percent is well above its threshold of 2 percent. 
 The bank left its benchmark interest rate at 4 percent Thursday, and Mr. Trichet, its president, signaled that there was little prospect of a rate cut any time soon. 
 Separately, the Bank of England also left its rate unchanged, at 5.25 percent. 
 Mr. Trichet acknowledged the unsettled state of the financial markets and the risk of a spillover into the broader economy. He said the bank stood ready to intervene to quell further market turbulence.
 A default Thursday by a European affiliate of the Carlyle Group on residential mortgage-backed securities underscored the continuing fragility of global finance -- six months after the subprime lending crisis prompted the European Central Bank, as well as others, to inject large amounts of capital into the markets. 
 Still, Mr. Trichet reiterated that the bank's overriding objective, even at a time of tight credit and waning growth, is to curb inflation. ''We believe the current monetary policy stance will contribute to that objective,'' he said.
 In new projections issued Thursday by the bank's staff, European inflation is expected to average 2.9 percent this year, and 2.1 percent in 2009. The figures are higher than previous forecasts, because of the continued high prices of oil and food.
 Several economists said that a strong euro helps ease price pressures in Europe because it makes imported goods cheaper. The bank, they said, might view the currency as a useful tool to keep a lid on prices.
 The spike in the euro was a predictable result of the bank's decision not to cut rates, even as the Federal Reserve aggressively did in the United States. The widening gap between the regions' interest rates encourages investors to switch from dollar- to euro-denominated assets, driving the euro up and the dollar down.
 ''The E.C.B. doesn't seem very concerned about the euro,'' said Elga Bartsch, a senior European economist at Morgan Stanley in London. ''They may view it as more of an American problem.''
 Many expect the Fed to continue cutting its short-term rate from the current 3 percent. 
 Mr. Trichet, far from being defensive about his bank's stance, seemed to reaffirm the patchwork of strategies being pursued by central banks in many places. ''The reasoning in Australia is not the same as the reasoning in Canada, or here, or in the U.S.,'' he said. ''We are each in our own universe.''
 Europe's universe, Mr. Trichet said, is marked by moderating but still acceptable economic growth. The bank's staff lowered its growth projections to 1.7 percent this year and 1.8 percent in 2009. 
 ''There is no contradiction between price stability, and growth and job creation,'' Mr. Trichet said, suggesting that the 320 million people who live in the euro zone expect their central bank to focus on prices. In normal economic conditions, Mr. Trichet said, slower growth should ease pressure on prices.
 But some economists question how long Europe can avoid the effects of the economic deterioration in the United States.
 ''Their basic assumption -- that Europe's economy is so much stronger than other economies -- is flawed,'' said Thomas Mayer, chief European economist at Deutsche Bank in London. ''The activity indicators have come down almost simultaneously in the euro area as in the U.S.''
 He said that housing prices had fallen both in overheated markets like Ireland and Spain, and in Germany. Mr. Mayer contended that these trends would force the European Central Bank to begin lowering rates in June.
 Jorg Kramer, chief economist at Commerzbank, predicted that the central bank would cut rates to 3.25 percent, from the current 4 percent, by the end of 2008. But before it moves, he said, inflation must fall below 3 percent and there must be stronger evidence of a European slowdown.
 The euro's recent rise has not set off as noisy a chorus from European political leaders as previous spikes did. In part, that may reflect Mr. Trichet's rebuffs in the past of efforts to interfere with the bank. 
 But German exporters like Siemens and BMW are starting to complain.
 ''We said when the euro was above $1.40 that we feel the pain; when the euro is above $1.50, it is alarming,'' Ernest-Antoine Seilliere, president of the employers' group BusinessEurope, said at a news conference in Brussels, according to The Associated Press.
 The euro, which settled in New York on Thursday at $1.5365, reached new records against the dollar only a week after breaking through the psychological milestone of $1.50. Currency experts said that within six months, the euro could trade at $1.60. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EURO (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); SUBPRIME LENDING (74%); FOOD PRICES (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (67%); OIL & GAS PRICES (63%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); BANK OF ENGLAND (57%); CARLYLE GROUP LP (56%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (91%)

TICKER: CG (NASDAQ) (56%); MS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (57%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (57%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (57%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); GERMANY (79%); AUSTRALIA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2008



173 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 536 words

 BODY:
RENEWED STRESS Credit woes intensified after an increase in mortgage foreclosures was reported and two financial companies said they had defaulted on some obligations. 
 A WAVE OF DEFAULTS Foreclosures surged to a record high in the fourth quarter of last year, putting pressure on plans to assist homeowners. [C1.] 
 The story of the Dunmores, three generations of home builders who fell victim to the housing bust, is a tale of greed, hubris and denial of economic reality. [C1.]
 RECORD PENALTY SUGGESTED Federal regulators said Southwest Airlines should be fined $10.2 million for misleading government officials about flying uninspected planes. [C1.]
 FORTIFYING PRODUCT SAFETY The Senate approved a bill that would provide assistance to the beleaguered federal regulators who oversee consumer products in the marketplace. [C1.]
 AN ACCOUNTING LOOPHOLE In moving a loss of 6.4 billion euros to 2007 from 2008, Societe Generale used an accounting exemption that some banking experts called inappropriate. High & Low Finance: Floyd Norris. [C1.]
 RATE UNTOUCHED IN JAPAN Concerned that economic growth in Japan was slowing, the country's central bank voted to hold the overnight lending rate steady at 0.5 percent. [C2.]
 CLASSIC TV ON THE INTERNET The Walt Disney Company said it would begin showing its older television shows on its Web site, Disney.com. [C2.]
 TAINTED TOOTHPASTE Executives at two Los Angeles-based importers were charged with selling toothpaste made in China that contained a poison that is used in antifreeze. [C3.]
 Authorities in Germany say they are concerned after receiving reports of severe reactions in consumers who used the blood thinner heparin. [A8.] 
 ANOTHER PLANT CLOSES General Motors temporarily closed an assembly plant near St. Louis after it ran out of parts from a supplier affected by a strike. [C3.]
 EXECUTIVE GRILLING The heads of three financial companies are expected to be grilled on their pay packages by a Congressional committee. [C3.]
 MODIFYING THE IPHONEApple will offer a low-cost software development kit that will allow programmers to create everything from games to business programs for the iPhone. [C3.]
 SPRING FEVER To stimulate sales, Lowe's, the home improvement chain, is introducing an upbeat marketing campaign for spring that features a bear named Mike, a symbol of the end of winter and hibernation. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [C7.]
 FALLING CLAIMS The Labor Department reported that claims for unemployment benefits dropped sharply last week, lower than economists were expecting. [C4.]
 NO RATE CUT The European Central Bank left its benchmark interest rate at 4 percent, and its president, Jean-Claude Trichet, suggested that it would not be cut any time soon. [C5.]
 SALLIE MAE'S WOES The turmoil in the credit markets has left Sallie Mae struggling to persuade shareholders that it is on sound footing. Market Place. [C6.]
 SHOPPERS CUTTING BACK Retailers reported mixed sales results for February, with discount stores, particularly Wal-Mart, performing better than department stores. [C7.]
 A MARKET SELL-OFF The stock market tumbled after renewed anxiety about the availability of bank loans touched off fears among investors. [C9.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (85%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (77%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (77%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); CONSUMER LAW (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); RETAILERS (74%); APPROVALS (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); PRODUCT SAFETY (70%); AIRLINES (70%); PLANT CLOSINGS (68%); EURO (68%); SHAREHOLDERS (66%); RETAIL SALES (65%); HOME CENTERS (65%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (65%); ANTICOAGULANTS (64%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (63%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (61%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (60%); INDUSTRIAL LOAN COMPANIES (54%); WEB SITES (51%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (68%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (61%); SOCIETE GENERALE SA (58%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (57%); DISNEY INTERACTIVE MEDIA GROUP (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%); SLM CORP (50%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (68%); GLE (PAR) (58%); GLE (BIT) (58%); LUV (NYSE) (57%); GM (NYSE) (53%); SLM (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (68%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (68%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (68%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (68%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (55%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (50%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (50%)

PERSON: JEAN-CLAUDE TRICHET (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (76%); GERMANY (75%); CENTRAL EUROPE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2008



174 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: Art In Review

BYLINE: By KAREN ROSENBERG

 BODY:
A NEW HIGH
 in Getting Low
 John Connelly Presents
 625 West 27th Street, Chelsea
 Through March 29
 Art made in New York since 9/11 is the theme, or rather the mood, of this 36-artist group show (an expanded version of an exhibition at the Berlin gallery Artnews Projects in October 2007). With oblique references to the economy and to drug culture, the title suggests a citywide diagnosis of post-traumatic stress or even a kind of manic depression.
 At one end of the spectrum is Matthew Higgs's framed book page reading ''Late 20th Century Art''; at the other is Sam Gordon's ''24 Hours in New York (The Lost Kinetic World, Volumes 1-12)'' (2005-7), a day's worth of video footage of local artists and art world personalities. 
 A few paintings stand out from the glut of appropriation, assemblage and mixed-media works. Keith Mayerson's painting ''9/11'' (2007) renders the smoke from the burning towers in a cloying Impressionist palette. Daniel Lefcourt's abstract acrylics-on-board resemble blacked-out lines of text from government documents. Jeronimo Elespe's small oil portrait of a dark-haired boy in a navy anorak has an unsettling, vaguely memorial aspect. 
 Resurrected Pop describes the work of Tom Burr, who makes the homoerotic subtext of Warhol's ''13 Most Wanted Men'' fully explicit, and that of Scott Hug, whose ''JFK'' (2007) pairs a black mirror with a photograph of President Kennedy in dark sunglasses. One is celebratory, the other mournful; both feel current. KAREN ROSENBERG 
 DAVID ASKEVOLD
 ''Three Easy Pieces''
 Canada
 55 Chrystie Street, Lower East Side
 Through Sunday
 David Askevold, who died in January, was a founding member of the 1970s contemporary-art scene in Halifax, Nova Scotia. (Better-known participants included the ur-Conceptualists Lawrence Weiner, Dan Graham and Lucy Lippard.) This show, planned before the artist's death, includes a series of paintings he made last year and a video from the '90s.
 A set of perplexing canvases titled ''Equation for a Modern Miracle'' incorporates sci-fi backgrounds and Weiner-esque text: ''A Cheap Novel Cover + Light Refractions Time and Space = A Modern Miracle.''
 ''Ampersand'' reproduces a Mother Goose nursery rhyme about the proper use of this symbol, and dedicates it to President Bush and former British Prime Minister Tony Blair. It is a peculiar subject for a painting, and too juvenile to be an effective political critique.
 In the short video ''16 Candles'' (1990), a chandelier holding lighted tapers revolves to a jazz-saxophone soundtrack; eventually, the flames are snuffed out. This elegant, evocative piece bears comparison to the work of a fellow Canadian Conceptualist, Rodney Graham, and suggests that a more comprehensive look at Mr. Askevold's art is in order. KAREN ROSENBERG 
 BJARNE MELGAARD
 Greene Naftali
 508 West 26th Street, Chelsea
 Through March 15
 There's a lot going on in Bjarne Melgaard's third solo show in New York: neo-Neo-Expressionist painting and an extended image-text piece; modernist sofas and rustic Norwegian antiques; textile design and automatist drawing; weird sex (on video) and painted references to same; exuberance and tragedy. Above all, there are parody and sincerity so close together as to be indistinguishable.
 In the large, colorful paintings, groups of priapic, noseless men are layered with thickly painted images of monsters and phrases like ''Gay Mafia,'' ''Snuff Cube'' or ''Ben Gazzara.'' Some of the monsters seem to be made of dozens of penises (or maybe they're just cigarettes); the paint handling ranges from black lines that could almost be Warhol silk-screen to Schnabelesque masses of oozing color. If you wonder how they might look over the couch, Mr. Melgaard's ''sculptures'' are luxurious sofas by the Viennese designer Josef Hoffmann and chairs by Frederick Kiesler. But they are upholstered with neo-Expressionist textiles of his design; two of the couches come with large mink throws.
 The installation piece, ''Greenland, a novel,'' which has the feeling of a sad, art-house movie, is a fragmented tale of rape and bisexuality scrawled on torn pieces of paper. These -- along with snapshots that focus mostly on a blond woman -- are taped to a connoisseur-worthy cluster of beautiful Norwegian peasant tables and chairs that also display ceramics, painted boxes, wood coffee pots and carved Inuit figurines. The story is vague but larded with often wrenching physical detail.
 Mr. Melgaard's bad-boy reputation is working overtime in this melange, celebrating and ridiculing art as painting, as design, as shopping and as life. It's a big, beautiful, materialistic mess, with the ''Greenland'' installation providing an undertow of real feeling. ROBERTA SMITH
 KON TRUBKOVICH
 Almost Nowhere
 Boesky Gallery
 509 West 24th Street, Chelsea
 Through March 15
 Kon Trubkovich was born in Russia in 1979 and lived there until he was 11, which may explain the fascination with incarceration that wends through his industrious but derivative New York gallery debut.
 The show is a study in known forms of appropriation paintings based on blurry video pauses, drawings based on photographs or done-over magazine images. Its mood of alienation and threat occasionally erupts, as in seven graphite drawings based on images of an explosion.
 The best pieces are two videos and a video reconstruction. ''Ant Farm,'' filmed in an abandoned prison near Philadelphia, shows men in orange prison garb carrying pieces of junk back and forth past large mural portraits of John F. Kennedy, James Brown, the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and other legends rendered in shades of gray. The contrast of colors, scales and degrees of importance is momentarily arresting.
 Far grimmer, ''No Exit,'' a video reconstruction, focuses on the 1971 Attica uprising, a recurring theme here. It shows convicts being marched around an outdoor courtyard, naked except for shoes and socks. And ''A Thriller Is a Thriller Is a Thriller'' opts for entertainment. Part of a triptych that includes a still from ''No Exit'' and a collage, the video, widely known from YouTube, is an accomplished restaging of Michael Jackson's mega-hit ''Thriller'' by inmates in a Philippine prison. Watching the men mimicking Mr. Jackson's famous moves to his famous music is as good as this show gets. 
 The news release suggests that the works on view are metaphors about being an artist: the studio as a prison, art making as mindless labor. That makes sense. While he has evident skill and a complex subject, Mr. Trubkovich has not yet escaped the confines of familiar conventions. ROBERTA SMITH

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Untitled'' (2007), an oil portrait by Jeronimo Elespe.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN CONNELLY PRESENTS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); PAINTING (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); BIPOLAR DISORDER (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (75%); MENTAL ILLNESS (72%); POST TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (65%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (60%)

PERSON: JOHN F KENNEDY (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); TONY BLAIR (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); NOVA SCOTIA, CANADA (53%) UNITED STATES (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2008



175 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: He Took On Kings And Now Wants To Be the Mayor

BYLINE: By WILLIAM C. RHODEN. 
E-mail: wcr@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Kevin Johnson spent 12 seasons in the N.B.A. as one of the best point guards of his era. Before this week, Johnson, like most players who have played for a championship, thought that the ultimate high was reaching the N.B.A. finals.
 On Wednesday, Johnson retuned to the Oak Park section of Sacramento, where he grew up, and announced that he was running for mayor. The atmosphere was electric in the old Guild Theater -- the once run-down movie house of his youth. 
 When Johnson walked out to make his announcement, he was met with thunderous applause.
 ''It was an overwhelming experience,'' Johnson said Thursday from Sacramento. ''I didn't think anything ever would trump playing in the N.B.A. or reaching the N.B.A. finals. This challenged it.''
 Johnson will challenge Mayor Heather Fargo, who is running for her third term, in the Democratic primary in June. He is running on the theme of the need for change and a fresh approach. 
 Johnson, who turned 42 on Tuesday, doesn't have to worry about name recognition. He has been a well-known figure since high school, when he was a two-sport star at Sacramento High.
 He was a four-year star at the University of California at Berkeley while majoring in political science. 
 Johnson was the seventh selection over all by the Cleveland Cavaliers in the 1987 draft. He was traded to Phoenix in February 1988 and blossomed into a star. The 1992-93 Suns, led by Johnson and Charles Barkley, reached the N.B.A. finals, where they lost to Michael Jordan and the Chicago Bulls. Johnson made a brief comeback in the 1999-2000 season. 
 I asked Johnson why he wanted to put himself -- and his reputation -- through the rigors of a campaign. This is politics, not a game of ball, where cheers can become boos and boos can become cheers again with a winning shot. Politics, as we're reminded daily, is a dirty, no-holds-barred game. Sports competition -- even with steroid use taken into consideration -- is honest by comparison. Pristine, in fact. 
 ''I've been giving this serious consideration the last couple months,'' Johnson said about his decision to run. ''I really just came to the conclusion that now's the time and if not me, then who?''
 Like so many cities across the nation, Sacramento is in workforce-reduction mode. It has slid into a deep real estate slump. High-priority development projects have been threatened, and the city has begun laying off workers -- including police officers -- to make up for a $58 million revenue shortfall. 
 Johnson initially chose the civilian path after retirement, eschewing overtures that he enter politics. Instead, he focused on St. HOPE, the academy he founded in 1989. St. HOPE, a nonprofit community development corporation, attempts to revitalize communities using a combination of educational, civic, economic and cultural projects. Five years ago, his academy formed St. HOPE Public Schools, a prekindergarten-through-12th-grade independent charter-school system that provides education to nearly 1,000 students in seven small schools. 
 Johnson said he decided to run for public office about two months ago. During the course of his development work in his old community, he found that residents were cynical about government and had lost trust in elected officials to the extent they did not take advantage of money available to them. 
 ''There are so many resources at their disposal,'' Johnson said. ''I said that if I could build trust and confidence in folks and make sure those dollars were spent properly, there's a lot more resources in government than there are just in our community, especially when you don't have a lot of private investment.'' He added, ''I just feel that I can provide the shot in the arm the city would need.''
 There certainly will be plenty of shots to go around. 
 Community leaders have criticized Johnson for failing to keep up development properties he bought. He issued an apology after The Sacramento Bee ran an article that said half of his group's properties had been cited for code violations over 10 years. Johnson said he had since made steps to clean up the properties.
 ''All of our property issues have been squared up, and we've put that behind us,'' he said. ''What's going to happen in the mayoral race is that that topic's going to come up on a regular basis and I'm going to address it head-on. Then we're going to talk about all the good we've done in our community.''
 Fargo is already homing in on Johnson's lack of experience while trying to marginalize his appeal as a former athlete. On Wednesday, Fargo told reporters that she was looking forward to pitting her record against Johnson's.
 ''I think the voters will find more credibility and progress in my record than his,'' she told The Associated Press. She added, ''He has a great image and a great star quality as a basketball player, but that's a far different job than being mayor of a city.'' 
 On the other hand, Fargo has never dunked over Hakeem Olajuwon.
 So, now comes the tough part. After the roar of the crowd, the ovations, the emotional send-off at the Guild Theater, it's time for the political equivalent of the 82-game season. 
 At least Johnson can say he's a veteran of those wars. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kevin Johnson, a former political science major, played 12 seasons in the N.B.A.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICH PEDRONCELLI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); STEROIDS (73%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (71%); LAYOFFS (68%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (65%); LABOR FORCE (62%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (86%); SACRAMENTO KINGS (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); CLEVELAND CAVALIERS (54%)

PERSON: MICHAEL JORDAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (94%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2008



176 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Trade Pact Controversy in Democratic Race Reaches Into the Canadian Parliament

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

DATELINE: OTTAWA 

 BODY:
Canada is in a tizzy.
 The political storm surrounding the North American Free Trade Agreement that might have helped to trip up Senator Barack Obama in the Ohio Democratic primary on Tuesday has died down -- at least for now -- in the United States. But the controversy is raging in Canada, particularly in Parliament.
 Did Prime Minister Stephen Harper's top political assistant set in motion the events that ultimately led to criticism that Mr. Obama was only posturing when he promised to reopen the Nafta trade pact? Who leaked a memorandum from the Canadian Consulate in Chicago that summarized the conversation with an adviser to Mr. Obama? And did the Canadian government commit the ultimate sin of interfering in an election of a foreign ally? 
 The debate flared Thursday, when a report suggested that it was idle chatter by Ian Brodie, Mr. Harper's chief of staff, that led to a news report last week by CTV, a Canadian television network. That report put Mr. Obama, of Illinois, under scrutiny about whether he was sincere in his criticism of Nafta while campaigning in Ohio, a state where many voters blame the trade deal for a loss of jobs. 
 CTV reported that Canadian diplomats in Washington had been assured by Mr. Obama's campaign that his criticisms of Nafta were just campaign rhetoric -- a position that the Obama campaign adamantly denies.
 CTV did not name its source. But The Canadian Press news agency, in a story distributed Wednesday night, traced the network's report back to Canada's federal budget day, Feb. 26.
 Canadian budgets are closely guarded until presented in Parliament. But reporters needing time to study them are allowed to see advance copies if they agree to be sequestered until the formal release begins. Political aides join the journalists in their lockup site, a former train station, to offer their spin on the budget.
 But The Canadian Press said that this year Mr. Brodie did more than talk up the budget. According to the news agency, he also told a group of CTV employees that the campaign of Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York had contacted the Canadian government and told it ''not to worry'' about her promise to reopen the trade agreement. Canada's economy is heavily dependent on trade and most of its exports go to the United States, making Nafta a delicate issue.
 The news agency suggests that CTV picked up on Mr. Brodie's remarks and began reporting the story. It apparently found, however, that in fact it was the Obama campaign that had offered the reassurances to Canadian diplomats. 
 In an e-mail message, Robert Hurst, the president of CTV News, said, ''We do not discuss how we gather the news.''
 At the time, the Obama campaign and the Canadian government interpreted inquiries about the incident narrowly and reported that no conversation had taken place between advisers to Mr. Obama and the Embassy in Washington. But then The Associated Press obtained a secret government memorandum reporting on, and analyzing, a meeting of Canadian diplomats in Chicago and Austan D. Goolsbee, Mr. Obama's senior economic adviser and a professor of economics at the University of Chicago. 
 The memorandum's author, in an interpretive section, concluded that the campaign's Nafta talk was ''more reflective of political maneuvering than policy.''
 Mr. Harper, a Conservative and a strong supporter of Nafta, at first rejected suggestions that Mr. Brodie or anyone on his staff was involved in leaking the memorandum. But berated by opposition members in Parliament calling the leaks an improper attempt to influence another country's vote, he has conceded that ''the way the leak was executed was blatantly unfair to Senator Obama and his campaign'' and ordered an investigation into how The A.P. obtained the diplomatic cable.
 Until Thursday, he ignored questions about the initial leak to CTV. But after Jack Layton, the leader of the New Democratic Party and an opponent of Nafta, called for Mr. Brodie's firing in Parliament, Mr. Harper said the government's leak investigation would be expanded to include ''this entire matter.''
 The investigation is being conducted by government officials, but Mr. Layton, citing Canada's secrecy laws covering government documents, has asked for a criminal investigation by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police. 
 Sandra G. Buckler, the prime minister's press secretary, said Thursday in an e-mail message: ''Ian Brodie is alleged to have made an offhand comment about a rumor to a reporter. He does not recall saying it.''
 Mr. Layton has accused Mr. Brodie of acting on behalf of Mr. Harper who, Mr. Layton argues, hoped the leaks would minimize debate about Nafta in the American campaign and help Senator John McCain, the Republican candidate from Arizona, who has pledged support for Nafta.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Prime Minister Stephen Harper, left, of Canada and his chief of staff, Ian Brodie. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); NEWS REPORTING (86%); BUDGETS (86%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (75%); JOURNALISM (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); LAYOFFS (68%); VOTERS & VOTING (66%); WRITERS (64%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); STEPHEN HARPER (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2008



177 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Towns Fear Cuts Will Change Their Way of Life

BYLINE: By RICHARD G. JONES and DAVID BOTTI; Richard G. Jones reported from Trenton, and David Botti from Helmetta, N.J.

DATELINE: HELMETTA, N.J. 

 BODY:
Beginning little more than a century ago, local historians say, this tiny town was home to one of the world's largest snuff mills.
 Although the importance of the mill faded over the next 100 years, the owners of the Helme Tobacco Company, for whom the town is named, continued to provide jobs to many here until the plant closed in 1993 and moved to Wheeling, W.Va. Now the financial well-being of this working-class community is about to be jolted again, this time by Gov. Jon S. Corzine's plan to cut a total of more than $168 million in municipal aid to New Jersey's 323 smallest towns. 
 ''We expect to have faith in our legislators, because to start cutting is detrimental to our residents,'' Mayor Nancy Martin said Thursday. ''What are we going to cut? A police officer? There's no waste. There's nothing left.'' 
 Few places provide as a vivid a perch to view the exercise of home rule as the municipal building here on Main Street, where Mayor Martin governs a borough of just 2,023 that has its own police force, department of public works and fire inspector. 
 For the state's 566 municipalities, 616 school districts, 186 fire districts and 21 county governments, such independence is considered almost a God-given right -- a source of civic pride, municipal jobs and control over zoning.
 But now the autonomy of the smallest towns in New Jersey is being threatened as never before, forcing towns to consider everything from consolidating police and fire departments to merging with neighboring small towns.
 Figures made public by Mr. Corzine on Tuesday showed that while towns big and small would suffer under his proposed $33 billion budget -- $500 million less than the current year -- state aid to the smaller towns would be reduced by 22.7 percent. That percentage is roughly three times more than the percentage reduction for larger cities. 
 Here in Helmetta, that means an aid reduction of about 55 percent, to $105,000 from $246,000.
 ''We were totally blindsided,'' Mayor Martin said.
 That exasperation has spurred some municipalities like Helmetta to band together with neighboring communities to try to fight back, and others to try to reach some accommodation.
 ''It's just not fair,'' said Denise Jawidzik, the business administrator in nearby Jamesburg, where officials have joined with their counterparts in Helmetta to call on Trenton to reconsider the cuts. ''People are getting punished just because of where they live.'' 
 The proposed cuts to municipal aid are perhaps the most polarizing of Mr. Corzine's budget strategy. The plan would eliminate some types of state aid entirely for communities with fewer than 5,000 residents and reduce aid by 50 percent for towns with 5,000 to 10,000 residents.
 Mr. Corzine has been thrust into the position of pointing out the strain that the layers of county and municipal governments place on New Jersey. In a videotaped address to a meeting of the New Jersey League of Municipalities in Trenton on Thursday, he was blunt in his assessment of the state's fiscal strain.
 ''New Jersey has a government its people cannot afford,'' Mr. Corzine said.
 But government officials in some towns say that rather than provide a remedy, the cuts may actually make it more difficult for residents to afford the already steep cost of owning a home New Jersey. To offset the effects of some cuts, many town officials say they may be forced to increase property taxes, which, at an average $6,800 a year, are already the highest in the nation.
 Mr. Corzine has disputed that such increases are necessary. Instead he has urged municipalities to consider such steps as sharing services, renegotiating contracts and even merging.
 The governor's stance -- which has many town leaders feeling that they must choose between increasing taxes and consolidating -- has been widely criticized among legislators.
 State Senator Paul A. Sarlo, a Democrat who represents parts of Essex, Bergen and Passaic Counties and is vice chairman of the Budget and Appropriations Committee, accused the governor of playing ''a shell game on taxpayers.'' 
 The leaders of the state's smallest towns have been more outspoken. At Thursday's special meeting in Trenton, which was called to address the proposed cuts, one mayor after another criticized the severity of the cuts.
 ''If you try to combine us into one town, you better bring the National Guard down because we're going to fight,'' said John Washington, the mayor of Penns Grove.
 When other mayors said that the state was simply advocating larger and more unwieldy cities through mergers, a top state official disagreed.
 ''We're not saying you need to create towns of 40 or 50,000,'' said the official, Joseph V. Doria Jr., the newly appointed commissioner of community affairs. ''One of the things this does is get people talking about what we should be talking about: it's how we do business from the bottom up.''
 In some places in New Jersey, the discussion about sharing services is hardly considered daunting. In western New Jersey, Hunterdon County officials announced last week that they were considering forming a joint police force in the towns of East Amwell, Lambertville and West Amwell. Officials in Hudson County say that the consolidation of five fire departments in North Hudson saves taxpayers millions of dollars each year.
 In Helmetta, the tone of the conversation about sharing resources has turned decidedly defensive. Mayor Martin, who has been mayor here for five years, said that the economic effects of the factory's closing lingered so long that in last few years the town has had to receive ''extraordinary aid'' -- in the form of emergency state grants.
 By the time the current budget season arrived, Mayor Martin said the town had sufficiently recovered so that it would not need any grants this year. But then came word of the cuts, she said, and now she plans to seek a $140,000 grant this year -- almost the amount of Helmetta's proposed cut.
 As for the prospect of sharing services, Vincent Asciolla, the president of the Helmetta Council, said that the borough already had several agreements in place with neighboring towns. For instance, Mr. Asciolla said, Helmetta provides a sewer operator to Jamesburg and animal control for several surrounding towns, and in return Jamesburg provides it with a court administrator and some police coverage.
 ''We're doing what you're asking of us, and you're still penalizing us,'' he said.
 Despite those concessions, Mayor Martin said that this town -- named for the founder of the snuff mill, George W. Helme, and his daughter, Etta -- would probably fight any attempt to submerge its identity into another town.
 ''We bought our homes to live in Helmetta,'' she said.

CORRECTION-DATE: March 12, 2008

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Friday about the effect of proposed budget cuts in New Jersey on the state's smallest towns misstated, in some editions, the percentage by which state aid would drop in Helmetta, a working-class borough of 2,023 people. Aid will drop by about 55 percent, not by about 40 percent.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mayor Nancy Martin opposes the governor's proposed reductions in aid to 323 small towns like hers, Helmetta, N.J. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARC STEINER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. B5) MAP Map of Helmetta, New Jersey. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); HISTORY (78%); BUILDING & HOUSING INSPECTIONS (78%); CITIES (78%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (75%); POLICE FORCES (75%); ZONING (75%); BUDGET CUTS (75%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); COUNTIES (73%); TOBACCO MFG (73%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (67%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (65%)

COMPANY: HELME TOBACCO CO (72%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5194 TOBACCO & TOBACCO PRODUCTS (72%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); WHEELING, WV, USA (72%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2008



178 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: The Anxiety Election

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Democrats won the 2006 election largely thanks to public disgust with the Iraq war. But polls -- and Hillary Clinton's big victory in Ohio -- suggest that if the Democrats want to win this year, they have to focus on economic anxiety. 
 Some people reject that idea. They believe that this election should be another referendum on the war, and, perhaps even more important, about the way America was misled into that war. That belief is one reason many progressives fervently support Barack Obama, an early war opponent, even though his domestic platform is somewhat to the right of Mrs. Clinton's. 
 As an early war opponent myself, I understand their feelings. But should and ought don't win elections. And polls show that the economy has overtaken Iraq as the public's biggest concern.
 True, the news from Iraq will probably turn worse again. Meanwhile, a hefty majority of voters continue to say that the war was a mistake, and people are as angry as ever about the $10 billion a month wasted on the neocons' folly.
 Yet for the time being, public optimism about Iraq is rising: 53 percent of the public believes that the United States will definitely or probably succeed in achieving its goals. So anger about the war isn't likely to be decisive in the election. 
 The state of the economy, on the other hand, could well give Democrats a huge advantage -- especially, to be blunt about it, with white working-class voters who supported President Bush in 2004.
 Even at its best, the Bush economy left most voters unimpressed: only once, in January 2007, did a slight majority of those questioned by the USA Today/Gallup poll describe the economy as ''excellent'' or ''good,'' rather than ''only fair'' or ''poor.'' A year later, only 19 percent of voters had a good word for the economy.
 This collapse in economic confidence has occurred even though the full economic effects of the implosion of the housing market and the freezing of the credit markets have yet to be felt. As more things fall apart, perceptions will only get worse.
 All of this should work to the Democrats' advantage. They can contrast the Clinton boom with the Bush bust; they can make the case that Republican economic ideology, with its fixation on privatization and deregulation, helped get us into this mess. 
 And John McCain can be ridiculed as a man who has declared on a number of occasions that he doesn't know much about economics -- only to insist, straight-talker that he is, that he never said any such thing.
 But first, of course, the Democrats have to settle on a nominee. And the shift in electoral focus from Iraq to economic anxiety clearly plays to Mrs. Clinton's strengths. 
 According to exit polls, Mr. Obama narrowly edged out Mrs. Clinton among Ohio voters who consider Iraq the most important issue -- but these voters cast only 19 percent of the ballots in the Democratic primary. Meanwhile, Mrs. Clinton led by 12 points among the much larger group of voters citing the economy as the most important issue -- and by 16 points among those who cited health care. Mrs. Clinton's winning margin was twice as large among those who were worried about their own financial situation as among those who weren't.
 Why has Mr. Obama stumbled when it comes to economic issues? Well, on health care -- which is closely tied to overall concerns about financial security -- there is a clear, substantive difference between the candidates, with the Clinton plan being significantly stronger. 
 More broadly, I suspect that the Obama mystique -- his carefully created image as a transformational, even transcendent figure -- has created a backlash among those unconvinced that he's interested in the nuts-and-bolts work of fixing things. Ohio voters were more likely to say that Mr. Obama inspires them -- but more likely to say that Mrs. Clinton has a clear plan for the country's problems.
 And Mr. Obama's attempt to win over workers by portraying himself as a fierce critic of Nafta looked, and was, deeply insincere -- an appearance particularly costly for a candidate who tries to seem above politics as usual.
 Thanks to Tuesday's results, the nomination fight will go on to Pennsylvania in April, and probably beyond -- and rightly so. It's now clear that Mrs. Clinton, like Mr. Obama, has strong grass-roots support that cannot be simply brushed aside without alienating voters that the party will badly need in November. So the Democratic National Committee had better get moving on plans to do Michigan and Florida over, to give the eventual nominee the legitimacy he or she needs.
 And, as the Democrats ponder their choices, they might want to consider which candidate can most convincingly ask: ''Are you better off now than you were eight years ago?'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); REFERENDUMS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); HOUSING MARKET (69%); DEREGULATION (60%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); BARACK OBAMA (59%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2008



179 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1565 words

HEADLINE: Dance

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
Full reviews of recent performances: nytimes.com/dance.
BLUM DANCE THEATER AND JENNIFER WRIGHT COOK (Friday and Saturday) Sometimes descriptions of dances seem like a weird minor art form of their own. Such is Danspace's account of Wendy Blum's ''String of Exquisite Distortions'': ''a nonlinear world of economy and rigorous mischief, where rhythms persist and scents linger.'' What more is there to say? Ms. Blum shares a double bill with Jennifer Wright Cook, who has a work with a title of equally breathless pedigree: ''Every artist is a narcissist after all: bring back the boo & other short selected self-indulgences.'' But the description -- ''a celebration of the things she loves and a requiem of things she fears'' -- is all plain speaking. And apparently a gold unitard is involved. Ms. Cook's installation begins at 8:05 p.m.; the performance is at 8:30 p.m., Danspace Project, St. Mark's Church, 131 East 10th Street, East Village, (212) 674-8194, danspaceproject.org; $15; $10 for members. (Roslyn Sulcas) 
 JONAH BOKAER (Wednesday) Dance and technology join forces to investigate the ways in which images of the human body can be caught, pluralized and erased in ''The Invention of Minus One'' and ''False Start.'' (Through March 16.) At 7:30 p.m., Danspace Project at Abrons Art Center, Henry Street Settlement, 466 Grand Street, at Pitt Street, Lower East Side (212) 352-3101, henrystreet.org/arts; $15. (Jack Anderson) 
 SHANI NWANDA IKERIOHA COLLINS AND JULIANA F. MAY/MAY DANCE (Wednesday and Thursday) Ms. Collins seeks to examine African-American experience from new choreographic perspectives. Ms. May moves in a fantasy world where she articulates relationships between feeling and form. (Through March 15.) At 7:30 p.m., Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 924-0077, dtw.org; $20; $12 for students and 65+. (Anderson) 
 DRASTIC ACTION (Thursday) In her ''Lines of Descent'' Aviva Geismar's company tries to dance out answers to questions like, ''How close is too close?'' and ''Are there realities you can't admit?'' (Through March 16.) At 8 p.m., Dance New Amsterdam, 280 Broadway, at Chambers Street, Lower Manhattan, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com; $20; $17 for students. (Anderson) 
 FLAMENCO VIVO CARLOTA SANTANA (Friday through Sunday) This company, based in the United States, has long been popular with audiences for its vivid performances, which tend toward the less tortured aspects of the art of flamenco. This season ''Carmen: El Baile'' (''Carmen: The Dance'') makes its New York debut (is there a secret law that obliges a certain percentage of dance companies to have one ''Carmen'' or one ''Rite of Spring'' in their repertories?) alongside the new ''Estilos Flamenco,'' a traditional, nonnarrative flamenco piece for the company's nine dancers and five musicians. Friday at 8 p.m., Saturday at 2 and 8 p.m., Sunday at 2 and 7:30 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 242-0800, joyce.org; $40; $30 for members. (Sulcas)
 KEELY GARFIELD (Friday through Sunday) Brainy and slyly funny, Ms. Garfield will perform her new ''Limerence'' with Omagbitse Omagbemi. Friday and Saturday at 8:30 p.m., Sunday at 5 p.m., West End Theater, 263 West 86th Street, Manhattan, (212) 337-9565; $15. 
 (Jennifer Dunning)
 LEILA HADDAD AND THE GYPSY MUSICIANS OF UPPER EGYPT (Friday) Ms. Haddad will perform traditional dances of the Ghawazee Gypsies of southern Egypt, accompanied by an ensemble drawn partly from the Musicians of the Nile. At 8 p.m., Skirball Center for the Performing Arts, 566 La Guardia Place, at Washington Square South, Greenwich Village, (212) 279-4200, worldmusicinstitute.org; $35; $15 for students. (Dunning)
 'IVIES @ CUNNINGHAM' (Friday and Saturday) Young choreographers from three Ivy League colleges -- Barnard, Harvard and Princeton -- will show their work. Friday at 9 p.m., Saturday at 7:30 p.m., Merce Cunningham Studio, 55 Bethune Street, at Washington Street, West Village, (212) 255-8240, Ext. 14, tickets@merce.org; $15; $10 for students and 65+. (Dunning) 
 KAZUKO HIRABAYASHI DANCE THEATER (Thursday) Western and Japanese dance influences are reflected in two premieres: ''Masks'' examines dualities of good and evil, male and female; ''Bereft'' depicts the ordeal of Adam and Eve. (Through March 16.) At 8:30 p.m., Merce Cunningham Studio, 55 Bethune Street, at Washington Street, West Village, (212) 966-6414, khdtinfo@gmail.com; $20; $15 for students. (Anderson) 
 KANSAS CITY BALLET (Tuesday through Thursday) The company celebrates its 50th anniversary with William Whitener's ''First Position (A Reminiscence),'' Twyla Tharp's ''Brahms Paganini'' and Donald McKayle's ''Hey Hay, Going to Kansas City.'' (Through March 16.) Tuesday and Wednesday at 7:30 p.m., Thursday at 8 p.m., Joyce Theater, 175 Eighth Avenue, at 19th Street, Chelsea; (212) 242-0800, joyce.org; $44. (Anderson) 
 LOST WAX (Friday and Saturday) A group from Providence, R.I., combines Buddhist iconography and today's performance technology in ''Melt.'' At 8 p.m., Joyce SoHo, 155 Mercer Street, (212) 352-3101, joyce.org; $18; $12 for students and seniors. (Anderson) 
 92ND STREET Y HARKNESS DANCE FESTIVAL (Saturday, Sunday, Wednesday and Thursday) The festival continues this weekend with ''Out of Israel,'' a program of new dances by LeeSaar/The Company and Netta Yerushalmy. Starting on Wednesday, Brian Brooks Moving Company closes the festival with Mr. Brooks's new ''Happy Lucky Sun,'' a full-body tackling of the theme of gravity's pull. (Through March 16.) Wednesday, Thursday and Saturday at 8 p.m.; Sunday at 2 p.m.; Ailey Citigroup Theater, 405 West 55th Street, Clinton, (212) 415-5500, 92Y.org/harknessfestival; $20. (Dunning) 
 LAURA PAWEL DANCE COMPANY (Friday through Sunday) Ms. Pawel and her charmingly oddball dancers of all ages are not afraid to follow their own drummers, not just into the future but also into a comfortable, friendlier past. The program includes her new ''Better Than Being Guillotined,'' set to music composed by Phil Stone and performed live. Friday and Saturday at 8:30 p.m., Sunday at 5 p.m., Dance Forum, 20 East 17th Street, Manhattan, (212) 873-9073; $15. (Dunning) 
 PEAK PERFORMANCES: COIS CEIM DANCE COMPANY (Friday through Sunday) This modern-dance company from Ireland will perform ''Knots,'' drawn from the psychoanalytical theory of R. D. Laing and choreographed by Liam Steel, formerly with the English troupes DV8 and Stan Won't Dance. Friday and Saturday at 8 p.m., Sunday at 3 p.m., Alexander Kasser Theater, Montclair State University, 1 Normal Avenue, Montclair, N.J., (973) 655-5112, peakperfs.org; $15. (Dunning) 
 REGINA ROCKE (Friday) Ms. Rocke is one of six artists participating in Dance Theater Workshop's Studio Series, which provides artists with residencies that enable the development of new work. Such is Ms. Rocke's ''The Passion of Jen McGin,'' in which she has drawn on pop music videos as well as more formal dance techniques. At 7:30 p.m., Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea, (212) 924-0077, dtw.org; free. (Sulcas)
 PEGGY SPINA TAP COMPANY (Friday and Saturday) ''Alakazam!'' presents cheerful tap dancing in an intimate setting, and the results resemble a friendly party. At 6 and 8:30 p.m., Spina Loft, 115 Prince Street, SoHo, (212) 674-8885; $20. (Anderson) 
 PAM TANOWITZ DANCE (Friday and Saturday) Ms. Tanowitz describes her new ''Dream Sequence (No Secrets)'' as alove letter to romantic ballets that play with narrative and abstraction. At 7:30 p.m., City Center Studio 5, 130 West 56th Street, Manhattan, (212) 352-3101, theatermania.com; $15; $12 for students and 65+. (Dunning)
 PAUL TAYLOR DANCE COMPANY (Friday through Sunday, and Tuesday through Thursday) The Taylor dancers have never been known for holding back, but in terms of repertory, this is an astonishingly rich season. There is a range of themes and moods, and you can't get much more slyly evil than in ''Cloven Kingdom''; more sumptuous than ''Arden Court''; more joyously and meditatively abandoned than ''Esplanade''; or more goofy than ''Diggity,'' with its stageful of dogs and designs by Alex Katz. The week's programs begin with ''Equinox,'' Mr. Taylor's new ''De Suenos'' and ''Cloven Kingdom'' (Friday), and continue with ''Le Grand Puppetier,'' ''Lines of Loss'' and ''Arden Court'' (Saturday matinee); ''Byzantium,'' Piazzolla Caldera'' and ''De Suenos que se Repiten,'' a new companion piece to ''De Suenos'' (Saturday night); ''Antique Valentine,'' ''De Suenos'' and ''Cloven Kingdom'' (Sunday); ''Byzantium,'' ''De Suenos que se Repiten'' and ''Promethean Fire'' (Tuesday); ''Cloven Kingdom,'' ''De Suenos'' and ''Esplanade'' (Wednesday) and ''Le Grand Puppetier,'' ''Musical Offering'' and ''Black Tuesday'' (Thursday). (Through March 16.) Friday at 8 p.m.; Saturday at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at 3 p.m.; Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday at 7 p.m.; City Center, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan, (212) 581-1211, paultaylor.org; $21 to $79. (Dunning) 
 'YAMAYANA' (Friday and Saturday) This version of ''The Ramayana'' has been choreographed by Shwe Man Win Maung and will be performed by his 14-member troupe, which is based in New York. Friday at 8 p.m., Saturday at 2 and 8 p.m., Hudson Guild Theater, 441 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212) 627-1076, Ext. 10, lotusmusicanddance.org; $20 to $100. (Dunning) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); DANCE COMPANIES (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); CHOREOGRAPHY (78%); THEATER & DRAMA (78%); THEATER (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2009



180 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 7, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 2243 words

HEADLINE: Art

 BODY:
Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art.
Museums
 EL MUSEO DEL BARRIO: 'ART DOES NOT EQUAL LIFE: ACTIONS BY ARTISTS OF THE AMERICAS, 1960-2000,' through May 18. The redefinition of modernism(s) through the illumination of its Latin American manifestations has been one of the joys of the current New York art season. This revelatory addition concentrates on the Happenings, Conceptual and Performance Art and Body Art and video that thrived in Latin America despite, or in response to, dire political and economic situations. With photographic and video documentation in the majority, the toughness and scope of the material create their own fascination. 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, East Harlem, (212) 831-7272, elmuseo.org. (Roberta Smith) 
 GUGGENHEIM MUSEUM: 'CAI GUO-QIANG: I WANT TO BELIEVE,' through May 28. This museumwide survey of a leading Chinese artist indicates considerable command of cross-cultural references and extreme appropriation, including a gang of sculptors remaking a classic Social Realist ensemble of life-size figures while you watch. Gunpowder is a favored material, violence a frequent motif. A stop-action installation of seemingly exploding cars hangs in the atrium space. Scores of arrows make pincushions of snarling tigers (stuffed), and there are carved-wood religious sculptures and an entire fishing boat. Videos documenting pyrotechnical land-art pieces go boom. The show has far more than its share of hollow spectacle. The scorched, mural-size gunpowder drawings that combine elements of performance art, Abstract Expressionism and traditional Chinese and Japanese painting are the most believable. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Smith)
 INTERNATIONAL CENTER OF PHOTOGRAPHY: 'ARCHIVE FEVER: USES OF THE DOCUMENT IN CONTEMPORARY ART,' through May 4. You need no grounding in art theory to understand the messages generated by this powerful brain-pincher of a theme show. The archive of the title is less a thing or a place than a concept, an immersive environment: the sum total of documentary images, mostly photographic, circulating in the culture, on the street, in the media and finally in what is called the collective memory. From an Andy Warhol silk-screen of a black civil rights demonstrator attacked by police dogs, to a gallery wallpapered with the front pages of international newspapers reporting on the destruction of the twin towers, truth, untruth and their consequences make up the riveting story here. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0045, icp.org. 
 (Holland Cotter)
 THE METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART: 'GUSTAVE COURBET,' through May 18. Starting with an amazing if claustrophobic gallery of self-portraits that emphasize Courbet's ambition, attention to the old masters and inborn truculence, this show offers a grand tour of one of 19th-century European painting's most unruly geniuses. Realism, at whose prow he is usually placed, is in many ways the least of it. Several works could easily date from the 20th century, by artists like Balthus, Picabia or Max Ernst. What Courbet made most real was the sheer, implicitly ironic uncanniness of painting itself, which he conveyed in a commanding discombobulation. Some paintings barely hold together; others collapse inward into strange, shapeless masses. No artist before Picasso put so much of himself on canvas; few since have built in so many spatial booby traps, ambiguous feelings or elements of rebellion and dissent. Some were conscious; others were left for us to discover, to feel in our bones. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)
 MORGAN LIBRARY & MUSEUM: 'MICHELANGELO, VASARI AND THEIR CONTEMPORARIES: DRAWINGS FROM THE UFFIZI,' through April 20. Michelangelo, with a couple of spectacular drawings, is the marquee name here, but many of the 16th-century Florentine artists he influenced fill the space, beginning with the extreme polymath Giorgio Vasari. A handful of drawings by Pontormo and Rosso Fiorentino will knock your socks off, as will work by a few less familiar artists, all working to make the Medici rulers of Florence look good. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, morganlibrary.org. (Cotter)
 NEUE GALERIE: 'GUSTAV KLIMT: THE RONALD S. LAUDER AND SERGE SABARSKY COLLECTIONS,' through June 30. The first New York museum show devoted exclusively to this Viennese master is less a coherent Klimt exhibition than a Klimt-o-rama. The main draw is a veritable retrospective of the drawings, erotic and otherwise, and a smattering of paintings starring the new-in-town, gold-on-gold ''Adele Bloch-Bauer I.'' Also here: a photo mural of sections of Klimt's most famous painted mural, the ''Beethoven Frieze''; a period room; photographs and personal effects, including one of the artist's signature caftans; and piped-in music, all written in Vienna of course, and available for purchase on CD. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Smith)
 NOGUCHI MUSEUM: 'DESIGN: ISAMU KENMOCHI AND ISAMU NOGUCHI,' through May 25. The Bamboo Basket Chair was the result of a brief collaboration in 1950 between the Japanese-American sculptor and designer Isamu Noguchi (1904-88) and the Japanese industrial designer Isamu Kenmochi (1912-71). The chair was never manufactured, and the prototype was lost. The example here was recreated from photographs. Mostly, however, the chair provides an excuse to compare the design careers of Noguchi and Kenmochi and examine their roles in midcentury modern design, as well as the cultural relationship between Japan and the United States. Kenmochi's ''Japanese modern'' furniture is here, as well as a room devoted to Noguchi's most popular design achievement, the Akari light sculptures. 9-01 33rd Road, at Vernon Boulevard, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 204-7088, noguchi.org. (Martha Schwendener) P.S. 1 CONTEMPORARY ART CENTER: 'WACK! ART AND THE FEMINIST REVOLUTION,' through May 12. This big, messy, fascinating scrapbook of a show focuses on the years between the mid-1960s and the early '80s, when feminism had its most intense impact on contemporary art. Presenting works by 120 women, it is uneven in quality, but the overall effect is exciting. It takes you back to a heady time when women were throwing out old, patriarchal laws and reinventing art in all kinds of idiosyncratic and sometimes dangerously extreme terms. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. 
 (Ken Johnson)
 Galleries: SoHo
 MICHEL GONDRY: 'BE KIND REWIND' Acting on a populist, anti-corporate impulse, the director of the movie ''Be Kind Rewind'' has invited amateurs to make their own movies using a miniature version of a Hollywood back lot constructed in a gallery's industrial, garage-size space. Visitors not making films can wander among the sets and, in a simulation grungy video shop up front, watch short, intermittently amusing but woefully unskillful films that aspiring filmmakers have made thus far. Deitch Projects, 18 Wooster Street, near Grand Street, (212) 343-7300, deitch.com, through March 22. (Johnson)
 Galleries: Chelsea
 TOMMY HARTUNG The main draw in this solo debut is ''The Story of Edward Holmes,'' an enchanting if overly slow stop-action video animation made with small objects and table-top set-ups. The purposefully generic, slightly archaic, hard-to-follow voice-over concerns the determined captain of a storm-tossed frigate and his crew, most of them represented by little plastic replicas of 19th-century portrait busts. There are intimations of colonialism and exploitation, deft layers of literary conventions and a wry sense of sculptural expediency. The objects that appear in the film complete the show; while nothing quite jells, it presents a multifaceted sensibility of unusual promise. Moti Hasson Gallery, 535 West 25th Street, (212) 268-4444, motihasson.com, through March 16. (Smith)
 SARAH PICKERING: 'FIRE SCENE' As an artist in residence at the Fire Service College in Moreton-in-Marsh, England, from 2006 to 2007, Sarah Pickering took pictures of ''burn units,'' set-dressed interiors set on fire to educate forensic teams and crime scene investigators. The blazes in these photographs provoke an immediate adrenaline response. More interesting, however, is the carefully orchestrated clutter of the imaginary households. In ''Electric Radiator,'' a space heater brushes up against a chintz sofa; in ''Makeshift Cooking,'' a similar device is being used to warm a teakettle. It all amounts to a broken-windows theory of disorder as the root of disaster. Daniel Cooney Fine Art, 511 West 25th Street, (212) 255-8158, danielcooneyfineart.com, through March 15. 
 (Karen Rosenberg)
 Galleries: Other
 BARBARA T. SMITH: '1965-1972' Including paintings, photographs, drawings and ''The Field,'' an installation piece consisting of 16 blades of grass over nine feet tall, this is the first New York gallery show of a California installation and performance artist now in her mid-70s. It provides a core sample of a fertile, fast-moving period in an innovative, little-known career whose through line is perception, the body and a sense of play. Maccarone, 630 Greenwich Street, at Morton Street, West Village, (212) 431-4977, maccarone.net, through March 21. (Smith)
 Last Chance
 KIM JONES: 'YEAR OF THE RAT' While Kim Jones's performances as Mudman, a shaman-warrior-penitent covered in mud and harnessed with a bristling mass of sticks, have dwindled, his persona is vitally present here. One gallery is hung with stick apparatuses used in performances, assiduously worked and reworked over the years; each is part terrifying trap, part protective power figure. The other space contains drawings done in ink and acrylic over photographs of Mr. Jones in performance, heightening their oppressiveness, recasting Mudman as an underground comic character and making him more mythic. The persistent theme of the deprivation of war and the loss of civilization is especially relevant these days. Pierogi, 177 North Ninth Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn (718) 599-2144, pierogi2000.com; closes on Monday. (Smith)
 KLARA LIDEN This super-talented Swedish artist continues to explore the malleability of space in its social, material and architectural aspects. She has turned most of the gallery into a giant birdhouse for the neighborhood pigeons. Visitors are limited to a small, dark room where intimacy and even romance seem unavoidable, and the proximity of the birds is palpable (soundwise). You may find yourself wondering about light conditions in actual birdhouses. Don't miss the artist's pristine yet world-weary poster-paintings. Reena Spaulings Fine Art, 165 East Broadway, at Rutgers Street, Lower East Side, (212) 477-5006, reenaspaulings.com; closes on Sunday. (Smith)
 MUSEUM OF MODERN ART: 'LUCIAN FREUD: THE PAINTER'S ETCHINGS' It would be simplifying things to say that the density, plasticity and color of oil paint provide Mr. Freud, if not the people he paints, with a place to hide. But by combining a life's worth of prints with selected canvases, this riveting exhibition suggests that his prints may be even starker. They resemble transparent scaffoldings partly draped with often hallucinatory nets of lines, gouges, hatching and cross-hatching that somehow also depict varying degrees of flesh and expression. The show gives a fascinating if partial account of how his etched line, like his painting surface, was liberated. (212) 708-9400, moma.org; closes on Monday. (Smith)
 SETH PRICE A resourceful and influential young conceptualist presents clunky, flat wall sculptures apparently illustrating a thesis about the obsolescence of the human and the natural. They revolve around photographs of hands downloaded from the Internet. The images have been blown up and abstracted into empty silhouettes surrounded by areas of printed color or by laser-cut sheets of transparent plastic backed by exotic wood veneers. Friedrich Petzel Gallery, 537 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 680-9467, petzel.com; closes on Saturday. (Johnson)
 THE STUDIO MUSEUM IN HARLEM: 'KORI NEWKIRK: 1997-2007' The Bronx-born artist Kori Newkirk, now based in Los Angeles, first came to New York's attention in the 2001 group show ''Freestyle'' at the Studio Museum. This 10-year survey devotes plenty of room -- nearly the entire double-height main gallery -- to the shimmering pony-bead curtains for which Mr. Newkirk is best known. It also finds him pursuing more oblique forms of expression, particularly in his recent forays into video. It all adds up to a kind of maxed-out minimalism or, as Mr. Newkirk has described it, a ''ghetto-fabulous conceptualism.'' 144 West 125th Street, (212) 864-4500, studiomuseum.org; closes on Sunday. (Rosenberg) XU ZHEN For his New York solo debut, this young artist from Shanghai, who contributed to Performa 07, demonstrates that truth and fiction, if not entirely identical, can at least be comparably amusing. In videos and photographs he and his intrepid team remove the top of Mount Everest, invade Myanmar from China and cast serious doubt on the United States' claim to have landed the first man on the moon, the point in each case being a sly commentary on competitive imperialism. James Cohan Gallery, 533 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212) 714-9500, jamescohan.com; closes on Saturday. (Cotter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); SCULPTURE (90%); PAINTING (79%); VISUAL ARTISTS (79%); PHOTOGRAPHY (79%); FILM (78%); ANIMATION (77%); DOGS (73%); CIVIL RIGHTS (72%); MAMMALS (70%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (69%); BITES & STINGS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); LATIN AMERICA (88%)

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2009



181 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 520 words

HEADLINE: A Construction Sector, Once Robust, Now Falters

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
IT has been the worst of times for the residential construction industry in America -- and among the best of times for construction companies that build other kinds of buildings, ranging from hotels to office buildings and stores. 
 Now, however, there are signs of weakness in some of those nonresidential sectors, and governments, whose share of construction spending had risen to a 15-year high, appear to be increasingly hesitant to spend.
 A result is that overall construction spending has begun to fall. That trend appears likely to accelerate as credit remains tight for builders and as local governments become worried that revenue from property and sales taxes may fall as home prices decline and consumers tighten their belts.
 The accompanying charts show the annual rate of change in various categories of construction spending over 24-month periods. For private residential construction, the annual rate of decline has hit 18.6 percent, with the amount being spent in that area a third less than it was two years ago. That is the fastest decline in such spending since the government began keeping records in 1964.
 But private nonresidential construction picked up the difference until recently, as spending on office building construction rose at the fastest pace in nearly a decade, more than 20 percent a year. Hotel construction has climbed even more rapidly, rising over the past two years at an annual rate of more than 50 percent.
 But spending growth has slowed drastically in recent months. Spending on hotels is growing at a rate that is less than a quarter of what it was a few months ago, and spending on office buildings has declined even more rapidly.
 The area of private construction spending that is most important to the consumer economy -- the spending on commercial space, including stores -- has been declining in recent months.
 Public spending is historically more volatile than private spending, as governments step up capital spending when times are good and cut back when tax revenues falter. Education, the largest area of public construction spending, is holding up so far, but there has been some decline in the rate of increase in spending on highways. 
 Declining property values could lead to a fall in property tax revenues this year in many cities and towns, with some of them already trying to cut spending.
 If the United States is entering a recession, as many economists think, it may be similar to the one in 1990 and 1991, in which residential construction spending was falling by the time the downturn began, and private nonresidential construction soon followed.
 In the 2001 recession, as can be seen in the charts, the rate of growth in construction spending slowed but never stopped. That was a recession brought on largely by overinvestment by businesses, particularly telecommunications companies. It proved to be relatively shallow and short, in part because the housing market remained strong. This time, the housing market was in recession well before the rest of the economy began to weaken.
 Floyd Norris comments in his blog at norris.blogs.nytimes.com. 

GRAPHIC: GRAPH: ANNUAL RATE OF CHANGE IN SPENDING OVER 24-MONTH PERIODS (Source: Census Bureau, via Haver Analytics) Graph showing the annual rate of change in spending. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (96%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (89%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (78%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); TRENDS (75%); SALES TAX (75%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (74%); HOME PRICES (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (61%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2008



182 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1319 words

HEADLINE: Big Names Are Trading Teams, But the Game Is Retail Fashion

BYLINE: By ERIC WILSON and MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
It's free-agency season in American fashion.
 Isaac Mizrahi, the everyman's fashion oracle, is about to leave behind his wildly popular cheap-chic clothing collections at Target to be the creative director for Liz Claiborne, the stalwart shopping-mall label. 
 Dana Buchman, a longtime favorite of customers at upscale stores like Saks Fifth Avenue and Neiman Marcus, is decamping this fall to the budget-conscious Kohl's.
 And Tommy Hilfiger, a constant in department stores like Dillard's and Bon-Ton for two decades, now says he will sell his clothes only at Macy's.
 Over the next year, an unusually large group of famous clothing designers, motivated by lucrative deals, plan to shift their retail allegiances, in many cases abandoning stores and customers who have supported them for years. 
 So like angry sports fans wounded by a the trade of a star player, consumers (and even stores) are left to wonder: What ever became of loyalty? 
 The sudden flurry of designer address changes -- J. C. Penney, Gap, Old Navy and Wal-Mart have also recruited their own designers over the last six months -- is likely to create jarring transitions for American consumers as they try to navigate the once-familiar aisles of their local clothing chains, wondering where to find Isaac, Dana and Tommy, among others.
 ''There will be a period of dislodgment and disenfranchisement,'' said William L. McComb, chief executive of Liz Claiborne, whose efforts to revive flagging sales hinge upon his company's aggressive wooing of Mr. Mizrahi from Target. 
 After Claiborne announced the move in January, Target responded by saying it would end its relationship with Mr. Mizrahi at the end of the year, leaving, for now, a void in its lineup.
 The motivation behind these defections and poachings is equal parts economic and egocentric. Clothing manufacturers are responding to a seemingly insatiable appetite for fashion across every income bracket. They are also benefiting from a lively, and occasionally vindictive, competition between mass retailers (Wal-Mart and Kohl's) and the traditional department stores (Macy's, Bloomingdale's and Lord & Taylor) that remain after years of industry mergers. 
 When it comes to luring designer brands, it seems that popularly priced chains are suddenly on equal footing with their glossier rivals.
 For decades, department stores like Saks had a virtual lock on designer clothing labels, until Mr. Mizrahi broke that barrier with his collection at Target in 2003, which, rather than burying his career, became an estimated $300-million-a-year success. 
 Once the stigma of crossing into mass-retail territory lifted, such high-low designer partnerships became commonplace, with Vera Wang selling a line at Kohl's and blue-chip names like Karl Lagerfeld and Stella McCartney creating lines for H&M. 
 All this activity has raised a bar for traditional retailers like Macy's, which rarely had to fend off competition from below. Its 2005 merger with May Department Stores, which created the country's largest department store company, was in part an effort to use size to wield more influence over designers. 
 The democratization of design forced Macy's to claim exclusives it never before needed, and to punish designers who cut deals elsewhere. When Ms. Wang went to Kohl's, Macy's dropped her popular lingerie line. The chain cut orders from Liz Claiborne after the company offered a line called Liz & Co. to Penney.
 ''If the product is available in 50 different points of distribution in a five-mile driving radius, convenience becomes the No. 1 reason to buy a brand,'' said Terry J. Lundgren, chief executive of Macy's. ''And so we lose.''
 That's why Macy's, which has begun promoting its designer relationships in television ads, persuaded Mr. Hilfiger to drop his other partnerships, infuriating regional department store chains like Bon-Ton, Belk and Dillard's that had promoted his brand.
 ''The stores we exited were very upset,'' Mr. Hilfiger said. ''I'm sure we'll lose certain consumers in certain areas, but I'm sure the gain is much greater than the loss could potentially be.''
 In recent months, the designer poaching has devolved into open warfare among retailers, leaving some battlefield casualties.
 Only a year ago, Dana Buchman was designing a $6,950 leopard-patterned swing coat made, with real mink, for the affluent women who shopped for decades at high-end stores like Saks Fifth Avenue and Bloomingdale's. 
 But as Liz Claiborne tried to reorganize its business because of declining sales from department stores like Macy's, the company decided to close the Dana Buchman line and reinvent it as a bargain-conscious brand for Kohl's, where no article of clothing is sold at full price, and most are under $100. 
 Ms. Buchman does not expect most of her customers will follow her there. Judy Golubchick, 60, a loyal Dana Buchman shopper, is worried that the Kohl's line ''will be lower-quality product'' than what she buys at Ms. Buchman's store off Madison Avenue in Manhattan. That location is expected to close March 26.
 ''It's very sad for me,'' Ms. Golubchick said, dressed head to toe, she proudly announced, in Ms. Buchman's fashions. 
 ''It's traumatic,'' Ms. Buchman said of losing customers. ''Traumatic.'' But, she added, ''I am not stuck on one kind of retailer, or one kind of customer. It's a big country and everyone wants fashion.''
 For some retailers, the introduction of upscale names like Ms. Buchman offers a handy means of reinvention, and building buzz among customers. 
 Gap is bringing out clothes by Patrick Robinson, who previously designed the ultramodern Paco Rabanne collection in Paris. Old Navy has turned to the 1990s phenomenon Todd Oldham (who once made a dorm-themed collection for Target) to promote its happier, hipper new image. 
 And last week, Wal-Mart announced it had hired Norma Kamali, an influential designer since the 1970s who had just ended a relationship with Everlast making designer sweat pants for Bloomingdale's, to create a new look for its clothing department.
 Not all deals have been successful. Oscar de la Renta's venture called O Oscar has not gone over well at Macy's, and Wal-Mart's previous fashion effort, a label by Mark Eisen, was a flop. 
 Perhaps the most ambitious, and closely followed, introduction is at J. C. Penney, where Ralph Lauren began selling a broad collection of fashions and housewares in February. Because Mr. Lauren already sells his Polo collection to virtually every department store -- including the prickly Macy's -- the collection for J. C. Penney is called American Living, with no mention of Polo or Ralph Lauren in the stores.
 But the modern American shopper is pretty savvy: At the Garden State Plaza in Paramus, N.J., last week, few customers failed to discern Mr. Lauren's influence on the preppy American Living line.
 The displays were immaculate, with whitewashed picket fence walls and displays of fake hydrangea in metal pails, and piles of polo shirts, floral bedsheets, paisley neckties, wheelie bags and even fuzzy toilet seat covers. 
 ''It just looks like Polo, even if it doesn't say so,'' said Ethel De See, 77, who bought American Living leather belts and towels. 
 Ken C. Hicks, president of J. C. Penney, said the precise name on the label is unimportant because ''the merchandise stands up on its own.''
 ''It's designed by the greatest American designer and being sold at the best American department store.''
 Asked about Mr. Lauren's line for Penney, Mr. Lundgren, Macy's chief, replied that ''no one has ever heard of that brand.'' 
 Mr. Hilfiger was slightly more diplomatic. ''People want the authentic and the original Ralph Lauren,'' he said. ''I don't know what American Living does for Ralph. There may be some confusion or some conflict, I'm not sure. But I will say it is better than the merchandise that exists in Penney's today.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: Leaving a retailer...: TOMMY HILFIGER: The prince of preppy is putting his eggs in one basket.
DANA BUCHMAN: After 21 years of designing for class, she's headed to mass.
ISAAC MIZRAHI: The fashion oracle for the everyman is moving upstream.
PATRICK ROBINSON: The onetime darling of Paris is coming to a mall near you.
 NORMA KAMALI: A consummate fashion insider heads for Main Street U.S.A. Chart list the above information next to each of the individual's picture. (pg. A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION & APPAREL (90%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); CLOTHING LABELS (89%); DEPARTMENT STORES (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); SPORTS (78%); FASHION DESIGN (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); BUDGETS (76%); APPAREL MFG (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); SPORTS FANS (68%)

COMPANY: TARGET CORP (92%); SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (57%)

TICKER: TGT (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (92%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (92%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (57%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (57%)

PERSON: WILLIAM L MCCOMB (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2008



183 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: NBC May Be Considering Kathie Lee Gifford for 'Today'

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG

 BODY:
Kathie Lee Gifford would return to morning television as a host of the fourth hour of NBC's ''Today'' program under an arrangement that her representatives have been discussing with the network, a person with direct knowledge of the conversations said on Friday. 
 The person would describe the talks only on the condition of anonymity because no deal has been finalized. But should it materialize, the hiring of Ms. Gifford -- who was co-host of ''Live With Regis and Kathie Lee'' for 15 years until 2000 -- would add immediate star power to the final hour of ''Today,'' which NBC introduced in the fall. 
 Under one possibility, Ms. Gifford would be paired with Hoda Kotb, already a co-anchor of the program's fourth hour; two other stalwarts of the last hour, Ann Curry and Natalie Morales, would continue to be showcased mainly in the first three hours.
 NBC has struggled to find an audience for the fourth hour of ''Today,'' which emphasizes softer subjects like fashion and shopping. Its viewership lags far behind that of ''The View'' and ''The Price Is Right'' in Los Angeles, for example, and trails ''Rachael Ray'' in New York City, according to Nielsen Media Research.
 Still, the program's two-hour flagship broadcast (from 7 to 9 a.m.) has been experiencing ratings gains. (Matt Lauer and Meredith Vieira are hosts of the first two hours of ''Today,'' but are rarely seen during the third hour and have no formal role in the fourth.)
 In the so-called February sweeps period, which ended on Feb. 27, the first two hours of ''Today'' attracted an estimated 6.1 million viewers each morning, almost 1.1 million more than its main competitor, ''Good Morning America'' on ABC, according to Nielsen. During the same period a year earlier, the advantage that ''Today'' held over ''Good Morning America'' was closer to 800,000. 
 ''Today,'' which has yet to lose a week in the ratings in more than 12 years, has been widening its lead over ''Good Morning America'' since November. The program has increasingly devoted attention to the presidential race and the economy.
 For much of that period, the networks were also grappling with the writers' strike and often bereft of the first-run prime-time series that can elevate morning-show viewership the morning after. In recent years, hit ABC shows like ''Grey's Anatomy'' have appeared to help ''Good Morning America'' more than NBC's anemic prime-time lineup has helped ''Today.'' 
 But Jim Bell, executive producer of ''Today,'' said on Friday that the program was more likely benefiting from its story mix. He also said Ms. Vieira was adjusting to her high-profile role as co-anchor and interviewer after 18 months on the job.
 Tom Brokaw, a former ''Today'' anchor, ''told me the other day, it's like having to give a college oral exam in front of the country every morning,'' Mr. Bell said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (89%); DAYTIME TELEVISION (89%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (78%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (92%); NIELSEN MEDIA RESEARCH (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (82%)

PERSON: REGIS PHILBIN (59%); MEREDITH VIEIRA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2008



184 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: End to the Good Times (Such as They Were)

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT

 BODY:
If history is a reliable guide, the recession of 2008 is now unavoidable.
 The dismal jobs report released Friday showed overall employment to be lower than it was three months ago. Every time such a slump has occurred since the early 1970s, a recession has followed -- or already been under way.
 And if the good times have really ended, they were never that good to begin with. Most American households are still not earning as much annually as they did in 1999, once inflation is taken into account. Since the Census Bureau began keeping records in the 1960s, a prolonged expansion has never ended without household income having set a new record. 
 For months, policy makers and Wall Street economists have been predicting, and hoping, that the aggressive series of interest rate cuts by the Federal Reserve would keep the economy growing, despite the housing bust. But the possibility seemed to diminish almost by the hour on Friday.
 Shortly after 8 a.m., the Fed announced yet another measure meant to unlock the struggling credit markets. At 8:30, the Labor Department released the unexpectedly poor jobs report. Almost immediately, the economists at JPMorgan Chase -- who only last week had told clients they thought the economy was still growing -- reversed course and said a recession appeared to have started earlier this year. 
 Stocks fell when the markets opened at 9:30, recovered and then fell again, with the Standard & Poor 500-stock index closing down 0.8 percent. Traders became even more confident, based on the price of futures contracts, that the Fed would cut its benchmark interest rate three-quarters of a point, to 2.25 percent, when policy makers meet on March 18. 
 ''The question was always, 'Would the economy hang on by its fingernails?' '' said Ethan Harris, the chief United States economist at Lehman Brothers. Based on the employment report, Mr. Harris said, ''there's a very high probability that we're in a recession now.''
 Even the one apparent piece of good news in the employment report was a mirage. The unemployment rate fell to 4.8 percent, from 4.9 percent in January, but only because more people stopped looking for work and thus were not counted as unemployed by the government. 
 Over the last year, the number of officially unemployed has risen by 500,000, while the number of people outside the labor force -- neither working nor looking for a job -- has risen by 1.3 million. 
 Employment has risen by 100,000, but even that comes with a caveat: there are also 600,000 more people who are working part time because they could not find full-time work, according to the Labor Department.
 ''The decline in the unemployment rate,'' said Joshua Shapiro, an economist at MFR, a research firm in New York, ''should not be viewed as good news.''
 Much of the economic stimulus put in place by the government will begin to take effect in the next few months, which does leave open the possibility that the country can still escape a recession. Policy makers have reacted quite quickly to this slowdown, relative to previous ones.
 The Treasury Department will begin sending out rebate checks -- of up to $1,200 for couples, plus $300 per child -- in May, as part of the stimulus package negotiated by President Bush and Democratic leaders in Congress. The Fed has already cut its benchmark short-term interest rate five times since September, and such reductions typically take six months or more to wash through the economy.
 White House officials have predicted in recent weeks that the economy would avoid recession, but after the release of the jobs report, they offered a subtly different forecast. At the White House on Friday, Edward P. Lazear, the chairman of Mr. Bush's Council of Economic Advisers, parried reporters' questions about whether he now thought the economy would slip into a recession.
 Instead, he said, ''I'm still not saying that there is a recession.''
 The administration does expect growth in the current quarter to be slower than it had previously thought, before accelerating this summer. ''Obviously, we are concerned,'' Mr. Lazear said. But he added that he remained hopeful that ''growth will pick up, and pick up quickly.''
 The most commonly cited arbiter of recessions is the National Bureau of Economic Research, a group of academic economists that is based in Cambridge, Mass. (Mr. Lazear referred to the group at his briefing, saying it would not be clear whether there had been a recession until the bureau had made an announcement.) 
 The seven economists who sit on the bureau's recession-dating committee began exchanging e-mail messages late last year about whether the economy was on the verge of a recession. But committee members said Friday that it remained too early to know.
 The bureau defines a recession as a significant, protracted decline in activity that cuts across the economy, affecting measures like income, employment, retail sales and industrial production.
 ''Given that definition, the committee can't possibly call a recession until it has been going on for a while,'' said Christina D. Romer, an economics professor at the University of California, Berkeley. ''There is no way to know if the downturn will be sufficiently long-lasting until it has lasted for a while.'' 
 The committee did not announce the end of the last recession -- which came in November 2001 -- until more than a year-and a half later. Robert J. Gordon, a Northwestern University economist on the committee, said any announcement about the start of a new recession was unlikely before the last few months of 2008 at the earliest.
 Recent recessions have inevitably brought inflation-adjusted income declines for most families, which would be particularly painful given what has happened over the last decade. For a variety of reasons that economists only partly understand -- including technological change and global trade -- many workers have received only modest raises in recent years, despite healthy economic growth. 
 The median household earned $48,201 in 2006, down from $49,244 in 1999, according to the Census Bureau. It now looks as if a full decade may pass before most Americans receive a raise.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, has sent signals in recent weeks that the Fed is ready to reduce the overnight federal funds rate when the policy makers meet on March 18.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS LIVINGSTON/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)(pg. A12) CHART: Signs of Trouble: Chart details bar graph showing monthly change in job rates, S&P 500, and Home Prices. (Sources: Bloomberg
Bureau of Labor Statistics
 Standard & Poor's)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (75%); INTEREST RATES (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); CENSUS (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (71%); FUTURES (68%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (53%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (68%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (57%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (68%); JPM (LSE) (68%); 8634 (TSE) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (68%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (68%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (68%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (68%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2008



185 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; EXECUTIVE PURSUITS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: Rolling and Unraveling Through Thick and Thin And Smoking the Result

BYLINE: By HARRY HURT III. 
E-mail: pursuits@nytimes.com

 BODY:
I CROUCHED over a wooden bench inside the rolling room in El Credito Cigars' factory in the Little Havana neighborhood of Miami, peering at a light brown tobacco leaf. It was half past 9 on a Monday morning, and I had just gulped down two paper thimbles of Cuban coffee. My head was buzzing with caffeine and ambient cigar smoke. My mentor, Leo Peraza, a 67-year-old Cuban-born master cigar roller in a blue apron, leaned over my shoulder.
 ''Mira,'' Leo said in Spanish, beckoning me to watch him work.
 Leo stretched the tobacco leaf across a wooden cutting board. He picked up a crescent-shaped knife called a chavetta and trimmed away the upper and lower edges of the leaf. Then he placed a second leaf on the cutting board and handed over the chavetta. 
 ''God help me!'' I exclaimed. 
 I heard two of the cigar-making world's most prominent people laugh out loud. Ernesto Perez-Carrillo Jr., 56, the second-generation proprietor of El Credito, and Daniel Nunez, 56, the president and chief operating officer of the General Cigar Company, El Credito's corporate parent, had agreed to let me try my hand at cigar rolling under Leo's supervision. But their laughter suddenly gave me serious second thoughts.
 Having smoked cigars for over 30 years, I held the art of cigar rolling in high esteem. I did not want to desecrate it simply for the sake of a whimsical executive pursuit. I feared that I would either bloody my fingers, or perhaps even worse, twist the fine tobacco before me into an unsmokeable swizzle stick. My hosts hastened to offer reassurance.
 ''You've just got to give it a chance,'' Ernesto Jr. said.
 ''Once you touch it, the tobacco will tell you a story,'' Daniel added.
 Nodding with increasing trepidation, I stole a glance around the fluorescent-lighted room. Eight other benches stood on the hardwood floor, each identical to Leo's except for being occupied by female cigar rollers. Each bench was equipped with a complement of cutting tools, a vicelike metal press, semicylindrical plastic cigar molds and stacks of tobacco leaves. The walls were adorned with vintage black and white photographs of the Perez-Carrillo family. 
 Just as Daniel had predicted that the tobacco would tell a story, the photographs hinted at a tale of romance, tradition, passion, politics and economic ingenuity. One of the most arresting shots was taken in 1959, shortly after Fidel Castro seized power in Cuba. It showed Ernesto Jr., then age 7, standing on the tarmac at the Miami airport next to the American Airlines plane that had flown his family and him from Havana. Decked out in an overcoat and a fedora, the little boy already looked like a man in the making.
 In 1968, Ernesto Perez-Carrillo Sr. established El Credito Cigars on Calle Ocho (Eighth Street) in Little Havana with one cigar maker. Four years later, he introduced a brand called La Gloria Cubana, whose provenance actually traced to a line pioneered by a prominent Cuban family in 1883. Shortly afterward, Ernesto Jr. left for New York to chase his dream of becoming a jazz drummer. Although he managed to audition for the legendary jazz composer Stan Getz and play in some of the city's famous clubs, he eventually decided that his true calling was making premium cigars.
 Upon returning to Miami, Ernesto Jr. revitalized the Gloria Cubana brand by creating a special blend of Nicaraguan and Dominican tobacco leaves. The distinctive deep, full-bodied flavor of his blend attracted an enthusiastic following among American cigar connoisseurs, and by the early 1990s, the factory was turning out more than half a million cigars a year. 
 In 1993, Cigar Aficionado vaulted El Credito into the big time by awarding four of its brands a rating of 90 or above on the magazine's 100-point quality scale. In 1996, Ernesto Jr. opened a second, much larger cigar factory in the Dominican Republic. He declined to specify the size of El Credito's current production except to say that the company ships ''millions of cigars a year'' to customers in the United States, Asia and Eastern Europe. Most El Credito premium brands sell for relatively low prices of $5 or less for each cigar. The Gloria Cubana Serie R created in honor of Ernesto Perez-Carrillo Sr. sells for $5 to $8 a cigar.
 Ernesto Jr. informed me that El Credito was the nation's oldest factory producing handmade cigars. While there are older factories in Cuba and other countries, El Credito carries on a tradition in association with Daniel Nunez's General Cigar Company that has changed little over the last 100 years. The leaves that make up the three parts of each cigar -- the filler, the binder and the wrapper -- are grown separately in the Dominican Republic, Ecuador and Nicaragua. Depending on the desired blend, the curing, fermentation and finishing processes can take 3 to 25 years.
 ''Everything is done by hand and by feel,'' Daniel noted. ''During the time it takes to go from harvest to cigar box, close to 200 human beings will have touched the cigar.''
 Ernesto Jr. reminded me that I was hardly the first amateur to try to roll a cigar. Cigar Aficionado sponsors annual cigar rolling contests around the country. Local winners go on to compete in a Super Roll. This year's Super Roll is set for March 13 to 16 at El Credito's factory.
 Even so, my hands were shaking like wind-blown leaves as I spread a Dominican-grown wrapper across the cutting board on Leo Peraza's cigar-rolling bench. To my untutored touch, the tobacco felt like rubber woven with the sheerest silk, surprisingly resilient and yet extremely delicate. I grabbed a ''bunch'' of Nicaraguan-grown long leaf filler leaves surrounded by an Ecuadorean-grown binder leaf from one of the molds, and laid the bunch across the near edge of the wrapper.
 After I smoothed the wrapper again, Leo directed me to pick off the veins with my fingernails. I dipped my hand into a pot of vegetable-based glue, and dabbed the glue across the wrapper. Then I started to roll the wrapper around the bunch, pressing down firmly with both hands. 
 My goal was to pass the ring gauge test. The only measurement tool used in cigar rolling, the ring gauge is a metal paddle perforated with holes calibrated in increments of one-sixty-fourth of an inch. My cigar was supposed to be a so-called 58, with a diameter of 58 sixty-fourths of an inch. If it was too thick, it would not fit alongside its mates in the box. If it was too thin, it would not meet El Credito's standard.
 Leo stopped me about a third of the way through, unraveled the wrapper, and made me start over, rolling more tightly and more slowly. Just as I was finishing my second attempt, he stopped me again, and dabbed on more glue. I rolled the last bit of the wrapper around the bunch, creating a torpedo-shaped cylinder with pointed tips. I sliced off one of the tips and placed the cigar atop the bench for inspection.
 I then experienced two unforgettable moments of pride and joy. The moment of pride occurred when Daniel inserted my cigar into the 58 hole on the ring gauge, and pronounced it a perfect fit. Ernesto Jr. then ushered me into an adjoining room, where I glued on a band and slipped the cigar into a cellophane sheath. 
 The moment of joy occurred when I stepped out onto the streets of Little Havana and lit up my freshly hand-rolled cigar. I realized that along with being the 201st human being to touch the cigar, I was also the luckiest because it was, at least for me, the perfect smoke.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, cigar rolling in El Credito Cigars' factory in Miami. At left, Ernesto Perez-Carrillo Jr., the owner, inspecting tobacco leaves. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALEX QUESADA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOBACCO PRODUCTS (92%); TOBACCO MFG (91%); SMOKING (90%); MACHINE TOOLS (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (74%); EXECUTIVES (71%); AIRLINES (60%)

COMPANY: GENERAL CIGAR CO (68%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (68%); SIC2121 CIGARS (68%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (50%)

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (90%) FLORIDA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); CUBA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2008



186 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1719 words

HEADLINE: Sharp Drop in Jobs Adds To Grim Economic Picture

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The worst fears of consumers, investors and Washington officials were confirmed on Friday, as deepening paralysis on Wall Street collided with stark new evidence of falling employment and a likely recession.
 In a report that was far worse than most analysts had expected, the Labor Department estimated that the nation lost 63,000 jobs in February. It was the second consecutive monthly decline, and the third straight drop for private-sector jobs. 
 Even before the bad news on jobs emerged, the Federal Reserve was already racing to ease the latest crisis in the credit markets, where seemingly rock-solid companies have been caught short because the markets are devaluing the collateral they had posted to back billions of dollars in loans. Much of that collateral consists of mortgages. 
 In a surprise announcement early Friday, the Federal Reserve said it would inject about $200 billion into the nation's banking system this month -- with more to come after that -- by offering banks one-month loans at low rates and in return letting them pledge mortgage-backed bonds and even riskier assets as collateral. 
 Though monthly payroll data are notoriously volatile and subject to revision, the jobs report was so bleak that many of the few remaining optimists on Wall Street threw in the towel and conceded that the United States was already in a recession. 
 ''Godot has arrived,'' wrote Edward Yardeni, who had been one of Wall Street's most relentlessly upbeat forecasters. ''I've been rooting for the muddling through scenario. However, the credit crisis continues to worsen and has become a full-blown credit crunch, which is depressing the real economy.''
 The convulsions in the credit markets were spurred in part when Thornburg Mortgage, one of the nation's biggest independent mortgage lenders, and Carlyle Capital, the offspring of one of the country's largest private equity firms, failed to meet demands by lenders to post more cash or pledge other assets, also known as margin calls, on debts that had been backed by packages of mortgages. 
 Fed officials said Friday that they were not pumping money into the system in response to the poor jobs data but rather to the growing unwillingness or inability of investors to finance even routine business deals. Fed officials have long feared that anxiety about credit losses would create a ''negative feedback loop,'' or self-perpetuating spiral of rising unemployment, more home foreclosures and yet more credit losses. 
 ''You have big credit losses that make it harder to get new credit, which means the economy starts to slow down and foreclosures go up,'' said Nigel Gault, a senior economist at Global Insight, a forecasting firm. ''Then you get even bigger credit losses, which makes banks even less willing to lend and you keep spiraling down.''
 The Fed's problem is that its main weapons against a downturn -- lower interest rates and easier money -- are ill suited to a crisis that stems from collapsing confidence about credit quality.
 Even though the central bank sharply cut short-term interest rates twice in January and clearly signaled that it would cut them again on March 18, rates for home mortgages have risen and rates for many forms of commercial loans have jumped sharply.
 ''There has been a tug of war under way between deteriorating credit conditions and monetary policy,'' wrote Laurence H. Meyer, a former Fed governor and now a forecaster at Macroeconomic Advisers. As a result, he said, credit conditions have remained almost as tight as ever. 
 The darkening economic outlook, coming just nine months before presidential elections, puts enormous pressure on President Bush and could pose a problem for Senator John McCain, the presumptive Republican nominee for president. Typically, the party in power has not been able to hold onto the White House when the economy is in a recession in an election year.
 President Bush, in a hastily arranged appearance before television cameras on Friday afternoon, acknowledged that the economy had slowed but predicted that it would get a lift this summer from the $168 billion stimulus package of tax rebates and temporary tax cuts that Congress recently passed. 
 ''Losing a job is painful, and I know Americans are concerned about the economy,'' Mr. Bush said. 
 ''The good news is, we anticipated this and took decisive action to bolster the economy, by passing a growth package that will put money into the hands of American workers and businesses.''
 Edward P. Lazear, chairman of President Bush's Council of Economic Advisers, said the White House had downgraded its earlier forecasts but still believed that the tax rebates of up to $1,200 for many families will help the economy escape a recession.
 ''There is no denying that when you get negative job numbers, realistically the economy is less strong than we had hoped it would be,'' Mr. Lazear said. ''The question is how quickly will it pick up. We think it will pick up -- as I mentioned, we think it will pick up by the summer.''
 Few private forecasters were so buoyant. Many firms had already concluded that a recession was under way. Within minutes of the new report on employment, many in the dwindling pool of optimists changed their positions.
 Mr. Yardeni was hardly alone. Just one minute after the Labor Department published its report at 8:30 a.m., JPMorgan Chase reversed its stance, declaring that a recession appeared to have begun. Lehman Brothers switched its position as well.
 Unemployment typically starts to rise only after a recession has started, and it keeps climbing for many months after the economy has hit bottom and begun to recover. 
 Paul Ashworth, an economist at Capital Economics, noted that private-sector payroll employment has now declined by an average of 47,000 a month -- a decline that has been followed by a recession every time it has happened in the last 50 years. In each of those recessions, Mr. Ashworth added, the job market recovered only after monthly job losses peaked at 200,000 jobs.
 Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, had already sent clear signals in recent weeks that the central bank was ready to reduce the overnight federal funds rate when policy makers meet on March 18. 
 Since August, the Fed has sharply cut overnight rates five times, to 3 percent from 5.25 percent, and investors have been all but assuming that the central bank would reduce them by at least another half a percentage point, and perhaps three-quarters of a point, at the next meeting.
 But by Thursday, Fed officials had become increasingly alarmed that rates for many kinds of lending were skyrocketing as investors demanded steep risk premiums that are normally associated with a serious economic recession. 
 What particularly alarmed Fed officials was that the margin calls on Carlyle Capital and Thornburg Mortgage had stemmed from plunging confidence about the value of highly conservative mortgages that were guaranteed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the giant government-sponsored mortgage companies.
 If investors lose confidence in Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, which have become the only major remaining source of mortgage financing in recent months, Fed officials fear that home sales and housing prices could plunge further and foreclosures could climb even higher than they already have.
 On Thursday, the Mortgage Bankers Association reported that about 7.9 percent of all loans -- a record high -- were past due or in foreclosure. Until the third quarter of last year, the rate had not climbed above 7 percent since 1979.
 Home prices are falling in almost every part of the country, a phenomenon that Fed officials and many other experts until recently thought was all but impossible, and some analysts now predict that average home prices will ultimately fall 20 percent from their peak in 2006.
 The effect is reducing household wealth. According to data this week from the Fed, net household wealth declined by $900 billion in the fourth quarter of last year. 
 Indeed, the ratio of homeowners' equity to the value of their homes fell below 50 percent for the first time in history last year, according to the Fed. Far more alarming, however, is that about 30 percent of all homes bought in 2005 and 2006 are ''under water,'' meaning they have mortgages that are higher than their resale value. 
 ''We're at the beginning of the bursting of the housing bubble,'' said Dean Baker, co-director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research, a liberal research organization in Washington. ''The rate of foreclosures is just going to increase as time goes on.'' 
 Eric S. Rosengren, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, noted that the housing calamity thus far has occurred even though unemployment is still low, at just 4.8 percent. But a surge in joblessness would almost certainly lead to more foreclosures and more downward pressure on home prices.
 ''A downside risk that we do need to consider is whether a rising unemployment rate generated by slow growth will force some people to sell their houses, creating further downward pressure on housing prices,'' Mr. Rosengren said in an interview.
 In opening up its monetary spigots on Friday, the central bank left little doubt that it wanted to increase the money for mortgage lending. 
 Its first move was to offer up to $100 billion through the Term Auction Facility, a program created in December that allows any bank or savings and loan to bid for loans at what amounts to wholesale rates and allows them to pledge a wide variety of securities -- including mortgage-backed securities that are not tradable at the moment -- as collateral.
 The central bank's other new initiative is to lend an additional $100 billion in March through its open-market operations. That money is available only to primary dealers, a few dozen major investment banks, but the loans can be secured by certain mortgage-backed securities, like those issued by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac.
 Fed officials said they were prepared to infuse even bigger sums of money into the financial system if they see a need, and the central bank said it was in ''close consultation with foreign central bank counterparts'' -- a hint that it might seek support from other central banks if the credit problems persist.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Labor Department estimated that the nation lost 63,000 jobs in February, sending many to job fairs like this one in Seattle.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN P. CASEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A12) CHARTS: The Labor Picture in February: Unemployment rate
BY DEMOGRAPHICS
DURATION OF UNEMPLOYMENT
SHARE OF POPULATION
HIDDEN' UNEMPLOYMENT
UNEMPLOYED BY EDUCATION LEVEL
BY TYPE OF WORK
 and AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS are detailed in line graphs, bar graphs and statistics.(Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); FORECLOSURE (88%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); BONDS (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (74%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (71%)

COMPANY: CARLYLE CAPITAL CORP LTD (53%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6726 UNIT INVESTMENT TRUSTS, FACE-AMOUNT CERTIFICATE OFFICES, & CLOSED-END MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2008



187 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL NOTEBOOK; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 400 words

HEADLINE: Of Cannon Fire and Daylight Saving Time

BYLINE: By MAURA J. CASEY

 BODY:
Benjamin Franklin was wrong. Or maybe not. The sage of Philadelphia conceived of a system similar to daylight saving time in 1784 while serving as America's first ambassador to France. In a letter to the editor of the Paris Journal, he estimated that the simple act of awakening at sunrise and retiring at sunset in the months between spring and fall would result in an annual saving of a little more than 64 million pounds in candle wax for Paris's residents. 
 Conserving energy has always been the object of daylight saving time, of course. Yet Matthew Kotchen, a professor of environmental economics at the University of California, Santa Barbara, and Laura Grant, a doctoral student, argued in a recent study that it may increase residential electricity demand. 
 They studied 7 million electric bills over three years in Indiana where for decades 77 counties chose to skip the spring ahead and fall behind. In 2006, the State Legislature ended the boycott, and the Hoosiers seem to have the last laugh. Against intuition and contrary to the entire point of government policy, the study found that daylight saving time resulted in an $8.6 million increase in spending on residential electricity.
 But don't count out Ben. Those Indiana residents used more power, but for heat and air conditioning -- something far beyond the capabilities of 18th-century tallow. The researchers found that the power used for lighting declined significantly in every month but October. Mr. Franklin proposed ending the program on Sept. 20.
 Mr. Franklin, brilliant as he was, hardly envisioned Nintendos and computers, big-screen televisions and dishwashers. He wanted, he wrote, the ''pure light of the sun'' to help him escape the ''smokey, unwholesome and enormously expensive light of candles.''
 He never took his idea too seriously. In the same letter he suggested that, if necessary, cannons be shot off at sunrise to ensure that laggards get out of bed, and described a friend's insistence that opening the shutters to greet the dawn lets out the darkness rather than bringing in the light.
 Adding more light, of course, makes many people feel better. At this time of year, the early sun that moved Franklin, and now makes my basil branch out from its pot on my kitchen window, is a sweet sign that late winter's days are numbered. Maybe cannons are called for after all -- to celebrate. 
 MAURA J. CASEY 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); ENERGY DEMAND (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (72%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (71%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (55%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (79%) INDIANA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2008



188 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: How Art Is Framed: Exhibition Floor Plans as a Conceptual Medium

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH

DATELINE: SANTA MONICA, Calif. 

 BODY:
The California artist Michael Asher may never have a museum retrospective. He deserves one, being among the patron saints of the Conceptual Art phylum known as institutional critique, an often esoteric dissection of the assumptions that govern how we perceive art. The sticking point is that his 40-year career hasn't produced much that could add up to a survey. 
 Mr. Asher, who is 64, doesn't make art objects or even typical installations. He slyly and surgically extracts his art from the galleries and museums in which it is shown, culling it from collections, histories or the institutions' very walls. 
 The results can be like magic; an expose; a drastic, possibly hilarious rearrangement of available objects or architecture; or all of the above. Sometimes Mr. Asher gathers facts, like the list he published of all the artworks ever deaccessioned by the Museum of Modern Art. Once, in a chilly late autumn, he moved all of a Swiss museum's radiators into the lobby. 
 But being retrospectively challenged hasn't stopped Mr. Asher from returning the favor. His latest hat trick amounts to a retrospective of the Santa Monica Museum of Art, a small, valiant noncollecting institution in Bergamot Station, a former trolley depot that was converted into a vast complex of art spaces 10 years ago. 
 Mr. Asher has reconstituted all the temporary walls built for the 44 exhibitions that the museum has mounted since they moved there in 1998. Not the whole walls, just their skeletons: the shimmery aluminum studs, paralleling and intersecting one another in so many crazy ways you can barely see through them. 
 These are phantom walls that you can slip through, stepping into a layered past measured in building crews, floor plans and the hopes and dreams of artists and curators waiting for the paint to dry. The installation is a disorienting forest of designs half materialized, a walk-in puzzle, and when the California sun streams through the museum's skylights it almost dissolves into a single shimmering mass. 
 A small side gallery that displays the names, dates and floor plans of all the exhibitions shows that walls often changed location by mere inches, further proof that artists are a picky bunch.
 Mr. Asher's work takes the fear factor out of institutional critique, an intimidating term that tends to separate hard-core art reformers from the rest of us. The goal of such thinkers is to wrench us from the supposedly mindless sedation of portable saleable artworks and mere beauty, and to expose the social, political, economic, architectural and psychological factors, unseen and unconsidered, that influence us when we look at art. 
 Institutional critique is unusually presumptuous about the quality of other people's reflections on the art they behold. Luckily, the best of it is funny and provocative, even if you wouldn't want a steady diet. In fact, its point of origin is probably Duchamp's ''Fountain,'' the urinal signed ''R. Mutt'' that was tossed out of the 1917 exhibition at the New York Society of Independent Artists. In the end, that supposedly open, unjuried show didn't work that way at all. 
 Mr. Asher's pieces usually have a strong pleasure component and a fierce, efficient clarity, whether conceptual or experiential. His emphasis on light and space reflects his lifelong residency not only in Los Angeles but also in the Los Angeles art world. His mother was a museum curator and art dealer; he came of age around the Minimalist environments of light-and-space artists like Robert Irwin and Doug Wheeler. 
 Some of Mr. Asher's pieces amount to ingenious tweaking, and the subtle effects must be experienced firsthand. In March 1976 in New York, he simply removed the windows and doors from the Clocktower Gallery, an alternative space high above lower Broadway. At least when the weather was good, it was a work of unusual joy. The light and the crisp breezes of early spring swept into the space, driving home the openness that art is all about. 
 Other Asher pieces are fabulous tall tales, like the radiator extravaganza of 1992 at the Kunsthalle in Bern, Switzerland. Not only did he relocate all of the three-story building's radiators to the lobby, he also hooked them up again with pipe snaking back to their original risers. The irrational, gargantuan physical effort, the exacting Swiss plumbers, the warmth emanating from quantities of pipe stretching through the galleries all delighted the mind. 
 Mr. Asher's Santa Monica Museum piece, one of the rare works for which he actually took a lot of material into a museum, straddles the two sides of his career. It is history made visible yet Minimalism gone nuts; it includes more of his personal story than usual; and it is a tale that will travel. But you also have to be there, walking through walls and watching the light change. 
 The Michael Asher exhibition continues through April 12 at the Santa Monica Museum of Art; (310) 586-6488, smmoa.org. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Visitors stand in Michael Asher's installation of aluminum studs that outline previous Santa Monica Museum of Art exhibitions. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANN JOHANSSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. B13)
 MICHAEL ASHER The installation at the Santa Monica Museum of Art restores the temporary walls of previous exhibitions at the museum. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANN JOHANSSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (95%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2008



189 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: Banks Springing Up to Serve the Underserved

BYLINE: By LIZ GALST

 BODY:
AT first glance Raleigh, N.C., may not seem like a logical place to open a Latino-oriented bank. After all, Raleigh is not a city like Los Angeles, for instance, where more than 47 percent of the population is Hispanic.
 But David Flores, a former senior vice president at Chase Manhattan Bank, looked at the skyrocketing Hispanic population in North Carolina -- from 1990 to 2006, it rose to 593,385 from a mere 76,726 -- and saw a business opportunity. 
 Last September, Mr. Flores opened Nuestro Banco, offering a host of specially tailored services that other banks in the area were not, among them check cashing for new immigrants and small business loan applications in Spanish. The bank building is replete with Hispanic-inflected touches: a stucco exterior with a tile roof and bilingual signs. 
 ''Our long-term goal is to become a regional Hispanic bank in the Southeast,'' said Mr. Flores, the bank's president and chief executive. 
 Nuestro Banco is certainly outside the mainstream of banking in this country, a mainstream dominated by financial giants like Bank of America, Chase, Wachovia, Wells Fargo and Citibank. But many bankers and banking customers find benefits in that niche position, where particular consumer and small-business demographics can be accommodated -- to the profit of all. 
 For bankers, focusing on a niche is a way to set themselves apart from the competition. ''If a person sees three banks on the same block, each one offering the same products at the same price, what differentiates you?'' asks Steven F. Young, senior vice president for consumer banking at Wainwright Bank and Trust in Boston. Wainwright's reputation as a socially responsible bank that invests most of its deposits in community development and progressive nonprofit organizations ''has led us to be very profitable,'' Mr. Young said. ''People like what we're doing with their money.'' 
 For consumers and small businesses, niche banks offer products, services and expertise that are often unavailable elsewhere. ''With the big banks, you have a fairly impersonal relationship,'' says Ingo Walter, a finance professor at the Stern School of Business at New York University. ''Small banks are part of the community and people perceive that they get a different level of service.''
 Though no one keeps records indicating whether the number of niche banks is rising or waning, experts in the banking field see growth in three particular areas: Hispanic banking, environmentally responsible banking and banking aimed at observant Muslims. 
 Hispanic-focused banks are the largest trend, Mr. Walter said. ''It's a giant-sized niche.'' 
 The number of Hispanics in the United States is expected to triple by 2050, to more than 102 million. According to a 2004 report by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the ''rapid growth of the underbanked Hispanic market suggests a new growth opportunity for many institutions.'' 
 In fact, Mr. Flores said, ''25 or 30 Hispanic banks are either starting up now or have started up in the last two or three years.'' Among them is Plaza Bank in Seattle, which offers low-fee fund transfers and Spanish-language checks, statements, loan applications and online banking. ''All of our personnel are bilingual and bicultural,'' says Carlos Guangorena, Plaza Bank's chief executive. ''That helps people who haven't been banked come into the fabric of the economic community.''
 Similarly, many of the nation's almost five million Muslims have special banking concerns that often go unaddressed by mainstream banks. In particular, Sharia, Islamic law, forbids the charging or paying of interest. ''This hampers most bank transactions,'' said Amjad Quadri, assistant vice president for business development and new markets at the University Islamic Financial Corporation, a bank based in Ann Arbor, Mich. As a result, many Muslims decide to rent rather than buy homes. ''And most Muslims only have interest-free checking accounts and credit cards that they pay off at the end of the month,'' Mr. Quadri said. 
 To accommodate special concerns of Muslims, University Islamic, with additional offices in East Brunswick, N.J., and McLean, Va., offers rent-to-own agreements for home buyers, along with savings accounts that offer ''profit sharing'' rather than interest. (The bank's profit-sharing rates are competitive with those at other financial institutions.) 
 This profit-sharing strategy has enabled Haaris Ahmad, a lawyer in Canton, Mich., to earn money in a money market account for the first time. ''Now, my wife and I get the same benefits that other people have, but in a way that's compliant with our faith requirements,'' Mr. Ahmad said.
 For environmentalists -- be they consumers or small- business owners -- banking with a large bank can pose problems as well since large banks are often the underwriters for projects like coal-fired power plants and unsustainable logging. ''I was concerned that a bank was going to invest my money in companies that might help cause global warming or human rights abuses,'' said Adam Taylor, a green building engineer in San Francisco. 
 Mr. Taylor had been a customer of the West Coast banking giant Wells Fargo. But in 2006, he decided to switch his accounts to the New Resource Bank in San Francisco, which invests its deposits in green businesses. ''If I was thinking about where my coffee beans were coming from,'' Mr. Taylor said, ''why wasn't I thinking about who was investing my life savings?'' 
 The founder and vice chairman of New Resource Bank, Peter Liu, says his bank understands green businesses in a way many mainstream banks do not. ''A lot of times, in lending, it comes down to an assessment of risk,'' he said. ''If you don't understand the business, a banker will see a lot of perceived risks -- like the higher price point of organic food -- as opposed to real risks.'' 
 Those kind of perceptions can lead some larger banks to deny financing to green businesses. ''When you focus on an industry, you learn to appreciate the real risks and you underwrite to those.'' 
 Banks like New Resource and ShoreBank Pacific of Ilwaco, Wash., often introduce products and services tailored to the special environmental interests of customers. ShoreBank offers free consulting to small businesses.
 ''When borrowers come to us,'' said Laurie Landeros, the bank's vice president for ecodeposits, ''we help them move up the scale on their environmental and social health, as well as their fiscal health.''
 New Resource Bank introduced a reduced-rate home equity loan that allows homeowners to purchase solar electric and thermal systems with no money down, at rates that are often lower than their monthly electric and home heating bills. 
 Mr. Walter of New York University said he did not ''see any evidence of a systematic shift in market share,'' from large banks to niche banks. But at a time when the large banks make many users feel like numbers rather than cherished clients, he added, ''customers appreciate the service the niche banks offer.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: David Flores, middle photograph, left, chief executive of Nuestro Banco saw an opportunity to offer special banking services like check cashing for immigrants and small-business loan applications in Spanish. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JENNY WARBURG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); RETAIL BANKING (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); MULTILINGUALISM (74%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (69%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (69%); TRENDS (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); RELIGION (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (60%); WAINWRIGHT BANK & TRUST CO (53%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); WFC (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (60%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (60%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RALEIGH, NC, USA (90%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2008



190 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 459 words

HEADLINE: MBIA, the Bond Insurer, Asks Fitch to Quit Rating Some Units

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
The bond insurer MBIA Inc., which is facing a downgrade, asked Fitch Ratings on Friday to stop issuing credit ratings on its insurance units.
 MBIA said that it had requested that Fitch withdraw its ratings on units including the AAA-rated MBIA Insurance Corporation. 
 Fitch is the only top credit rating company that continues to consider a downgrade of MBIA's rating. Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's both affirmed the company last week. 
 MBIA, based in Armonk, N.Y., raised $3 billion in capital, eliminated its dividend and shut its asset-backed insurance business for six months to overcome losses on subprime mortgages.
 A spokesman, Willard Hill, said that MBIA disagreed with Fitch's model for capital allocation. He did not know whether Fitch planned to comply with its request. ''This is something we have been evaluating for a long time,'' Mr. Hill said. 
 Fitch says that MBIA should have more capital than required by S.& P. and Moody's to support the asset-backed securities it guarantees, Mr. Hill said. That is ''incompatible'' with MBIA's plans to separate the company's businesses in the next five years, he said.
 A spokesman for Fitch, Kenneth Reed, did not return calls for comment.
 A rival to MBIA, the Ambac Financial Group, said that it had raised about $1.5 billion in a sale of shares and convertible units, more than doubling its stock outstanding in an effort to salvage its AAA credit rating.
 The company sold shares at $6.75. The chief executive, Michael A. Callen; the chief financial officer, Sean T. Leonard; and other executives and directors bought shares at that price, according to regulatory filings. Ambac also issued $250 million of units convertible into shares.
 While the sale will dilute the ownership of shareholders, the offering probably will be enough to convince Moody's and S.& P. to affirm Ambac's rating. 
 Shares in Ambac and the mortgage lender Thornburg Mortgage surged Friday after investors traded blocks of at least 10 million shares in the week's final minute, according to Bloomberg data.
 The transactions multiplied Ambac's 4-cent gain for the day into a $2.08 increase, closing at $9.50, and turned a 24 percent drop for Thornburg into an 8.5 percent rally. The stocks rose on orders submitted by investors instructing brokerage firms to trade at least 10 million shares as near to the end of the day as possible, according to exchange data compiled by Bloomberg.
 While there did not appear to be any news to send Ambac higher, ''people think something's going on because the print went up so high,'' said Joseph Saluzzi, the co-head of equity trading at Themis Trading in Chatham, N.J. ''It doesn't look like it's a keypunch error since it was such a large block.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATINGS (92%); CREDIT BUREAUS (92%); INSURANCE (90%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (74%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); ASSET BACKED SECURITIES (55%); MORTGAGE LOANS (55%)

COMPANY: MBIA INC (96%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (91%); MBIA INSURANCE CORP (72%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (72%); AMBAC FINANCIAL GROUP INC (54%)

TICKER: MBI (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525190 OTHER INSURANCE FUNDS (96%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (96%); SIC6351 SURETY INSURANCE (96%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (91%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (91%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2008



191 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:
INTERNATIONALA3-8
 Latin American Leaders Agree to End Border Crisis
 The leaders of four Latin American nations embroiled in a diplomatic crisis over a Colombian military raid into Ecuador ended the dispute with warm embraces at a summit meeting that had earlier been marked by insults and accusations of treachery.A3 
 Killing Stops Spanish Politics 
 Spain's two main political parties abruptly curtailed campaigning for Sunday's general election after a gunman suspected of belonging to the Basque militant group ETA killed a former city councilman in northern Spain.A8 
 Burials for Yeshiva Victims
 Funerals were held across Israel for the eight seminary students killed by a Palestinian gunman in Jerusalem. It is still unclear what group, if any, was responsible for the massacre.A8
 Discord Before Arab Meeting
 Several Arab leaders say they may boycott the annual Arab summit meeting this month in Damascus, the Syrian capital, because of anger at Syria over its role in Lebanon and ongoing links to Iran.A8
 Iraqi President Visits Turkey
 The president of Iraq, Jalal Talabani, visited Turkey as part of a joint effort to mend relations strained by a Turkish ground offensive against Kurdish militants in northern Iraq. A6
 China Critic Reported Missing
 A Chinese lawyer who has urged the Communist Party to improve its human rights record in advance of the Summer Olympics has disappeared, according to his wife.A4
 NATIONALA9-12
 Clinton to Fight Hard In Wyoming Caususes
 Approaching the Wyoming caucuses, Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton is trying to seize on the momentum from her victories in Ohio and Texas to pull off a rare caucus victory. A10 
 As Mrs. Clinton and Senator Barrack Obama shift their attention to Pennsylvania, they are likely to find a more positive economic landscape than they might expect from a Rust Belt state. A10 
 Schools to Teach Hunting
 Hunting is on the decline, and states are trying to bolster the tradition by attracting younger people to the sport. State lawmakers in West Virginia approved a bill to allow hunting education classes in schools where at least 20 students express interest. The goal is to reverse the 20 percent drop in hunting permits, which caused a loss of more than $1.5 million in state revenue. A1 
 Settlement in Autism Case
 The government says a settlement with an autistic girl's family is not a concession that vaccinations can cause autism. An undisclosed sum for the girl's care has been paid to her family. A9 
 Couple Guilty of Theft
 A young couple in Akron, Ohio, pleaded guilty to stealing $8.4 million last year from an armored car company where the man worked. Except for $1,500, all the money they are accused of taking has been recovered. A11 
 Ex-Mayor Remains in Jail
 The Federal Bureau of Prisons extended the prison term of former Mayor Bill Campbell of Atlanta, who was convicted of tax evasion. A11 
 NEW YORK/REGIONB1-5
 Army Base's Newspaper Publicizes D.W.I. Arrests
 The Fort Drum Blizzard in Watertown, N.Y., the newspaper for the Army's 10th Mountain Division, has published 48 photos or silhouettes of soldiers arrested on drunken driving charges since Jan. 1 to try to stem a steady increase in D.W.I. arrests. B1
 Traffic Plan in Trouble
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's congestion pricing plan for Manhattan traffic may be in trouble, not only in Albany, but also in the City Council, which after two years of bowing to much of the mayor's agenda now seems emboldened to resist him. B1
 Religion Journal A15 
 BUSINESS DAYC1-8 
 Signs of a Recession
 In a report the Labor Department estimated that the nation lost 63,000 jobs in February, confirming fears of a likely recession. Before the report was released the Federal Reserve said it would inject about $200 billion into the banking system this month to help promote more loans and investment. A1 
 Business DigestC2 
 OBITUARIESB16
 Paul Raymond
 He began his entrepreneurial life selling black-market nylons and fuel coupons during World War II and went on to become one of Britain's richest men, withan empire of Soho striptease clubs, salacious magazines and real estate holdings, he was 82.B16
 EDITORIALA14-15
 Editorials: Talk, but no peace; a one-party New York State; safety for consumers; Maura J. Casey on Ben Franklin and daylight saving time.
 Columns: Bob Herbert and Gail Collins.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POLITICS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAUCUSES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); LARCENY & THEFT (83%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BASQUE HOMELAND & FREEDOM (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); BOYCOTTS (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); SPORT HUNTING (72%); ELECTIONS (71%); OLYMPICS (70%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (66%); LEGISLATION (66%); AUTISM (64%); JAIL SENTENCING (63%); PRISONS (61%); ARMORED CAR SERVICES (60%); GUILTY PLEAS (60%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (58%); APPROVALS (50%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); JALAL TALABANI (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); AKRON, OH, USA (54%) OHIO, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) TURKEY (93%); SPAIN (93%); IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); SYRIA (92%); ISRAEL (92%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); COLOMBIA (92%); ECUADOR (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); LEBANON (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2008



192 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: 2 Markets, of Varying Security, Highlight Challenge for U.S. Troops in Iraq

BYLINE: By THOM SHANKER

DATELINE: HAWIJA, Iraq 

 BODY:
As Adm. Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, sits down over the coming days to prepare his formal recommendation to President Bush on future troop levels in Iraq, he will reflect on his visits to two markets.
 On a trip this week, Admiral Mullen first walked the Airport Road market in Dora, a neighborhood of south Baghdad. What had been an area firmly in the grip of insurgent violence is now a showcase for the American strategy of clear, hold and rebuild, with calm purchased by an increase in American and Iraqi troops and by tall concrete blast walls. 
 Admiral Mullen saw commerce blooming, the sidewalks filled with shoppers, including women and children. The market was safe enough for America's highest-ranking military officer to stroll for an hour with only a modest security detail.
 But he encountered a far more fragile sense of security a day later at a market here, in the north of Iraq, the region where more than 60 percent of all attacks nationwide now occur as insurgents and terrorists have been pushed from Baghdad and the surrounding belt of villages by the troop increase.
 Hawija has been cleared of fighters belonging to Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia, the homegrown Sunni insurgent group that American intelligence says is foreign led. The numbers of Iraqi Army soldiers and police officers are growing here, as are the ranks of Sunni guardsmen, some even former insurgents, who have allied with American efforts to drive out Qaeda fighters.
 Yet, calm remains sufficiently suspect that Admiral Mullen walked within a large cordon of well-armed American and Iraqi foot soldiers (although some of the Iraqis had to be reminded to keep their rifle barrels pointed at the ground while on patrol, and not waving occasionally in the direction of the chairman of the Joint Chiefs).
 But that was only the inner layer of security that included rooftop snipers, Apache and Kiowa helicopters, remote-controlled Predator reconnaissance aircraft and even an F-16 fighter overhead. ''A few weeks ago, you or I could not have walked here on the streets of Hawija,'' Admiral Mullen said. He also acknowledged, though, that while ''security is dramatically improved, it clearly remains fragile.''
 In several interviews over five days of travel, ending Wednesday, Admiral Mullen repeatedly said he had not made up his mind on what recommendation he would offer the president on the way ahead in Iraq. ''Honestly, I am not there yet,'' he said.
 But by his actions and comments, the chairman gave ample evidence that his thinking was closely aligned with that of Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates.
 Philosophically, Admiral Mullen is committed to getting more American troops out of Iraq before the end of the year. But he and other commanders are trying to come up with ways to do that without sacrificing improvements secured with the toil and lives of American troops, including the five extra combat brigades scheduled to leave by July.
 ''An Iraq in chaos would be extremely dangerous for all of us,'' Admiral Mullen said, stressing that his recommendation would reflect the ''need to sustain these efforts to achieve success over time.''
 As chairman of the Joint Chiefs, Admiral Mullen is also responsible for managing risks across this region and around the globe, which means freeing up forces from Iraq as rapidly as possible to assure the military can pivot to another crisis. 
 As he visited bases, training centers and neighborhoods across Iraq, Admiral Mullen expressed frustration that the Iraqi leadership was not doing enough to cement security gains in the provinces. ''Dora and Hawija brought this out, that the central government must be in contact with, and engaged with, the local community,'' he said. ''I went into many of the shops. They need sewage services. They need water. They need electricity.''
 His walking tours of the two markets also proved that there continued to be wrangling over sufficient troops for the war.
 Baghdad has been defined as the American center of gravity, with the five brigades of reinforcements focusing their efforts there. The Bush administration said it needed to make Baghdad secure to accomplish its objectives; that meant it needed the north of Iraq just to hold steady.
 The fight in the north, where most of the fighting is under way today, especially in Mosul, is thin of American troops. It is what the military calls an ''economy of force'' mission. That thinning of American troops, and the necessary reliance on Iraqi forces to step into the fight, certainly foreshadows the future of the American mission across the nation.
 Gen. David H. Petraeus, the senior American commander in Iraq, met several times with Admiral Mullen during his tour of Iraq and declared that the ''key is to hang on to what you've got.''
 Indicating that the American focus will remain on security in the capital after the extra brigades leave in July, he cautioned against an ''eagerness to go after something new,'' if that put at risk gains achieved by the troop increase.
 In an interview, General Petraeus said that when he made his separate reports to Congress and the president in April, his recommendation on future troop levels would be based on such criteria as numbers of attacks nationwide; American combat deaths and injuries; Iraqi civilian and security forces losses; and the ability and size of the Iraqi police force and army.
 ''If the population supports what we want to do, it won't let Al Qaeda put roots down,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Adm. Mike Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, visited a market last Monday in the Iraqi town of Hawija.(PHOTOGRAPH BY AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) MAP: Hawija has been cleared of Al Qaeda in Mesopotamia. Map details area of Hawija. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (92%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); TERRORISM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (77%); SHOOTINGS (76%); ARMIES (76%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (76%); SURVEILLANCE & RECONNAISSANCE AIRCRAFT (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (74%); HELICOPTERS (72%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (72%); AL-QAEDA (71%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (91%); AL-QAEDA (82%)

PERSON: ROBERT M GATES (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (96%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2008



193 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1200 words

HEADLINE: Economic Picture Is Mixed in Pennsylvania

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE and JOHN M. BRODER; Christopher Maag contributed reporting from Erie, Pa.

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA 

 BODY:
A dismal jobs report on Friday thrust the nation's ailing economy to the forefront of the presidential campaign. But as the candidates shift their attention to Pennsylvania, which votes April 22, they are likely to find a more positive economic landscape than they might have expected from a Rust Belt state once heavily dependent on steel, coal and manufacturing jobs.
 Polls show that economic issues helped Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York secure her victory in Ohio over Senator Barack Obama of Illinois. And her campaign is clearly hoping to duplicate that success here by focusing on her plan for universal health care and her proposal for a 90-day freeze on home foreclosures. 
 In Ohio, 59 percent of voters surveyed said the economy was their top concern, and Mrs. Clinton was backed by a majority of those voters. 
 But Pennsylvania is in better economic shape than Ohio. Over the last two or three decades, much of this state has successfully made the transition to what officials call a knowledge-based economy. There are now more jobs here in education and health care than in industrial manufacturing. And analysts here said the candidates would have to tailor their economic messages to the state's many distinct economies, which are in various stages of recovery. 
 While the state's jobless rate has edged up over the last year, from 4.3 percent in January 2007 to 4.8 percent now, it has been below the national average for 13 months in a row. And while western Pennsylvania shares a border with eastern Ohio and shares some of that region's economic woes, officials here say that Pennsylvania as a whole is more prosperous and diverse than its neighbor.
 ''We've recovered from the minor recession of 2000 and 2001 and have had steady job growth since early 2003,'' said Dennis Yablonsky, secretary of the Pennsylvania Department of Community and Economic Development. ''While most of our competitor states are facing large budget deficits, we're looking at a $400 million surplus this year.''
 As of December 2007, Pennsylvania ranked 25th in unemployment, while Ohio's unemployment rate of 6 percent pushed it down to 45th. And in terms of home foreclosures, Pennsylvania has done better than most states, ranking 37th in January.
 But the national news this week -- of the biggest job loss in five years and more home foreclosures than ever -- spurred talk of a recession from which Pennsylvania would likely not be immune. 
 On the campaign trail on Friday, Senators Clinton and Obama seized on a federal report that the nation had lost 63,000 jobs in February. Both tried to link Senator John McCain of Arizona, the presumptive Republican nominee, to President Bush's stewardship of an ailing economy, with Mrs. Clinton saying, ''The economic policies of the Bush administration are failures.'' Mr. Obama said that Americans ''can't afford John McCain's promise of four more years of the very same failed Bush economic policies that have failed us for the last eight.'' 
 But their messages will need refining as they try to appeal to Pennsylvania's Democratic primary voters. 
 ''The trick in crafting an economic message for Pennsylvania is that there are different concerns in different places,'' said Donald F. Kettl, a professor of political science at the University of Pennsylvania. He noted that half the state's delegates would come from Philadelphia's vast media market, and the Philadelphia economy is diverse and relatively healthy, compared with much of the rest of the state.
 ''There's a lot of concern that people have about the economy, but the nature of the constituency is so complex that it's hard to craft a single message to appeal to them -- except to blame George Bush for pushing the economy off the rails,'' Mr. Kettl said. ''He's not popular anywhere, but is as unpopular in Pennsylvania as anywhere.''
 Christopher Briem, a regional economist at the Center for Social and Urban Research at the University of Pittsburgh, said that in Pennsylvania, a presidential candidate needed to know about metropolitan, postindustrial and agricultural economies.
 While southeastern Pennsylvania, with Philadelphia as its hub, continues to grow with pharmaceutical and banking jobs, western and northeastern Pennsylvania are still struggling with their postindustrial recovery.
 ''Pittsburgh continues its gradual maturation from heavy industry to a center for education, medical research, and culture,'' Mr. Briem said, ''but many small towns are floundering without their factories.'' 
 Casino gambling has emerged as a new economic force in onetime factory towns like Pittsburgh, Erie and Bethlehem.
 But Erie, for example, remains relatively hard-pressed.
 ''The economy here is absolutely horrible,'' said Tom Cacchione Jr., 51, the owner of the Sports Page, a bar in Erie. ''We've lost every manufacturing job that we ever had.''
 Mr. Cacchione said he had just bought his bar in October and so far so good, for him. ''But the surrounding businesses just don't last,'' he said. ''All around here we've had businesses open up and close down. Even the drugstore closed, for crying out loud.''
 He said signing the North American Free Trade Agreement was the worst thing President Bill Clinton had done, but Mr. Cacchione supports Mrs. Clinton anyway because he thinks she will do more for the economy.
 Adam Welsh, 32, who works in management at United Parcel Service and also lives in Erie, agrees that the economy is terrible, but he has reached a different conclusion.
 ''Obama is against Nafta, and that's good for him here in Erie,'' Mr. Welsh said. ''I'm supporting Obama because he is the furthest possible departure from George Bush. That's what our country and the world needs right now. Bush has destroyed the economy and really hurt this country, and Obama is the anti-Bush. So I'm voting for him.''
 Mark Nevins, a spokesman for the Clinton campaign in Pennsylvania, said that Mrs. Clinton would emphasize that Gov. Edward G. Rendell, who is supporting Mrs. Clinton, needed ''a friend in the White House'' to continue the economic progress he has already made. Mr. Nevins also said that her own plans and the success of her husband's administration in creating jobs and expanding the economy would resonate in the state.
 Sean Smith, a spokesman for the Obama campaign here, said that Mr. Obama would emphasize his plans to stop giving tax breaks to companies that create jobs overseas and would also highlight examples around the state of companies that have successfully made the transition from manufacturing to ''knowledge.'' He said Mr. Obama also planned round-table discussions. ''He'll be very specific here with his economic message,'' Mr. Smith said.
 Mr. Kettl said that the candidates might find they need to frame their economic messages in terms of security for the future rather than fixing current problems. ''The grievances people have have much more to do with opportunity, questions of where the jobs are coming from, which are especially problems for lower- and middle-class workers,'' he said. ''This is an obvious Clinton base. The issue is less 'Nafta is taking jobs away' than 'Where are jobs for your kids?' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Alyda Morales helping students in a computer class at Esperanza, a nonprofit program that offers job training in Philadelphia.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA KOURKOUNIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
A closed Eckerd drug store in Erie, Pa. Erie remains relatively hard-pressed, despite the state's brighter economic outlook.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA SCHWAB FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 ''All around here we've had businesses open up and close down,'' said Tom Cacchione Jr. of the Sports Page bar in Erie.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA SCHWAB FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RANKINGS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); RECESSION (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); FORECLOSURE (74%); DISMISSALS (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%); ERIE, PA, USA (88%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (99%); OHIO, USA (94%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2008



194 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: Talk, but No Peace

 BODY:
There are a few certainties when it comes to the Middle East. One is that Hamas militants will do anything to sabotage Israeli-Palestinian peace efforts. Another is that Israel will retaliate against serious assaults on its people. And a third is that without measurable improvements in the lives of both Israelis and Palestinians, a few spectacular acts of terrorism can derail even the best-intentioned peace talks. 
 The latest violence, coupled with the Palestinians' bitter political schism, could doom President Bush's peace initiative. Giving up is not an option. That would guarantee even more mayhem and perhaps wider war. 
 If there is any hope of salvaging the effort, the United States, Europe and Arab states must move quickly to arrange a cease-fire between Israel and Hamas and give serious thought to a new strategy for dealing with Gaza. 
 Arab nations -- especially Egypt, Saudi Arabia and Qatar -- must help the Palestinian president, Mahmoud Abbas, pressure Hamas into halting rocket attacks against Israel. The United States must persuade Israel that there is no chance of lasting security until Palestinians, both in the West Bank and Gaza, see more benefits from peace than revenge. That means no further expansion of settlements and finding ways for Palestinians to move about and work. 
 That's going to require a lot more creativity and hands-on diplomacy than we've seen so far. Even in the midst of last week's bloody fighting, Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice could only manage a two-day stopover in the region. Her only accomplishment: persuading Mr. Abbas to resume peace talks with the Israeli prime minister, Ehud Olmert. Thursday's killing of eight students at a Jewish seminary in Jerusalem will make the going even tougher. 
 Mr. Olmert and Mr. Abbas are committed to a two-state solution. But so far there is no real sign of the kind of goal-oriented negotiations that November's Annapolis peace conference was supposed to initiate. 
 After Hamas took over Gaza last June, the United States and Israel decided they would boost Mr. Abbas and his moderate Fatah faction while isolating Hamas and Gaza. But Israel didn't do nearly enough to strengthen Mr. Abbas, and the crushing economic embargo on Gaza only feeds furies there and on the West Bank. It is increasingly apparent that Israel cannot be at war with some Palestinians and try to make peace with the rest. 
 We are encouraged that Egypt will try to broker an Israeli-Hamas cease-fire. Cairo will need a lot of outside support if it is to halt the killing without enhancing Hamas at Mr. Abbas's expense. Washington, Europe and the Arab states also need to start thinking hard about what they can do to improve the lives of ordinary Israelis and Palestinians -- and give them some faith in the peace effort. Maybe sometime after that, the two sides can talk seriously about a two-state solution. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (93%); HAMAS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); TERRORISM (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); AL FATAH (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (93%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (79%); EHUD OLMERT (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (57%) MARYLAND USA (57%) ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); EGYPT (92%); EUROPE (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); QATAR (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2008



195 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: Chiefs' Pay Under Fire At Capitol

BYLINE: By JENNY ANDERSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
In pointed exchanges with Congressional lawmakers Friday, three prominent financial executives defended the multimillion-dollar pay packages they received even as their companies were brought to their knees by the spreading credit crisis. 
 The executives, Charles O. Prince III, the former chief executive of Citigroup; E. Stanley O'Neal, the former chief executive of Merrill Lynch; and Angelo Mozilo, the founder and chief executive of Countrywide Financial, dismissed suggestions that they had reaped lavish compensation while fostering the spread of risky subprime lending. 
 The tone was captured in a testy exchange between Elijah E. Cummings, Democrat of Maryland, and Mr. Mozilo. 
 Mr. Cummings asked why the executive had urged Countrywide to pay taxes on his wife's travel on the company's private jet. ''I have some constituents who are losing their houses; you are upset about your wife,'' Mr. Cummings said. 
 Mr. Mozilo responded, ''It sounds out of whack today because it is out of whack, but in 2006, the company was doing great.'' Mr. Mozilo said he would not have made such a request today and apologized for complaining about his compensation in an internal e-mail message. ''It was an emotional time,'' he said. ''I apologize for that memo.'' 
 The questioning mainly fell along party lines, with Republicans apologizing for bringing distinguished corporate officials before the panel, and Democrats questioning everything from the income gap in America to the particular bonuses, stock sales and compensation the executives were awarded.
 Mr. O'Neal and Mr. Prince lost their jobs last fall after the collapse of the subprime market but left the companies with sizable pay packages. Mr. Mozilo's once highflying company is now being acquired by Bank of America. 
 Along with the three executives, the chairmen of the compensation committees at all three companies also testified, along with a panel of academics, corporate governance advocates and state and municipal officials. 
 Many Republicans on the committee fought the very premise of the hearing. ''This is a hearing in search of bad guys,'' said Darrell E. Issa, Republican of California. ''Are there bad guys in front of me? I'm not seeing it.'' 
 Thomas M. Davis III of Virginia, the ranking minority member, said that even if the executives had been paid nothing, there would still be a housing crisis. And Mr. Issa emphasized that all of the executives were primarily rewarded with stock, meaning they have suffered alongside shareholders as the value of financial stocks has plummeted. 
 But the Democrats homed in on why executives who oversaw such vast losses were so well compensated. 
 ''There seem to be two economic realities operating in our country today,'' Representative Henry A. Waxman, Democrat of California, the chairman of the House Committee on Oversight and Investigations, said as the hearing opened. ''Most Americans live in a world where economic security is precarious and there are real economic consequences for failure. But our nation's top executives seem to live by a different set of rules.''
 The question before the committee, he said, was this: ''When companies fail to perform, should they give millions of dollars to their senior executives?'' 
 John D. Finnegan, chairman of Merrill's compensation committee, was asked why Mr. O'Neal was permitted to retire rather than being forced out for cause. If Mr. O'Neal had been fired, he would have forfeited the $131 million in stock and options he had earned in prior years. 
 Mr. Finnegan said cause involved unethical behavior, not bad judgment. Mr. Waxman retorted: ''To say you don't have the tools, it means that even if someone performs badly there are no consequences.'' 
 Executive compensation has emerged as a hot topic in Washington in recent years. Surveys show that Americans, regardless of their income or political leanings, overwhelmingly believe that business leaders are overpaid. The hearing shed some light on how Wall Street's compensation philosophy may have contributed to the mortgage boom. Corporate boards and compensation committees agreed to lucrative bonus plans that gave executives strong incentives to take big risks. 
 Mr. Mozilo's pay drew the most scrutiny from the House committee. He has taken home more than $410 million since becoming chief executive in 1999, including several stock sales made under an automatic plan while the company was buying back shares. 
 Federal securities regulators have been scrutinizing those trades. And in a report released Thursday, Congressional investigators found that the use of a flawed peer group and easy bonus targets helped inflate his pay. He also was entitled to a $37.5 million severance package, though he forfeited that in January, after Congress requested that he testify. 
 Mr. O'Neal and Mr. Prince each landed big payouts when they resigned.
 Mr. O'Neal retained more than $161 million after he was ousted in October on top of the $70 million he took home during his four-year tenure. The bulk of the exit pay was linked to previously earned benefits and stock since his departure was deemed a retirement; he did not receive any severance pay. Merrill Lynch, meanwhile, has announced write-offs totaling more than $10.3 billion, and its stock price has fallen sharply. 
 Mr. Prince collected $110 million while presiding over the evaporation of roughly $64 billion in market value. He left Citigroup in November with an exit package worth $68 million, including $29.5 million in accumulated stock, a $1.7 million pension, an office and assistant, and a car and a driver. Citigroup's board also awarded him a cash bonus for 2007 worth about $10 million, largely based on his performance in 2006 when the bank's results were better. Citigroup has announced write-offs worth roughly $20 billion and its share has plummeted over 60 percent from last year's high. 
 In his prepared testimony, Mr. Prince focused on his humble beginnings, as the first member of his family to go to college, and the plaudits that Citigroup received for improving corporate governance on his watch.
 Since his resignation, he said, ''some have raised questions about my compensation, and much of the information reported in the media is incomplete or inaccurate.''
 Mr. O'Neal, too, said reports about his compensation package were inaccurate. ''The reality is that I received no severance package,'' he said in prepared testimony. 
 And Mr. Mozilo, noting that ''our stock price appreciated over 23,000 percent'' from 1982 to 2007, said he received performance-based bonuses approved by shareholders and exercised options as he prepared for retirement. ''In short, as our company did well, I did well,'' he said.
 Mr. Waxman ended the hearing by complimenting the witnesses on their extraordinary individual tales and for their service to their firms. But he added, ''It seems like everyone is hurting except for you.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: At the House hearing, from left: Charles Prince of Citigroup
Richard D. Parsons, a Citigroup director
Stanley O'Neal of Merrill Lynch
John Finnegan, a Merrill director
Angelo Mozilo of Countrywide
and Harley Snyder, a Countrywide director. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. C4)
 E. Stanley O'Neal left Merrill Lynch with $161 million. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); DISMISSALS (78%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (65%); SHAREHOLDERS (64%); STOCK OFFERINGS (64%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: ANGELO R MOZILO (90%); STAN O'NEAL (89%); ELIJAH E CUMMINGS (78%); HENRY WAXMAN (58%); RICHARD D PARSONS (58%); TOM DAVIS (58%); DARRELL E ISSA (58%); JOHN FINNEGAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2008



196 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 702 words

 BODY:
FEDEX KINKO CHIEF LEAVES The FedEx Corporation said Kenneth A. May had resigned as president and chief executive of its FedEx Kinko's office supply and copy centers, three months after the company said it would slow expansion at the unit. Mr. May, 47, had led FedEx Kinko's since January 2006. The change takes effect March 31. Brian Philips, 40, chief operating officer of the Dallas-based FedEx Kinko's, will become acting chief executive, FedEx said.
 The unit has ''underperformed'' since FedEx bought the business for $2.4 billion four years ago to compete with United Parcel Service's UPS Stores, an analyst at Standard & Poor's, James Corridore, said. Shares of FedEx fell $2.05, to close at $86.70. (BLOOMBERG NEWS) 
 APPELLATE RULING FOR PFIZER A federal appeals court has upheld a lower court ruling that Teva Pharmaceutical Industries, the Israeli drug maker, had infringed two patents held by Pfizer on its popular Celebrex drug. The United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit rejected claims by Teva that the two Celebrex patents at issue were invalid, although it agreed with Teva that a third patent was invalid. A federal district court in Newark ruled in favor of Pfizer, upholding its three main patents for Celebrex nearly a year ago. The decision barred Teva from releasing a competitor drug in the United States until December 2015. (REUTERS)
 INQUIRY AT REDDY ICE Reddy Ice Holdings said that a search of its Dallas headquarters on Wednesday was ordered by the antitrust division of the Department of Justice. Reddy Ice, a large maker of packaged ice, said the search was related to an investigation of the packaged ice industry. On Thursday, Reddy Ice said federal officials had searched its corporate offices but did not reveal who the officials were or what they were looking for. Reddy Ice said on Friday that its board had formed a special committee of independent directors to conduct an internal investigation. (REUTERS)
 JOB GROWTH IN CANADA Canada's economy added 43,000 jobs in February, pushing the country's employment rate to a record 63.9 percent, Statistics Canada reported on Friday. For the second consecutive month, unemployment remained at 5.8 percent, a 33-year low. The government agency said that most of the new jobs were full-time positions and that most of the growth came from the private sector. Ontario, the most populous province, provided most of the growth despite continuing job losses in its manufacturing sector.
 IAN AUSTEN
 RAISE FOR KATZENBERG DreamWorks Animation SKG, producer of the ''Shrek'' films, paid Jeffrey Katzenberg, its chief executive, $11 million in stock and option awards last year, more than double his 2006 total. Mr. Katzenberg, above, 57, got $8.66 million in stock awards and $2.38 million in option grants, according to a regulatory filing. He took $1 in salary, unchanged from 2006. The company's ''Shrek the Third'' was the second-highest-grossing movie in the United States and Canada in 2007, with $322.7 million in ticket sales, according to a report by the Motion Picture Association of America. (BLOOMBERG NEWS)
 MOTOROLA EXECUTIVE LEAVES Motorola said that Stu Reed, the former president of its troubled mobile device business, has left the company, effective immediately. A spokeswoman said Mr. Reed had been preparing for his departure after Motorola announced last month that its chief executive, Greg Brown, would take direct control of the division, where sales and margins fell last year. Mr. Reed had led the division since last summer. (AP) 
 FINANCING FOR DELPHI A federal bankruptcy judge in New York ruled on Friday that the auto parts maker Delphi Corporation can proceed with exit financing that relies heavily on its former parent company, the General Motors Corporation. The judge, Robert D. Drain, said however that the additional financing must come from a G.M. affiliate and that G.M. could not directly lend the money. Delphi had argued that the revised plan, including up to $2.8 billion in loans from G.M., was crucial to its ability to secure needed financing and would not violate the terms of Delphi's court-approved plan to emerge from bankruptcy (REUTERS) 

CORRECTION-DATE: March 12, 2008

 CORRECTION:
A Bloomberg News article in the Today in Business column in Business Day on Saturday, about the compensation of Jeffrey Katzenberg, chief executive of DreamWorks Animation, misstated his stock and options award for 2007. Mr. Katzenberg waived annual stock awards for the year; he was not awarded $11 million. (The $11 million reported in a company regulatory filing represented a prorated portion of the equity he received at the company's 2004 initial public offering, which vests in 2009.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO GRAPH 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); APPEALS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); PATENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); BOTTLED WATER & ICE (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); ICE MFG (86%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (74%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (74%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (73%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); PATENT INVALIDATION & REVOCATION (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (66%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (61%); ANIMATION (60%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (60%); STATISTICS (60%); ANIMATED FILMS (60%)

COMPANY: FEDEX CORP (97%); REDDY ICE HOLDINGS INC (90%); PFIZER INC (84%); DREAMWORKS ANIMATION SKG INC (80%); TEVA PHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRIES LTD (69%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (57%); BLOOMBERG LP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FEDERAL CIRCUIT (55%)

TICKER: FDX (NYSE) (97%); PFZ (LSE) (84%); PFEB (BRU) (84%); PFE (NYSE) (84%); DWA (NASDAQ) (80%); TEVA (TASE) (69%); TEVA (NYSE) (69%); UPS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (97%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (97%); NAICS484122 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, LESS THAN TRUCKLOAD (97%); NAICS312113 ICE MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2097 MANUFACTURED ICE (90%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (84%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (84%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (84%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (80%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (80%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (56%)

PERSON: JEFFREY KATZENBERG (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (91%) TEXAS, USA (91%); ONTARIO, CANADA (52%) CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2008



197 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: Traffic Plan Needs Votes On Council, Survey Finds

BYLINE: By RAY RIVERA; Danny Hakim contributed reporting.

 BODY:
It's the signature policy item of his second term, but Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's congestion pricing plan may be in serious trouble, not only in Albany but in the New York City Council, which after two years of bowing to much of the mayor's agenda seems suddenly emboldened to resist him. 
 A New York Times survey of the Council's 51 members this week found opposition to the plan running at nearly a 2-1 ratio among those who have taken a position. 
 Mr. Bloomberg needs 26 votes for approval of the plan, which would charge drivers $8 to enter Manhattan below 60th Street. 
 Asked how they would vote if they had to decide today, 12 council members said they would vote yes, 20 said they would vote no, and 11 said they were undecided, but with serious concerns. The other eight did not respond. 
 The informal tally bodes poorly for the mayor, who must now split his attention between swaying undecided members of the State Assembly, where opposition up to now has been loudest, and assuaging concerns among council members. It also raises the question of whether council members are more willing to depart from the mayor's agenda as they turn their focus to their next political campaigns.
 ''It's going to go down,'' said Lewis A. Fidler, a Brooklyn Democrat who opposes congestion pricing. ''I think the council members, recognizing it's not going to pass in Albany, want to assert the integrity of this institution.'' 
 The mayor's plan must be approved by both the Council and the State Legislature by March 31 for New York to qualify for about $350 million in federal financing. 
 The mayor and his aides, along with Council Speaker Christine C. Quinn, have started an effort to woo council members and legislators in recent weeks.
 They stepped up their courtship Thursday night with a dinner at Gracie Mansion to which more than a dozen council members from Manhattan, the Bronx and Staten Island had been invited. Only six attended, and gathered around a table with the mayor and the speaker over grilled salmon and wine. In a cordial tone, Mr. Bloomberg made his pitch, warning them of the risk of losing federal money just as the city's economy appears headed for bleak times, according to some members who attended. 
 The mayor also gave a breakfast for several Assembly members from Brooklyn last week, and he had planned more dinners for state and city lawmakers from the other boroughs in coming weeks. 
 But even some of the plan's supporters wonder if the personal appeals will be enough. 
 ''I would vote yes. We need congestion pricing,'' said Councilman David Yassky, a Brooklyn Democrat. ''But one vote isn't enough if the mayor wants to pass congestion pricing. He's got to address this problem of people from New Jersey getting a free ride.'' 
 The councilman was referring to a letter he and 19 other members signed this week, demanding that New Jersey commuters pay a partial fee, or that the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey use a portion of tolls collected from Manhattan-bound drivers to pay for New York City mass transit. 
 Other council members expressed concerns about who would control the estimated $500 million in annual fees generated by congestion pricing; how the city would avoid turning neighborhoods outside the fee zone into parking lots; and whether there will be enough extra buses and trains to give commuters in the outlying parts of the city an alternative to driving. 
 John Gallagher, a spokesman for the mayor, said, ''We're in constant communications with members of the Council, and we're working to address their issues and answer questions.''
 He added: ''We're optimistic that at the end of the day, they'll be with us.''
 Ms. Quinn also expressed confidence that she and the mayor could swing enough votes to push the plan through the Council. 
 History is on her side. In her two years as speaker, she has used steady persuasion and the political power of her title to secure wins, often by garish margins, for bills that were unpopular with many of her members. They include the mayor's long-stalled garbage plan, and tough new campaign finance restrictions. 
 In fact, Ms. Quinn has never lost a vote on a bill she has supported during her time as speaker, and has never received close to 20 votes against her. 
 The Times poll comes weeks before a vote would actually happen, Ms. Quinn noted this week. ''So those are indications of where people are, not necessarily where they will be,'' she said. 
 ''That said,'' she added, ''this is a complicated issue. It's an issue where we always knew there would be disagreement as well as support. I am under no illusions that we will have a near-unanimous vote.''
 In the Legislature, news that the mayor donated $500,000 to Senate Republicans set off anger among Democrats, making it even less likely that the Democratic-controlled Assembly would pass a congestion pricing bill. On Thursday, its chances seemed to get even slimmer when Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver and other Assembly Democrats embraced a plan to raise taxes on those earning $1 million or more, with much of the proceeds over time going to pay for transportation projects in New York City. 
 Still, versions of the mayor's congestion pricing plan are still on the table, and some political observers believe the Assembly can ultimately be induced if Gov. Eliot Spitzer decides to give lawmakers their first pay raise in nearly a decade. 
 Assembly members from Queens, Brooklyn and suburban communities have been the most vocal critics of the plan. Likewise, half of the 30 council members from Queens and Brooklyn said they would vote against the plan as it currently stands, though several said that they could change their minds if their issues are addressed. 
 David I. Weprin of Queens, a Democrat who has been one of the proposal's most ardent opponents, was encouraged that so many members were willing to stake a public position against it. 
 Still, he added with a hint of resignation, ''When the mayor and the speaker are behind something, you can't discount their power to persuade.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: UNOFFICIAL ROLL CALL ON CONGESTION PRICING: City Council members were asked, if they had to vote today, would they support Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's plan to charge fees for driving into parts of Manhattan. Here are their answers. (pg. B4) Chart showing the supporters and dissenters of Mayor Bloomberg's plan to charge fees for driving into Manhattan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (90%); PRODUCT PRICING (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TRANSPORTATION PLANNING (78%); POLITICS (76%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); ALBANY, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2008



198 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 8, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: Confronting The Kitchen Sink

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
The high anxiety in the Obama circles has thrown the campaign off its game.
 Samantha Power, one of Senator Barack Obama's senior foreign policy advisers, had to quit Friday after she lost her cool in an interview with a Scottish newspaper and called Senator Hillary Clinton a ''monster.''
 The campaign apologized for the flap. But Mr. Obama himself seems unsure of how to respond to the trash-and-thrash tactics that helped Senator Clinton defeat him in Ohio and Texas this week. 
 The anger that caused Ms. Power to blurt out the monster comment is widespread inside the Obama camp. But Senator Obama, for a variety of reasons -- some of them self-imposed -- is sharply constrained in the way that he can respond to provocations.
 And if there is one thing the Clinton crowd knows how to do, it's provoke.
 On Thursday, Senator Clinton's spokesman, Howard Wolfson, likened Senator Obama to Ken Starr, the independent prosecutor who hounded the Clintons in the Monica Lewinsky scandal. Why the Clinton forces would want to inject that poisonous bit of business into the campaign is a mystery.
 But there was Mr. Wolfson on Thursday, in response to a call from the Obama campaign for Mrs. Clinton to release her tax returns, asserting: ''I, for one, do not believe that imitating Ken Starr is the way to win a Democratic primary election for president.''
 More serious was Senator Clinton's assertion that she was qualified to be commander in chief, and that John McCain had also ''certainly'' crossed that ''threshold,'' but that the jury was still out on Mr. Obama. 
 In other words, if a choice on national security had to be made today between Senators Obama and McCain, voters -- according to Mrs. Clinton's logic -- should choose Senator McCain.
 That is a low thing for a Democratic presidential candidate to do to a rival in a party primary. Can you imagine John McCain saying that Rudy Giuliani or Mitt Romney or even the guitar-strumming Mike Huckabee might be less qualified than Hillary Clinton to be commander in chief? It couldn't happen. 
 But Senator Clinton never gave a second thought to opening the trap door beneath her fellow Democrat.
 And then there was Mrs. Clinton on ''60 Minutes,'' being interviewed by Steve Kroft. He had shown a clip on the program of a voter in Ohio who said that he'd heard that Senator Obama didn't know the national anthem, ''wouldn't use the Holy Bible,'' and was a Muslim.
 Mr. Kroft asked Senator Clinton if she believed that Senator Obama is a Muslim. In one of the sleaziest moments of the campaign to date, Senator Clinton replied: ''No. No. Why would I? No, there is nothing to base that on. As far as I know.''
 As far as I know.
 If she had been asked if she thought President Bush was a Muslim, would her response have included the caveat ''as far as I know''? What about Senator McCain? Why, then, with Senator Obama? 
 In the run-up to the crucial Texas and Ohio primaries, the plan in the Clinton camp, as The Times reported, was to unleash as many lines of attack as possible -- a ''kitchen sink'' fusillade -- in the hope that something would work. Senator Obama is still trying to figure out how to respond.
 Whatever anger and frustration he may be feeling, he should stick to the high road. He can't win wrestling in the mud with Hillary Clinton. That will not put Barack Obama in the White House.
 Mr. Obama's strength was his message of hope and healing, the idea that he could bring disparate groups together to work on the nation's toughest problems. That has gotten him this far, which is much further than almost anyone expected.
 He now needs an added dimension. He needs to articulate a vision. He needs to spell out to voters where he wants to take this country over the next few years, how he will alleviate the suffering of millions trapped in vicious economic circumstances and what he will do to restore the honor and prestige of the U.S. around the world.
 Political campaigns are not about fairness, but they can often be about vision. Voters want more from Senator Obama. 
 He may not be able to close the deal with, say, working-class whites, but he more than anyone else has the eloquence to try and make a compelling case. He should go for it.
 We have seen election after election in which candidates have won by fanning the anxieties of voters. Elect me, or something terrible will happen to you!
 That is now the Clinton mantra, which is a measure of how grim our politics have become. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (62%); RELIGION (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); SAMANTHA POWER (88%); MICHAEL HUCKABEE (58%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%); MITT ROMNEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2008



199 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2008
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; FILM; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1712 words

HEADLINE: Centenarian Director's Very Long View

BYLINE: By DENNIS LIM

 BODY:
WHEN referring to the Portuguese director Manoel de Oliveira, it is now -- and has been for some time -- customary to affix the phrase ''world's oldest active filmmaker.'' The operative word is ''active.'' Mr. Oliveira, who turns 100 in December, has made at least one movie a year since 1990 (when he was 82). His late-career surge, a gratifyingly long goodbye, defies preconceptions of what an artist's twilight period should be. Mr. Oliveira's undaunted productivity is remarkable, as is the undimmed creative vigor of his films. 
 The cultural critic Edward Said, in his writings on ''late style,'' identified two versions of ''artistic lateness.'' One produces crowning glories, models of ''harmony and resolution'' in which a lifetime of knowledge and mastery are serenely evident. The other is an altogether more restless sensibility, the province of artists who go anything but gently into that good night, turning out works of ''intransigence, difficulty and unresolved contradiction.'' 
 Mr. Oliveira, force of nature that he is, represents both kinds of lateness, often in a single film. In this, as in so many other respects, he is his own special case. What are we to make of an artist who hit his stride in his 70s, and for whom ''late style'' is in effect the primary style? 
 Many of Mr. Oliveira's films have the pensive, melancholic quality of memento mori. But whether grappling with mortality (in ''Voyage to the Beginning of the World'' and ''I'm Going Home,'' both of which feature elderly protagonists) or with the birth pangs and death throes of empires and civilizations ('' 'Non,' or The Vain Glory of Command,'' ''A Talking Picture''), he poses many more questions than he answers. 
 His movies, full of backward glances, are too eccentric or perverse to be considered nostalgic. While it's tempting to liken his inquiring spirit to that of a man a quarter of his age, his longevity is hardly incidental to the work. In his richest films Mr. Oliveira creates the impression of a one-man century of cinema, a living link between old and new: the ideals of the Enlightenment, modernism and European high culture on the one hand, the uncertainty and multiplicity of the present age on the other.
 Regarded as a modern master in Europe, on a par with Bunuel, Dreyer and Bresson (filmmakers to whom he is sometimes compared), Mr. Oliveira is a more marginal figure in the United States. Despite regular appearances at the New York Film Festival, only a few of his films have received domestic distribution. BAMcinematek's centennial retrospective, which opens on Friday and continues through March 30, is an opportunity to take stock of a singular career and to catch some rarely screened films: 18 of his 28 features will be shown, along with four shorts, including his first, ''Working on the River Douro,'' from 1931. (Mr. Oliviera is scheduled to make an appearance on Friday after a screening of his most recent film, ''Christopher Columbus -- The Enigma,'' completed last year and shot partly in New York. The series will tour the United States in the coming months, stopping off at the Harvard Film Archive, the Film and Television Archive at the University of California, Los Angeles, and other locations.) 
 The peculiar shape of Mr. Oliveira's filmography -- he made only three features and a smattering of shorts in the first 40 years of his career -- is partly a function of Portuguese history. Born in Oporto to a well-off family, he competed in the pole vault, raced cars professionally and even performed as a trapeze artist in his youth. He had just turned to filmmaking when the dictator Antonio Salazar came to power in 1932. It took Mr. Oliveira years to make his first feature, the neo-realist street-kid parable ''Aniki-Bobo'' (1942). The decades that followed were no more hospitable, especially since he did not conceal his opposition to the authoritarian regime. 
 ''I was never a political man,'' Mr. Oliveira said in a recent e-mail message from Portugal. ''But my obsession is with humanism, and I reject all action which is damaging to man.''
 During the period of enforced inactivity, Mr. Oliveira tended a farm and vineyard that his wife had inherited. ''It was an enormous lesson, in terms of agriculture and human dealings with the farmers, even in regards to the laws of the land ruled by the immutable laws of nature,'' he wrote. For years he acquired almost no experience as a filmmaker but was accumulating insight: ''I had time for a long and profound reflection about the artistic nature of cinema, which transformed my previous certainties into new concepts between hesitations and doubt.'' The ruminations led him to a guiding principle of sorts: ''the simplicity of old Greek tragedies and the realism of Renaissance.''
 In 1931, when Mr. Oliveira made ''Working on the River Douro,'' a poetically edited documentary of riverside activity, the Soviet theories of montage were a big influence. Over the years, as his cinema became more cerebral, his style grew starker and more subdued, moving away from what he called ''a distracting expression wherein shots succeed each other ceaselessly.'' 
 His second feature, ''Rite of Spring'' (1963), was pivotal. Ostensibly a piece of filmed theater, showing an enactment of the Passion of Christ in a peasant village, it is also a self-conscious making-of documentary with elements of political allegory. The tension between fiction and documentary -- between different levels of reality and forms of representation -- would prove central as Mr. Oliveira jump-started his career, quickly making up for lost time after the Salazar regime was overthrown in the Carnation Revolution of 1974. 
 Many of his films are based on theatrical or literary texts and often deal with the disjunctions between film and theater, or between film and literature, even as they attempt to merge the respective mediums. Randal Johnson, the author of a new monograph on Mr. Oliveira (the first book in English about him), refers to this process as ''palimpsestic writing,'' resulting in films that are ''consistently in dialogue'' with existing texts. 
 Some are relatively freewheeling riffs. ''Abraham's Valley'' (1993) is a contemporary update of ''Madame Bovary.''''Belle Toujours'' (2006) is a speculative sequel to Bunuel's ''Belle du Jour.'' Others, like 1978's four-and-a-half-hour ''Doomed Love'' (based on a classic of Portuguese literature by Camilo Castelo Branco, and a title that sums up one of Mr. Oliveira's favorite themes) or 1985's seven-hour ''Satin Slipper'' (based on an epic Paul Claudel play, and one of the few major films not in the BAMcinematek series), are adapted with a fidelity that seems almost ascetic. 
 ''I think of film as a synthesis of all art forms,'' Mr. Oliveira wrote. ''And I try to balance the four fundamental pillars of film: image, word, sound and music.'' He may have started in silent movies, but he is obsessed with language, as is apparent from some of his titles (''Word and Utopia,''''The Letter,'' ''A Talking Picture''). He layers his movies with intertitles and voice-overs, asserting that the text is as important as the image. 
 Mr. Oliveira's movies are often described as painterly or theatrical. His camera frame functions as a proscenium, and his actors tend to deliver their lines with a declamatory stiffness, sometimes facing the camera. This mode of direct address is in keeping with Mr. Oliveira's notion of interactive cinema. ''Each film must be finished by the spectators,'' he said. (He also recognizes the comic potential of breaking the fourth wall. In ''Abraham's Valley'' someone interrupts a monologue on the fall of Western civilization by tossing a cat at the camera.) 
 His international profile went up in the '90s when he started supplementing his stable of Portuguese actors (notably Luis Miguel Cintra and Leonor Silveira) with art-house stars like Marcello Mastrioanni, Catherine Deneuve, Michel Piccoli and John Malkovich. But his movies, steeped in history, philosophy and theology, have never made obvious concessions to the tastes of the art-film marketplace. It can seem that Mr. Oliveira, an artist liberated by age, is, as Cahiers du Cinema once put it, beyond ''the rules of cinematic decorum and commerce.'' 
 But the reality is trickier, even for an almost-100-year-old maverick. ''Today the economic situation in our country and around the world has gotten much harder for resistance,'' Mr. Oliveira wrote. 
 ''I don't know if a career like his will ever be possible again,'' said Mr. Malkovich, who has appeared in three of Mr. Oliveira's films. ''There's a sense with Manoel that he feels profoundly he has a lot more to say. I think that still comes across in his movies, and that's pretty amazing.''
 Already Mr. Oliviera is planning his next film, ''The Strange Case of Angelica,'' which, he said, ''will deal with today's situation in its terrible complexity,'' much like the post-9/11 meditation on clashing civilizations, ''A Talking Picture'' (2003).
 As befits a man of his age Mr. Oliveira's specialty is the long view, and the expanse of Portuguese history has given him plenty to work with. The new ''Christopher Columbus'' uses the quest of its hero -- a researcher trying to prove Columbus was born in Portugal -- to contemplate the once mighty empire's central role in the age of discovery. ''It expresses a certain melancholy before the greatness of a past faced with the mediocrity we have come down to today,'' Mr. Oliveira wrote. 
 Most artists are fortunate if they get to make a work with the culminating grace and authority of a final testament; Mr. Oliveira practically has half a career's worth. (There is also one final film before the fact, made in 1982 and called ''Visit, or Memories and Confessions,'' about a house where he used to live, which he will only allow to be shown after his death -- ''for prudish reasons,'' he said.) 
 But he would be the first to caution against making too much of his longevity. ''Nature is very capricious and gives to some what it takes from others,'' he said. ''I see myself being more admired for my age than for my films, which, being good or bad, will always be my responsibility. But I am not responsible for my age.''

CORRECTION-DATE: March 16, 2008

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the career of the director Manoel de Oliveira misstated the title of a Luis Bunuel film. It is ''Belle de Jour,'' not ''Belle du Jour.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Leonor Silveira in Manoel de Oliveira's ''Abraham's Valley'' (1993), a ''Madame Bovary'' update made when the director was in his 90s. John Malkovich, below, like Catherine Deneuve, has appeared in Mr. de Oliveira's movies. ''I don't know if a career like his will ever be possible again,'' Mr. Malkovich says. (PHOTOGRAPHS COURTESY OF MADRAGOA FILMS) (pg.AR15)
 The Portuguese director Manoel de Oliveira in 1999. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THE ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.AR27) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (72%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (69%); FESTIVALS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTUGAL (88%); EUROPE (66%); UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2008



200 of 792 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2008 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 9, 2008
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; F. Y. I.; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 460 words

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POLLAK. 
E-mail: fyi@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Masked Marauders
 Q. The other morning, as I was walking my dog near the duck pond around 102nd Street in Central Park, I heard what sounded like one dog attacking another dog. The screaming came from high up in a tree. I asked a park worker what the sound was. His answer was ''raccoons.'' Really? 
 A. Really. 
 ''There is a very healthy raccoon population in Central Park,'' said Neil Calvanese, vice president for operations of the Central Park Conservancy. ''They do not live in sewers, though they may travel through them on occasion. They live in hollows of large trees, where they spend the daytime hours.''
 According to Mr. Calvanese, they don't attack people, but they will scuffle with dogs when provoked. As for the sound you heard, ''we don't normally hear them screaming in pain,'' he said, ''so this could have been a territorial dispute.''
 Some Stones Uncarved
 Q. The other day, when I was walking past the Metropolitan Museum, I noticed large, uncarved stone blocks above the columns on the facade. Is the facade unfinished, or is this rough-cut stone intentional?
 A. Not exactly intentional. The four stacks of stone blocks, above four pairs of columns, each stack weighing 20 tons, were part of a plan by the architect Richard Morris Hunt to place 31 statues on the Beaux-Arts facade along Fifth Avenue.
 The central pavilion features three arches, each flanked by pairs of huge Corinthian columns. But Hunt died in 1895 before specifying the designs to be carved over the columns. ''The scope of the sculptural program was reduced with every revision of the plans,'' Morrison H. Heckscher wrote in his 1995 book, ''The Metropolitan Museum of Art: An Architectural History.'' 
 With the rest of the facade almost complete, Hunt's son Richard Howland Hunt suggested that the blocks be carved into allegorical figures representing what he called ''the four great periods of art: Egyptian (for ancient), Greek (for classic), Renaissance and modern,'' Mr. Heckscher wrote. ''In the niche directly under each principal group he would place a reproduction of the best work of art of the period.''
 Put simply, the trustees decided the statuary would be too expensive. The facade was completed in 1902 without the statues, ''and today the piles of uncarved stone are an accepted part of the facade,'' Mr. Heckscher wrote.
 Perrier, Yes. Faucet, No.
 Q.Restaurants will always provide tap water to customers, but some self-service cafeterias do not; instead, they sell bottled water. For economic and environmental reasons I'd rather drink New York City tap water. What is the law?
 A. Although New York City tap water is highly regarded, no part of the health code requires cafeterias to serve tap water to customers on demand. 
 MICHAEL POLLAK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JON PIERRE LASSEIGNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAMMALS (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); DOGS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (87%); SCULPTURE (87%); BOTTLED WATER (73%); RESTAURANTS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2008

 
