

401 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: Little Real Outrage Over a Thinner Blue Line 

BYLINE:  By SHAILA K. DEWAN 

 BODY:
It has not been so very long since New York was a city where, it was said, if you were killed on the street, people would just step over you and keep walking and where the police were more likely to be seen seen as intruders rather than protectors. 
 In some neighborhoods there is less psychological distance from those times than others. Still, it could perhaps be taken as an indicator of how far the city has come that when Lisa Greenfield heard there was a possibility of police layoffs in the city, her first thought was not of crime, but of the men and women who would lose their jobs. 
 "As far as I'm concerned, it would be a shame for their job security, especially since last year," she said as she pushed her daughter Onyx in a swing at Fort Greene Park in Brooklyn on Friday afternoon. "Their job is one of the most unappreciated."
Ms. Greenfield was not wholly sanguine about the fate of her own neighborhood. "I wish there would be more beat cops," she said. But, she added, she would not want to decide between cutting police officers or cutting education, if that is what budgetary realities came down to.
In a smattering of interviews throughout the city, people agreed that they did not want to see fewer officers on the street. But they could not muster much outrage about the possibility of layoffs because they understood that the city faced difficult times. 
"You can't cut firemen, police or children's services," said Richard Parmenter, a truck driver, as he made a delivery. 
But he did not want to see much of a reduction, either, in trash pickup, or libraries, or health care or parks. "No, no, no, no," he said. But, he added, "There's got to be something that they don't need." 
Mr. Parmenter was not entirely convinced that the money needed was not already somewhere in the system. "I don't know how there could be a budget deficit," he said, gesturing at his delivery truck parked against the curb. "They raised the tickets to $110."
Mr. Parmenter said that his neighborhood, Greenpoint, in Brooklyn, would not be affected by a reduction in the police force. But in Crown Heights, a neighborhood that has not kept pace with the rest of the city's decline in crime, people feared a surge of violence if there were any letup in policing.
"The young people, you don't know how they think," said Joyce Noel from behind the counter of Joyce's Cafe on Utica Avenue. "If they see cops across the street, they're definitely not going to do anything." In the staggering economy, she added, more people were unemployed, which meant more people would be tempted to commit crimes. 
Judy Rios, 35, stood on a corner waiting for her daughter to come home from school and watching a patrol car move slowly through the park across the street. Ms. Rios, a nursing assistant, moved two years ago to Crown Heights from East New York, where, she said, crime was rampant. She feels safer now. But she understands that the city has to save money.
"Over here, I need it. I need some police," said Jose Garcia, handing out change in his family's coin laundry in Harlem. "At night, I feel safe," Mr. Garcia added. But what if , say, only one in 20 officers was cut? It would be O.K. to cut one of 20, he said. "One police. Not 10."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jose Garcia, in his family's coin laundry in Harlem, said that he could support limited cuts to the police force in his area, but nothing drastic. (Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CRIME RATES (89%); POLICE FORCES (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (66%); CHILD WELFARE (50%) POLICE; PUBLIC OPINION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; CRIME AND CRIMINALS 

PERSON: DEWAN, SHAILA K 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2003 



402 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1645 words

HEADLINE: Personal Business; 
Class-Action Suits Mean Delays and, Maybe, Cash

BYLINE:  By LYNNLEY BROWNING 

 BODY:
WHENEVER Ira W. David hears about yet another big class-action lawsuit, he is overcome with mixed emotions.
 Last fall, Mr. David, the owner of a small software marketing company in Las Vegas, received a check for $19,889.23. The money was his share of an $11 million award against Computer Associates International, a software company found by a federal jury more than two years ago to have violated securities laws in its purchase of the privately held On-Line Software International in 1991. Computer Associates was accused of secretly paying a higher per-share price to On-Line's chairman. Mr. David, 54, who owned 7,250 shares and options in the acquired company, was part of a class-action suit filed against Computer Associates about 12 years ago. 
 He said he viewed his settlement check as "found money," because he is a former executive at On-Line Software who had bought his stock at a discount and had actually made around $25,000 when the company was acquired. "It's putting me through law school," he said. 
But that was only one experience. Mr. David has had a far less rewarding one involving a shareholder class-action lawsuit against a former online prescription drugstore, PlanetRx.com. Mr. David, who said he had lost $15,200 after investing in the company, said he expected little or no money from any future settlement with that company because it had few assets remaining. The lawsuit, which is pending, also accuses some of PlanetRX.com's underwriters of inflating the company's initial public offering price in 1999. 
At least 10,000 class-action suits are filed each year, and billions of dollars are ultimately awarded to consumers. Anyone who, on designated dates, invested in or did business with a company that is named in a class-action suit can join in. The process usually involves filling out forms and scaring up old receipts or financial statements. But just because you may qualify to share in a settlement doesn't necessarily mean you will receive instant wealth, as Mr. David's contrasting experiences show.
Barry A. Weprin, a lawyer at Milberg Weiss Bershad Hynes & Lerach in New York, a firm regarded in the industry as a leading filer of class-action suits, said, "Many people seem to think that they're going to get a lot more than they actually end up getting."
Usually, the lawyers who bring the suits stand to gain the most. Nearly all class-action suits are brought on a contingency basis, which means that lawyers are paid a percentage of any recovery. The damage award can grow with additional plaintiffs.
Institutional investors are often big winners as well. Financial institutions like mutual fund families have a big incentive to step forward: they own large blocks of stock and constitute about half the claims class in securities-fraud lawsuits. These institutions typically put their payouts directly into the funds that own or owned stock in the company that settled.
Lawyers say relatively few individuals -- nobody knows precisely how many -- make the effort to receive what is legally theirs. Stanley M. Grossman, a senior partner at the Pomerantz Haudek Block Grossman & Gross law firm in New York, said that in the average securities-fraud case, only half of those eligible join in. For consumer-fraud cases, the estimates are even lower. Roger W. Kirby, a lawyer at Kirby McInerney & Squire, a firm in New York, said he had heard of cases in which only 6 percent of the class members had submitted claims. Many cases drag on for so many years, he said, that class members either forget about them or move, leaving no way for settlement administrators to contact them about how to collect. Unclaimed payments may be divided among other members of the class, awarded to charities or returned to the defendant.
Sometimes there is little worth claiming. In a 1996 memo for the Manhattan Institute, a research organization in New York, Lawrence W. Schonbrun, a securities lawyer, described a settlement check written to one class member for 14 cents, complete with four pages of instructions on how to report the payment to the Internal Revenue Service. Although cash claims worth less than $5 are often not paid, some settlements offer other compensation of dubious value: discount coupons for goods or services from the very company whose products or services prompted the lawsuits.
Mr. David said he first received information about the lawsuit against Computer Associates in 1994 from Kirby McInerney & Squire, which had filed the suit against the company in 1991. He filled out and returned a form that was included with the mailed information. But a database glitch -- he said he did not know where -- meant that he later had to dig out old brokerage-firm receipts for his shares and mail those in, too. Mr. Kirby, the lawyer, said claim forms were also mailed last January, but Mr. David could not remember whether he had to fill one out. Checks from the case, one of the rare class-action cases to go to trial, were mailed about a month ago. 
"It was painless," Mr. David said of the procedure, "but a little stretched out."
In many cases, class members may be disappointed. Bulent Pektas, 38, a manager of a car repair shop in Jersey City, said he was told recently by his lawyers to expect a $99 check in coming weeks from Hewlett-Packard. It was his share, he said he had been told, of the company's estimated $11 million settlement last month over accusations from customers of false advertising. 
Mr. Pektas said he bought a Hewlett-Packard DVD burner more than a year ago for $599 after seeing advertisements that promoted DVD burners with free internal upgrades. But he said the upgrade was canceled. He said the company said that it was technologically not feasible, and instead told consumers they could pay $99 to trade in their old DVD burners for upgraded ones.
"It's not a fair deal,"' Mr. Pektas complained of the settlement. He said he would never have bought the Hewlett-Packard product had he known it could not be internally upgraded -- especially when that product was now selling for less than $300. 
Hewlett-Packard had no comment on Mr. Pektas's complaints, said Kevin P. Beagley, a company spokesman.
Mr. Pektas said he learned he was a class member late last year, when he received an e-mail notice of the suit and a claim form from Faruqi & Faruqi, a New York law firm that had sued Hewlett-Packard. As part of its settlement, the company supplied the law firm with information from product registration forms to track class members. 
Mr. Pektas said he had to mail in a notarized form including the serial number of his DVD burner. But he said that when he had called Hewlett-Packard's claims administrators recently to check on his award, he had been told they had no record of his having submitted a claim. "I guess you could say I'm a little bit disappointed," he said.
He said he would continue to check on the status, although he is prepared to submit another claim.
Legal experts debate the degree to which settlements compensate individuals for their losses. Citing widely used figures, Michael A. Perino, a specialist in securities law and an associate professor at St. John's University School of Law in Queens, said claimants for all types of cases typically recovered 8 percent to 15 percent of their overall losses. But when securities-fraud settlements are computed on the basis of losses directly tied to a company, and not those from declining markets or other factors, the recovered amount climbs to 34 percent, according to Mr. Kirby. Attorneys' fees typically take about 20 percent of settlements, including expenses.
Since 1995, the median settlement has nearly doubled, to $16.5 million, according to Frederick C. Dunbar, senior vice president for data at National Economic Research Associates, a consulting firm in New York. The average settlement since 1995 is $27.2 million, but Mr. Dunbar said that figure was potentially misleading because of huge settlements like the $2.83 billion in 1999 with the Cendant Corporation, a record in a securities case. (In addition, its former auditor, Ernst & Young, agreed to pay $335 million.)
Several factors are behind the increase in settlement amounts. A 1995 law made it tougher for lawsuits to receive court certification to proceed toward settlement or trial, producing more meritorious cases in recent years. The boom on Wall Street in the mid- to late 1990's swelled corporate coffers, making more money available for settlements. Securities-fraud cases, which are typically settled for twice as much as other cases, also have increased in recent years.
But a welter of big-dollar, class-action lawsuits against scandal-plagued companies like WorldCom, Enron and Adelphia Communications may also result in awards of dubious merit. Mr. Dunbar said that warrants, which are securities to purchase stock in a company at a future date, had been increasingly common as awards in securities-fraud lawsuits for companies lacking the cash or insurance to settle for large amounts. But warrants can be worth little if a company's stock is already depressed, and they dilute the interests of existing shareholders.
IN any case, investors wounded by the downturn on Wall Street should not count on joining class-action lawsuits to recoup their losses.
Steven H. Rosner, a retired small-business owner in Miami, knows that all too well. In November, he received a check for $2,918.20 from Assisted Living Concepts of Portland, Ore., a chain of residences for the elderly. The money was his share of a $10 million settlement that the company reached more than two years ago with investors over allegations that it falsified its financial statements. Mr. Rosner, 60, estimated that he had lost about $15,000 on the $25,000 he invested in Assisted Living bonds.
"Better than nothing," he said of his recent check. "But it doesn't make up my losses."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bulent Pektas joined a class-action suit against Hewlett-Packard but is unhappy with the results: he is expected to get a $99 check. (Timothy Ivy for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASS ACTIONS (92%); LITIGATION (92%); SUITS & CLAIMS (91%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); LAWYERS (89%); DAMAGES (78%); JURY TRIALS (78%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); ACQUISITIONS (76%); CONSUMER LAW (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (73%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (72%); STOCK OPTIONS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (71%); SECURITIES LAW (71%); MUTUAL FUNDS (70%); BONDS (67%); LAW SCHOOLS (66%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (63%) SUITS AND LITIGATION; LEGAL PROFESSION; CONSUMER PROTECTION; STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: CA INC (84%); MILBERG LLP (83%); ON-LINE SOFTWARE INTERNATIONAL INC (57%); PLANETRX.COM INC (55%)

TICKER: CA (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (84%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%)

PERSON: BROWNING, LYNNLEY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2003 



403 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 716 words

HEADLINE: Footlights 

BYLINE:  By ROBERTA HERSHENSON; E-mail address: westarts@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Toward Racial Harmony
The world holds different challenges than in 1992, when Pepsico and the Westchester Philharmonic organized the first Music America as a tribute to the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., but the county event is still held each January in the name of nonviolence and racial harmony.
 The concert draws a diverse audience, who go to hear a mix of jazz, spirituals and orchestral music and raise money for causes ranging from fair housing to Holocaust remembrance. 
 The music is provided by the Westchester Philharmonic, whose music director and conductor, Paul Lustig Dunkel, is committed to entertainment that builds bridges. 
The concert, which takes place next Saturday at 7:30 p.m. at the Performing Arts Center of Purchase College, and the dinner reception preceding it, will benefit 15 groups this year including the Center for Preventive Psychiatry in White Plains and the Mount Vernon Firehouse Hip-Hop Museum.
The featured artists are the Valerie Capers Ensemble, led by Ms. Capers, a jazz pianist, composer and arranger (pictured at left); and Brenda Schaffer Weiner, a singer who appears in opera and musical theater.
Mr. Dunkel has composed "From the Mountain," which incorporates Dr. King's writings as well as the words of five African-American poets. Mr. Dunkel will also play the flute solo in Nathaniel Hailstork's "Pied Piper of Harlem." 
Pepsico, J.P. Morgan Chase & Company and the Abraham Fund/Alan B. Slifka Foundation are the main sponsors. 
Tickets to the dress rehearsal on Saturday at 10 a.m. are $5. Tickets to the concert are $20 and $35; tickets at $70 and $85 include the reception, which starts at 5:30 p.m.
Information: (914) 682-3707, extension 10. 

New Arts President
The Westchester Arts Council's new president, Jamie Shenkman, is a writer and publicist whose grandfather was the late Jacob Burns, a Manhattan lawyer and philanthropist for whom the popular film center in Pleasantville was named. (She is also a trustee of the Jacob Burns Foundation, which gave a major gift to help establish the center in 2001.) She took over Jan. 1 from LaRuth Gray, who continues as deputy director of the Metropolitan Center for Urban Education at New York University. 
Ms. Shenkman became a member of the council's board in 1995, continuing a love for the arts that began in childhood. She writes short stories and works for Thompson & Bender in Briarcliff Manor, a publicity firm whose accounts include the Jacob Burns Film Center. "I really believe the arts are important," she said. "Not only as a creative outlet but also as an economic stimulant."

A Battle Remembered
The Battle of White Plains in 1776 left 300 British and Hessian troops dead or wounded and caused 150 American casualties. The battle gained time for General George Washington and his army, who moved on to Peekskill without the British pursuing them. The conflict is re-enacted in a 1978 docudrama, "The Battle of White Plains," which was sponsored by the White Plains Historical Society, filmed by the Film Workshop of Westchester and directed by Mark Sadan. The 30-minute black and white film will be shown free Wednesday at 7 p.m. at the White Plains Public Library. Jack Harrington, president of the society, will introduce the film and lead a discussion afterward. 
Information (914) 422-1480. 

Chapters in C Minor
A father-and-son power struggle, a vow that helped win a woman's heart, a death that derailed the premiere of a masterpiece: Read all about it at www.thegrandmass.org, a Web site that tells the story of Mozart's C minor Mass in chapters like "The Inextricable Opposites," "A Family Torn Asunder" and "The C Minor Mystery."
The Web site was designed and written by Scott Anderson of Hastings-on-Hudson, whose wife, Melanie, is a member of the Hastings-based Hudson Valley Singers. The 73-member chorus will perform the rarely heard Mass -- which is "far more ambitious and elaborate than the 'Requiem,' " said Mr. Anderson -- with a 33-piece orchestra next Sunday at 3 p.m. at the Presbyterian Church in White Plains. Eugene Sirotkine, the chorus's music director (who is also assistant chorusmaster of the Metropolitan Opera), will conduct the concert, which features soloists from the Met chorus.
Tickets range from $12 to $20. Information: (914) 674-2865.
 ROBERTA HERSHENSON

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (92%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); WRITERS (87%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); HIP HOP CULTURE (78%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); FUNDRAISING (76%); PHILANTHROPY (76%); MAJOR GIFTS (76%); CHARITIES (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (74%); FILM (74%); FOUNDATIONS (73%); RAP MUSIC (73%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (73%); PSYCHIATRY (72%); POETRY (65%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (62%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (62%); ARMED FORCES (60%); CITY LIFE (60%); CITIES (60%); LAWYERS (60%); THEATER (57%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (53%) MUSIC; CULTURE; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; MOTION PICTURES 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (66%); PEPSICO INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: WESTCHESTER PHILHARMONIC; WESTCHESTER ARTS COUNCIL; HUDSON VALLEY SINGERS 

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (66%); JPM (LSE) (66%); 8634 (TSE) (66%); PEP (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (66%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (66%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (66%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (58%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (58%)

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (90%) KING, MARTIN LUTHER JR (1929-68); DUNKEL, PAUL LUSTIG; SHENKMAN, JAMIE; SADAN, MARK; ANDERSON, SCOTT; MOZART, WOLFGANG AMADEUS (1756-91); HERSHENSON, ROBERTA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: BATTLE OF WHITE PLAINS, THE (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2003 



404 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 687 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
No Need To Wring Hands Over Retail Sales

BYLINE:  By TOM REDBURN 

 BODY:
THE worst Christmas in 30 years.
 That's what all the retail experts said, and the news media, regrettably, pretty much reported it that way, too. 
 Or as The New York Times put it, in accurately describing the report of Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, "growth in United States retail sales for the months of November and December, at 1.5 percent, was the lowest it had been since at least 1970, when the bank began keeping track."
But that's not even close to the truth. In fact, there have been quite a few holiday shopping seasons since 1970 that were worse -- some a lot worse. 
Real retail sales -- adjusted, as they should be, for changes in prices of the goods sold -- have actually fallen several times since 1970. Moreover, there have been other years when they eked out only modest gains. By contrast, real sales for the 2002 season are expected to show a healthy gain of about 4 to 5 percent over the previous year. 
That doesn't mean it was a great year for holiday shopping. It wasn't. But it's just as misleading to conclude, as The Wall Street Journal put it in a headline on Friday: "It's Official: Retailers Had a Crummy Holiday."
How can we have gotten it so wrong? Much of the problem arises because retailers report sales in nominal terms, not taking account of the typical inflation that occurs every year. Lately, it has become even more confusing, because prices of many retail products have been falling sharply.
So, because of deflation in retail goods, the slight gain in nominal sales for 2002 -- indeed low by historical standards -- masks a significantly greater increase. In the past, when inflation was rampant, consumers could spend a lot more than they did in the previous year but go home with less-valuable stuff.
Why bother with this arcane explanation of what economists call the "money illusion"? Because the failure to account for this simple difference leads to a serious misunderstanding of the economy.
Steven Wieting, a senior economist at Salomon Smith Barney, pointed this out in a report last week explaining why so many people have an interest in perpetuating the holiday shopping myth.
"Presumably, if you are bearish on the stock market, the worst consumer in 30 years would help justify your position." he wrote. "If you are bullish, such a notion might leave you drooling over thoughts of 'pent up' consumer demand on the rebound. Perhaps, if you are a retail executive, the alleged worst consumer in 30 years might provide you with cover for bad execution."
In fact, consumer spending held up surprisingly well during the 2001 recession and was decent last year as the economy began its lackluster rebound. The implication for this year, boring as that may be, is for more of the same.
"You shouldn't be looking for a recovery," Mr. Wieting said in an interview, "in something that hasn't collapsed."
Indeed, for all the talk of how consumer spending represents the bulk of the nation's economic activity, changes in business investment and inventories are far more important swing forces in the economy.
"The consumer has cushioned every economic downturn," Mr. Wieting added, "and restrained every recovery."
THE focus in retailing on same-store sales -- those for stores open at least a year -- also paints a distorted picture. Same-store sales may be useful for evaluating the success of one chain versus another, but they miss the just as important growth in consumption that occurs at new outlets.
It's easy to understand, then, why Paul Farhi wrote in an excellent article last week in The Washington Post: 
"This is the season in which journalists pore over retailers' receipts, interview a few wise people and reflect on What It All Meant. Here's what it all meant, this season and every one before it: almost nothing."
I'm not willing to go that far. You can learn a lot about the economy from properly interpreting trends in retailing and consumer spending. And it helps to understand how big retailers can repeatedly complain about poor sales while still generating good profits and building plenty of new stores.
Just remember the difference between the money illusion and reality.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "A Not-So-Bad Holiday"Retail sales, adjusted for price changes in goods. Graph tracks real non-auto retail sales year-over-year change, plotted monthly, from the 70's through November 2002. (Source: Salomon Smith Barney)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (92%); CHRISTMAS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); RECESSION (77%); DEFLATION (74%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES; CHRISTMAS 

COMPANY: BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ LTD (72%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (72%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (72%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (72%)

PERSON: REDBURN, TOM 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2003 



405 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 3; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1744 words

HEADLINE: FILM; 
Upward Mobility And Downright Lies

BYLINE:  By CARYN JAMES

 BODY:
YOU want to end up back in the projects? Keep dreaming dreams that'll never happen," warns the heroine's mother in "Maid in Manhattan," when it looks like her daughter the chambermaid has lost the rich, handsome politician she loves. Gee, thanks, Mom. 
 In this Cinderella tale, the wicked non-stepmother has offered what amounts to the anti-moral of the story. We know that Marisa the maid's dreams will come true because she is Jennifer Lopez, because the trajectory of the film is obvious from its first two minutes, and because in old-fashioned Hollywood movies like this, character always transcends class, and class itself is no more than a tiny speed bump that good-hearted people can hop over. 
 What's more surprising is that this backward notion of easy upward mobility -- which defies recent socio-economic studies -- is so tenacious that it exists even in a far smarter, better, more realistic film like "Real Women Have Curves," the story of Ana, a working-class Latina whose mother doesn't want her to go to college. Here characters are believably hemmed in by class: Ana's complicated, resentful mother worries that her daughter's education will tear the family apart; her father is a gardener who has put aside just a little money; her sister is the struggling owner of a small shop that sews dresses for big companies for a pittance. Yet even this shrewdly observed film, which so matter-of-factly links Ana's immigrant family with her working-class limitations, invents a fairy tale to catapult her upward.
She has graduated from high school without having applied to colleges, but a sympathetic Hispanic teacher at her Beverly Hills school (how she got there the film never explains) writes a letter to his friend, the dean of Columbia University, who magically admits Ana at the last minute with a full scholarship. Tell that to all the parents of students hiring tutors and sweating out college admissions.
What these movies reveal is not just film's addiction to fantasy, which audiences expect and embrace, but also to the Big Lie that class is meaningless in American life. Beneath the fairy dust of "Maid in Manhattan" and the grittiness of "Real Women Have Curves" is a similar message: not that America is a classless society, but that class is as fluid as water and upward mobility a cinch.
The idea, of course, goes back to the Founding Fathers' egalitarian goals, and quickly became so ingrained in the national mythos that what Tocqueville wrote in 1840 could stand as the motto for the J. Lo movie as well as its ancestors like "Sabrina" and "Working Girl": "At any moment a servant may become a master." The amalgam of American idealism and rags-to-riches dreams is irresistible.
But that persistent idea ignores the realities of today's economy and research about social mobility. The aristocratic politician Ralph Fiennes plays in "Maid in Manhattan" precisely fits the profile described by the Princeton economist Alan B. Krueger in a November article in The New York Times, which said that new studies show it takes an average of five or six generations to change a family's economic position, and that wealth tends to linger in families. Such inherited wealth helps create political dynasties like that of the Bushes and of the Fiennes character -- an assemblyman, a senator's son running for his father's seat, and not the kind of guy likely to take up with a maid. As Mr. Krueger added in an interview, "Recent trends in income distribution have made upward mobility less likely" than it was even 20 years ago. 
And such research isn't brand new. As Kevin Phillips says in "Wealth and Democracy: A Political History of the American Rich," published last year, the increasing gap between the median American family income and the richest 1 percent has been "a point of national discussion for over a decade." By the turn of the 21st century, he writes, the United States "had also become the West's citadel of inherited wealth."
"Aristocracy," he adds, "was a cultural and economic fact."
When films choose to examine class, though, the issue is still seen in terms that are backward-looking, simplistic or fantastic. "8 Mile," which treats the trailer-park life of the Eminem character with sobering realism, is a fierce anomaly. More typically films are as flat-footed about class as last year's preachy drama "John Q," in which Denzel Washington's beleaguered factory worker holds a hospital hostage until his son is given an expensive heart transplant. It turns out his gun was never loaded. Poor is good and noble; wealth makes people mean. And "John Q" was rare in treating class and money seriously.
In comedies, the rich are everywhere as caricatured villains, nasty and small-minded. In "Maid in Manhattan," Natasha Richardson plays a wealthy viper who chases the Fiennes character. And his heroism exists in his ability to ignore his own class and everyone else's. He's so down-to-earth, he walks his own dog, just like a poor person (this movie's sign of humanity) and is able to appreciate Marisa's "genuine" self even after she has replaced her borrowed Dolce & Gabbana suit with her maid's uniform. "What we do does not define who we are," says Bob Hoskins as the hotel's chief butler, in one of the movie's many hollow aphorisms.
A similar equation of money and meanness underlies the romantic comedy "Sweet Home Alabama," in which Melanie, the fashion designer played by Reese Witherspoon, rejects New York and her rich fiance for Alabama and the poor husband she left behind. At first she calls her soon-to-be-ex-husband a "dumb stubborn redneck" and he calls her "hoity-toity," but that's just their pallid echo of a Tracy-Hepburn battle before they swoon into each other's arms.
More telling, her fiance's vile, disapproving mother is the mayor of New York, a figure of unlikely glamour played by Candice Bergen. "What do you suggest I do, Mom? Dump her for being poor?" he asks, even though Melanie has become a Manhattan sophisticate and was never poverty-stricken to begin with. 
"There is nothing wrong with being poor," the mayor says. "I get elected by poor people." (There are particularly monstrous mothers in these films, but that's another issue.) 
As it happens, while Melanie was becoming a fashion star, the ex-husband was building a successful designer-glass business back home, but she doesn't know that when she decides she still loves him. Factoring in money would undercut her nobility.
And his economic rise is itself revealing. He becomes a success to prove himself to Melanie, and gives the film a faint stab at realism. (Would the audience have bought her return to a redneck life?) But he still dresses and acts like his poor, good-old-boy self -- a sign of integrity and character, this film's equivalent of Ralph Fiennes walking his dog.
While movie characters are busy zooming up and down the social ladder, some thoughtful television series are sending a more credible message: that upward mobility happens one rung at a time, and is fraught with problems and anxieties. The finest example is "The Sopranos," which has always been precise about its characters' social positions. Tony and Carmela have proudly sent their daughter, Meadow, to Columbia University, a huge yet plausible social step up. But unlike Ana in "Real Women," Meadow Soprano has nouveau-riche parents paying her way.
In a painfully realistic scene this season, Meadow's parents come to dinner at the apartment she shares with college friends. It is instantly evident how badly Tony and Carmela fit in, with their gold chains and parochial attitudes. One roommate is descended from Spanish royalty. "My daughter's an Italian princess; that count?" Tony asks. During a literary discussion Carmela argues angrily, "I'm sorry, but 'Billy Budd' is not a homosexual book!" and mistakenly thinks the critic Leslie Fiedler is a woman. Meadow's own social status is precariously balanced, between her upscale roommates and her gauche parents.
Sometimes even a fluffy sitcom like "George Lopez" can see upward mobility as a difficult maneuver, full of repercussions. Mr. Lopez plays a fictional George who is promoted from factory worker to manager. Suddenly he is his mother's and his best friend's boss, and struggles to read management manuals at night. Yet the Mexican-American working-class hero still finds himself one-upped by his well-off, better-educated Cuban father-in-law, as the show savvily hints that ethnicity and class are not simple categories. (It's a coincidence that Mr. Lopez also plays the teacher who changes Ana's fortunes in "Real Women"; or maybe that's a comment on the relatively small pool of Hispanic actors filmmakers choose from.)
Television is not better or more astute at tackling social issues; it's just that series, unlike movies, can't transform people's lives with a glass slipper week after week. And while there is a history of working-class television heroes, from "The Honeymooners" through "The King of Queens," addressing upward mobility with the clarity of "The Sopranos" is still rare.
On big or small screens, it may be the shadow stories that are most revealing about class. In "8 Mile" and "Maid in Manhattan," the stars never entirely disappear into their characters. Eminem deliberately echoes his real-life story, in which rapping becomes his escape from Detroit's factories and trailer parks. "Maid" is built around Ms. Lopez's glamorous presence. She came from a lower middle class family but her upward mobility has been especially spectacular. When her maid character puts on her borrowed jewels and clothes, she does not look like a dressed-up version of Marisa but like Jennifer Lopez, the woman with the flashing rings and designer clothes and trophy fiance, Ben Affleck. And although she does not sing on the movie's soundtrack, her recording "Jenny From the Block" bluntly expresses the film's message, conflating J. Lo and Marisa: "Don't be fooled by the rocks I got, I'm still, I'm still Jenny from the block." 
That emphasis on humble character obscures the film's deeper message. For Eminem and Jennifer Lopez, success as a music star catapulted them out of the modest past into the rich and famous present. When films persist in seeing social mobility as an issue of money, they are looking in the wrong direction. The real moral of these fairy tales is that Americans can vault out of one class into another; what does it is that great equalizer, show-business fame.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jennifer Lopez, as a hotel chambermaid, has dreams of glamour and social advancement in "Maid in Manhattan." (Barry Wetcher/Columbia Pictures)(pg. 1); Constance Marie and George Lopez in "George Lopez," a sitcom about a Mexican-American who is promoted from factory worker to manager. (Byron J. Cohen/ABC); America Ferrera as a college-bound Latina in "Real Women Have Curves." (Nicola Goode/HBO Films and NewMarket Films)(pg. 31) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (71%); HIGH SCHOOLS (70%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (66%); STEPPARENTS (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE LOPEZ (90%); JENNIFER LOPEZ (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2003 



406 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: L.I. @ WORK; 
The Goliath of Medical and Dental Supplies

BYLINE:  By WARREN STRUGATCH 

 BODY:
CLEAR evidence that dentistry is changing can be found in the "dancing banana" card in the current Henry Schein dental merchandise catalog. One of about 50 easygoing cards offered for sale to dentists to mail out to remind patients to come in for scheduled visits, the cartoon features four bananas performing a line dance and the message, "The bunch of us wants to see you soon!" 
 Because Americans get far fewer cavities than they did a generation ago, thanks largely to fluoridation, dentists have had to become more entrepreneurial to keep their practices humming. To keep pace, Henry Schein, the Melville company that is one of the largest distributors of health-care products and services in the world, has expanded, too. 
 Although Schein's offerings run to items like syringes, "bite into this" impression material and X-ray equipment, the company also offers office management software and marketing aids, including 50 different reminder cards, known as recall cards in the industry.
Selling supplies to doctors, dentists and veterinarians may not be a glamorous business, but for Henry Schein it has been a highly profitable one, particularly in recent years. The company has run up a string of increasingly profitable quarters since going public in 1995; last year, a dismal one for many companies, Schein's profits grew by about 18 percent.
Last year, Schein clearly outpaced not only most of the big Long Island companies but also benchmarks like the Nasdaq composite, the Dow Jones industrial average and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. Sales this year are expected to approach $3 billion.
"We think that all of our businesses are running on all four cylinders," Stanley M. Bergman, the company's chairman, chief executive and president, told Wall Street analysts during a November conference call. "Everything is working well."
One big reason things are working so well is Mr. Bergman himself. He was the company's outside auditor before being recruited to run the business, and he has transformed Schein into what Catalog Age, a trade magazine, calls a "world dominator."
Schein began as a retail drugstore in Woodside, Queens, in 1932. It now has more than 6,500 employees around the world, including a telephone marketing squad of 600, and has expanded into medical and veterinary products, specializing in sales to individual practitioners rather than to hospitals.
Industry insiders give Mr. Bergman credit for his insistence on technological innovation, for developing a database of customer information and for hiring and developing a direct-sales team.
In addition to offering more than 80,000 individual items supplied by industry vendors, the company under Mr. Bergman has expanded into proprietary services like medical office design and has introduced a line of office-management software.
"Stan recognizes the way health care is changing and addresses his customers as small business owners and entrepreneurs rather than only as clinicians," said Suey Wong, who follows the company for Robert W. Baird & Company in Milwaukee. 
Because it has integrated its acquisitions into one operation, Schein is one of a very small number of health-care catalogs with complete purchase histories on each customer, Diane Cyr wrote in Catalog Age's November 1999 issue. "Each time a doctor or a dentist buys a new sterilizer, consults a financial analyst or has a chair repaired, Schein knows about it," she wrote.
The company's acquisition of the Sullivan Dental Company in Milwaukee in 1997 made it the dominant distributor in the $4-billion-a-year North American dental supplies industry, with about 40 percent of the market. 
"A lot of the smarter dentists now see themselves as small business owners and are going beyond what we call the 'drill and fill' business," Mr. Wong said. "They're offering cosmetic dentistry such as tooth whitening and want the latest equipment such as laser technology. Schein is very strong in all these areas."
Selling supplies to dentists remains the company's core business, although medical supplies are catching up. In 2001, the last year for which information is available, the company's sales to dental practices totaled $1.1 billion, or 43 percent of revenues; sales to doctors were $929.8 million, or 36 percent. International sales (16 percent), proprietary office management software (3 percent) and veterinary supplies (2 percent) accounted for the rest.
Mr. Bergman believes that supplying dentists is a good business to be in. "The number of Americans aged 45 to 65 is going to double over the next 20 years," he said. "These are prime years for needing dental work. And the number of Americans covered by dental policies is growing, too."
But the real growth potential is in medical sales, especially to offices and clinics, in Mr. Bergman's view. "The trend is for more and more procedures to be performed in the physician's office rather than in hospitals," he said. "And our population is aging, which also suggests there will be an increase in medical services."
Five years ago, medical products represented about 28 percent of the company's total sales; in 2001, that figure had risen to 38 percent. 
Mr. Bergman has also guided the company into expanded sales overseas, particularly in Europe. Totals in 2001 were $398 million or about 16 percent of Schein's revenues. In 1995, when Mr. Bergman took over, international sales totaled $108 million.
While some industry analysts expect that competition will catch up with Mr. Bergman eventually, for the moment he can look in his rearview mirror without undue concern.
"Stan is a professorial, laid-back kind of guy, but he might be the smartest businessman I know," Mr. Wong said. "In the end, you judge an executive by how the stock is doing. His is up fivefold over the past two and a half years, in what's been a brutal market. The record speaks for itself."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Stanley M. Bergman, the chairman, chief executive and president of Henry Schein Inc. in Melville, is credited with keeping the company profitable in a tough economy. It began as a drugstore founded by Henry Schein himself, left, in Woodside, Queens, in 1932. (Maxine Hicks for The New York Times); (Henry Schein Inc.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DENTISTRY (92%); PHARMACEUTICALS WHOLESALERS (90%); DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (90%); DANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); RETAILERS (78%); CAVITIES (78%); SALES FORCE (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); DIRECT SALES FORCE (74%); VETERINARY SERVICES (74%); OFFICE DESIGN (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); TELEMARKETING (73%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (69%); STOCK EXCHANGES (69%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (68%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (67%); SALES PROJECTIONS (66%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (65%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (64%); CONFERENCE CALLS (62%) TEETH AND DENTISTRY; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES 

ORGANIZATION: SCHEIN, HENRY, INC 

PERSON: STANLEY M BERGMAN (89%) BERGMAN, STANLEY; STRUGATCH, WARREN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2003 



407 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
Many May Not Feel Dividend Plan's Impact for Years

BYLINE:  By J. ALEX TARQUINIO 

 BODY:
MARK BROOK, 43, the owner of a home-building supply company in Oceanside, N.Y., is ecstatic about the possibility that most taxes on dividends will be eliminated.
 "There are taxes that are inherently stupid," he said. "The dividend tax is like the estate tax; it just doesn't make sense." Last year, Mr. Brook said, he earned about $40,000 in dividends on a portfolio of about $1 million. 
 On the other hand, Judith Berger, 59, a middle school teacher in the nearby Long Island community of Rockville Centre, said she does not expect to benefit from the proposal because she and her husband hold virtually all of their investments in tax-sheltered retirement accounts. "Like most of the middle class, we invest through our jobs," she said. "So it doesn't really change our investing strategy." 
While the main beneficiaries of elimination of taxes on dividends would be investors who hold stocks outside of retirement accounts, only about one-quarter of the adult population has such holdings, according to the Center for Economic and Policy Research in Washington. The wealthiest 1 percent of the population holds 53 percent of those stocks, the center said.
For wealthier investors, the dividend tax plan proposed by President Bush could have important implications. For people whose assets are mainly in retirement accounts, the issue is far less pressing, many financial advisers say. 
Many financial planners are counseling their clients against making major portfolio changes based on assumptions about a tax proposal when details -- and the chances of passage -- are far from certain. But some portfolio managers say it is not too early to start re-examining investment choices. 
Anna M. Dopkin, who manages the T. Rowe Price Growth and Income fund, said that with the tax proposal in mind, she is considering the purchase of stocks that could potentially increase their dividends, or begin paying them for the first time. These include Federated Department Stores of New York, and Altera, a semiconductor company based in San Jose, Calif.; both now pay no dividends. The fund does not currently own either stock.
Stocks that now pay high yields may not turn out to be good investments, she said. "In most cases, these are riskier stocks," she said. "The payout ratios may be too high and they might have to cut their dividend." 
Gary Schatsky, a New York City financial planner, said that while the tax plan might make dividend-paying stocks look more appealing as investments, they should not be directly compared with high-yielding assets like municipal bonds and real estate investment trusts, or REIT's.
"You have to compare apples to apples," he said. "You cannot compare municipal bonds with dividend-paying stocks." The bonds protect investor principal as long as they are held to maturity, he said, while equities, inherently riskier, can rise or fall.
Dividends on REIT's would not be tax-exempt under the Bush administration's proposal, but Mr. Schatsky said REIT's are often bought as an alternative to bonds. Because of their rich yields, often 7 percent to 8 percent, REIT's should be bought in retirement accounts, he said. 
Lee Rosenberg, a financial planner in Jericho, N.Y., that he is advising his clients to avoid making big changes because of the tax plan. He suggests that they adjust their portfolios by no more than 10 percentage points during the first quarter. For example, if investors have half their money in bonds, and believe that bonds might be hurt by the plan, they might want to go to 40 percent, Mr. Rosenberg said.
Long-term bond mutual funds, which had a big inflow of money in 2002, could be hit hard if the administration's proposal becomes law. While holders of individual bonds will recoup their principal if they hold the bonds to maturity, investors in bond funds could suffer an immediate capital loss because mutual funds are repriced daily.
Stock dividends earned by mutual funds would be tax-exempt under the proposal, but mutual fund shareholders might not gain much. Funds are required to pay out dividend income, but only after deducting operating expenses. The expenses of most funds effectively eliminate payments to investors; only 42 percent of domestic equity funds paid dividends in 2002, according to Morningstar Inc.
Patrick Dorsey, Morningstar's head of equity research, noted that some retirees might enjoy a windfall if taxes on their dividends were eliminated, but that younger shareholders who own stocks in taxable accounts could enjoy even bigger gains over the long run.
"It gives the folks in retirement a boost," Mr. Dorsey said. "If you're counting on this for income, and you're getting $4,000 in dividends, that's really $3,000 after taxes. There's a little difference, but it's not huge."
But an investor with 20 years before retirement would benefit from the power of compounding income. Say an investor owns a stock yielding 3 percent and reinvests the dividends. Assuming that the stock's price does not change, the cumulative total return after 20 years would be 80.6 percent without taxes, compared with 47.1 percent if the dividend income had been taxed annually at a rate of 35 percent. The difference would be even greater with a higher yield.
Of course, such advantages helped persuade millions of Americans to lock up their money in tax-sheltered retirement accounts in the first place. "There is going to be some tendency not to put so much into retirement accounts, if investors can get current income that's not taxed," said Robert E. Harrison, who runs the tax department of Richard A. Eisner & Company, a New York City accounting firm. 
Dean Baker, co-director of the Center for Economic and Policy Research, said that the tax plan could actually penalize investors in retirement accounts. While proponents of the plan have argued that it would cause a climb in stock prices, Mr. Baker said that it would likely be a one-time increase. And it would mean that future investors would have to pay more for shares. "If you buy a stock after the price has gone up, you are receiving a lower yield," Mr. Baker said. "And if you buy that stock in a retirement account, then you're not getting the benefit of the dividend tax cut." 
But even if taxes on dividends were eliminated, there would still be good reasons to make the maximum contribution to a 401(k) plan, Mr. Schatsky said. These include employer matching contributions and the ability to invest pretax dollars. 
Still, he acknowledged, the tax plan would make taxable accounts more important. The current advantages of such accounts include the ability to write off capital losses, which cannot be done in retirement accounts, he said. Nonetheless, several financial planners said that investors should not sell shares in retirement accounts simply to repurchase them in taxable accounts, incurring unnecessary brokerage fees. Rather, the advisers said, investors should shift their future purchases if the law changes.
Although the White House has said that the tax plan would spur investment, professional investors do not base their decisions on tax considerations alone. "I pick stocks that I think will do well on a total-return basis," Ms. Dopkin said. "Chasing high-yield stocks or dividend-paying stocks would be foolish. That's just one component of investing."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mark Brook, who owns a business in Oceanside, N.Y., and earned about $40,000 in dividends last year, says he is delighted that taxes on the payouts may be eliminated. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times) Chart: "Benefits, but Not for Everyone"Eliminating taxes on dividends would reward people who own stocks, but not provide an additional benefit to those who have shares in tax-deferred accounts. GROWTH OF A $10,000 HYPOTHETICAL INVESTMENTAssuming a stable share price and an annual dividend of 3 percent, reinvested. 20-year total returnUNTAXED: 80.6%TAXED: 47.1% Graph tracks dividends untaxed and dividends taxed at 35% through 20 years of investment. Percentage of Americans who hold stocks outside of taxdeferred retirement accounts . . .25% . . . and the percentage of those stocks held by the wealthiest 1% (in net assets).53% (Sources: Morningstar, Inc.; Center for Economic and Policy Research)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); SCHOOL BONDS (89%); BONDS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (89%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); DIVIDENDS (78%); CONSTRUCTION TRADE (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (78%); BUILDING SUPPLY (78%); ESTATE TAX (78%); ESTATE PLANNING (77%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (76%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (76%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (74%); ELECTRONICS (73%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (71%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (70%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (70%); PRICE INCREASES (63%); RETAILERS (50%) TAXATION; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (53%)

TICKER: M (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (53%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (74%) TARQUINIO, J ALEX; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2003 



408 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2261 words

HEADLINE: Polish Pride, American Profits 

BYLINE:  By LESLIE WAYNE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
WHEN Aleksander Kwasniewski, the president of Poland, visits with President Bush at the White House on Tuesday, talk will inevitably turn to the F-16 fighter jet. Over the Christmas season, almost unnoticed, Poland announced it was accepting a $3.8 billion loan from Congress, the largest military loan in memory, to buy 48 of those Fighting Falcons.
 The scheduled lunch between the two leaders will cap a campaign by the Lockheed Martin Corporation that began six years ago and swung into high gear under Mr. Bush. The intense wooing to persuade the Poles to choose Lockheed over two European arms makers began last July, with a state dinner, one of only two since Mr. Bush took office, to honor Mr. Kwasniewski. It continued with a steady stream of visits by high administration officials to Warsaw, telephone calls from Mr. Bush to Mr. Kwasniewski and promises of a bigger role for Poland in strategic alliances with the United States and on the world stage. 
 Congress, eager to win the votes of Polish-Americans, kicked in with a loan package at rock-bottom terms. And Lockheed sealed the deal by corralling scores of other American companies to participate in an investment consortium that it says will pump billions into the Polish economy. 
"The U.S. pulled out all the stops to win the sale," said Peter C. Evans, a specialist in export financing at the M.I.T. "The idea was that if Poland goes with the U.S., the rest of the NATO expansion countries would, too. It's a pretty cushy deal and it just sailed through Congress."
The Poles are understandably pleased with the outcome of their bid to modernize their air force. In Warsaw last Thursday, at celebrations organized by Lockheed and the United States Embassy, Poland's prime minister, Leszek Miller, donned an air force uniform and was taken up for a spin in an F-16, and two other F-16's were put on display at the Warsaw airport. Once back on earth, Mr. Miller gushed that he would remember the ride "until the end of my life."
With national security, national pride and profits all part of the mix, the deal hardly lacks critics. In picking Lockheed's F-16, Poland rejected both the Mirage 2000-5 fighter jet made by Dassault Aviation of France and the Gripen, made by Saab of Sweden and BAE Systems of Britain, much to the consternation of European economic ministers, particularly in France, who have been complaining loudly ever since. 
Yet in the competition for a shrinking European military dollar, the packages offered by Lockheed's rivals were less attractive. In a quotation widely reprinted in the European press after the announcement on Dec. 27, Jean Wessener, a spokesman for the European Defence Industries Group, a Brussels-based group representing European arms makers, said: "The Americans are extremely good. They use any method they can to try to kill the European aircraft industry."
THE anger has not dissipated. For three days last week, Le Figaro, the Paris daily, published letters from readers accusing the Poles of being bad Europeans, especially after having just been invited to join the European Union next year.
On these shores, meanwhile, some critics say the loan is a perfect example of corporate welfare and of how the Iron Triangle of Congress, the Pentagon and military contractors work hand in glove to get what they want. Others question whether Poland can afford fancy military hardware when its economy is in its worst shape since the end of Communism there 13 years ago. 
It is also uncertain whether the extraordinary package of economic investments, called offsets, being put together by Lockheed, will live up to its billing. Worth at least $3 billion, the package includes deals to assemble F-16 engines in Poland, make investments in Polish steel mills and shipyards and create high-technology ventures in Poland by Lockheed and dozens of American companies it has lined up.
All foreign arms sales in recent years carry similar promises, intended to generate enough economic activity so that the purchasing country can pay for the gear. But opponents of the Lockheed offsets contend that they could well result in a transfer of American jobs to lower-wage Poland and a seepage of important technologies.
Such concerns, however, have been lost amid the trans-Atlantic self-congratulations. For Poland, the F-16 deal speaks to national pride, to defending the borders of a country ravaged by war and to getting the kind of first-class military equipment that will secure its position in the modern world and cement its ties to the West. As a condition for entering NATO in 1999, Poland promised to upgrade its military and decided to replace its Soviet MIG-21's.
"This is important because it is a sign of Poland coming out of another age," said Przemyslaw Grudzinski, Poland's ambassador to the United States. "It is only logical to change our major weapons systems to Western-made weapons systems. We want to be a mature member of NATO."
Mr. Grudzinski is keenly aware that the United States needs friends in Europe with a war looming against Iraq. "In these international circumstances," he added, "Poland emerges as an excellent ally of the United States." Addressing skeptics of the offsets, he called the package crucial to the deal but acknowledged that there was a lot of work yet to do to shape them.
For the Bush administration, the F-16 deal deepens a relationship with a staunch ally at a time when many countries are becoming more hostile to the United States. As some countries cool to the United States military on their soil, Poland could provide a new option.
For Lockheed, it is a chance to save jobs at a Texas plant that has been churning out F-16's, each with a $40 million price tag, for more than 20 years. Now that the United States Air Force has plenty of them, the only area for sales growth for this cash cow is overseas.
Lockheed and industry analysts also say the Poland deal was crucial to cracking a Fortress Europe mentality -- and could open doors as Lockheed begins to market the next-generation fighter jet, the Joint Strike Fighter, to NATO countries.
"The Poland deal was a real plum," said Philip Finnegan, the director of corporate analysis at the Teal Group, a military industry consulting firm based in Fairfax, Va. "It keeps an American fighter line running. Poland was a key country in Central Europe and a key potential ally. For European arms manufacturers, it's a real setback."
FOR those reasons, the deal breezed through Congress without a word of opposition -- even though direct loans for military sales were halted in the mid-1990's after many countries failed to repay them. Most foreign countries, like the United Arab Emirates, South Korea and Taiwan, now pay cash for American military equipment. Israel and Egypt do, too, but use direct foreign aid from the United States. At $3.8 billion, the Poland loan is larger than the last decade's worth of direct military loans to all countries combined.
And it is so sweet that Pentagon officials say they do not expect to ask Congress for another like it. The money will come from the Treasury, not the Pentagon budget. It covers 100 percent of the cost of the jets, not the 85 percent more typical of commercial loans. The interest rate will be at a below-market 5.92 percent fixed rate, calculated from the 10-year Treasury note, even though the loan is for 15 years.
No principal payments need be paid for the first eight years, and Lockheed does not have to post a performance bond, which helps the company's balance sheet. Other fees usually associated with government loan programs were also waived.
"The United States is eager to continue its domination of the U.S. arms market," said Rachel Stohl, a senior analyst with the Center for Defense Information, a military research group in Washington. "So you see these huge incentive packages to make the arms sales more attractive. These packages allow countries that cannot afford U.S. weapons to buy them at reduced costs and have the taxpayer pay up for it."
IN other words, they smack of corporate welfare. "We don't want our companies to lose out to other countries," said Ivan Eland, a military analyst at the Cato Institute, a free-market policy group in Washington. "But why should the taxpayer subsidize it? That may help individual companies in the U.S., but it does not help the taxpayer. It is corporate welfare. It's an indirect transfer from the taxpayer to Lockheed Martin."
The man driving the deal at the Pentagon -- Lt. Gen. Tome H. Walters Jr. of the Air Force, director of the United States Defense Security Cooperation Agency -- could not disagree more. In an interview last Tuesday, just before leaving for the Warsaw ceremonies, he bristled at the corporate-welfare charge. 
To General Walters, the issue is national security -- providing American planes, training, logistical support, doctrine and interoperability with an important ally, and one with a rich air force tradition, besides. During World War II, the Polish Army decamped to England and, from there, carried out crucial bombing raids in Europe. 
"My responsibility is not to flack for a commercial entity, but it is to pursue national security interests," General Walters said. "We are working with countries that are our friends to build influence in peacetime so we will have access to the region when we need it in time of crisis.
"Lockheed is a successful company," he added. "It does not need my help. Its responsibility is to its shareholders. My job is not to work for Lockheed shareholders, but for the secretary of defense and the president."
General Walters's strongest pitch appealed to Polish aspirations -- that by buying the F-16, it was sidling up to the United States, not the few countries with European fighter jets.
"I told the Poles they had the potential to be front-line leaders in NATO," General Walters said. "They could join with the U.S. Air Force and 23 other countries and 8 NATO countries that fly the F-16. Or, they could have the Gripen and have interoperability with Sweden and South Africa."
If that pitch was hard to resist, so was the rich offset package. "Poland needs to offset the cost of the deal by introducing into the Polish economy many of these new investments," said Mr. Grudzinski, the Polish ambassador. "We hope the offset deal would have considerable impact in bringing renewed investment by U.S. corporations and midsized enterprises and bring Poland a wave of new technology."
Although the World Trade Organization frowns on these arrangements, on the grounds that they distort trade, they are not forbidden for military contracts. In fact, Lockheed already has offset programs totaling $30 billion in 27 counties and went into Poland like Santa Claus. Though reluctant to talk about the arrangements, the company has posted them only in Polish on its Warsaw Web site, www.f-16.pl -- making no mention of them in its news releases here.
The offsets from Lockheed and its industrial partners, which Lockheed pays, include subcontracts for Poles to make commercial jet trainers as well as parts for business aircraft like the Gulfstream and Piper for export to the United States and to make the Pratt & Whitney engine for the F-16 engine. There is also a venture with Accenture for a new technology company in Lodz, and a partnership with the University of Texas to start a technology accelerator at the University of Lodz. 
Others include setting up a $70 million technology venture capital fund in coordination with the Sandia National Laboratories in New Mexico, which Lockheed operates for the Department of Energy; environmental and water treatment projects with the Polish unit of CH2M Hill Inc., and an agreement with Northrop Grumman for more subcontracting in Poland as well as for projects to provide Poland with more telecommunications technology. 
Many of these proposals are still in the negotiating stages.
Critics say the companies and countries involved in offsets make a Faustian bargain. The selling country may lose jobs and face more low-cost imports -- which has prompted organized labor to oppose them.
Many say these offsets push countries that are short on cash, like Poland, into buying armaments that their economies may not be able to afford or accepting goods and services they do not need.
"The F-16s in Poland have a lot of symbolic value," said William D. Hartung, a senior fellow at the World Policy Institute at the New School University in New York. "And the Poles want to get this technology. But absent the offset financing, this would have been a hard sell. The Poles are spending significantly on the military when they have so many domestic needs."
Ann Roell Markusen, a public policy professor at the University of Minnesota who has written extensively on offsets, said the country receiving the benefits could suffer if the goods and services it received were determined by an arms deal and not real economic needs. 
"When products come into a country and it is tied to an arms transfer, that is not normal economics," she said. "It is tied to a corporation wanting to make a huge amount of money, not because that service or that technology has merit."
For the Poles, eager to to stand shoulder to shoulder with the United States and to emerge from the shadows of war and occupation, the Congressional financing package and the offsets created a unique opportunity.
"Poland can now be a partner in arms in a way that was not possible until now," Mr. Grudzinski said. "We see the world as a dangerous place and, unfortunately, that creates lots of opportunity."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Prime Minister Leszek Miller rode in an F-16 on Thursday to celebrate Poland's purchase of 48 of the jets from Lockheed Martin.; Lt. Gen. Tome H. Walters Jr., standing, accompanied American fighter jets to Poland last week. A $3.8 billion loan from the United States is enabling Poland to buy F-16's. (Photographs by Adam Chelstowski/Spectrum Pictures for The New York Times)(pg. 1); F-16 jets on display in Warsaw last week to celebrate an arms deal financed by a $3.8 billion American loan. (Adam Chelstowski/Spectrum Pictures for The New York Times)(pg. 11); President Bush, Laura Bush and President Aleksander Kwasniewski of Poland at a state dinner that was part of an effort to sell jets to Poland. (Associated Press)(pg. 12) Chart: "Help Wanted"Despite growing world tension, sales of American military equipment and services to other nations have fallen. United States foreign arms sales adjusted for inflation in 2001 dollars Graph tracks sales, in billions of dollars, from 1994 to 2001. (Source: Congressional Research Services)(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (91%); ARMS TRADE (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); CHRISTMAS (89%); AIR FORCES (89%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); AIRPORTS (77%); AIRLINES (77%); ARMED FORCES (77%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (73%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (65%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (64%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (53%) ARMS SALES ABROAD; MILITARY AIRCRAFT; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CREDIT; F-16 AIRPLANE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES 

COMPANY: LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (86%); BAE SYSTEMS PLC (58%); DASSAULT AVIATION SA (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (54%) LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP 

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (86%); BA (LSE) (58%); AM (PAR) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) WAYNE, LESLIE; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: WARSAW, POLAND (94%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (77%) POLAND (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (92%); BELGIUM (79%) POLAND

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2003 



409 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2292 words

HEADLINE: Airline's New Diet Has RivalsWatching 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WONG 

DATELINE: TEMPE, Ariz. 

 BODY:
WHO knew that beef jerky and chicken Kiev could rival tea leaves and tarot cards as portents of the future?
 But ever since America West started an experiment last Monday to sell food aboard flights, other airlines have been trying to divine the industry's fate in how the meals are received. 
 The willingness of America West's passengers to pay $3 to lick ice cream at 30,000 feet is being looked upon as a significant test of whether ailing airlines can charge passengers for things that were once included in the price of a ticket.
Desperate for revenue, big airlines with nationwide hub-and-spoke systems -- the so-called network carriers -- have tried levying, with varying success, surcharges for fuel, paper tickets, standby flights and extra or oversized baggage in the last few months. America West's proposal is one of the most audacious, if only because airline food is the punch line of so many jokes about bad cuisine. 
"I think it's an interesting experiment, and we're certainly watching it to see how it fares," said Jeffrey A. Smisek, executive vice president for corporate affairs at Continental Airlines. But Continental, he added, had no plan to start charging for meals on its flights.
It does not surprise people in the industry that America West is willing to try new ways to generate more revenue. In the span of a year, the airline, the country's eighth largest, has become a pace setter, provocateur and guinea pig for an industry in transition. It was the first network carrier to simplify its fare structure and ease restrictions on cheap tickets, and it beat its rivals applying for -- and getting -- a federal loan guarantee.
Whether travelers will ultimately accept this latest experiment remains to be seen -- about one-quarter of passengers on test flights bought box meals last Monday and Tuesday.
But industry experts credit America West for being willing to be creative, even at the risk of irritating passengers who used to get food free. Its goal, which is shared by other network carriers, is to match the success of Southwest, JetBlue Airways and other low-cost carriers. All of America West's recent efforts have been directed at turning the airline into what W. Douglas Parker, its chief executive, calls the country's "second-largest low-fare carrier."
What has emerged so far is a sleeker if occasionally ungainly hybrid.
America West's costs are lower than those of its network rivals, but not as low as Southwest's. It is sticking with its hub-and-spoke model, rather than adopting Southwest's approach of flying directly from city to city; as a result, it cannot use its planes as efficiently. It will for now keep using a mix of plane types, resulting in higher labor and maintenance costs than airlines that use only one type of plane.
It has also failed to achieve anything close to the name recognition of JetBlue, which through aggressive marketing has made itself synonymous with cheap fares and friendly service. Yet Wall Street analysts estimate that America West lost $139 million, or $4.21 a share, in 2002 on an estimated $2.04 billion in sales; they forecast that the loss will narrow to $51 million, or $1.50 a share, this year.
Still, America West's intense efforts to woo passengers have given its competitors something else to chew over amid one of their worst slumps ever. And now come the $5 cinnamon buns and $10 chickens Kiev.
In many ways, America West is the perfect lab rat for all these experiments. With 884 daily flights, most of which connect to two big hubs in Phoenix and Las Vegas and a tiny one in Columbus, Ohio, it is small enough to make quick, sweeping changes. Its biggest rival in the two large hubs is Southwest, so it has the chance to test its initiatives against the industry's standard for success.
At the same time, America West, which was founded in 1981, has little to lose in terms of reputation. It has already been in bankruptcy once, from 1991 to 1994, and it alienated many of its customers when a spate of mechanical problems in 2000 forced it to cancel 6 percent of its flights.
"At least they've been trying some creative things that haven't been seen in the industry, and you have to give them credit for that," said Jim Corridore, an analyst at Standard & Poor's. "They're making some great strides in cutting their cost structure, but they're still losing a lot of money.
"If America West wants to follow the Southwest model," he added, "they have to go full bore with it. They're not going to get much closer to the Southwest model unless they abandon some of the costly hubs and abandon some of their markets. They need to become a smaller airline."
The reinvention of America West began with the overhaul of its fare structure last March, a result of a project led by J. Scott Kirby, 35, executive vice president for sales and marketing.
Mr. Kirby, a graduate of the Air Force Academy who once worked as an economist for the Pentagon, was promoted to his current position a day before terrorists hijacked four airliners and crashed them in New York, Washington and rural Pennsylvania. The collapse in air traffic after the attacks forced him to scramble just to keep America West in business, but he was able to turn to the airline's long-term reorganization within a few months.
In fall 2001, America West got some financial breathing room. By mid-November, it had become the first airline to apply for a federal loan guarantee under a $10 billion aid program set up by Congress after the terror attacks. Mr. Parker was told in late December 2001 that the Air Transportation Stabilization Board, which administers the program, would give the airline a $380 million loan guarantee on a $429 million loan if it would promise to keep labor costs under control -- and give the government the option to buy up to 33 percent of its stock in the future.
America West's application, and the government's demands on it, prefigured similar requests from US Airways and United Airlines, as well as a host of smaller carriers. US Airways got conditional approval for a $900 million loan guarantee. United's application for a $1.8 billion guarantee was rejected early last month, forcing the airline to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection.
Working feverishly, Mr. Kirby's team eventually came up with numbers that led to what he called "the most heavily analyzed decision we ever made" -- dumping the old fare structure for a simplified model. All requirements for Saturday-night stays were dropped, and unrestricted walk-up fares -- the kind popular with business travelers -- were cut by around 70 percent. One-way fares now cost no more than $400.
THOUGH Southwest and other low-cost airlines had long operated with this kind of system, this was the first time that a network carrier had tried to copy it. Business travelers embraced the move. America West's rivals gave it the evil eye.
"Clearly we've done some things that have upset other airlines," Mr. Parker said as jets swooped over palm trees outside the tinted windows of the company's boardroom here. "I think upsetting your competition is not a bad thing. We're trying to serve our employees and shareholders. If I were at the other airlines, I would not necessarily do what America West has done, and I might be upset at America West for doing it."
Competitors have not blindly copied America West, but they are watching it closely and reacting swiftly. The day America West put its new fare structure in place, Continental, Delta Air Lines and Northwest Airlines drastically cut fares on routes where America West was the main nonstop carrier. Continental also dropped a code-share alliance that it had had with America West since 1994.
Mr. Parker has said that his rivals' actions are anticompetitive, but his rivals dispute that accusation.
This winter, several other airlines have moved in the same direction, starting their own experiments with simpler fares.
Last Monday, United made deep cuts in unrestricted fares on direct flights from its hubs in Chicago and Denver and on thousands of flights in smaller markets. American Airlines, and Continental immediately matched those cuts. Jamie Baker, an analyst at J. P. Morgan Chase, said those routes represented 32 percent of total domestic sales.
Delta and American Airlines have similar, though more limited, experiments in other markets. On Nov. 14, for example, American reduced unrestricted fares and simplified its fare structure on 23 "city pairs," or routes, then expanded that to more than 400 last month. Sonja Whitemon, a spokeswoman for American, said the company had based its move on its own needs rather than on what America West had done.
MR. KIRBY, the marketing executive, said America West's fare overhaul was bringing in more passengers who travel on short notice. The airline's revenue per available seat mile generated by full fares was up 1 percent in the second quarter and 14 percent in the third quarter over the comparable periods last year, he said.
But he added that what had worked for America West might not work for other network carriers because only 5 percent of America West's revenue had come from full fares before its structure change. That contrasts with 10 percent for the industry over all, according to the Air Transport Association, the industry's main trade group. This means most other airlines risk losing more revenue if they try to lower their full fares systemwide.
"With the system they operate, on low-yielding routes, it's a perfect formula for them," Raymond L. Neidl, an analyst at Blaylock & Partners, an investment bank in New York, said of America West. "With their size and their market, it's something that's worked for them."
America West started its experiment of charging for food on a dozen daily short flights from Phoenix. Flight attendants began selling snack boxes with items like hot sandwiches, chips and cookies for $3 to $5. This week, the experiment will expand to a dozen medium-length flights. In the third and final week, America West will ask long-distance passengers to pay $10 for meals like chicken Kiev served on china.
Mr. Parker said one gauge of success will be whether the airline can cover the cost of providing meals, which runs $250 to $300 a flight. Jeffrey D. McClelland, executive vice president for operations, said that two days into the experiment, 20 to 30 percent of passengers on the test flights were buying the food. "We expect it'll go up a little bit as we go to long-haul markets," he said.
Though European low-cost carriers like Ryanair already sell food aboard flights, analysts are skeptical that America West will recoup its costs. They say Southwest's success has shown that passengers want nothing more than to get from one place to another as cheaply as possible. Besides, they say, why would passengers buy an airline meal when they can get food from a real restaurant in the airport?
"At least somebody at America West is thinking outside of the box," said Joe Brancatelli, an advocate for business travelers who writes an online newsletter. "But the airlines should do what they do best. They fly people. Stop trying to be the department store. Don't sell me food; don't sell me entertainment."
American Airlines has determined that selling food on flights would be too complicated and expensive, and it is in early talks with concessionaires to sell food at gates, said Todd Burke, a spokesman for American. Northwest, though, is planning to sell food aboard some flights in a month-long trial starting on Wednesday.
SELLING sandwiches may be symbolically significant, but it is only one of the issues facing America West. A larger challenge is to whittle its cost structure so that it can continue to offer cheap fares and compete effectively with Southwest in Phoenix and Las Vegas. In the first half of 2002, it spent 8.61 cents flying one seat one mile, according to Back Aviation Solutions, an airline consulting company. That was less than any network carrier, but still almost 17 percent higher than the 7.37 cents spent by Southwest.
Industry analysts point to several obstacles that prevent America West from slimming its operations. Because it operates using hubs, for example, its planes spend more time on the ground to allow passengers to connect -- 50 to 55 minutes, according to Mr. McClelland. Southwest's planes have a turnaround time of 20 to 30 minutes.
America West flies its planes an average of 9.3 hours a day, versus 10.9 hours at Southwest, according to Back Aviation. Airlines, of course, cannot collect revenue when their planes are idle.
With three types of planes in its fleet, America West also spends more on labor and maintenance than do low-cost airlines that use only one type of plane. Mr. McClelland said the company had been working to switch its fleet entirely to Airbus A319's and A320's, but that fell through after the Sept. 11 attacks.
America West has also had a tougher time dealing with its unions than has Southwest, and its mechanics' and flight dispatchers' contracts are up for renegotiation this year. It reached a tentative agreement last month with one union, the Air Line Pilots Association, but only after rancorous talks that required federal mediation.
Finally -- and this may matter more to travelers than to anything else -- it ranked eighth in on-time performance in November, according to the Transportation Department. That gets to the heart of what passengers want from their air travel experience. Given the choice, would they rather pick an airline that sells a $5 cheese omelet sandwich, or one that has a better track record flying them to their destinations by the promised hour?
As Mr. Brancatelli observed, "I don't know anyone who makes the decision on flying based on the food they get."

GRAPHIC: Photos: America West decided to try selling its meals and snacks, at the risk of irritating passengers. (Jeff Topping for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Sue Bettenhausen of America West, above, lets Gary and Elaine Brattain try the meals now being sold. (Photographs by Jeff Topping for The New York Times); W. Douglas Parker, chief executive of America West, above, is experimenting with ways to turn the airline into a low-fare carrier like Southwest. Asking passengers to pay for their supper is one part of his strategy. (Associated Press)(pg. 11) Chart: "The Striver in the Skies"Although America West has among the lowest labor costs and overall costs in the industry, it is not collecting enough money to be profitable. REVENUEFrom flying one seat one mile Graph tracks revenue for US Airways, Continental, Southwest and America West From 1998 to 2002. OVERALL COSTTo fly one seat one mile Graph tracks overall cost for US Airways, Continental, America West and Southwest from 1998 to 2002. LABOR COSTTo fly one seat one mile Graph tracks labor cost for US Airways, Continental, Amercia West and Southwest from 1998 to 2002. 2002 through June (Source: Back Aviation Solutions)(pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); ASTROLOGISTS & PSYCHICS (90%); AIR FARES (77%); EXECUTIVES (71%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; FINANCES 

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (92%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (91%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICA WEST AIRLINES 

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (92%); UAL (NYSE) (91%); JBLU (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

PERSON: WILLIAM DOUGLAS PARKER (89%) WONG, EDWARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2003 



410 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: The Triumph Of Hope Over Self-Interest 

BYLINE:  By David Brooks; David Brooks, a senior editor at The Weekly Standard, is author of "Bobos in Paradise: The New Upper Class and How They Got There."

DATELINE: NASHVILLE 

 BODY:
Why don't people vote their own self-interest? Every few years the Republicans propose a tax cut, and every few years the Democrats pull out their income distribution charts to show that much of the benefits of the Republican plan go to the richest 1 percent of Americans or thereabouts. And yet every few years a Republican plan wends its way through the legislative process and, with some trims and amendments, passes.
 The Democrats couldn't even persuade people to oppose the repeal of the estate tax, which is explicitly for the mega-upper class. Al Gore, who ran a populist campaign, couldn't even win the votes of white males who didn't go to college, whose incomes have stagnated over the past decades and who were the explicit targets of his campaign. Why don't more Americans want to distribute more wealth down to people like themselves? 
 Well, as the academics would say, it's overdetermined. There are several reasons.
People vote their aspirations.
The most telling polling result from the 2000 election was from a Time magazine survey that asked people if they are in the top 1 percent of earners. Nineteen percent of Americans say they are in the richest 1 percent and a further 20 percent expect to be someday. So right away you have 39 percent of Americans who thought that when Mr. Gore savaged a plan that favored the top 1 percent, he was taking a direct shot at them.
It's not hard to see why they think this way. Americans live in a culture of abundance. They have always had a sense that great opportunities lie just over the horizon, in the next valley, with the next job or the next big thing. None of us is really poor; we're just pre-rich.
Americans read magazines for people more affluent than they are (W, Cigar Aficionado, The New Yorker, Robb Report, Town and Country) because they think that someday they could be that guy with the tastefully appointed horse farm. Democratic politicians proposing to take from the rich are just bashing the dreams of our imminent selves.
Income resentment is not a strong emotion in much of America.
If you earn $125,000 a year and live in Manhattan, certainly, you are surrounded by things you cannot afford. You have to walk by those buildings on Central Park West with the 2,500-square-foot apartments that are empty three-quarters of the year because their evil owners are mostly living at their other houses in L.A.
But if you are a middle-class person in most of America, you are not brought into incessant contact with things you can't afford. There aren't Lexus dealerships on every corner. There are no snooty restaurants with water sommeliers to help you sort though the bottled eau selections. You can afford most of the things at Wal-Mart or Kohl's and the occasional meal at the Macaroni Grill. Moreover, it would be socially unacceptable for you to pull up to church in a Jaguar or to hire a caterer for your dinner party anyway. So you are not plagued by a nagging feeling of doing without.
Many Americans admire the rich.
They don't see society as a conflict zone between the rich and poor. It's taboo to say in a democratic culture, but do you think a nation that watches Katie Couric in the morning, Tom Hanks in the evening and Michael Jordan on weekends harbors deep animosity toward the affluent?
On the contrary. I'm writing this from Nashville, where one of the richest families, the Frists, is hugely admired for its entrepreneurial skill and community service. People don't want to tax the Frists -- they want to elect them to the Senate. And they did.
Nor are Americans suffering from false consciousness. You go to a town where the factories have closed and people who once earned $14 an hour now work for $8 an hour. They've taken their hits. But odds are you will find their faith in hard work and self-reliance undiminished, and their suspicion of Washington unchanged.
Americans resent social inequality more than income inequality.
As the sociologist Jennifer Lopez has observed: "Don't be fooled by the rocks that I got, I'm just, I'm just Jenny from the block." As long as rich people "stay real," in Ms. Lopez's formulation, they are admired. Meanwhile, middle-class journalists and academics who seem to look down on megachurches, suburbia and hunters are resented. If Americans see the tax debate as being waged between the economic elite, led by President Bush, and the cultural elite, led by Barbra Streisand, they are going to side with Mr. Bush, who could come to any suburban barbershop and fit right in.
Most Americans do not have Marxian categories in their heads.
This is the most important reason Americans resist wealth redistribution, the reason that subsumes all others. Americans do not see society as a layer cake, with the rich on top, the middle class beneath them and the working class and underclass at the bottom. They see society as a high school cafeteria, with their community at one table and other communities at other tables. They are pretty sure that their community is the nicest, and filled with the best people, and they have a vague pity for all those poor souls who live in New York City or California and have a lot of money but no true neighbors and no free time.
All of this adds up to a terrain incredibly inhospitable to class-based politics. Every few years a group of millionaire Democratic presidential aspirants pretends to be the people's warriors against the overclass. They look inauthentic, combative rather than unifying. Worst of all, their basic message is not optimistic.
They haven't learned what Franklin and Teddy Roosevelt and even Bill Clinton knew: that you can run against rich people, but only those who have betrayed the ideal of fair competition. You have to be more hopeful and growth-oriented than your opponent, and you cannot imply that we are a nation tragically and permanently divided by income. In the gospel of America, there are no permanent conflicts.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Katherine Streeter) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ESTATE TAX (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); POLITICS (77%); MEN (74%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); NEW CAR DEALERS (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS 

PERSON: AL GORE (58%) BROOKS, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2003 



411 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: The Nation; 
Never Devoid Of Class

BYLINE:  By STEVEN R. WEISMAN; Steven R. Weisman, chief diplomatic correspondent for The New York Times, is the author of "The Great Tax Wars: Lincoln to Wilson -- The Fierce Battles over Money and Power That Transformed the Nation."

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
I UNDERSTAND the politics of economic stimulus. Some would like to turn this into class warfare. That's not how I think."
 So said President Bush last week as he prepared to unveil his $674 billion, 10-year economic package, which his critics say favors the rich. 
 "It is class warfare, and they've declared it," Representative Charles B. Rangel of New York, the senior Democrat on the House Ways and Means Committee, said a few days later. 
Like it or not, it has never been possible to debate taxes in the United States without also debating the role of class. 
As far back as the Civil War, when the first income tax was enacted, The New York Herald hailed it for forcing W. B. Astor, Commodore Vanderbilt and other millionaires to "contribute a fair proportion of their wealth to the support of the national government." 
While Representative Thaddeus Stevens, the authoritarian Republican chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, agreed that the tax was necessary, he deplored the "vicious" and "unjust" idea that the tax system should punish "the rich man because he is rich." 
But the flagrantly inequitable accumulations of wealth that characterized the Robber Baron era in the late 19th century were precisely what worried Theodore Roosevelt, who considered them a virtual incitement to class warfare.
"I do not like the social conditions," he told William Howard Taft, his secretary of war, in 1906. Roosevelt worried that "the dull, purblind folly of the very rich men" was breeding "a very unhealthy condition of excitement and irritation in the popular mind." His solution to these class resentments was to placate them. At the end of his term, he proposed an income tax, arguing that the very rich had "a peculiar obligation to the state" that should be fulfilled by higher taxes. 
When the income tax became permanent in 1913, after a constitutional amendment, Senator Henry Cabot Lodge, the Massachusetts Republican, proclaimed that it represented "the pillage of a class," by which he meant his class -- the very rich. 
In the 1920's, Treasury Secretary Andrew W. Mellon -- so powerful it was said that three presidents (Warren G. Harding, Calvin Coolidge and Herbert C. Hoover) served under him -- became the greatest tax cutter in history until Ronald Reagan came along. Mellon, not Mr. Reagan, was the first supply-sider of note in government. High tax rates, he said, crippled initiative. 
In his book, "Taxation: The People's Business," Mellon argued that it was morally repugnant to tax a man's wealth just because "he seems to have more money than he needs" in the eyes of some people.
BUT the concern about singling out the rich is almost always trumped in times of real war. During the Civil War, the income tax was propelled because so many Americans were growing rich off the war. At a time when a man could pay $300 to escape the draft, Treasury Secretary Salmon P. Chase bought his daughter a $3,000 shawl for her wedding. It was not lost on the public that this was the price of 10 lives.
During World War I, Woodrow Wilson told Congress that people were willing to "bear any burden and undergo any sacrifice," including taxes. "We need not be afraid to tax them, if we lay taxes justly," he said.
That was also the philosophy of Franklin D. Roosevelt during World War II. Indeed, the Treasury Department commissioned Irving Berlin to write a song called "I Paid My Income Tax Today":
I never felt so proud before
To be right there with the millions more
Who paid their income tax today.
The patriotic spirit that surrounded taxpaying, especially when it was the rich who paid rates as high as 90 percent, continued into the cold war. President Eisenhower resisted cutting taxes because of the need to support the military and social programs. 
Then in the 1960's, a new factor entered into the discussions: the Keynesian view that taxes affect the economy. John F. Kennedy advocated tax cuts to jolt the nation out of its recession. In 1980, President Reagan embraced tax cuts as a cure for recession, inflation and loss of confidence.
Charges that the Reagan cuts catered to the rich were at the center of debate in 1981. But after 1982, when the recession lifted, the tax cuts were credited with rescuing the economy. Today it is an article of faith among conservatives that the Reagan cuts ushered in two decades of prosperity. 
Dissenters note, however, that the Bush tax increase of 1991 and the Clinton tax increase of 1993 -- both of which raised taxes on the very wealthy and were labeled by their critics the greatest tax increases in history -- were followed by job growth in the 1990's even greater than that of the 1980's.
From the beginning, the income tax covered dividend income from investments. That was the point -- to force owners of corporations to pay taxes just as farmers did on their property. The argument that it was unfair to tax both corporate income and dividend income because this amounted to double taxation has also been around a long time, since 1909, when President Taft signed the first corporate tax into law. 
If history is any guide, the coming debate over Mr. Bush's new plan, and the class resentments it may stir, will reprise the arguments of the past 150 years. But these arguments are certain to be intensified because of two questions: What effect will it have on the economy? What sacrifice will people expect from the richest taxpayers if young Americans start fighting in Iraq? 
It seems a sure bet, though, that people will never be as in love with taxes as Berlin put it in 1942:
You see those bombers in the sky,
Rockefeller helped build them,
So did I!
I paid my income tax today! 

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Reagan signed the biggest tax cutting bill in American history in 1981. (United Press International); Treasury Secretary Andrew W. Mellon cut taxes throughout the 1920's. (The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TAX LAW (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%) TAXATION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); RONALD REAGAN (89%); CHARLES B RANGEL (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); WEISMAN, STEVEN R 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2003 



412 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1328 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Profits in Going Legit; 
Some Russian Tycoons Resort to Honesty

BYLINE:  By SERGE SCHMEMANN 

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
IN the prospectus that the curiously named Russian food company Wimm-Bill-Dann prepared for its initial public offering in New York, it revealed that one of the principal owners had spent nine years in prison, and warned that this could hurt investors.
 That one owner had a criminal record might not be very surprising, given the heavy reliance of Russia's first "beeznissmeny" on stealing, lying and sometimes killing. But confessing it before the whole world, and vowing thereafter to be squeaky clean according to the highest Western standards, was startling. 
 It paid off handsomely. Wimm-Bill-Dann, the Russian market leader in dairy products and juices, successfully raised $161 million in the offering last year (the name, pronounced VIM-beel-dun and familiar to all Russians, apparently stands for nothing more than the founders' fondness for tennis and Wimbledon). 
The lesson of Wimm-Bill-Dan and a handful of other major Russian companies that have chosen to abandon the more familiar Russian approach to business has made "transparency" and "corporate governance" -- business-speak for honesty -- something of a fad, at least among the bigger and more profitable businesses.
The leading light of corporate virtue these days is Mikhail Khodorkovsky, who used to personify the predatory Russian oligarch as the head of Yukos, Russia's second-largest oil company. After a two-year campaign to remake the company's image, Yukos now embraces the latest Western precepts for corporate candor. That, and generous gifts from Mr. Khodorkovsky's new "Open Russia" foundation, have opened wide for him the gates to respectability and honor (and capital) in Washington and London.
The 39-year-old tycoon does not pretend that he was struck by a revelatory flash on the road to Damascus. Being nice to investors and honest in the market, he says, "in the short term is to your advantage." He really doesn't need to elaborate. Investors have snapped up the cleaner, whiter Yukos, in the process raising Mr. Khodorkovsky's stake to more than $7 billion and quite possibly making him the richest man in Russia.
Many Russians are understandably skeptical of the newfound honesty, as is Charles Ryan, an American who runs United Financial Group, a Moscow investment bank. "Certainly there's a fad to appear honest -- it's self-interest," he said. "If you do it, you can keep what you stole. The world is very forgiving of wealth.
"Those who had principled positions in the past are now asking, if these guys are getting accepted in the West, what am I doing?" Mr Ryan said. "So now they're going to work for the businesses run by oligarchs."
STILL, to some degree the apparent transformation of some predators into model citizens confirms the faith of those economists who preached that all successful robber barons sooner or later seek to go legit.
In the early 1990's, when the government of Boris Yeltsin first embarked on a chaotic sell-off of state properties, those who managed to grab something tried to turn it into cash, and to squirrel the cash abroad as quickly as possible, since nobody knew what might come next.
A few of these "new Russians" hit the jackpot in 1995 when they agreed to support Mr. Yeltsin's re-election campaign in a "loans-for-shares" compact that netted them some of Russia's most valuable properties, including the oil companies, at bargain-basement prices.
A new chapter opened in August 1998, when Russia's bubble economy burst, crushing many banks but also chasing off get-rich-quick speculators and bringing the ruble down to a more realistic level. Then in 2000, Vladimir Putin was elected, and before long, oil prices began to climb, finally giving the country a measure of stability and sobriety. Those at the top of the economic pyramid began to realize that there was more to gain from protecting what they had than from continuing to strip it. 
For one thing, it is now possible to plan ahead, at least for the eight years that Mr. Putin can be president under current rules. More important, a well-managed company attracted Western capital, and going public created far more value for major shareholders than whatever they could siphon from their business. 
In addition, big-name foreign shareholders provided protection against corrupt bureaucrats or predatory oligarchs. A listing on the New York or London exchanges came to be seen as the Good Housekeeping seal of legitimacy, since it required meeting stringent standards. 
At the same time, a new generation of executives came on stream. These were young Russians without Soviet hang-ups. Many had studied or worked abroad and were at home in Western-style management. 
To be sure, the conversion to honesty has hardly been universal. Last fall, a survey by Standard & Poor's of corporate openness, measured by how much a company discloses, gave Russia an average score of only 34 out of a possible 98, well below that of Asia and just a notch above Latin America. The survey did note, however, that some Russian companies, including Wimm-Bill-Dann, were at West European levels of transparency and disclosure.
In other words, while there has been progress, the "Wild East" is hardly tamed as yet. The star of Russian "beezniss" these days is a tycoon named Oleg Deripaska, who at only 34 has accumulated a business empire through ruthless and elaborate, though technically legal, takeover raids.
To Yulia Latynina, a sharp-tongued television host on the TVS station who has reported extensively on business, the difference between Mr. Deripaska and Mr. Khodorkovsky is not in morality or mind-set, but simply in strategy.
"It's not a question of intentions, but of pure business," Ms. Latynina said. "There are two possible strategies, one to increase the price of assets, the other to increase assets. The one strategy requires being utterly transparent. The other requires grabbing judges, giving bribes and being utterly untransparent. This is not cynicism. It's just the stage we're at."
Anatoly Karachinsky, a computer geek who built a highly successful company, Information Business Systems, argued that it was simply stupid for successful companies like his to stay in the shadow or black economies. 
"You invest in transparency the same as you invest in R & D," he said. "It's value, and to lose it is senseless. I could save five or six million dollars in the shadow economy, but I'd have no value."
Grabbing a handful of felt pens, Mr. Karachinsky jumped to a board to show that the rule applied only to the relative handful of businessmen who already controlled a large part of the economy. (According to Standard & Poor's, fewer than 50 Russian businesses control about 98 percent of Russia's capital market.)
For small and middle businesses, the obstacles to emerging from the shadows were simply too high. A recent study by the Center for Economic and Financial Research in Moscow and the World Bank found that any small business trying to grow ran up against a glass ceiling of bureaucratic corruption, feeble laws and rapacious rivals. The problem is especially acute in the provinces, where Soviet-style bosses still have a choke-hold on politics and business.
"Russia changes, but Russians don't change," many a skeptical Russian mutters. But even if corporate honesty is a phenomenon limited, for now, to the pinnacle of the food chain, the very fact that the experiment has been succeeding so publicly and so profitably seems bound to win more converts. Already small shareholders are becoming emboldened to demand greater openness from their companies, and successful banks are beginning to demand more information from smaller businesses seeking loans.
"They still need a culture shift to perceive that it is in their interest to follow laws," said William D. Morris, a lawyer with Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld, an American law firm with extensive business in Russia. "But the biggest positive event for this is the favorable response to the reforms of major companies."

GRAPHIC: Photo: In a Moscow store, cartons of Wimm-Bill-Dann are on prominent display. The company is profiting on claims of honesty. (Andrey Ilyin for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DAIRY INDUSTRY (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (88%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); TRENDS (75%); ETHICS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (55%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ETHICS 

COMPANY: WIMM-BILL-DANN PRODUKTY PITANIYA OAO (94%); WIMM-BILL-DANN FOODS OJSC (92%); OAO NK YUKOS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: YUKOS (RUSSIAN CO) 

TICKER: WBDF (RTS) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC2023 DRY CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCTS (94%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS311511 FLUID MILK MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (54%)

PERSON: SCHMEMANN, SERGE; KHODORKOVSKY, MIKHAIL 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (91%); SYRIA (79%) RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2003 



413 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 199 words

HEADLINE: Private Sector; 
Rich Dad,Poor Dad

BYLINE:  By Dylan Loeb McClain (COMPILED BY RICK GLADSTONE) 

 BODY:
The tax cuts proposed by the Bush administration last week would disproportionately benefit the wealthy, according to some critics. That does not mean all members of the super rich are likely to support the plan. 
 Consider the father of the country's richest man. 
 William H. Gates, co-chairman of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, the charity created by his son and daughter-in-law, said he opposes any changes that weaken the progressive structure of the income tax.
Mr. Gates has just written a book with Chuck Collins, a founder of United for a Fair Economy, that attacks another pillar of President Bush's tax strategy: repeal of the estate tax. The book, "Wealth and Our Commonwealth: Why America Should Tax Accumulated Fortunes" (Beacon Press, $25), goes on sale tomorrow. 
Mr. Gates, 77, said repealing the estate tax would lead to "a greater concentration of wealth and the diminution of personal skills and personal effort."
He said that his son agreed with him. He added that his daughters, Libby and Kristi, whose inheritance would be far greater if the estate tax were repealed, "are not going to carry signs to support my stance, but they are amenable to it." Dylan Loeb McClain

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESTATE TAX (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (87%); CHARITIES (78%); WRITERS (75%); FOUNDATIONS (71%); LITERATURE (70%) TAXATION; INHERITANCE AND ESTATE TAXES; BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

ORGANIZATION: BILL & MELINDA GATES FOUNDATION (58%) GATES, BILL AND MELINDA, FOUNDATION; UNITED FOR A FAIR ECONOMY (ORGN) 

PERSON: BILL GATES (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) MCCLAIN, DYLAN LOEB; GATES, WILLIAM H; GATES, WILLIAM H SR; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); COLLINS, CHUCK 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: WEALTH AND OUR COMMONWEALTH (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2003 



414 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: Two Tough Cookies 

BYLINE:  By MAUREEN DOWD; E-mail: liberties@nytimes.com

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
He sets the fashion in politics. She sets the politics in fashion.
 He worries about a short winter war and ferreting out rogues. She worries about short spring hemlines and deciding what's in vogue. 
 He is W. She reads W. 
George Bush and Anna Wintour rule over very different universes. He's the leader of the free world. She's the queen of designer freebies. He's in charge of nukes. She's known as Nuclear Wintour.
He sees things in black and white. She sees a kaleidoscope of pastels. He summits with Berlusconi, Putin and Jiang Zemin. She summits with Versace, Prada and Jimmy Choo.
On the surface, it would seem that the chilly, driven Brit in stilettos who dictates how we look would have nothing in common with the cocky, laid-back Texan in cowboy boots who dictates how we live.
Yet the 56-year-old commander in chief and the 53-year-old editrix of Vogue have been thrown together -- victims of a new literary trend known as Boss Betrayal.
They've been Rosencrantz-and-Guildensterned. Minor characters in their kingdoms are providing a worm's-eye view of the White House and Conde Nast, spurred by lucrative book advances to be indiscreet about powerful figures striving to protect their privacy behind sunglasses (her) and lawsuits (him).
David Frum, a speechwriter in Mr. Bush's first year as president, puffs himself up in "The Right Man," a sequel to his wife's puffing him in e-mails to friends. The 41-year-old conservative seems oddly oblivious that his claim to fame --- putting "axis" in "axis of evil" -- is now the administration's nettlesome albatross.
Lauren Weisberger, a 25-year-old Ivy League grad who worked as an assistant to Ms. Wintour, is preparing to publish a novel called "The Devil Wears Prada." It's about an Ivy League grad who works as an assistant to Miranda Priestly, the icy and fabulously successful British editor of Runway magazine.
Both authors worked in their prestigious offices for only about a year, but in our culture, which celebrates squealing on others and watching others squeal in pain, that's more than enough time for a mere staffer to land on easy street.
Maybe the view from below is distorted, but upon closer perusal, the governing styles of Anna and W. seem remarkably similar.
Both are slender fitness buffs who are loath to have any corpulent employees around. The president complained that his rotund former economic adviser, Larry Lindsey, was not exercising enough. The wispy editor, who often pronounces models "fat," ordered Oprah to lose 20 pounds before she could be on the Vogue cover.
Anna and W. were both mediocre students who went on to surprise their prominent families with their success. Both rise at 5:45 a.m., enjoy red meat and intimidate their staffs with their barbed tongues.
Mr. Frum says Mr. Bush is often more tart than sweet, "not the easy, genial man he was in public." 
Neither likes to be kept waiting, and both like speedy goodbyes. Both are punctilious.
Ms. Weisberger writes of her mythicized Anna: "She would always have perfectly lined and filled-in lips regardless of the hour."
And the former speechwriter describes an exasperated Mr. Bush pointing at a table lamp in the Map Room, demanding, "Do you think it's going to occur to anybody to turn that lamp off when we leave the room?"
Ms. Weisberger's fictional Anna runs her magazine as efficiently "as a military operation," with high-heeled staffers who run when called.
Aides leap up whenever Bush enters a room, even on Air Force One, Mr. Frum reports, and the president has "learned to bark, 'Sit!' " to spare them.
Both are defiant when badgered by touchy-feely types. He scorns enviros as "green, green lima beans," and when a protester threw a frozen raccoon on the fur-wearing Anna's lunch plate at the Four Seasons, she merely placed a napkin over the carcass and calmly ordered coffee.
W. demands professional attire for men and women in the West Wing at all times, even weekends. Anna is also a stickler. Her novelistic counterpart quizzes her assistant, "Whose shoes are you wearing?" and the assistant wisely fibs rather than confess to Ann Taylor Loft.
It's lonely at the top. But at least they each have their own Karl. He, Rove. She, Lagerfeld. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (90%); POLITICS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); LITERATURE (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); WRITERS (72%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; MAGAZINES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: VOGUE (MAGAZINE) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%) WINTOUR, ANNA; DOWD, MAUREEN; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); FRUM, DAVID; WEISBERGER, LAUREN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2003 



415 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1333 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Top Drawer; 
Defining the Rich in the World's Wealthiest Nation

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT 

 BODY:
THEY have become the most discussed social group in the United States. Yet few people acknowledge being a member, and there is little agreement about what qualifies one for inclusion. 
 They are the wealthy, and President Bush's current economic plan has thrust them to the center of attention. But whether one believes they should be soaked, or encouraged to create more wealth, even the terms of the debate are murky. 
 Some would include any family that makes more than $100,000 a year. Others put the cut-off much higher, noting that a six-figure income alone is not enough to buy many houses in the biggest metropolitan areas. Still others ignore salaries and point out that all of the commonly used words for the well-off -- affluent, rich, wealthy -- are supposed to describe people's assets rather than their incomes. 
"Today, wealth is much greater in its diversity," said George Fertitta, the president of Margotes-Fertitta, an advertising agency that specializes in luxury brands. "Unlike 20 years ago, the wealthy person isn't the kind person you could paint a picture of and say, 'That's exactly who they are.' "
By any standard, wealthy Americans find themselves in an unusual position, having enjoyed one of the most prosperous 20-year periods in history. The fortunes of many families that were already rich have soared since 1980, but so did the ranks of the newly wealthy, with the number of households worth at least $1 million almost doubling to 4.8 million from the early 1980's to late 1990's, even after accounting for inflation, said Edward N. Wolff, an economist at New York University. Almost three million of the 130 million families filing tax returns in 2001 reported at least $200,000 in income, up from 1.3 million in 1995.
In the past, surges of wealth created backlashes that led to the trustbusting era in the 1890's and the New Deal of the 1930's. But since the technology bubble burst almost three years ago, the wealthy have become perhaps the chief beneficiary of government policy.
"It would be totally contrary to history to have a speculative bubble, and turn around and reward the people who benefited the most," said Kevin Phillips, whose "Wealth and Democracy" criticized the rise of inequality. "The last time this happened, the wealthy got killed by the government, with the New Deal."
This time, attacks on the rich have found little traction. The party more sympathetic to the wealthy has won control of the White House and the Senate since stocks began falling and joblessness began rising in 2000. One possible reason the class-war criticism has not yet stuck is that defining wealth is come complicated that it once was. Some people have homes that have appreciated enormously in value, but they can't sell them without buying a new, similarly expensive home. High-earners who live in high-cost areas feel stretched. Lower earners who live in less expensive places don't feel poor. 
The explosion in American wealth is often traced to the early 1980's, when a long bull market and a period of impressive growth began. But while the wealthy did well in the 80's, the major trend was the drop in the buying power of middle- and lower-income families, because of a stagnant minimum wage and high unemployment. 
"In the 80's, it was not so much the top moving way ahead," said Jared Bernstein, an economist at the Economic Policy Institute, a liberal research group in Washington. "It was the bottom getting smashed."
In the 1990's, by contrast, inequality kept growing because the wealthy did fabulously well. Despite the decade's prosperity and the raises given to most workers, the top 20 percent of earners were the only group to increase its share of the nation's income. 
Along the way, the distinction between highly paid people and those with large piles of capital became increasingly blurred. Today, salaries can beget fortunes, as deregulation and globalization have increased the opportunities for profits and pay in corporate America.
"The one really conspicuous change is that it's possible to become a wealthy person just by what you earn for doing your job," said Robert Frank, an economist at Cornell University. "That wasn't very often possible 25 years ago."
From 1997 to 2001, the top five executives at the average American company split $31.6 million in profits from exercising stock options, according to "In the Company of Owners" (Basic Books, 2003), a new study of options. This sum does not include their salaries or bonuses.
AT most companies, the rewards of the stock-market bubble flowed overwhelmingly to top executives. But in technology companies, many rank-and-file workers famously made enough to be considered wealthy. Even excluding the top five executives, the average employee at a group of 100 big technology companies made $425,000 exercising options from 1994 to 2001, according to "In the Company of Owners." 
Oddly, as the ranks of the well-off have grown, relatively few people identify themselves as affluent. In a 1993 New York Times/CBS News poll, 91 percent of people in families making at least $75,000 a year (about $100,000 in today's dollars) described themselves as middle class. 
The issue is more than mere semantics in many places. The costs of housing, transportation, child care and tuition can quickly make a six-figure income seem middle class, even if it permits a living standard far above the national average. 
The tax cut Mr. Bush proposed last week offers its own definitions of wealth. The truly wealthy are the small group of Americans who own significant amounts of stock outside of 401(k)'s and other tax-deferred retirement accounts. They would no longer have to pay taxes on many of their stock dividends, and this change would account for about half of the plan's $674 billion cost in lost taxes over 10 years. In 2010, they also won't face estate taxes, a feature of the 2001 tax cut that is set to disappear in 2011, but which Republicans want to make permanent.
The reduction in taxes under the president's plan will make the economy more efficient, said Mark M. Zandi, the chief economist of Economy.com. "But," he added, "it's clear that the direct benefits will accrue to the top sliver of the population." 
Imagine a high-income family owning $10 million in stock that gives its members $200,000 in dividends every year. Before the 2001 estate tax cut and before any prospective elimination of taxes on dividends this year, they would have paid federal taxes on their dividends every year, and their heirs would have lost about half of the fortune to the estate tax. In all, the heirs would have received $5.6 million in 2010, assuming the dividends were reinvested but the stock did not increase in value. 
Under the new proposal, combined with the 2001 law, they might not have to pay dividend or estate taxes and would instead inherit $12 million.
The next level is the group that makes more than $110,000. Exempt from some or all of Mr. Bush's proposed increase in the child credit, which would mainly help the middle class, this group would benefit significantly from the decline in tax rates, but would not fare as well as people who receive large amounts of unearned income from dividends. 
Under current law, a provision known as the alternative minimum tax, originally intended for the very rich, will increasingly hit families making salaries in the low six figures. This tax prevents families from taking deductions for children and state and local taxes, among other things. 
How all this will play out politically is not yet clear. The storm of criticism of Mr. Bush's plan from Democrats last week -- that it amounted to an attack on the middle class -- showed they believe they will gain by opposing the wealthy. The Republicans believe that taking less from the rich will help stimulate the overall economy, as well as shore up a powerful constituency. 
The winner of this struggle will help determine whether the next 20 years will be as good for the rich as the last 20 were.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Ray Bartkus) Chart/Map: "Look Around, You Might Be Among the Wealthy"Wealth in the United States remains concentrated in metropolitan and coastal areas, though rural enclaves of the ultra-rich and a boom in the Rocky Mountain states have altered the pattern somewhat. What hasn't changed is that the rich rarely identify themselves as such. Where the Affluent Live PERCENTAGE OF HOUSEHOLDS WITH ANNUAL INCOME GREATER THAN $200,000 Map of the United States highlighting where the rich, upper income, middle income, lower income and poor live. The wealthiest counties include some usual suspects . . . PERCENTAGE OF HOUSEHOLDS WITH INCOME GREATER THAN $200,000 Marin, Calif.: 12.1%Fairfield, Conn.: 10.8Westchester, N.Y.: 10.4New York, N.Y.: 9.4Summit, Utah: 9.3Somerset, N.J.: 9.2Pitkin, Colo.: 9.0Morris, N.J.: 9.0 . . . but after the boom of the 1990s, upstarts are gaining fast. PERCENTAGE POINT GAIN IN HOUSEHOLDS WITH INCOMES GREATER THAN $200,000 Teton, Wyo.: 6.5%Summit, Utah: 6.2Greene, Ga.: 4.7Santa Clara, Calif.: 4.6Marin, Calif.: 4.3San Mateo, Calif.: 4.3San Miguel, Colo.: 4.2Somerset, N.J.: 4.0 How They See Themselves Only 13 percent of Americans say they are rich or have high incomes . . . "Thinking about your own financial situation, do you consider yourself to be rich, upper income, middle income, lower income, or poor?" Upper income: 11%Rich: 2%Middle income: 59%No opinion: 1%Lower income or poor: 27% . . . but it takes less than they think to be in the upper reaches of income. A household with an income of $83,500 is in the top fifth. Top 5 percent: $150,499 and HigherTop Fifth: $83,500 and HigherMedian household income: $42,228 (Sources: Census 2000 data analyzed by Andrew Beveridge and Susan Weber-Stoger, Queens College Department of Sociology; Gallup poll of 1,003 adults, April 811, 2002)(pg. 16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (92%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (89%); FAMILY (89%); LUXURY GOODS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (53%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; MILLIONAIRES AND BILLIONAIRES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) LEONHARDT, DAVID; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); UTAH, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2003 



416 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 171 words

HEADLINE: Future Workers Will Pay the Price 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 "Deficit Spending Can Help Republicans" (Economic View, Dec. 29) wondered if new deficits could give political advantage to President Bush's party by "tying the hands of future administrations." 
One would think that the huge national debt would already be ample constraint. 
 Consider the impact that this large and newly exploding debt will have on wage earners of the 2020's and 2030's. First, they will need to pay for their government services, the sort that current wage earners enjoy but don't fully pay for. Then they'll need to pay principal and interest on a debt run up largely before they were born. Then they'll need to redeem the Treasury bills sold to make the deficit look smaller than it was by the amount of the surplus in the Social Security trust fund. Finally, they will have to pay the retirement benefits for the huge boomer population. How can it be disputed that this long-term fiscal irresponsibility will blight the lives of future workers?

LAURENCE J. BEST
Bridgewater, N.J., Dec. 30

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Ismael Roldan) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL DEBT (90%); POLITICS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2003 



417 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: Sealing The Well 

BYLINE:  By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

DATELINE: CAIRO 

 BODY:
I attended Friday's noon prayers at Cairo's Al Azhar, the most important mosque in Islam. Thousands of Egyptian faithful went through their traditional prostrations and listened to the sermon by the sheik of Al Azhar, who spoke in measured tones about how God deals with "oppressors." At the end, he appealed to God to rescue the Palestinians. It was all very solemn and understated. And then the excitement started.
 A split second after he finished, someone tossed in the air hundreds of political leaflets, and a young man was lifted onto the shoulders of the crowd and began denouncing "American tyranny." Hundreds of the faithful then marched around the mosque chanting behind him, while the silent majority shuffled out. It was as if you were seeing two services: first the state-run service and then the street-run service, where the real steam was let off. But here's what struck me most: While America came in for a lashing, no one in this crowd was chanting in support of Saddam Hussein. 
 This was in keeping with everything I heard in dozens of interviews in Cairo. The good news is that Saddam is no longer viewed as any kind of folk hero, and most people, it seems, would welcome his demise. The bad news is that George Bush and U.S. policy are disliked even more. What gives?
By steamrolling Kuwait in 1990, Saddam looked strong. Today, he appears to be weak, on the defensive and surrendering to everything the U.N. and U.S. are demanding. In the early 1990's Saddam was still benefiting from years of having bought off Arab journalists, who sang his praises. That chorus seems to have dried up now that he is no longer passing out so many Mercedes-Benzes. In the early 1990's Saddam was still viewed as the Sunni Muslim sword standing up to the Iranian Shiites, and most Arabs cared little about how he had abused his people. Now it gets written about. Finally, the 9/11 attack, which emanated from this region, has strengthened people who want to talk about Arab misgovernance.
Raymond Stock, a literary researcher here, told me that an Arab friend of his summed up the mood this way: "Iraq is like a plane that has been hijacked. If the American commandos can free the plane without harming the passengers, then most people will be relieved."
Then why is George Bush so intensely disliked? In part, it's because people feel the president and his team have stopped talking to the world. They only growl at it now. But the biggest factor remains the Bush team's seeming indifference to making any serious effort to solve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict when so much killing is going on. The administration's refusal to apply any creative imagination to defusing this conflict, and even belittling it while calling Ariel Sharon "a man of peace," has embittered the Arab public. This now clouds everything we do here: Invading Iraq is cast as a war to protect Israel. Democratization is cast as a way to punish the Arabs.
Yes, official Arab newspapers and TV have nourished Arab anger toward America and Israel for decades -- and still do. And one regime after another has exploited this conflict for political purposes. But when you sit in a room at the U.S. ambassador's house with 30 bright young Egyptian entrepreneurs, mostly U.S.-educated, and this issue is practically all they want to talk about -- or you meet with American studies students at Cairo University and they tell you that many students in their class refused to play a simulation game of the U.S. Congress for fear of being tainted -- you feel that there has to be something authentic in their anger about this open wound.
Until it is sealed, it will remain a well for the "thoughts of mass destruction" that will energize every radical anti-American group out here. I am convinced that much of the anger over U.S. policy is really a cry of help from people who know what they have to do -- to democratize, liberalize their economies -- and who know that they will be lost for another 50 years if they don't, but can't do it because these ideas are promoted by a power they feel is indifferent to their deepest hurt.
I am not talking about what is right, or what is fair, or even what is rational. I am talking about what is. And if we ignore it, if we dismiss it all as a fraud, we will never fully harvest the positive changes that could come from regime change in Iraq. The Egyptian playwright Ali Salem says: "We have an Egyptian proverb: 'The drunk is in the care of the sober.' You are the sober. Don't forget that." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RELIGION (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (76%); JOURNALISM (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (70%); HIJACKING (69%); WRITERS (63%); TERRORISM (61%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (61%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (59%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (54%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (54%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (54%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (50%) FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (90%) UNITED STATES (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); IRAQ (93%); EGYPT (91%); ISRAEL (79%); KUWAIT (79%) IRAQ; EGYPT

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2003 



418 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: TURKEY; 
Turkish Leader Arrives in Saudi Arabia for Talks on Iraq Crisis

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: RIYADH, Saudi Arabia, Jan. 11 

 BODY:
Prime Minister Abdullah Gul of Turkey arrived in Saudi Arabia today for talks about Iraq, a day after giving permission for a team of American military inspectors to assess bases in his country.
 Mr. Gul, on his second peace mission this month, was welcomed by Saudi Arabia's de facto ruler, Crown Prince Abdullah, who is seeking a peaceful solution to the standoff between Washington and Baghdad over accusations that Iraq is developing weapons of mass destruction. 
 Saudi officials said the crisis would be the focus of their day of talks. "We will focus on how we can get out of this crisis peacefully and quickly," one diplomat said.
On Friday, Mr. Gul said he had authorized the United States military to inspect Turkish bases to see how useful they would be in any war. But his government continued to hold off on support for a large deployment of American ground troops in Turkey.
The Turkish military said a team of 150 Americans would arrive on Monday for about 10 days of inspections.
Turkey had agreed more than a month ago to admit the American team, but the inspections were delayed by an argument about the legal status of the team members once they reached Turkish soil.
Deputy Defense Secretary Paul D. Wolfowitz said last month that the United States was prepared to invest millions in upgrading Turkish bases if Washington used them for a war. Inspections could be a first step in that direction.
Turkey and Saudi Arabia were major launching points for allied forces during the Persian Gulf war, and Turkey's air bases are used to support the American and British patrols of United Nations-imposed no-flight zones over Iraq.
But the current American campaign to generate international support for a possible military operation to oust President Saddam Hussein of Iraq has left an overwhelming majority of the Turkish public upset and outspoken in its opposition to a war.
In such a climate, the government has been unwilling to commit to full support of an American-led war. Saudi Arabia has also been reluctant to commit itself publicly to allow its bases to be used as staging points for a new attack on Iraq.
Turkey is also negotiating with the United States on a multibillion-dollar package of credits and loans put together to protect its economy from the fallout of a war.
Diplomats say reasonable estimates of the cost of war range from $4 billion to $15 billion, including factors like falling tourism revenues and rising borrowing costs. 

CORRECTION-DATE: January 14, 2003

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Sunday about a visit by Prime Minister Abdullah Gul of Turkey to Saudi Arabia for talks on Iraq referred incorrectly to the no-flight zones over Iraq. The zones, one in the north and one in the south, were imposed by the United States, Britain and France after the Persian Gulf war; they cited United Nations resolutions calling for Iraq's Kurds and Shiites to be protected from Saddam Hussein; the zones were not created by the United Nations. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INSPECTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY BASES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); PEACE PROCESS (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); TERRORISM (71%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (50%); TOURISM (50%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; TERRORISM; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS 

PERSON: ABDULLAH GUL (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) GUL, ABDULLAH (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); TURKEY (98%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); IRAQ (94%); GULF STATES (73%) IRAQ; SAUDI ARABIA; TURKEY

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2003 



419 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: Bush Proposes Big Increase in Securities Commission's Budget 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 11 

 BODY:
President Bush made good today on a promise to seek a big increase in spending for the beleaguered Securities and Exchange Commission, saying that his budget for next year will propose a 73 percent increase from last year's level to help the commission fight corporate fraud.
 Mr. Bush also disclosed that he would propose spending increases for the Justice Department to expand corporate fraud investigations, as well as more money to help the Labor Department recover pension-fund assets for the employees of companies victimized by fraud. 
 The announcement continued an effort by the administration to deal with last year's wave of corporate scandals, an issue that has weighed heavily on the stock market, exposed deficiencies at the commission and left Mr. Bush vulnerable to criticism from Democrats that he had not done enough to crack down on malfeasance by business executives and their accountants and bankers. 
"The S.E.C. and Justice Department are the referees of corporate conduct," Mr. Bush said in his weekly radio address. "Under my budget they will have every resource they need to enforce the laws that punish fraud and protect investors."
Democrats said in response that Mr. Bush had been slow to come around to the need for more funding to fight corporate wrongdoing. David Sirota, the spokesman for Democrats on the House Appropriations Committee, said Mr. Bush had "no credibility" on corporate responsibility. 
"George Bush's promises to fully fund the S.E.C. are about as believable as his Enron buddies saying they balance their books," Mr. Sirota said.
Today's announcement was part of a campaign by the White House to highlight the relatively few substantial spending increases contained in what is sure to be an otherwise tight budget that Mr. Bush is scheduled to deliver to Congress early next month.
The president's budget proposal, covering the fiscal year starting on Oct. 1, will seek spending increases for the military and domestic security, but is expected to demand freezes or cuts in many other programs. This reflects the administration's desire to check the growth of government and partly offset the upward pressure being put on the budget deficit by the weak economy, tax cuts, the costs of battling terrorism and the potential bill for a war with Iraq.
Through much of last fall, Mr. Bush rebuffed efforts by Congress to win his approval for a large spending increase for the commission. But last month, Mr. Bush reversed course and pledged to nearly double the agency's budget for the next fiscal year, relative to its budget for last year.
Today, Mr. Bush was specific, saying he would seek $842 million for the commission, 73 percent more than last year's level of just under $487 million. Congress has not yet agreed on a budget for the commission for the current fiscal year.
The president said he would also add $25 million to the Justice Department's budget for fighting corporate fraud: $16 million for the F.B.I. to hire additional staff members, including 56 new agents, and $9 million for 29 new prosecutors and positions to support them.
The White House said Mr. Bush's plan would also include additional money to help the Labor Department seek to recover $500 million in pension plan assets looted or lost because of corporate malfeasance. 
In his radio address, Mr. Bush tied his efforts to combat corporate wrongdoing to the $670 billion tax cut he proposed this week, saying both were essential to promoting robust economic growth.
"Our country has made great progress in restoring investor confidence and putting the recession behind us," the president said. "We cannot be satisfied, however, until every corporate wrongdoer is held to account, and every part of our economy is strong, and every person who wants to work can find a job."
Mr. Bush did not address the commission's budget for the current fiscal year. The agency's budget for this year has been in limbo, partly because Congress is late in completing work on the annual government spending bills and partly because the administration had resisted efforts on Capitol Hill to give the agency the full $776 million promised to it in legislation last summer. The administration had originally sought to hold the budget to $568 million for this year, but more recently has signaled some flexibility.
Representative Frank R. Wolf, the Virginia Republican who is chairman of the Appropriations subcommittee that deals with the agency's budget, said this week that he would seek the full $776 million for this year.
If Mr. Bush were to agree to the $776 million figure for this year, his $842 million figure for next year would represent a one-year increase of 8.5 percent.
The commission's leadership, budget and capabilities have been central topics in the debate over whether the federal government has been adequately equipped to deter, detect and prosecute schemes to inflate earnings, hide debt or otherwise mislead investors.
After drawing intense criticism for his stewardship of the commission, Harvey L. Pitt resigned as chairman two months ago, but he remains on the job pending Senate confirmation of the former Wall Street executive the president nominated to succeed him, William H. Donaldson.
The commission's enforcement and compliance divisions have been understaffed and limited in their ability to open investigations. The corporate finance division has been unable to keep up with the flood of corporate filings. The market regulation division has had little success in winning approval for rules regulating how stock markets set prices.
With Mr. Bush now committed to a substantial budget increase, Mr. Donaldson now seems likely to take office with the ability to hire more accountants and lawyers to examine corporate books and crack down on suspected wrongdoing. But he will also have to address a catalog of other troubles, including low morale and the possibility that the commission has lost its status as the primary enforcer of honesty and transparency in the markets to state prosecutors and other watchdog agencies.

GRAPHIC: Photo: William H. Donaldson is awaiting confirmation as S.E.C. chairman. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORPORATE WRONGDOING (91%); BUDGETS (91%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); EXECUTIVES (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); MISCONDUCT (77%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (73%); APPROVALS (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (72%); SCANDALS (72%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); TAX LAW (66%); IRAQ WAR (61%); TERRORISM (50%) ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; SECURITIES AND COMMODITIES VIOLATIONS 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (90%) SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2003 



420 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1436 words

PERSON: C. Douglas Dillon 

HEADLINE: C. Douglas Dillon Dies at 93; Was in Kennedy Cabinet 

BYLINE:  By ERIC PACE 

 BODY:
C. Douglas Dillon, a versatile Wall Street financier who was named secretary of the Treasury by President Kennedy and ambassador to France under President Eisenhower, and was a longtime executive of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died Friday at New York Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. Mr. Dillon, who lived with his wife on Jupiter Island in Hobe Sound, Fla., was 93.
 Mr. Dillon was born to wealth and influence as the son of the founder of Dillon, Read & Company, an international banking house. Mr. Dillon was widely respected for his attention to detail -- he had a reputation for ferreting out inconspicuous errors in reports -- and his intellect, which his parents began shaping at an early age by enrolling Mr. Dillon in elite private schools. 
 Mr. Dillon is said to have been able to read quickly and to fully comprehend what he read by the time he was 4 years old. At the Pine Lodge School in Lakehurst, N.J., Mr. Dillon's schoolmates included Nelson, Laurance and John Rockefeller III. Mr. Dillon later graduated magna cum laude from Harvard and sharpened his analytical powers on Wall Street. 
Strapping and strong-jawed, Mr. Dillon sometimes seemed self-effacing or even shy in public, despite his long prominence in public affairs and in business. He served over the years as chairman of the Rockefeller Foundation, president of Harvard University's board of overseers, chairman of the Brookings Institution, vice chairman of the Council on Foreign Relations, and, after his time in Paris, in high posts at the State Department.
In the business world, he rose to be chairman of Dillon, Read and of the United States and Foreign Securities Corporation, an investment company founded by his father, Clarence Dillon.
Despite his patrician roots, Douglas Dillon was only twice removed from more meager means in Poland, where his paternal grandfather was born. Mr. Dillon's grandfather, Samuel Lapowski, a Jewish immigrant from Poland, moved his family to Texas after the Civil War and began building several businesses and propelling his children to higher social strata through education. Mr. Dillon's father studied at Harvard and, at some point, changed his surname from Lapowski to Dillon, which was his mother's maiden name.
In private life, Douglas Dillon and his first wife, the former Phyllis Chess Ellsworth, amassed collections of Impressionist paintings and other works of art. His interest in art led him to be selected as a trustee of the Metropolitan Museum two decades before he became its president. He served from 1970 to 1977, when he became chairman.
In March 1983, Mr. Dillon said he planned to step down as chairman in the fall, explaining, "My feeling is that this is quite long enough for one person to hold these offices."
Mr. Dillon's first wife died in 1982. He is survived by two daughters from that marriage, Phyllis Dillon Collins and Joan, the Duchesse de Mouchy. Mr. Dillon is also survived by Susan Dillon, whom he married in 1983, and three grandchildren.
Mr. Dillon was a lifelong Republican who had long been active in party affairs when he was picked for the Treasury post by President Kennedy in an attempt to give an incoming administration a bipartisan cast. Kept on by President Johnson, Mr. Dillon served as secretary of the Treasury from 1961 to 1965, and his fiscal policies won wide support.
"I am a moderate Republican," he said as he left the cabinet, adding, "I do not believe that there are great differences between that kind of Republicanism and the objectives" of the Kennedy and Johnson administrations.
In his years as the secretary of Treasury, Mr. Dillon played a key part in drawing up the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, which empowered Mr. Kennedy to cut tariffs by half in the course of reciprocal negotiations. As secretary, Mr. Dillon was also instrumental in framing the Revenue Act of 1962, which mandated a 7 percent investment credit that was meant to spur industrial plant and equipment investment. He oversaw the revising and liberalizing of principles for the companies' handling of depreciation charges.
However, Mr. Dillon's influence and the weight of the Treasury dwindled near the end of his tenure when it became known that he was going to resign; he had wanted to leave government for some time. And wide notice was taken, even by his admirers, of his inability to bring about an end to the deficit in the United States' balance of payments.
After leaving his cabinet post, Mr. Dillon returned to the world of finance, where the Dillon name was a byword long before World War II, thanks to his father, who amassed a fortune at the head of Dillon, Read. The company was one of the prominent Wall Street houses that underwrote hundreds of millions of dollars worth of bonds that were floated in the United States by numerous European cities and countries after World War I.
The elder Mr. Dillon and his wife, Anne Douglass Dillon, were spending a year abroad when Clarence Douglass Dillon was born Aug. 21, 1909, in Geneva, Switzerland. The terminal "S" was later dropped from his middle name.
The son was brought up in New York and New Jersey. He graduated in 1927 from the Groton School and in 1931 from Harvard, where he was considered too wiry to be a member of the football team. Instead, he became its manager.
Once he graduated, he had time to acquire a seat on the New York Stock Exchange, using $185,000 that his father had staked to him for the purpose.
In 1937, after working on the stock exchange and as an investment banker, Mr. Dillon became president and a director of the United States and Foreign Securities Corporation. The next year he also became a director at Dillon, Read.
In World War II, Mr. Dillon interrupted his Wall Street career to serve in the Navy, seeing action in the Pacific. He earned the Legion of Merit and the Air Medal and rose to the rank of lieutenant commander.
In 1946, he became chairman of Dillon, Read, but he left that post, and also left the securities corporation in 1953, the year President Eisenhower chose him to be ambassador to France. The appointment was largely seen as a political spoil because Mr. Dillon, who at that time also served as a Republican state committeeman, had helped to lock in votes from New Jersey's Republican delegation for Mr. Eisenhower's bid for president. Mr. Dillon also made financial contributions to Mr. Eisenhower's campaign.
To some, Mr. Dillon was a logical choice for the Paris post since he was familiar with France, partly a result of the fact that for 20 years his family had owned the Chateau Haut-Brion vineyards, which produced Bordeaux wine. Initially, though, Mr. Dillon was criticized because of his crude command of French, his youth and his inexperience as a diplomat. But he quickly gained respect after he diligently studied French with a tutor and performed ably during several incidents in which the United States disagreed with the French government's policies.
In the State Department, as ambassador until 1957 and then as under secretary of State for economic affairs and as under secretary of State, Mr. Dillon was noted for analyzing problems in detached Wall Street style and then acting firmly and logically.
After leaving government, he again returned to Wall Street. But after he was elected president of the Metropolitan Museum, the museum work came to fascinate him so much that he spent most of his time at it. An avid collector of 18th- and 19th-century French paintings, Mr. Dillon also gave the museum much of the artwork that he acquired over the years and he is credited with nearly single-handedly building the museum's Chinese painting collection.
"It was his passion, which he developed out of an institutional need because it was a weakness at the Met," said Philippe de Montebello, the director of the Metropolitan Museum. "He wanted the Met to be strong in all fields, so he literally adopted Chinese arts."
The galleries were set up with money from the Dillon Fund, a small family foundation set up in 1922; and Mr. Dillon made personal contributions as well.
While he led the museum, Mr. Dillon oversaw the completion of a campaign to raise funds for new construction. It brought in $118 million. He also directed the beginning of another fund-raising campaign, intended mainly to enlarge the museum's endowment. By late 1982, the campaign was more than halfway to its goal of $150 million.
After retiring from the Met, Mr. Dillon continued to serve the museum, most recently on the acquisitions committee, which he was said to love so deeply that, during a recent illness, he read acquisitions papers from his hospital bed.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 15, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An obituary on Sunday about C. Douglas Dillon, the Wall Street financier who served as Treasury secretary from 1961 to 1965, misstated the role of his father in the early history of the investment banking house Dillon, Read & Company. Clarence Dillon joined William A. Read & Company in 1913 and later changed its name. He was not its founder.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Wen Fong, left, special consultant to the Metropolitan Museum of Art on Asian affairs in 1987, with C. Douglas Dillon in the Japanese gallery. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times, 1987) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); FOUNDATIONS (77%); MARRIAGE (77%); PAINTING (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (75%); IMMIGRATION (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (75%); CHILDREN (74%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (74%); POLITICS (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (67%); PHILANTHROPY (65%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ART; PHILANTHROPY 

COMPANY: DILLON READ & CO INC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (93%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (82%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (54%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (54%) METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (NYC) 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%) SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS & DEALERS; 

JOHN F KENNEDY (92%) DILLON, C DOUGLAS; PACE, ERIC; KENNEDY, JOHN FITZGERALD (1917-63); EISENHOWER, DWIGHT DAVID (1890-1969) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (78%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (90%); POLAND (86%); CENTRAL EUROPE (53%)

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.) 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2003 



421 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: RUSSIA; 
Moscow Is Negotiating With North Korean Officials in Quiet Effort to Defuse Tensions

BYLINE:  By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Jan. 11 

 BODY:
Russia has been quietly negotiating with North Korea to defuse tensions caused by the resumption of its nuclear programs, officials here said even as they expressed reluctance to exert the strong diplomatic or economic pressure on North Korea called for by the Bush administration.
 President Vladimir V. Putin and other officials have adamantly called on North Korea to end any nuclear-weapons programs and reverse its decision, announced on Friday, to withdraw from the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty. 
 At the same time, however, they have criticized proposals to impose economic or diplomatic penalties or to refer North Korea's defiance of international monitoring to the United Nations Security Council.
They have also expressed understanding -- if not sympathy -- for what officials here say are North Korea's legitimate demands for security guarantees from the United States after President Bush's declaration of the country as part of an "axis of evil." 
"North Korea needs guarantees of security or the situation may take an unpredictable turn," the defense minister, Sergei B. Ivanov, said on Friday after returning from a two-day visit to China.
Mr. Putin, appearing with Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi of Japan, said on Friday that North Korea had "left open the door for negotiations," indicating that he hoped the crisis could be defused. 
"Despite all the difficulties on the Korean Peninsula, I think they can be solved through such negotiations," he said.
But Mr. Putin did not elaborate on what shape those negotiations might take. Nor has Russia so far offered any explicit initiative to bring together North Korea, its neighbors and the United States for talks.
Since tensions rose with the disclosure of North Korea's furtive weapons program last fall, Russian officials have held a series of low-key discussions with the North Koreans aimed at a resumption of negotiations with the United States, said Georgi D. Toloraya, deputy director general of the Russian Foreign Ministry's Asian department.
Mr. Toloraya declined in an interview to disclose the exact nature of the talks, saying, "It is time for quiet diplomacy" to defuse the crisis. His remarks, however, indicated that Russia was putting as much pressure on the United States to resume formal negotiations.
Russia, along with China, is thought to be the most likely nation to wield influence over North Korea and its reclusive leader, Kim Jong Il. The two countries share a short border and in recent years have strengthened political and economic ties that waned after the collapse of the Soviet Union for than a decade ago. Mr. Putin visited the North Korean capital, Pyongyang, in 2000, while Mr. Kim has twice visited Russia, most recently last August.
The United States and Russia clearly agree on the goal of a nuclear-free Korean Peninsula, but not on the means of ensuring it. There also appears to be a significant divergence of opinion on the extent of the threat posed by North Korea's activities.
Mr. Ivanov and Aleksandr Y. Rumyantsev, minister of Russia's nuclear energy agency, both said on Friday that they did not believe North Korea's program had progressed significantly. Echoing North Korea's own statements, Mr. Ivanov said withdrawal from the treaty did not necessarily mean the country was close to developing nuclear weapons.
"Nuclear programs as such are not nuclear weapons," he said.
While American intelligence officials have estimated that North Korea may already possess one or two nuclear weapons and could produce five or six more within six months, Mr. Rumyantsev said North Korea would not be able to build its own weapons for 50 years. 
Mr. Rumyantsev also suggested a compromise in which his agency would help North Korea build a nuclear reactor for its energy needs -- similar to the deal, negotiated in 1994, that North Korea has now broken. Such an arrangement would also resemble Russia's $800 million deal to build a reactor in Iran, which the Bush administration believes has assisted Iran in a covert effort to develop nuclear weapons.
The American ambassador to Russia, Alexander R. Vershbow, pointedly accused Russia of underestimating the threat. 
"We think the Russians need to get past the denial stage and join us in putting much more substantial pressure on Pyongyang to pull back from the brink," he said in Washington on Thursday.
The Bush administration has said it is prepared to talk with North Korean diplomats -- though not to negotiate formally -- and two met this week with Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico, a Clinton administration official who has negotiated with the North Koreans in the past.
Mr. Toloraya, though, said North Korea was not satisfied simply with informal talks. Instead, he said, Mr. Kim wants concrete assurances that the country will not face pre-emptive strikes against its weapons programs, something threatened in the Bush administration's new national-security doctrine.
"It seems like North Korea has a long-term plan -- to raise the stakes -- and they are fulfilling it," said Mr. Toloraya, an expert on Korean issues who has met with Mr. Kim and other senior leaders.
"It is quite clear they will not yield to pressure," he added. "They have decided to go all the way -- to have a peace treaty or to have a war."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Vladimir V. Putin has supported talks with North Korea. (Itar-Tass, via Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (56%) ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); SERGEI IVANOV (59%); KIM JONG IL (58%) PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (89%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); CHINA (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); JAPAN (79%) NORTH KOREA; RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2003 



422 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: It's Their Party (More or Less); 
Convention Poses Contradictions for Local G.O.P. Stars

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER STEINHAUER 

 BODY:
Odd as it may seem, Republican officials say New York City was an easy choice for the site of the Republican National Convention. After all, the city, which the Republican Party designated on Monday as its host for 2004, served as the backdrop for one of the most dramatic moments so far in the presidency of George W. Bush, and continues to resonate with many Americans as the emotional center of a nation at war.
 But while New York has much to gain from a major political convention -- thousands of tourists spending millions of dollars, according to city projections, and televised images of the city luring others into its midst -- the extent to which it helps the ascendant Republican leaders who pushed for it so hard is an entirely different question. 
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg was at the head of the line in pressing Mr. Bush to support bringing the convention to the city. But for this of all mayors to align himself closely with a conservative White House, whose economic policies are rarely seen as favoring urban areas, a year before his own presumed re-election campaign, is a risk his supporters wonder if he should take. 
"The last thing I want to be in New York City is a national Republican," said one prominent party consultant, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. "You need to oppose the national economic agenda."
If Bloomberg is in candidate mode, the consultant went on, he ought to use the convention "as an opportunity to distance himself from them."
"You say, 'It's great for everyone to be here, even though I fundamentally disagree with you,' " the consultant said.
Like most New York Republicans, Mr. Bloomberg is decidedly left of center in his political leanings, and even further left of the party that is going to pitch its tent at Madison Square Garden in 2004. He supports abortion rights, gay rights and restrictions on gun ownership, and recently raised the property tax rate 18.5 percent. 
The ink is barely dry on Mr. Bloomberg's voter registration card. He switched his affiliation from the Democratic Party to run for mayor in 2001, a move he has acknowledged was motivated by the belief that he could not win a Democratic primary.
But it is also true that Mr. Bloomberg's political wish list for the convention may be shorter than that of his party mates. His fierce desire for the party to gather here appears to have been based on the city's economic needs rather than on his desire to become a larger player in the national party. 
"The mayor of New York is not part of the platform committee," said Kevin Sheekey, the special adviser to the mayor who oversees the convention process. "He is serving in a nonpartisan way as a host."
On Friday, when a radio interviewer congratulated him on snagging the convention, Mr. Bloomberg immediately lamented that he had not secured the Democratic National Convention as well. (That party will hold its festivities in Boston.)
"I tried to make the case to both of them that New York is the ultimate place for them to get out their message," Mr. Bloomberg said. "I tried to make the case to both of them that standing in Madison Square Garden is the right place to showcase your candidate and let the parties get their message of inclusion and opportunity and responsiveness."
What Mr. Bloomberg wants out of the deal seems clear: endless parties, of which he never seems to tire; an economic lift for the city; and perhaps some new Republican friends in Washington who will take a kinder view of a New York in need of financial aid. But while this mayor, who is often happy to give the spotlight over to others, may generally stay out of the limelight in August 2004, there are two other Republican players who will probably love to bask in it.
Former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and Gov. George E. Pataki will almost certainly be seeking attention as convention co-hosts. And the party is looking for something from both of them. Mr. Pataki appealed to a wide range of voters in last year's race for governor and did exceptionally well among Hispanic voters.
The national Republican Party is eager to build its base among more moderate and minority voters, one motive in choosing New York City, and any help Mr. Pataki can provide will be cherished. A significant concern of the party is "atrophy in the Northeast," said Representative John E. Sweeney, an upstate Republican. "That we are a very inclusive party is the message."
Mr. Giuliani, who was officially in charge of the effort to bring the Republicans to New York, has served in a ceremonial role so far. (The real work, everyone agrees, has been done by Mr. Sheekey.) But the former mayor raised money and campaigned all over the country for Republican candidates last year, and the party is well aware of his national appeal.
However, if either man hopes for a co-starring role at the convention, the White House may disappoint them. Cindy Adams reported in The New York Post last week that Mr. Giuliani had refused to rule out the possibility that he would be keynote speaker. But Republican officials said the matter had barely been discussed, much less decided.
Mr. Giuliani's appeal throughout America, however, is not lost on Mr. Bush, and a prominent role for the former mayor hardly seems out of the question, especially if the White House is still eager to press the Sept. 11 theme. If that makes Mr. Bloomberg and Mr. Pataki second and third fiddles to Mr. Giuliani, both men have become accustomed to those roles since the World Trade Center attack. In the last year, each man has tried to play the role of the moon reflecting Mr. Giuliani's political sunlight, and both prized his endorsement of their political bids. 
But it is also true that any New York player will be deep in Mr. Bush's shadow. "The truth of the matter is the White House wants the president to be the star at this convention," said Roland W. Betts, a member of Mr. Bloomberg's lobbying team and a friend of President Bush who urged the White House to choose New York over New Orleans and Tampa. "And they don't want the locals to try and steal the thunder. I think they made that clear to all of us."
Indeed, the second biggest star is not likely to be any particular New Yorker, but New York City itself. 
It was chosen largely because Mr. Bloomberg agreed to raise $53 million in private contributions toward the convention's estimated $80 million cost, and offered the party hotel deals, promises of union cooperation and a platter of other goodies. 
Even though Democrats outnumber Republicans by about two million in New York State, the mythical image of a Gotham teeming with sin, chaos and liberal idealism has faded a good deal with more than eight years of Republican leadership in Albany and City Hall, not to mention the mooring of Walt Disney in the heart of Times Square. 
The marketability of New York -- a message Mr. Bloomberg has pressed relentlessly since he was elected -- is perhaps best told through the confidence of the president and his party, which has never before held a convention in the city.
"The Republican National Committee's selection of New York City as host of the next Republican convention is testament that the values of our great nation are reflected throughout the city in our cultural attractions, theaters and our neighborhoods," Mr. Giuliani said in a prepared statement last week. Such remarks would have been laughable even five years ago.
He continued, "This is yet another indication of the vitality of New York City, which will be the perfect venue to showcase Republican candidates and ideas."

GRAPHIC: Photos: In a state that is mostly left of center, the benefits of a Republican National Convention in New York City are hard to calculate for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, Rudolph W. Giuliani and Gov. George E. Pataki. (Ruth Fremson/The New York Times); (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times); (James Estrin/The New York Times)(pg. 33); (Illustration by The New York Times)(pg. 27) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CITIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); GAYS & LESBIANS (61%); ABORTION (61%); LGBT RIGHTS (61%); FIREARMS (50%); PROPERTY TAX (50%) PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; CONVENTIONS, NATIONAL (US); MINORITIES (US) 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); RUDY GIULIANI (73%) STEINHAUER, JENNIFER; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2003 



423 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Observer; 
Two Things Linger in Cuba: Fidel and a Pointless Embargo

BYLINE:  By ADAM COHEN 

DATELINE: HAVANA 

 BODY:
Cuba's oddest tourist attraction may well be the Rincon de los Cretinos, or Corner of Cretins. Tucked into a dim hallway of the Museum of the Revolution, it features life-size caricatures of Ronald Reagan and George H. W. Bush. The plaque beside Mr. Reagan reads, "Thanks you cretin for helping us to strengthen the revolution." The first President Bush is thanked for helping to "consolidate" the revolution.
 It is great Communist kitsch, but also dead-on political commentary. America's hard-line Cuba policy, particularly our embargo on trade and tourism, is cruel to 11 million Cubans, who live in poverty as a result of the embargo. And it makes us look loutish to the world community, which has denounced the embargo in the United Nations for the last 11 years, most recently by a vote of 173 to 3. 
 The embargo is also inane strategically because it does just the opposite of what its supporters intend. By insulating Cuba from American economic influence, and most actual Americans, conservatives have indeed "strengthened" and "consolidated" Cuban Communism in the name of trying to pull it down.
Momentum is building fast to bring an end to Washington's benighted policies. Cuba watchers have long said that relations will not change until Fidel Castro, who is 76, departs. But now we may be on the brink of transformation. Members of Congress, Republicans as well as Democrats, are vowing to undo the embargo, and they are taking aim at its cornerstone: the ban on tourism.
Cuba is a hot tourist spot these days -- for Europeans and for 200,000 Americans a year, who go legally, under exceptions to the ban, and illegally. It has many of the usual tropical charms: enjoying moonlight and mojitas at the Hotel Nacional, chasing Hemingway's ghost around Old Havana. But what sets it apart is that in a world grown homogenous, it still delivers a frisson of exoticism, just 90 miles off the coast of Florida.
The revolution, and the four decades of embargo that followed, locked Cuba into a late-50's freeze-frame. Many of the cars careering down Havana's streets are, famously, '57 Chevys. Few buildings are newer than the Riviera, the Miami Beach-style hotel where Rat Packers once roamed and Meyer Lansky ran the casino.
The embargo's most striking visual impact is that it has spared Cuba the detritus of American capitalism. Havana's quaint Parquo Central has no golden arches or Starbucks. The Malecon, Havana's charming seafront boulevard -- lined on one side by crumbling architectural gems, on the other by crashing waves -- is billboard-free. It has as much Old World romance as any spot a traveler is likely to come upon.
To visit Cuba is to be a student of history, with a new set of lessons. Cubans see their engagement with the United States as part of a centuries-long struggle to throw off the colonial yoke -- first Spain's, then ours. For us, Teddy Roosevelt's fabled charge up San Juan Hill evokes victory in the Spanish-American War and the New World's liberation. For the Cubans, it meant substituting American control for Spanish colonialism.
Cubans view Castro's revolution, which deposed the American-backed dictator, Fulgencio Batista, as less about Marxism than about finally winning self-determination. And they see the embargo, like the Bay of Pigs invasion and the C.I.A.'s many attempts on Castro's life, as a fit of pique by a superpower that hasn't forgiven the little island that slipped from its grasp.
For an administration that seeks "moral clarity" in foreign policy, the embargo offers anything but. Cuba is oppressive -- it lacks freedom of speech and real elections -- but is not much different than China and other nations that trade with the United States. In a world of shadowy terror cells and madmen developing nuclear bombs, the notion that Cuba is a leading security threat is laughable -- as is the fact that Americans who cannot travel to Cuba are free under U.S. law to ship off for North Korea.
The embargo is especially wrongheaded in these complicated times. It hands more ammunition to critics who accuse the U.S. of flouting world opinion. And it particularly sets us back in Latin America, where two strategically vital nations -- Venezuela and Brazil -- now have leaders who see Castro as a companero.
The embargo -- and above all the travel ban -- also frays our own democratic principles. It makes no sense to protest Cubans' lack of freedom by depriving American citizens of theirs.
It is Miami's Cubans, of course, who are driving all this. The community is not as uniformly hard-line as it once was; young Cuban-Americans, in particular, are starting to speak out for normalization. But President Bush still owes his win in Florida, and his presidency, to the Hands-Off-Elian-Gonzalez crowd.
Things are different, however, in Congress. The bipartisan Cuba Working Group is pushing hard to end the embargo because it is the right thing to do, and because its members' constituents -- farmers, factory hands, dockworkers -- pay the price.
Congress eased the embargo in 2000, authorizing sales of food and medicine, on a cash basis only. Jeff Flake, a conservative Arizona Republican who opposes the embargo, expects the travel ban to unravel in the next year. "We're getting dangerously close to veto-proof majorities," he said.
The embargo's end will improve the lives of ordinary Cubans. It could even topple the current regime by unleashing the power of capitalism on a country that has long been protected from it. But these changes will come at the cost of an onslaught of American culture, lobbed from 90 miles away. Cubans will listen to less trova music and watch more of "The Bachelor," and American multinationals will descend on it. A T-shirt being sold in Miami's Cuban community not long ago showed the Malecon lined with U.S. fast-food restaurants.
Which means that in these crazy times, when it's difficult to see even one step into the future in many parts of the world, in Cuba it is possible to see two: the end of the embargo and -- just as inevitably -- embargo nostalgia. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); TOURISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); POLITICS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); HISTORY (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); TRENDS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (55%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CUBA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE H W BUSH (72%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%) COHEN, ADAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) CUBA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%) CUBA

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2003 



424 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: News That Travels Well 

BYLINE:  By Jihad Fakhreddine; Jihad Fakhreddine is the research manager for media at the Pan-Arab Research Center.

DATELINE: DUBAI, United Arab Emirates 

 BODY:
Reports of Arab animosity toward the United States are a mainstay of American television and newspapers. Arabs hate us, Americans tell themselves, because they don't know us, because their governments won't allow American voices to reach the Arabs in the street.
 Washington is working on several efforts to circumvent what it perceives as Arab government censors and provide the Arab public with direct access to American programming. The White House and Congress are considering creating a new satellite TV channel to reach the Arab states. 
 This new channel would complement the Washington-financed Radio Sawa, which in March started broadcasting a mix of Arab and Western music intended for young people, along with an hourly dose of news from the official Washington perspective. There is even a former advertising executive running a State Department campaign to "sell" America to Arabs through print and television advertising, photography exhibitions and videos.
But in contrast to what Washington thinks, Arabs' access to news from the West is constantly becoming more free. Radio Sawa itself, for example, is transmitted through FM and AM frequencies in many Arab cities. Most significant, because it is carried by the state-owned Nilesat and Arabsat satellites, Radio Sawa can reach approximately one-third of the homes in Saudi Arabia and 10 percent of all households in Egypt.
Radio Sawa is just one example of the many ways the Arab world, specifically in Saudi Arabia, has opened up to American sources of information. The process began in 1991 during the Persian Gulf war, when Arabsat brought CNN to Arab homes, unedited, providing Arabs with their first taste of satellite broadcasting. Today, CNN International can reach close to 85 percent of homes in the gulf region. Although CNN has not yet found it economically feasible to have Arabic programming, the company did begin CNNArabic.com last year. 
Arabs have ever-increasing access to Western newspapers and magazines as well. Newsweek introduced an Arabic edition in 2000. Equally significant is the cooperation between a Lebanese newspaper, The Daily Star, and The International Herald Tribune, which appears as part of The Star. 
Saudi Arabia has taken the biggest steps in the Arab world toward opening up to the American press. What reaches the Arab masses through CNN, Newsweek, The Herald Tribune and Radio Sawa is only a trickle compared to the American content in Al Sharq Al Awsat, one of the most widely read newspapers in the Saudi kingdom. Al Sharq Al Awsat, which is edited in London and circulated in all Arab countries, carries daily reports, news analysis and opinion columns from The New York Times, The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times and The Christian Science Monitor.
Most of the major news reports that appeared in Al Sharq Al Awsat in the aftermath of the Sept. 11 attacks and during the war in Afghanistan were taken from these four American publications. A typical copy of the newspaper will have Thomas L. Friedman and William Safire alongside Arab columnists, as well as editorials from The New York Times -- including one not long ago claiming that millions of Arab youths yearn for democracy as promised by the United States.
Other Arabic newspapers publish articles from the United States. Al Ittihad, a government-owned newspaper in the United Arab Emirates, runs at least two analytical articles a day from major American newspapers. In commemoration of the Sept. 11 attacks, Al Ittihad serialized the book "Report From Ground Zero" by Dennis Smith, which chronicles the horrors of terrorism.
Perhaps the most striking example of the pro-Western trend in the Arab news media appeared in Al Hayat, the second largest pan-Arab newspaper, which is published by Prince Khalid ibn Sultan of Saudi Arabia. In his Sept. 3 column, Jihad el-Khazen, the former editor in chief, wrote of The New York Times: "I do not even remember a day where I encountered what I could oppose in its coverage of the first or the second intifada (equally so with respect to The Washington Post)."
While Mr. Khazen's opinion might not be that of the majority of Arabs, it is true that he represents a growing Arab acceptance of American news -- a positive development that has not been recognized by the United States government or most Arab scholars in the West.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 15, 2003

 CORRECTION:
The illustration on Monday's Op-Ed page carried an incorrect credit. The artist's name is Warren Linn, not Walter Linn.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Walter Linn) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (89%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (89%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); CABLE TELEVISION (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (73%); CENSORSHIP (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); MUSIC (70%); DESERT STORM (69%); PHOTOGRAPHY (68%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (65%); TERRORISM (61%); RELIGION (50%) NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (81%); WASHINGTON POST CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ARAB SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS ORGANIZATION (55%) RADIO SAWA; CABLE NEWS NETWORK; NEWSWEEK (MAGAZINE); INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE; AL SHARQ AL AWSAT (NEWSPAPER) 

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (81%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (81%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%)

PERSON: FAKHREDDINE, JIHAD 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); SAUDI ARABIA (94%); GULF STATES (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); EGYPT (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); LEBANON (79%) MIDDLE EAST; SAUDI ARABIA; EGYPT; 

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2003 



425 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: New Economy; 
A nerdy entrepreneur dreamed of a better place. Now he's made one, using $33 million and some virtual dune buggies.

BYLINE:  By Matt Richtel 

 BODY:
TOM MELCHER has been blind in one eye since birth. He was never especially coordinated. When he was in junior high, he was a geek. He was happiest when he was playing with computers and performing in school plays. When he was happiest, in other words, he was even more of an outcast. The other kids called him ugly names. 
 Now, at age 39, Mr. Melcher is called chief executive. And last week his company, There Inc., opened a three-dimensional virtual world, There.com, where people can chat, hang out and participate in virtual activities, like riding a dune buggy across an animated plain. 
 Players can select any of a variety of body types, outfit themselves with clothes and interact with other virtual inhabitants -- chatting in text messages on slower-speed connections, or through voice conversations on faster links. 
Will it help bring Mr. Melcher the ultimate real-world fulfillment: a nerd's redemption and financial success? And will it, as he hopes, make for a less hostile, more comfortable communal gathering place for the geeks, outcasts and pizza faces? 
"This gives people a safe, secure, anonymous place to express what's in their head," Mr. Melcher said. "I've been wanting to do this since seventh grade."
This adolescent dream, though, is a grown-up gamble, to the tune of $33 million. That's the amount that Mr. Melcher and There's founder, Will Harvey, 36, a Stanford Ph.D. in computer science, have raised from employees, from the venture capital firm Sutter Hill Ventures and from well-heeled individual investors. About $20 million of the money has already been spent on technology and testing. 
This bet on a virtual world is one that many others before There have lost. The 1993 science fiction novel "Snow Crash," by Neal Stephenson, described a future in which people interact in vivid virtual worlds. It lit a fire beneath a generation of entrepreneurial geeks, who rolled out some 15 virtual world ventures, often well financed, that offered primitive animated settings. Those worlds all went under. 
One of those erstwhile companies was DaVinci Time and Space, which sought to develop an interactive world for children. Mr. Melcher was the company's fourth employee and its head of business development. DaVinci burned through $4.6 million of venture capital from the Rockefeller family and others before folding in 1996 without ever going live. 
"It was a deep scar," Mr. Melcher said. "I had to do a lot of thinking before I got involved in another venture like this." 
A portrait of the virtual artist as a young man might be drawn with a pencil -- maybe even the pencil that a school bully used to stab little Tommy Melcher in the arm back in seventh grade in Nashua, N.H., because the bigger boy simply didn't like brainiacs.
The bully wasn't alone in that regard, so Tommy found refuge living in his head and in a place called the Arts and Science Center. It was an early computer lab in town that had a Digital Electronics PDP 11, a computer in roughly the same way that two sticks and a rock are a drum set. 
No matter. Tommy and others of his ilk spent their afternoons on the computer playing Adventure. Although it was a text-based adventure game -- a single-cell version of a virtual world -- he felt more comfortable in that world than in the halls of Spring Street Junior High. 
"I had better friends in there than in real life," Mr. Melcher recalled. 
It would be more convenient to the story if Mr. Melcher had remained socially awkward. He didn't. His optimism, his academic success and his refusal to conform enabled him to win over even the least likely people -- including the high school football team. During his senior year he persuaded the team to tap-dance for the performance of "Oklahoma" he starred in. 
He attended Yale, where he earned a bachelor's degree in political science and sang tenor in the a cappella Whiffenpoofs group. He worked for I.B.M. in China. He earned an M.B.A. at Harvard. He consulted across the globe for McKinsey. He married, and now has two daughters. 
He says he still wants to make a world where people can connect more easily. Now, though, he also wants to make a profit. "We're in the human relation facilitation business," he said of There. The plan is to charge a monthly fee eventually; the fee has not been determined. 
But who wants to interact in a virtual world?
For the last three years, Mr. Melcher has conducted numerous focus groups. Some 3,500 people have tested his virtual world, and thousands more are likely to now that a free public trial of the system is available at www.there.com. 
He has concluded that there are two main types of users. One group is made up of people who want to interact in person with friends by riding digital dune buggies, flying hovercraft, decorating virtual homes and going on online scavenger hunts.
The others, he said, want to be with people they do not know in the physical world. An archetypal user "is the woman who is in her 30's, single, really overweight, lives in a small town," Mr. Melcher said. "She's quite verbal and bright. She feels trapped by her weight and location. She reads The New York Times and The New Yorker and Salon, and she wants to meet people who have her interests."
Mr. Melcher said the virtual world would let such people be appreciated for what they feel and think, and how smart and interesting they are, and not by more superficial criteria. 
Yet, isn't that what the Internet has already demonstrated it can do very well? As the 1993 New Yorker cartoon so famously put it, "On the Internet, nobody knows you're a dog." And isn't the There concept virtually the same as that of the virtual worlds that have failed? It is hard not to be skeptical. 
But Mr. Melcher argues that this era, and this product, is different. He said that the company's technology was a major leap ahead of the mid-90's variants because it would allow rich, aesthetically pleasing experiences at dial-up Internet speeds. Now that an entire generation has grown up interacting online, he said, there is a ready audience for There.
He said this particular concept was different in a subtly important way. This virtual world is designed to have people hang out, he said, not necessarily to achieve any goals, like amassing wealth or building health points. He describes the experience as somewhere on the social continuum between a telephone conversation and a day at the park with friends.
But some things, he said, haven't changed since those Adventure games on that PDP 11 relic back in Nashua. People, especially adolescents, have a need to explore their identities and experiment with other identities in a safer setting that is less physically confrontational -- where bullies aren't armed with pencils. 
The question, of course, is whether a certain amount of real-world struggle isn't a necessary part of personal development.
"If I had something like this," Mr. Melcher said, "maybe I wouldn't have had to try so hard."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tom Melcher, chief executive of There Inc., offers a rose to DangerKitty, a virtual character, as he stands before a projection of an interactive scene on There.com. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); VIRTUAL REALITY (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (86%); CHILDREN (78%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (77%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); NEW ECONOMY (75%); MOTOR VEHICLES (74%); EXECUTIVES (56%); TEXT MESSAGING (54%); SCIENCE FICTION LITERATURE (50%) COMPUTER AND VIDEO GAMES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES 

COMPANY: SUTTER HILL VENTURES (54%)

ORGANIZATION: THERE INC 

INDUSTRY: SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (54%)

PERSON: RICHTEL, MATT; MELCHER, TOM; HARVEY, WILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHUA, NH, USA (79%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2003 



426 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1468 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
At Big Consumer Electro nics Show, the Buzz Is All About Connections

BYLINE:  By SAUL HANSELL 

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS, Jan. 11 

 BODY:
Not too long ago the only way to put your vacation snapshots on your television was with Scotch tape. Mainly, photos stayed on paper, music on the stereo, e-mail on the computer and movies on the television.
 But since the consumer electronics industry has persuaded people to convert their music, photos and television into digital form, it is now possible for nearly any bit of sight or sound to be disgorged by nearly any digital electronic device. And that sets the stage for the industry's next big opportunity: selling products that link all these digital devices into various forms of home networks. 
 At the Consumer Electronics Association's annual trade show, which was held here Wednesday through Saturday, the industry was jubilant over its success with digital products. Despite economic uncertainty, sales of consumer electronics in the United States increased by 3.7 percent in 2002 to set a record of $96.2 billion, according to the association. The trade show, with 2,200 exhibitors and 100,000 attendees, has become the largest convention in North America, eclipsing the Comdex annual computer show. 
What excited the manufacturers here most was the prospect that all these digital devices will create even more needs to fill. Now, the companies say, people need so-called media hubs and computer servers to store and organize photos, music and video. They need wired and wireless networks to move them around their houses. And they need portable gizmos to keep all the content in their pockets wherever they go.
"The boundaries of what constitutes consumer electronics and computers are getting blurred," said Gerard J. Kleisterlee, the chief executive of Royal Philips Electronics in an interview here. "As we get wireless networking in the home, everything starts to talk to everything."
No one is shipping a product that does all of this yet, but the show featured myriad new products that connect something to other things. Most common were systems to route music, downloaded from the Internet or copied from CD's, to home stereo systems, rather than confining it to tinny computer speakers. Other systems enable television sets to view photographs as well as home videos and, in some cases, to record television programs stored on devices in another room.
A new class of portable devices also appeared, one that lets users watch downloaded videos on the go, much as they now listen to MP3 audio files.
Amid the cacophony of product introductions here were the rumblings of an underlying debate about what sort of device will be at the center of these home-based networks.
Electronics companies like Philips, Samsung, RCA and Pioneer have created stand-alone devices to sit in a stack with other audio and video components. But computer companies like Hewlett-Packard and Viewsonic have introduced expanded Windows-based PC's to control audio and video signals.
"The place where it all comes together, your video and audio and your preferences, is the PC," said Bill Gates, the chairman of Microsoft, which makes a version of its Windows XP operating system that is used by the Hewlett-Packard and Viewsonic media computers. 
"People want things in one place," he added. "When you had things in tape formats, you were always wondering where they were. It's very different than having it on a hard disk where you can say, 'Christmas '97,' and see it right away."
But some companies, like TiVo, which makes personal video recorders, argue that people will not have one central storehouse for all their media but a variety of devices linked by a network. At last year's trade show, said Michael Ramsey, TiVo's chief executive, "we were pitching the idea of a hub that would be a central repository of all media in the home, but we have concluded that's not the right architecture." 
People have already started collecting photos and music on their computers, and they do not want to move those onto a TiVo hub, he said. So TiVo's new service, a $99 software upgrade, simply grabs the music and photos from a computer and plays them on a stereo and a television.
"The convergence point is the home network," Mr. Ramsey said. "It facilitates the communication between devices so you can watch anything on anything."
TiVo's system also links two of its video recorders over a network so a viewer in a bedroom, say, could watch a program that was stored on a TiVo in the living room. 
TiVo's main rival, SonicBlue, the maker of the ReplayTV digital video recorder, incurred the wrath of the television industry last year when it introduced a similar feature that lets users share recorded television programs with anyone on the Internet. TiVo says its system will keep programs within one household on machines that are registered to the same user.
At the show here, SonicBlue introduced a $249 device that will let people watch a DVD playing in one room on a television in another by way of a wireless network. Most other companies prevent their devices from making copies of recorded DVD's or sending them anywhere -- to the next room or over the Internet -- for fear of angering the movie studios, which do not like the prospect of the rampant file sharing that has afflicted the music industry.
Patrick Lo, chief executive of Netgear, a leading maker of home networking equipment, said that such concerns over copyrights were substantially slowing the development of home entertainment systems.
"The studios will not let us copy movies onto servers, and so we can't distribute them around the house," he said. "The media PC will not fly because without content, there is no reason to use it."
But that has not stopped manufacturers from introducing other devices that focus on music, and on personal photos and home videos, for which copyrights are not a problem. Last fall, Hewlett-Packard introduced the first computer to use Microsoft's Windows XP Media Center Edition. The initial production of the machine, which was positioned as a premium home computer, sold out during the holiday shopping season. 
Viewsonic, a rapidly growing maker of monitors, introduced two media-center PC models at the trade show with prices of $1,495 to $1,995. They are positioned more as home entertainment devices for use in the living room, even though they will run standard software.
"The box is for entertainment, and the PC is free," said the James Chu, Viewsonic's chief executive.
Rather than use Microsoft's system, Sony has its own Gigapocket software, which lets its Vaio personal computers record and play television programs. And it introduced a system called Room Link, which will wirelessly beam those recordings to a computer or television in another part of the house. 
But Sony also introduced Cocoon, a set-top box, based on the Linux operating system, that records television programs and transmits them over a network.
Many of the major audio and video vendors also endorse the notion of stand-alone storage devices, rather than basing systems on PC's.
Samsung showed a Home AV Center, a tall silver box that looks like a compact stereo system. The device, which will sell for less than $1,000 when introduced by the end of this year, records standard and high-definition television programs on a hard drive and on recordable DVD discs, lets a television surf the Internet, plays music files, displays pictures and even displays caller ID numbers from incoming phone calls. It, too, transmits all this wirelessly around the house.
Thompson's RCA brand introduced a $699 Home Theater Jukebox, which focuses on recording and distributing downloaded music files. It does not record video, although it plays DVD's. Thompson says it is the first device that lets users download music to portable MP3 players without using a computer.
"The PC is not the center of the living room and home entertainment," said Charles Dehelly, Thompson's chief executive.
Indeed, as industry leaders debate the architecture of ideal home entertainment network, companies are introducing much more simple ways to link devices. 
The show was filled with combination products, like digital cameras attached to cellphones, MP3 players or hand-held organizers. There were remote controls that surfed the Internet and wristwatches that were also walkie-talkies.
Sony and Panasonic introduced camcorders that record directly to DVD discs. And Sharp offered television sets that can display digital pictures directly off the memory cards used by digital cameras.
"Words like 'server' scare people," said Bob Scaglione, a vice president of Sharp, referring to the file-sharing servers that act as the hubs of computer networks. "People want to do everything in their living rooms." 
The less ambitious approaches may not have all the features of a universal wireless home entertainment network. But they are better than Scotch tape on the TV screen.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A recorder from TiVo allows for wireless connections throughout a house. (Lee Celano for The New York Times)(pg. C1); The Hewlett-Packard Media Center at the Consumer Electronics Show last week. The company has introduced Windows-based PC's that act as audio and video hubs.; This Sony receiver can play music and video from a computer in another room. (Photographs by Lee Celano for The New York Times)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); NETWORK INTERFACE CARDS (90%); TRADE SHOWS (90%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (78%); INTERNET AUDIO (78%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (78%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (77%); SALES & SELLING (75%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (74%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (73%); RETAIL SALES (73%); NETWORK SERVERS (72%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (70%); NEW PRODUCTS (67%); EXECUTIVES (50%) ELECTRONICS; TRADE SHOWS AND FAIRS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; SALES 

COMPANY: KONINKLIJKE PHILIPS ELECTRONICS NV (ROYAL PHILIPS ELECTRONICS) (53%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (50%); VIEWSONIC CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CONSUMER ELECTRONICS ASSN 

TICKER: PHIA (BIT) (53%); PHIA (AMS) (53%); PHG (NYSE) (53%); HPQ (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (50%)

PERSON: HANSELL, SAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (90%) NEVADA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) LAS VEGAS (NEV)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2003 



427 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1308 words

HEADLINE: Music Industry Braces for a Shift 

BYLINE:  By LAURA M. HOLSON and GERALDINE FABRIKANT 

 BODY:
The resignation last week of one of the music industry's most powerful figures, Thomas D. Mottola, the chairman and chief executive of Sony Music Entertainment, and his subsequent replacement by an outsider, Andrew Lack, a top NBC executive, has brought to the surface a growing sense of fear within the industry. The record business is bracing for a seismic shift and is increasingly reconciled to the fact that the current priorities of senior executives are outmoded.
 What the Lack appointment underscores, analysts and industry executives agree, is the notion that the business is in such shaky condition that only an executive schooled outside the industry can come up with the radical approach that may be needed. In the last two years, the industry's basic business structure -- selling music to stores -- has taken a blow. The industry is now selling 100 million fewer CD's and cassettes than it did in 2000. According to Nielsen SoundScan, which tracks album sales, 681 million were sold in 2002, down from 785 million in 2000. At the same time, music-swapping on the Internet, perceived as a major threat, continues to grow. 
 The industry's immediate problem is that although costs must be cut, the biggest costs of all -- talent and marketing -- are the toughest to rein in. And although many analysts and industry executives say they believe that further global consolidation is necessary -- perhaps trimming the number of major recording companies to three from five -- those financial benefits can go only so far.
To some extent, mergers can help companies reduce overhead, which amounts to about a third of expenses, said Michael Nathanson, a music analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in New York. But he points out that in the music industry, as in other entertainment businesses, mergers will not put the lid on the basic impulse of entertainment executives to bid against one another for talent.
The risk is that there will always be one profligate spender who starts a bidding war for artists, he noted. Talent and marketing costs are roughly 36 percent of overall budgets.
"The business model doesn't work anymore," Mr. Nathanson said. "There is going to be more pain before it gets better."
Companies also need to tap into new sources of revenue. They have already begun eyeing the money artists earn from concerts, sponsorships and the sale of merchandise, revenue that artists have so far kept for themselves. But most important, companies have to be more responsive to consumers, these analysts say, whether by making authorized copies of music more accessible online or even by lowering the price of CD's, a prospect that is being heavily debated in the industry right now.
Most experts agree that companies need to focus in the near term on cutting costs. Bruce Greenwald, a professor of finance at Columbia Business School who has studied the media industry, said that the music business had always been difficult to manage because of the amount of money paid to develop and market artists.
"Whenever there has been a drop in revenue, the industry has faced problems because it cannot control its costs," he said.
Not surprisingly, operating income at some of the major music companies has dropped this past year. Sony's music business, for instance, lost $132 million in the first six months of its fiscal year, largely because of higher artist costs. At the Universal Music Group, a division of Vivendi Universal, operating income dropped 89 percent in the third quarter, also from marketing and development costs, although executives there said they expected a bonanza after holiday profits are tallied in the fourth quarter.
But it is more art than science to figure out just how profitable the music divisions are. Some include highly profitable DVD manufacturing or sales in their music divisions' financial results, a practice that can mask losses. And Universal, Mr. Nathanson said, is still benefiting from cost savings achieved in its 1998 acquisition of Polygram.
Still, all the music companies have begun to trim where they can. The Warner Music Group, a division of AOL Time Warner, has cut 1,000 jobs in the past two years, a spokeswoman said, consolidated its back-office operations and trimmed its roster of artists. (She said the division was profitable.) RCA, a subsidiary of the Bertelsmann Music Group, announced 50 layoffs last week. And some music industry executives who are renegotiating their contracts are being asked to take as much as a 40 percent pay cut, a notion that was unheard of two years ago. 
But cutting in-house costs is not enough, Professor Greenwald said. The revenue lost to music-swapping on the Internet is a long-term issue, and profitability will return only when costs have been adjusted commensurately, he said. Instead, he and others said, they believe that the industry has to rethink costs in almost every area -- from the millions of dollars paid to retailers to the money paid to the independent promoters who push songs to radio stations' programmers. They even, perhaps, should sign fewer artists.
"The revenues today can't support such a broad number of releases," said Michael Wolff, a media specialist at McKinsey & Company. "We are likely to see the big recording companies focus their bets more."
But most important, one veteran music executive said, is that the industry come to a decision to lower the cost of CD's to the consumer, a highly charged proposal within music companies these days. "Now if you buy a soundtrack," the executive said, "you pay more for a soundtrack to a film than you pay for the DVD of that film. It is completely crazy. A soundtrack has to be less expensive so that it is at the same price point or lower than the DVD's."
Hilary Rosen, chief executive of the Recording Industry Association of America, which represents the interests of recording companies, cautioned that lowering the price of CD's would not solve the industry's problems and that it would serve only to reduce revenue even further. The problems need to be tackled in other ways, she said, by communicating better with music buyers.
Music companies have usually worked to establish relationships with retailers, not consumers.
"There are several opportunities for us to be talking to consumers," Ms. Rosen said. "Not about music value, but what we have to offer."
For example, she said, the industry needs to promote the joy of CD collection and to revive the value of owning a physical object. Also, she said, the industry must try to consider how to produce music that takes advantage of increasing sales of surround-sound systems.
She also said that consumers must be made more aware of the music that the companies are already offering on the Internet.
In the end, the industry may turn to mergers as a fix anyway. Mr. Nathanson, of Sanford C. Bernstein, suggested that London-based EMI, the smallest of the major music companies and one that has already explored a merger with the Warner Music Group, is a likely target.
But Professor Greenwald does not agree that mergers will add much value. "In my opinion mergers will not do that much because there are no obvious economies of scale in the music industry, and there is no evidence that the surviving companies will be any good at keeping down artists' acquisition costs," he said.
In recent months, recording companies have made a series of new deals with artists -- shorter three-record contracts, as well as revenue-sharing agreements -- to bring down costs. But lawyers who represent artists say they fear that these deals are just a ploy by the recording companies to take more money out of artists' pockets and stuff into their own.
"Nothing is going to change," said Donald Engel, the longtime entertainment lawyer who represented the Dixie Chicks in their contract dispute with Sony. "They will just bargain harder." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC INDUSTRY (94%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (92%); EXECUTIVES (91%); RECORD REVENUES (90%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); RECORD INDUSTRY (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MERGERS (86%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (78%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (78%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (73%); BUDGETS (73%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); PRICE CUTTING (69%); PRICE CHANGES (69%) MUSIC; SALES; PROFITS (INDUSTRY-WIDE); COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; MARKETING AND MERCHANDISING; INDUSTRY PROFILES; FINANCES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: SONY BMG MUSIC ENTERTAINMENT (91%)

ORGANIZATION: SONY CORP; SONY CORP 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (91%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (91%)

PERSON: HOLSON, LAURA M; FABRIKANT, GERALDINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2003 



428 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 382 words

HEADLINE: I.B.M. Again Leads Businesses In Patents Awarded by U.S. 

BYLINE:  By SABRA CHARTRAND 

 BODY:
For the 10th year in a row, the United States Patent and Trademark Office has awarded more patents to inventors at I.B.M. than to those at any other company. 
 The agency plans to announce today that in 2002 I.B.M. led the top 10 list with 3,288 patents. I.B.M. has been atop the list since 1993, when it broke the dominance of Japanese companies, which had led the rankings for the eight previous years. 
 Although the top ranking does not reflect actual products or services that have made it to market, patent and trademark data is often evaluated for clues to the economy's health. The willingness of companies, universities and other organizations to invest in research, development and new products is often reflected in patent and trademark trends. 
The poor economy is not mirrored in the patent figures for 2002, which kept pace with 2001. The top 10 companies won a total of 17,589 patents in 2002. In 2001, they had 16,758. 
But patents are not an up-to-date barometer of the economy, either, since most take more than two years to be analyzed and approved. Most of the patents won in 2002 were applied for in the more economically robust years of 1999 and 2000. 
I.B.M. was so proud of its standing on the most recent list that it began circulating word last week even before the patent office was ready to release the data. The company noted that one of its inventors, Ravi Arimilli, an I.B.M. fellow in Austin, Tex., received 78 patents last year, adding that I.B.M. had won nearly double the patents of the runner-up, the Japanese company Canon. 
Great numbers of patents never get past being an idea on paper, and many companies and universities invest in them without intending to make a product or start a service. Instead, patents are increasingly viewed as another source of income. I.B.M. said its "patent and intellectual property warehouse" had earned $10 billion in royalties since 1993. 
While I.B.M. was first on the list again last year, several companies jockeyed for new spots among the next nine. NEC of Japan yielded second place to Canon and dropped to fourth. General Electric climbed to 8th place from 13th last year. And Hewlett-Packard moved to 9th place from 15th last year, aided by the 324 patents issued to Compaq Computer, which H.-P. has since acquired.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Innovative Companies"For the 10th consecutive year, I.B.M. received more patents than any other country, and three other American companies also ranked among the top 10. The Japanese company Fujitsu and the South Korean company Samsung Electronics fell off the list. Companies receiving the most United States patents 2002 I.B.M., U.S.PATENTS AWARDED: 3,288 Canon, JapanPATENTS AWARDED: 1,893 Micron Technology, U.S.PATENTS AWARDED: 1,833 NEC, JapanPATENTS AWARDED: 1,821 Hitachi, JapanPATENTS AWARDED: 1,602 Matsushita, JapanPATENTS AWARDED: 1,544 Sony, JapanPATENTS AWARDED: 1,434 General Electric, U.S.PATENTS AWARDED: 1,416 Hewlett-Packard, U.S.PATENTS AWARDED: 1,385 Mitsubishi, JapanPATENTS AWARDED: 1,184 2001 I.B.M., U.S.PATENTS AWARDED: 3,411 NEC, JapanPATENTS AWARDED: 1,953 Canon, JapanPATENTS AWARDED: 1,877 Micron Technology, U.S.PATENTS AWARDED: 1,643 Samsung, South KoreaPATENTS AWARDED: 1,450 Matsushita, JapanPATENTS AWARDED: 1,440 Sony, JapanPATENTS AWARDED: 1,363 Hitachi, JapanPATENTS AWARDED: 1,271 Mitsubishi, JapanPATENTS AWARDED: 1,184 Fujitsu, JapanPATENTS AWARDED: 1,166 (Source: United States Patent and Trademark Office) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PATENTS (93%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); RANKINGS (89%); ROYALTIES (78%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (78%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (77%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); NEW PRODUCTS (73%); TRENDS (73%) INVENTIONS AND PATENTS 

COMPANY: NEC CORP (83%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (51%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: PATENT & TRADEMARK OFFICE (91%) INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP 

TICKER: 6701 (TSE) (83%); GNE (PAR) (51%); GEC (LSE) (51%); GE (SWX) (51%); GE (NYSE) (51%); HPQ (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (83%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (83%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%) SIC7373 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES; 

PERSON: CHARTRAND, SABRA 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2003 



429 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: At a Reunion in Moscow, Tales of Economic Change 

BYLINE:  By SABRINA TAVERNISE 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Jan. 12 

 BODY:
In the first year of the new Russia, a group of students enrolled in a new Western-style graduate school to learn a long-forbidden academic discipline -- market economics.
 They were heady days. The Soviet Union had just collapsed. Economic reforms were beginning, sending prices spinning. New social classes of the fantastically rich and painfully poor were beginning to emerge. The students, 20-year-olds from Moscow universities, wanted to understand it. 
 Now, 10 years later, the graduates of the New Economics School have grown into some of Russia's most promising young leaders. One became the youngest deputy minister in the government at age 29. Another was hired by the Sloan School of Management at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology as one of the few women to teach there. Yet another is chief executive officer of a large investment fund in Moscow.
The first graduating class gathered for its 10th reunion in Moscow late last month. The event, held as a conference on the Russian economy, was attended by many leading policy makers, including the Russian finance minister and the former No. 2 official at the International Monetary Fund. Even President Vladimir V. Putin sent his congratulations.
The 34 graduates of the first class, now in jobs in business, education and government, were the first to receive a Western-style graduate education in economics after the Soviet Union fell apart. Many went on to receive advanced degrees from American or Western European universities. Those who returned brought fresh ideas and outlooks to Russia, and now are a powerful force for change.
"Their worldview is much wider than ours was," Oleg V. Vyugin, 50, first deputy chairman of the Russian Central Bank, said during the reunion. "They are not afraid. They are capable of working here or anywhere. It's all the same for them. That's new."
They were a generation on the cusp of change. The one just ahead of them, already in the work force at the end of the Soviet Union, produced the young reformers of the 1990's, who taught themselves economics from textbooks and set Russia careering toward capitalism. It also begot the business tycoons who profiteered during the free-for-all that followed. The generation after them barely remembers communism.
"Our generation has a mix of old and new," said Arkady V. Dvorkovich, a New Economics School graduate who is now a deputy minister on the government's economic reform team. "We still had Marx and Pioneer camps. For students several years younger than us, that didn't exist. For those who were older, it is all they knew."
The graduates are also distinctly less cynical than the preceding generation. While tycoons were grabbing oil companies and reformers were dismantling the economy, Mr. Dvorkovich and many of his fellow students were trying to understand it.
After receiving a master's degree from Duke University, Mr. Dvorkovich returned to take a job in government. At 27 he became one of the architects of Mr. Putin's economic program. His current position as deputy minister pays less than he could expect in private business, but he lives frugally, helped by savings from previous consulting work.
"We can think in Soviet ways or in new ways," he said at his office recently. "It leads to easier compromise, but sometimes it creates conflict inside yourself. We see that it is not right to smash everything from the past. Some of it was good."
Other graduates have also influenced public policy. The Economic Expert Group, a research organization run by former students, provided the first reliable economic statistics to the Russian government, an important service in a country where the state of the economy had long been treated as a state secret.
The New Economics School brought leading economics professors from American and other Western universities to teach the equivalent of the first two years of a Western-style doctorate in economics, with a certificate at the end that is comparable to a master's degree. It was started by an Israeli economics professor with a grant from the American philanthropist George Soros and is based in a drab Moscow high-rise that once housed the Soviet Union's top mathematicians.
"The change was already in the air," said Yekaterina Zhuravskaya, 30, a graduate who is now a director at the Center for Economic and Financial Research here. Russian colleges, she said, "taught the same old stuff -- political economy, socialism, weird things like that. There was a lack of something new."
Lifestyles also differ from a decade ago. Graduates travel abroad freely, speak foreign languages and change jobs easily. Ms. Zhuravskaya, who shares a two-room apartment with her husband and baby, rarely cooks, buys groceries over the Internet and drives to work.
She went on to receive her doctorate in economics from Harvard and had her pick of jobs, but chose to return to Russia, in part, she said, because she saw more opportunities here. Since returning, she too has had a hand in shaping the Russian economy. A World Bank-financed study of small business that she led has shown Moscow officials the shortcoming of their policies for reducing red tape for small businesses. 
Other graduates, however, stayed abroad. Anna Pavlova, now 29, joined the Sloan School's faculty in 2000. She said she had not returned to Russia to work because her field -- finance -- is not an academic discipline here.
Back at the reunion, young people packed an auditorium. Under the lights, top policy makers were debating recipes for economic growth. Among them was Mr. Dvorkovich.
"Sooner or later -- probably sooner -- they will come to take over the reins of power," Andrei N. Illarionov, 41, one of the other panelists and an economic adviser to Mr. Putin, said of the young graduates. "They will do a better job than my generation. I certainly hope so."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Yekaterina Zhuravskaya, left, and Arkady V. Dvorkovich, graduates of the New Economics School, have helped shape the Russian economy. (Lukas Tchalenko for The New York times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); TEXTBOOKS (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (66%); TRENDS (64%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; GRADUATE SCHOOLS AND STUDENTS 

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (55%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%) TAVERNISE, SABRINA 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2003 



430 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 529 words

HEADLINE: Zimbabwe Plan Said to Include An Exit Strategy for Mugabe 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: HARARE, Zimbabwe, Jan. 12 

 BODY:
Officials from Zimbabwe's governing and opposition parties are discussing a deal under which President Robert Mugabe would resign and hand authority to a new power-sharing government, mediators said today. 
 The proposal, made by two of the governing party's most powerful figures -- Emmerson Mnangagwa, the Parliament speaker, and Gen. Vitalis Zvinavashe, commander of the military -- is part of an effort to help Zimbabwe regain international legitimacy and renewed aid and investment during a period of transitional rule. 
 The mediators, who fear allegations of treason if the deal collapses, said the opposition Movement for Democratic Change was assured that Mr. Mugabe would step down under such a deal.
"There is wide consensus Mugabe is the problem, and national and party dialogue must begin," one of the mediators said. "Colleagues have shifted the blame onto him, and he must accept the consequences."
Morgan Tsvangirai, the opposition leader, confirmed the proposal, and said his party's lawmakers would be ready to vote with the governing party for a constitutional amendment creating a caretaker government if Mr. Mugabe were to step down. That would be a departure from recent opposition policy.
Mr. Mugabe, who is expected to return to his office here on Monday after a two-week vacation abroad, has not commented on any possible deal.
Governing party officials were unavailable for comment today. 
Zimbabwe is in the middle of an economic crisis that has sent inflation soaring, has caused big fuel shortages and has left at least half Zimbabwe's population on the verge of starvation.
Mr. Mugabe, 78, who led the nation to independence from Britain in 1980, won a new six-year term in March, and his early retirement has long been seen as inconceivable. But independent observers said the elections were flawed, and the opposition, along with Britain, the European Union and the United States, said the voting was rigged and influenced by violence and intimidation.
The deal would guarantee Mr. Mugabe immunity from any potential prosecution, Mr. Tsvangirai said. The opposition, which has repeatedly called for Mr. Mugabe to face charges of misrule and human rights violations, would not insist that Mr. Mugabe go into exile, he said.
"The country is on its knees," Mr. Tsvangirai said. "If people are asked to make that sacrifice of giving him immunity, and to say, 'Let's forget the past and move forward,' let it be. We have more to lose by getting bogged down until the country collapses and more to gain by saying this is a hurdle we have overcome."
During the past three years, Mr. Mugabe's government has seized most of Zimbabwe's thousands of white-owned commercial farms, saying the move was justified in order to correct colonial-era injustices that left 4,000 whites with a third of the nation's farmland. Farming disruptions and poor rains have led to a food crisis. 
Under the Constitution, new elections must be held within 90 days of the president's leaving office. Mr. Tsvangirai said his party was prepared to support a parliamentary vote for a constitutional amendment "to vary that period" until conditions for fresh elections were suitable. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); ELECTION FRAUD (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (71%); TREASON (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (70%); STARVATION (64%); EARLY RETIREMENT (50%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CONSTITUTIONAL AMENDMENTS; FOREIGN AID; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; ARBITRATION, CONCILIATION AND MEDIATION 

PERSON: MORGAN RICHARD TSVANGIRAI (89%) MUGABE, ROBERT (PRES); TSVANGIRAI, MORGAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARARE, ZIMBABWE (78%) ZIMBABWE (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (53%) ZIMBABWE

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2003 



431 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1686 words

HEADLINE: MANY COMPANIES FIGHT SHORTFALLS IN PENSION FUNDS 

BYLINE:  By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH 

 BODY:
After a three-year bear market, many major American companies are spending large amounts to shore up pension plans that have deteriorated, sometimes drastically. 
 Many companies are also considering ways to reduce their pension obligations to workers, possibly undermining benefits for millions. 
 The biggest pension shortfall belongs to General Motors, which said on Thursday that its United States pension plans ended the year with a deficit of $19.3 billion, even though the company pumped in $2.6 billion. G.M. also said its pension costs would triple in 2003, severely depressing its profit.
Many other such announcements are expected in coming months.
These problems have little to do with any change in the number of people retiring, or an increase in their benefits. Rather, investments by the pension funds have fared poorly in recent years. As the prices of stocks and other investments have fallen, so has the return on the money set aside for the more than 44 million current and future private-sector retirees who qualify for traditional pensions. 
At the same time, unusually low interest rates are further undermining pension plans. The effect of the bond rates is on the financial calculations used to determine the present value of the pension liabilities, not on the pension funds' return. Falling rates make future pension obligations look bigger on current balance sheets. To meet their obligations to workers, and to stay in compliance with pension laws, companies have been forced to set aside more money. 
I.B.M. put almost $4 billion into its pension plans last month. Honeywell International said in November that it might have to contribute as much as $900 million more. Johnson & Johnson paid in $750 million last month, and 3M made a $789 million contribution last year. Ford said that it contributed $500 million this month and would probably add another $500 million soon, depending on tax considerations.
Still other companies, including Lucent Technologies, Boeing and Delta Air Lines, have been forced to reduce their net worth to reflect the way their growing pension obligations have outstripped their assets. Along with reducing a business's value, such a step can put companies in violation of their contracts with lenders. Delta, for one, had to renegotiate with its lenders after the action. 
Indeed, concerns about the health of pension plans are making it more expensive for businesses to raise money. That is because credit agencies have lowered their ratings on companies, like G.M., whose liabilities have soared. Even companies whose pension plans remain adequately financed, like Lockheed Martin, have begun reporting lower earnings as the plans' investment performance has declined.
All this is jarring to investors as well as employees. Although traditional pensions lost some of their luster when stocks were booming and 401(k) plans seemed to go only up, plenty of companies still offer traditional defined-benefit plans -- the kind in which companies promise monthly payments from retirement to death. The bear market has taught employees to prize such pensions once again because the market risk is absorbed by the sponsoring company and the benefits are insured by the federal government.
With pensions causing so much disruption, companies and the groups that represent them in Washington are considering a range of damage-control measures that could have a lasting impact on Americans' well-being in old age. Whether the most far-reaching measures are taken will depend on how long the current pension squeeze lasts.
For example, companies are considering changes to their pension plans that would reduce their financial obligations. One possibility is converting traditional pensions to "cash balance" plans, which are less costly. But such plans have incurred criticism because they can strip older workers of some of the benefits they have been promised. 
In December, the Bush administration proposed regulations that would make it easier for companies to change to cash balance plans without setting off age-discrimination suits. 
Another possibility is eliminating lump-sum payments from plans that offer workers the option of taking their retirement benefits all at once. That would force retirees to take their money as a series of payments over the rest of their lives.
Lump-sum payments are unusually costly for employers now because, again, of the effect low interest rates have on calculating benefit values. When rates are low, lump-sum payments swell, giving today's retirees a premium if they take all their money at once.
"Lump sums are 10 to 20 percent larger now than they would have been" if interest rates had not fallen to current levels, said Ron Gebhardtsbauer, a senior pension fellow at the American Academy of Actuaries.
Eliminating the option, which is offered by medium-size companies more often than large corporations, would anger the affected older workers and would be difficult without violating a federal law that prohibits stripping workers of retirement benefits already earned.
"This is not something you can do casually," said Rebecca Miller, a managing director with RSM McGladrey, a business consulting and tax services firm owned by H & R Block. Her clients are contemplating it nevertheless, she said. 
Companies also hope that the government will help. The most widely discussed legislative measure would allow companies to use higher rates than they could in the past when making important pension calculations that are sensitive to interest rates. Allowing the higher rates to be used would shrink companies' pension liabilities, making their plans look healthier. That, in turn, would free them from pouring millions of dollars into their plans in coming months, and it could also hold down the premiums they must pay for federal pension insurance.
Allowing companies to use a higher interest rate in calculating lump-sum distributions would also save companies money but would reduce the amounts paid out to employees.
"The most politically controversial is the rate used for the lump sum," said John C. Scott, the director of retirement policy for the American Benefits Council.
The council, a business group that lobbies on employee benefits issues, is urging Congress to make permanent a temporary interest rate increase it granted companies for use in calculating total liabilities in 2002 and 2003. Without Congressional action, the temporary rate will expire at the end of this year, possibly doubling the amounts some companies will have to put into their pension plans, Mr. Gebhardtsbauer said.
G.M., for example, has said that if interest rates fall by one percentage point, its pension deficit will grow by $7 billion.
Though Congress has the authority to legislate these interest rate changes, Mr. Scott predicted that lawmakers would leave it to the Treasury Department to set the specific rates. That way, he said, they would avoid "the political hot seat" of voting for a rate change that could reduce workers' benefits.
William F. Sweetnam Jr., the tax benefits counsel for the Treasury, said the department was drafting a proposal on pension interest rates that might be included in the budget that President Bush will submit to Congress. He said it was too early to provide details.
Also under discussion in Washington are possible changes in the tax deductibility of pension contributions and in the rules governing how much money companies must pay in.
Such issues may sound arcane, but they touch on the financial well-being of millions of Americans. 
Today, about 360 companies in the Standard & Poor's index of 500 large corporations -- and many more smaller companies and nonprofit organizations -- sponsor one or more pension plans. About 44 million Americans are either receiving pensions or will qualify for them when they retire. (This figure does not include millions of workers who participate in various government pension plans.) 
The growing concerns about underfunded pensions do not mean that all plans are in trouble. As recently as 2001, many plans still had surpluses, though many of those surpluses will probably prove to have vanished when companies file financial results for 2002 in the next few weeks.
Even deficits are not a sign of imminent trouble since many workers at companies with underfunded plans will not retire for years, giving their employers time to make up the shortages. The laws requiring companies to shore up deficient plans have considerable wiggle room, allowing contributions to be stretched out over several years. Companies can also, in many cases, contribute to plans with their own stock, as Northwest Airlines asked federal permission to do in November.
To a great extent, the companies with ailing pensions are confined to a few categories: some large corporations with unionized workers, declining old-line industries with many retirees, and once-regulated sectors like power generating, in which government boards formerly built in assumptions about generous pension benefits that today's deregulated markets will not accommodate.
The sickest pension plans, by far, are at steel companies, followed by airlines. Other ailing sectors include the auto industry and its suppliers, the rubber and tire industries, and telecommunications. At worst, having to make a large pension contribution can push a company with insufficient cash flow into bankruptcy. 
As the pension squeeze has tightened in recent months, Wall Street analysts have begun to criticize pension accounting rules, which can make such hazards hard to predict.
Today's pension accounting methods "have led to misleading financial statements that paint a rosy picture as the health of defined benefit pension plans deteriorates," said David Zion, an accounting analyst at Credit Suisse First Boston.
The Financial Accounting Standards Board, the leading arbiter of the nation's accounting standards, has been soliciting public comment on whether the rules need changing, and in what ways. A spokeswoman said the board would probably decide by the end of March whether to add pension accounting to its workload.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 17, 2003

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Monday about large shortfalls in corporate pension plans misstated the amount that General Motors contributed to its United States plans in 2002. It was $4.8 billion; $2.6 billion was the amount in the fourth quarter.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Eroded"After years of surpluses, pension plans of many companies in the Standard & Poors 500-stock index are now underfinanced. (Financing levels are defined as the value of plan assets minus projected obligations.) PENSION PLAN FINANCING FOR S.& P. 500 COMPANIES Graph tracks the financing levels of S.& P. 500 companies since 1999. (Source: Credit Suisse First Boston)(pg. A14) Chart: "Varying Returns"The health of any pension plan is greatly affected by interest rates, as well as the ups and downs of the financial markets. (Higher interest rates reduce the present value of future liabilities.) The pension plans of General Motors are a good example. GENERAL MOTORS' PENSION LEVELSThere were surpluses in 1999 and 2000, with assets growing and interest rates relatively high. But, as assets shrank and rates fell, the plans slipped into deficit. Graph tracks General Motors' assets and interest rates since 1999. HOW THEY COULD HAVE BEEN WORSEThe deficit would have been far greater in 2002 if investment returns had been a little weaker, or interest rates were a little lower. If returns had been five percentage points lower If rates dropped one percentage point lower If both assets and rates fell those amounts (Source: General Motors)(pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); US 401K PLANS (78%); DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); BONDS (74%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%) PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; CREDIT; STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (66%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (64%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); HONEYWELL INTERNATIONAL INC (54%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (53%); BOEING CO (53%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP 

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (66%); ALU (PAR) (64%); ALU (NYSE) (64%); ALU (BIT) (64%); GM (NYSE) (58%); HON (NYSE) (54%); HON (LSE) (54%); DAL (NYSE) (53%); BOE (LSE) (53%); BAB (BRU) (53%); BA (NYSE) (53%); LMT (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (66%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (64%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (64%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (54%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (53%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: WALSH, MARY WILLIAMS 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2003 



432 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1776 words

HEADLINE: Eat Your Vegetables? Only at a Few Schools 

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH BECKER and MARIAN BURROS 

DATELINE: OPELIKA, Ala. 

 BODY:
When 17-year-old Tianna Summers puts a fork full of fresh lima beans in her mouth in the school lunchroom here, she is eating a vegetable seldom seen in any other American school. 
 "Junk food is not the center of our universe," Ms. Summers said, polishing off a meal of barbecued pork, the lima beans and a salad. 
 But in most of the country, it is.
A school lunch often looks like an exercise in fat loading, with a supersize soft drink from a vending machine, followed by a candy bar from another machine. The meal is more in keeping with one from a fast-food outlet than what the Department of Agriculture says is a nutritious meal. 
This yawning discrepancy between what students should eat and what most of them actually pile onto their trays has become a central issue in the national debate over why Americans are growing obese. For the first time in five years, Congress will take up the school lunch issue this winter, writing legislation that will affect the diet of 27 million public school children, in elementary through high school. 
The problems are immense and any solution is prey to an array of interests vested in the $10 billion annual federal school nutrition programs, including breakfast, lunch and snacks provided free or at a discount. Among the interests are the soft drink and food service industries, as well as agribusiness and individual farmers.
The starting point for all discussions is money, or lack of it. 
Years ago, school officials in Opelika, this middle- and working-class community in rural northeastern Alabama, decided that nutritious school lunches were non-negotiable. The parents backed them up, consistently voting for increased financing.
Feeding children more fruits and vegetables and reducing the fat costs more money. But for a handful of schools, like those in the Opelika district, the answer is to buy fresh produce from local farmers.
In six other schools visited recently, in New York City and Montgomery County, Md., where hundreds of students were eating lunch, only five children took a green vegetable with the main course. Faced with bad-tasting canned green beans provided free by the federal government, children in New York City and Montgomery County opted out. 
Most children who took a vegetable chose French fries. Children at Opelika schools are fed fresh vegetables they like -- greens and peas. 
"We figure you have to serve a new food item 10 times before the kids actually eat them," said Melanie Payne, who oversees meals in the school district, "but we've had no problem with the fresh sweet potatoes, butter cream peas and black-eyed peas."
Buying from local farmers -- in this case from a nearby Florida cooperative -- and cooking the vegetables from scratch is time consuming. It is far easier to open a can and plop the tasteless vegetable in a pot. 
Opelika cooks have not fried chicken fingers, or anything else, for seven years. Vending machines have never darkened the school corridors, much less the lunchroom. And students are not permitted to leave school during lunch hour -- no quick trips to the local fried chicken or burger outlet.
While the Opelika school system is not alone, it is part of a tiny minority. 
Many school cooks are so used to dropping prepared foods into frying pans and ovens that it would be impossible for them to serve fresh fruits and vegetables today. Yet over a week's time, as the Agriculture Department calculates the standards, 86 percent of the basic school lunches met the federal nutritional guidelines, on paper. 
The problem is that with so much choice, only half the children choose the nutritious meal and then many do not eat all of it, leaving the vegetables.
"I've been in school kitchens where they haven't the simplest tools like knives or equipment to store fresh fruits and vegetables, much less processors for shredding and chopping or containers and utensils for salad bars," said Thomas Forster, of the nonprofit Community Food Security Coalition, a group concerned about nutritious food.
In most schools across the country the cafeteria managers, principals and athletic coaches undermine the relatively healthful, federally subsidized school lunch because they need to raise money. So they load up vending machines, from which they receive part of the profits, with high-fat, high-calorie, high-sugar candy, cookies, chips and ice cream. The school districts also sell vending machine rights to a soft drink company. Fund-raising drives collect money by selling more junk food.
These school districts permit Channel One, the television network for schools, to broadcast two minutes a day of commercials by McDonald's, Hershey, PepsiCo, Coca-Cola, Frito-Lay and the like. 
The diet of the children suffers accordingly. During a recent lunch hour at Albert Einstein High School in Montgomery County, students bought 440 servings of French fries -- the most popular item by far. Another 360 students bought the fully prepared lunch. The cafeteria also sold 187 snack cakes, 118 slices of pizza and 56 bags of potato chips. At the bottom of the list were three bowls of soup and three fresh salads.
With an epidemic of obesity among the young -- in the last 30 years the proportion of obese children has increased to 15 percent from 5 percent -- government officials and nutrition experts say changes in school lunchrooms offer the best chance of weaning children from the sugar and fat that is ruining their health.
"It is ironic that the school food program began because many young recruits in World War II were malnourished and physically incapable of meeting the demands of military life," said Representative Marcy Kaptur, Democrat of Ohio, the ranking minority member of the Agricultural Appropriations Subcommittee. Today the problem is overweight schoolchildren who, Ms. Kaptur said, "are given more choices perhaps with less guidance than ever before."
In his report on obesity in 2001, Dr. David Satcher, who was then the surgeon general, pinpointed school meals as one of the eight major areas where Americans should begin to battle fat. The report also discussed the disappearance of daily exercise from school programs -- another culprit in the battle.
School principals have been cutting physical education classes and recesses to make time for academic courses. As a result, high school students taking daily physical education classes dropped to 29 percent in 1999 from 46 percent in 1991.
Eric Bost, the under secretary of agriculture for food and nutrition, defended the federal school lunch program in an interview and said that exercise was often the forgotten part of a health program.
"For me," Mr. Bost said, "the solution is threefold: increase the overall consumption of fruits and vegetables, increase physical activity and reduce consumption of other foods." 
While Mr. Bost said too many soft drinks and cookies spoiled a balanced diet, he said he doubted that he would ask for a ban on soda vending machines in schools. Instead, he said, he may ask Congress to require that the machines include milk and flavored water.
The federal government could actually improve children's eating habits because the 4.7 billion school lunches served every year are prepared under federal nutritional guidelines. The guidelines cover more and more meals as millions of children also eat breakfast and after-school snacks at school -- most of their daily food intake.
Improvements will require significant changes in what the Agriculture Department permits schools to serve children and in the laws Congress is willing to pass.
The department buys surplus commodities from farmers, many of which are high in fat, especially saturated fat, and turns them over to schools. For school meals in 2002 the Agriculture Department spent $338 million on surplus beef and cheese but only $159 million on fruits and vegetables, mostly canned and frozen, like the tasteless green beans.
Advocacy groups for children and the poor have asked Congress to add $1 billion to the school meals budget, a figure that could help wean schools from vending machines and invest in simple equipment to prepare fresh produce. But the Bush administration will ask for little or no increase in financing, said Mr. Bost, who added that he hoped to find additional money by weeding out students who officials say are ineligible for free or subsidized school meals. He said he did not know the number of those students but intended to look into the concerns.
Barry Sackin, a lobbyist at the American School Food Service Association, a trade group, said federal school meal reimbursement rates had barely kept up with inflation, much less the actual cost of meals. 
It will take additional spending to persuade schools to ban vending machines. They provide money for 98 percent of public high schools, 74 percent of middle schools and 43 percent of elementary schools, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. More than half of those machines operate in direct competition with the school lunch hour. Some schools close the vending machines during lunch hour.
The money from machines outside the cafeteria supports everything, including books and band uniforms. 
Money from machines in cafeterias supports school lunch programs, which are usually required to act like businesses and cover their costs or even make a profit. To that end, cafeterias also serve a la carte foods that are higher in fat, sugar and calories, but are what students prefer over the more nutritious federally subsidized meals.
"We suggest boards of education make a statement of principle that school food service is an education support activity and not a profit center and shouldn't be expected to turn a profit or even necessarily be self- supporting," said James Bogden, project director of the National Association of State Boards of Education.
Slowly, a backlash has been growing against junk food in schools. 
Some schools now require drinks in vending machines to include some fruit juice. Entire school districts have banned vending machines.
Small local farmers have signed contracts with school districts in 17 states, from California to Vermont. Schools in Rhode Island and Virginia have garden projects where children raise the vegetables they eat for lunch. Some schools offer fruit at half the price of a candy bar and charge less for water than they do for a soft drink, and students buy the less expensive items.
Changes, in fact, usually happen far from Washington. Said Mr. Sackin of the food service association, "When local communities get fed up with what is happening on local campuses and say we don't want that for our children, that's when it gets fixed." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Nikki Sumner, a kindergartner in Opelika, filled her tray with salad, gelatin with fruit, fries and milk. (Jamie Martin for The New York Times); Gina Rogers, a cafeteria worker at the Opelika Middle School in Alabama, stirred a pan of turnip greens. (Photographs by Jamie Martin for The New York Times)(pg. A14) Chart: "BY THE NUMBERS: Paying for School Lunches"The federal government subsidized 4.7 billion school lunches last year, at a cost of $6.8 billion. But nearly all schools are forced to raise money by offering students unhealthy alternatives to the school lunch program. National School Lunch Program Graph tracks the yearly cost of the national school lunch program since 1997. LUNCHES SERVED IN FISCAL 2002 Free: 48.3% -- 2.3 billionReduced price: 9.4% -- 0.4Paid: 42.3% -- 2.0 billion Foods and Drinks Available Outside the Program TYPE OF FOOD OR DRINK: Soft drinks, sports drinks, fruit drinksPERCENTAGE OF SCHOOLS WHERE AVAILABLE: 76.3% TYPE OF FOOD OR DRINK: Salty snacks not low in fatPERCENTAGE OF SCHOOLS WHERE AVAILABLE: 63.5 TYPE OF FOOD OR DRINK: Baked goods not low in fatPERCENTAGE OF SCHOOLS WHERE AVAILABLE: 63.0 TYPE OF FOOD OR DRINK: 100% fruit or vegetable juicePERCENTAGE OF SCHOOLS WHERE AVAILABLE: 55.6 TYPE OF FOOD OR DRINK: Low-fat salty snacksPERCENTAGE OF SCHOOLS WHERE AVAILABLE: 53.4 TYPE OF FOOD OR DRINK: Nonchocolate candyPERCENTAGE OF SCHOOLS WHERE AVAILABLE: 51.9 TYPE OF FOOD OR DRINK: Bottled waterPERCENTAGE OF SCHOOLS WHERE AVAILABLE: 48.8 TYPE OF FOOD OR DRINK: Chocolate candyPERCENTAGE OF SCHOOLS WHERE AVAILABLE: 46.6 TYPE OF FOOD OR DRINK: 2% or whole milkPERCENTAGE OF SCHOOLS WHERE AVAILABLE: 44.8 TYPE OF FOOD OR DRINK: Low-fat baked goodsPERCENTAGE OF SCHOOLS WHERE AVAILABLE: 36.4 TYPE OF FOOD OR DRINK: Ice cream or frozen yogurt not low in fatPERCENTAGE OF SCHOOLS WHERE AVAILABLE: 35.0 TYPE OF FOOD OR DRINK: 1% or skim milkPERCENTAGE OF SCHOOLS WHERE AVAILABLE: 24.1 TYPE OF FOOD OR DRINK: Fruits or vegetablesPERCENTAGE OF SCHOOLS WHERE AVAILABLE: 17.6 TYPE OF FOOD OR DRINK: Low-fat or nonfat yogurtPERCENTAGE OF SCHOOLS WHERE AVAILABLE: 14.9 (Sources: Department of Agriculture; Centers for Disease Control and Prevention)(pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); NUTRITION (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); CHILDREN (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); SNACK FOODS (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (76%); SOFT DRINKS (75%); OILS & FATS (75%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); OBESITY (73%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (72%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); FAST FOOD (72%); POLITICAL DEBATES (68%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (64%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; LUNCH AND BREAKFAST PROGRAMS; WEIGHT; DIET AND NUTRITION; OILS AND FATS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; SNACK FOODS; VENDING MACHINES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); DISCOUNT SELLING 

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (59%)

PERSON: BECKER, ELIZABETH; BURROS, MARIAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) ALABAMA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) OPELIKA (ALA)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2003 



433 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: Dreary, Weak and Weary; 
Unusually Dark Winter Drapes City in Gloom

BYLINE:  By JAMES BARRON 

 BODY:
You are not crazy. Remember how you slogged through December thinking the weather was drearier than usual, the skies grayer, the landscape gloomier?
 Turns out you were not wrong. 
 And the way things are going, the winter of 2002-03 in the metropolitan region may make the record books as the dreariest ever. The grayest. The gloomiest. 
Weather forecasters say so. People who are flocking to tanning salons or scheduling last-minute vacations to less sun-starved places say so. Jeffrey Banks, the men's wear designer, says so from beneath his red coat, red sweater, red gloves and red scarf.
"I'm punching up the color quotient," he said. "People say I look great in red. What they're saying is, 'It's so dismal, you're a sight for sore eyes.' "
The last six weeks have not been the snowiest, according to calculations by meteorologists at Pennsylvania State University, based on National Weather Service data. Remember 1995-96, with 34.3 inches between Dec. 1 and Jan. 10? Nor have the last six weeks been the wettest. The record set in 1973-74, with 11.62 inches of rain, was not threatened by the 6.26 inches since Dec. 1. But the last six weeks have brought an unusually high number of days of precipitation.
There was measurable precipitation nearly every other day, compared with a frequency of about half that during the previous four years.
That meant more days when "Gray Skies Are Gonna Clear Up" was a plea for the immediate future, not just a big Broadway number from the 1960's. And more days when the brightest thing around was that parrot-yellow Lamborghini down the block.
Never mind the old Eliotesque rant about April's being the cruelest you-know-what -- that covers only a single month. And never mind that yesterday was sunny and bright. The statistics show that 21 of the 41 days from Dec. 1 to Jan. 10 were cloudy, and 14 were partly cloudy, making this December and January the cloudiest in at least six years. This time last year, New Yorkers had endured only 10 cloudy days.
This just confirms what you already knew. You did not need to know that the Weather Service computes cloud cover measurements from Central Park on a scale of zero to 10, with zero being a completely clear day and 10 a completely cloudy day. You did not need to know that a daily score of 8, 9 or 10 is recorded as cloudy; 4, 5 or 6 is considered partly cloudy.
Nor did you need to know that the Weather Service takes its measurements at Belvedere Castle, where it keeps the instruments that track the weather in Manhattan.
"New York City has been in a zone where the active storm track has been positioned for the last couple of months," said Todd Miner, a meteorologist with Pennsylvania State University. "The way things are going in New York City is the way things are normally going in Buffalo or Rochester. You're getting a taste of upstate weather in terms of the gloom."
As tastes go, this one seems to be the opposite of electrifying.
"People feel sadder," said Dr. Jason Kornrich, the director of ambulatory mental health services at Nassau University Medical Center in East Meadow, N.Y. "I've heard a lot of people say this December was a dark and dreary month and they feel a little blue, they feel a power drain, they feel a lack of energy. They think, what's the point of leaving the house, it's just another dreary, lousy day out there."
Make that, another dreary, lousy day in a dreary, lousy world worried about the face-offs with Iraq and North Korea.
"You know what it is?" asked Christian Moulin, a hair stylist in Manhattan. "It's like the anxiety of an interrogation point. You go to a cocktail party at night or a dinner and people are not hopeful, they are gloomy. And the weather does have something to do with it. Usually the economy's good and the weather's really, really secondary. But this winter there are definite dark clouds all around."
That made December a get-away-from-it-all time, at least for some. Green Air, a charter airline, has flown 18 "pop-ups" from the Westchester County Airport in White Plains for $10,000 to $12,000 apiece. And what are pop-ups?
"That's basically where somebody looks out a window, says, 'I want to leave,' and goes," explained the owner of the airline, Steven Green. "We've had more pop-ups to Florida in the last three weeks than any point in the last year." This kept his trio of eight-passenger jets busy.
The gloomy weather has also affected eating habits. Dietary experts say this is a time when people satisfy their craving for carbohydrates, which often means comfort food. "I've never seen more cassoulet being sold," said Andrew Silverman, an owner of Steak Frites, a restaurant on East 16th Street. "It's heavy food time. Everybody's eating fricassees and coq au vin and potpies. People are staying longer in the seats, the people who do come in."
Light-related winter doldrums can also lead to a serious malady known as seasonal affective disorder, or winter depression. This is hardly limited to New Yorkers, of course -- it is believed to afflict as much as 20 percent of the population and causes many people in northern latitudes to spend the winter beset by blues.
But Michael Terman, the director of the winter depression program at the New York State Psychiatric Institute at New York Presbyterian Hospital, said that the city's high levels of stress and low levels of light make people particularly vulnerable.
"The problem is exacerbated by our contemporary urban lifestyle," he said. "Even when the sunlight is available, we're not taking advantage of it. We're zipping from the subway into the office building lobby and up into a workstation far from windows and existing throughout the day in what I would measure as twilight, not daylight. So our behavior imposes daylight deprivation, whether or not the sunlight is out."
And then there is behavior that imposes daylight deprivation on people who fled for places where they expected to see what was missing in New York in December: that giant flaming ball 93 million miles away.
The restaurateur Penny Glazier and her husband, Peter, went to Belize. It rained seven of the nine days they were there, a new hotel they were supposed to stay in was still under construction and they returned home three days earlier than planned. 
"It was depressing, I'm telling you," she said. "I'm like Miss Optimist, but after a while, I was thinking, Mother Nature should just turn on some sunshine. So we got out of there and came home to this dismal weather. At least I was able to tell the dermatologist I didn't sit in the sun. We wore our bathing suits once."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A steamed-up window at a coffee shop in Morristown, N.J., obscured a passer-by during a season in which sunshine has been so spare that the middle of the day has all too often seemed more like twilight. (Richard Perry/The New York Times)(pg. B2) (pg. B1) Chart: "DON'T KNOW WHY: There's No Sun Up in the Sky"This winter in shaping up to be one of the gloomiest for New York City in recent years. Figures are totals for Nov. 1 through Jan. 8 for each year. Graph tracks Cloudy Days, Days with precipitation, and Days with strong west wind in New York City during the Months of Nov. through Jan. 8 since 1997. (Source: Pennsylvania State University)(pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEATHER (91%); METEOROLOGY (78%); TANNING SALONS (71%); FASHION & APPAREL (70%); STATISTICS (67%); MEN'S CLOTHING (55%); FASHION DESIGNERS (55%) WEATHER; RAIN; SNOW AND SNOWSTORMS; CLOUDS; MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; SEASONS AND MONTHS 

ORGANIZATION: PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (83%)

PERSON: BARRON, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2003 



434 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1706 words

HEADLINE: China Gambles On Big Projects For Its Stability 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: CHONGQING, China 

 BODY:
The engineers who run China have decided that this congested southwestern city, cupped by the Zhongliang Mountains and divided by flood-prone rivers, needs a complete makeover.
 Construction crews have carved a small canyon in the center of town, where they are burrowing through mountains to create 600 miles of superhighways, four new railway lines, an urban light rail system and a new airport. Chinese officials are also promising parks, drinkable tap water and riverside promenades for the city's 30 million residents. 
 The cost of remaking Chongqing into the heartland's metropolis, most of it shouldered by the government and state-owned banks, is estimated at $200 billion over the next decade, a bit more than the United States Congress spent, in adjusted dollars, to build the American interstate highway system in the 1950's.
China's top leaders, many of them trained in the mechanical sciences, are not just making mountain cities into transportation hubs. They also want to pump 48 billion cubic meters of water each year from south to north, transport natural gas from Central Asia to China's southeast coast, and construct the world's largest dam, longest bridge, fastest train and highest railroad. 
Even more than modernizing its infrastructure or, as some critics see it, erecting monuments to its emerging might, China is desperate to keep the economy growing quickly. Over the past few years, it has reached deep into the national treasury to finance projects that it hopes will create jobs and stimulate enough growth to ensure social stability and to keep the Communist Party in power.
As a new generation of leaders takes control, China is using heavy government investment to escape the worldwide slowdown and maintain growth above the 7 percent level that the government deems crucial to avoiding mass unemployment and urban unrest.
The plan has worked, so far. China last year reported defiantly robust growth of 8 percent, attributed to surging exports and a nearly 25 percent increase in state-directed investment.
But the strategy is risky. The once fiscally prudent central government is now running hefty budget deficits. State banks, told a few years ago to clean up bad loans and begin acting like capitalist lenders, are pumping tens of billions of dollars into officially sponsored projects that have sometimes failed to produce real returns.
The Communist Party has pledged to support private companies and allow the market to flourish. Financially, though, the authorities are monopolizing the country's private savings for a building boom that dwarfs the New Deal and the Marshall Plan.
"The country has relied very heavily on government investment to lead the economy," said Shen Lishen, a top economist at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences. "It really should begin to fade out, not become part of the long-term economic plan."
Beijing opened its coffers to stimulate growth beginning in 1998, when it feared that the financial contagion spreading around Asia would infect China. Instead of fading out, the spending is getting more ambitious.
The government, state banks and companies and foreign investors collectively spent $200 billion in the first 11 months of last year on basic infrastructure projects, one quarter more than they spent in 2001, according to the State Statistics Bureau. That represents about 15 percent of China's gross domestic product, or about the proportion that the United States spends on health care.
Even for the nation that built the Great Wall and the Grand Canal, the scale of construction is extraordinary.
Not long ago Beijing had China's only subway. Now Shanghai, Guangzhou and Tianjin have tunneled under heavily populated residential districts to install subway systems. Seven other cities have begun construction on their own subways.
By 2005, China plans to add 8,500 miles of railroad, half of that to places that now have no rail service. Shanghai just opened the world's first magnetic levitation train that zips to its new airport at up to 270 miles per hour, faster than any other commercial train.
Railroad officials are completing plans for a $22 billion high-speed track from Beijing to Shanghai. Meanwhile, workers carrying oxygen tanks are pounding spikes for the 670-mile-long Qinghai-Tibet railroad, which will operate at elevations of up to 16,600 feet on its way to Lhasa, Tibet's capital.
The Three Gorges Dam, designed to tame the mighty Yangtze river and generate the power of 18 ordinary nuclear power plants, was for years considered the world's most expensive project, with a price tag of $30 billion. It has now been eclipsed by China's latest engineering colossus, a $60 billion system of channels and pump stations to divert water from the Yangtze in the central part of the country to the Yellow River in the north. In late December, Chinese officials broke ground on the first phase of the project, which they say will alleviate desertification and drought.
Like many large cities, Chongqing is now following what officials refer to as the "Shanghai model." That refers to the heavy financial support the central government gave Shanghai over the past eight years, after two former city leaders, Jiang Zemin and Zhu Rongji, became China's top bosses.
Shanghai created a new financial center in Pudong, its eastern section. It tore apart former colonial districts to install a modern transportation network. While some of the uncounted billions of dollars invested almost certainly went to waste, Shanghai has also become an Asian center of commerce and finance.
Huang Qifan, a former top Shanghai official, is now the executive vice mayor of Chongqing. He said the once remote city on the upper reaches of the Yangtze, which served as a redoubt for China's Nationalist government when it fled the Japanese advance during World War II, would be the beachhead to develop China's west. Chongqing lobbied hard for that role, partly as a political payoff for supporting the Three Gorges Dam, which will inundate riverside towns in the area.
"We have more infrastructure work going on here than anyplace else in China," Mr. Huang said. "When I say $200 billion a year, this is not some abstract number. It is really happening."
Mr. Huang spent most of a two-hour interview citing statistics to back up his point. He ticked off the highways (8), the ring roads (2), the bridges (8), the rail lines (4) and the sewage and trash facilities (4) among the projects that he said would turn Chongqing into a commercial gateway.
Like Chongqing, the capital city of Beijing is also pressing the central government to support a huge urban improvement plan, including subway lines, light rail, highways and even a giant opera house to dress up the city for the 2008 Olympics. Beijing estimates the cost at $34 billion, far more than potential revenue from the Olympics alone could justify.
Some economists argue that such investments are smart bets on the future. Only a small percentage of the urban population earns middle-class wages, and China cannot rely on consumer spending to spur growth the way most industrialized nations can.
China also needs to expand faster than wealthy countries to generate jobs for workers laid off by state-run factories and for farmers flocking to cities to seek something better than subsistence income.
"The government is sucking up savings and investing in the future," said Andy Xie, a regional economist for Morgan Stanley. "The financial returns on these kinds of investments are low. But the payoff for the economy is high."
Mr. Xie argues that China's work force is becoming significantly more efficient. He estimates that China is experiencing productivity growth of 4 percent a year. An eight-lane highway between two crowded cities greatly enhances productivity when it replaces a two-lane road. Cellphones have revolutionized communications in a place where fixed-line phones were scarce.
Fred Hu, chief China economist for Goldman Sachs, agrees. He argues that as China suffers through a period of falling prices and low consumer spending, Beijing is right to inject money into the economy.
"This is China's New Deal," Mr. Hu said. "Every problem is easier to solve when growth is faster."
Yet the risks are also mounting, in part because China is trying to outrun or perhaps run away from its inherited burden of socialist inefficiency. Banks still give loans to bankrupt factories to prevent labor unrest. Now, the government has taken to running a budget deficit of about 3 percent of economic output.
CLSA Emerging Markets, a Hong Kong-based brokerage firm, estimates that when official debt is added to bad loans at state banks and the unfinanced pensions of state workers, China's debt rises as high as 140 percent of economic output. That is as much as the burden now crippling Japan's economy.
"There is nothing wrong with investing in the future, but the question is whether they are doing enough to change the whole economic system," said Andy Rothman, China economist for CLSA. 
Even within China's government, opposition has emerged. Some economists say privately they worry that the latest construction boom has become a binge of the sort that has repeatedly proved hazardous to China's health since the Great Leap Forward of the late 1950's.
A State Statistics Bureau report in August bemoaned copy-cat projects that waste state funds. The report cited one unidentified Chinese province that had 800 industrial parks under way at the same time, most of them unneeded. The bureau also said a rush to build airports had led to a glut, with 127 or the nation's 143 airports running losses.
But China is not tightening its belt. Like the departing leadership, China's new leaders, led by the new Communist Party general secretary, Hu Jintao, are under pressure to keep priming the economy.
During the leadership transition last fall, half a dozen cities publicized development plans with price tags in the billions. City leaders say they are focused on the future.
"It's a little crazy to be talking about adding so much capacity today," said Mr. Huang of Chongqing, acknowledging the unusual scope of his city's investment plans. "But in 20 years you will see what happens to this place and it will all make sense."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The light rail system being built under Chongqing in southwestern China is part of the city's transformation. (Ritz Sino for The New York Times); (Agence France-Presse); (Associated Press); (Associated Press)(pg. A8) Chart/Map: "Building a New China"Construction spending in China rose steadily the 1990's and boomed last year. Graph tracks China's construction spending since 1990. SUBWAYS (above, in Shanghai) -- Initial cost: $97 billionFour Chinese cities, Beijing, Shanghai, Tianjin, Guangzhou, have subway systems that are now being expanded. Another seven cities have permission to build subway lines. WEST TO EAST ELECTRICITY PROJECT -- Estimated cost: $12 billionThe project includes three power networks in north, central, and south China. It will transfer 12.8 million kilowatts of electrical power from the upstream areas of China's major rivers and send it east, including to Hong Kong and Macau. SOUTH-NORTH WATER DIVERSION -- Expected cost: $59 billionThree south-north canals, one in the east across Jiangsu-Shandong provinces, one in the west from the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau, and the third in central China, supplying Yangtze River water to the Yellow River, Huai River and Hai Rivers in the north. To be completed in 2050. WEST TO EAST GAS PIPELINE (below) -- Expected cost: $17 billionThe pipeline will send natural gas from Xinjiang and Central Asia across the country to the power-hungry Yangtze River delta on the east coast and southern China. THREE GORGES DAM (above) -- Estimated cost: $30 billionThe world's largest dam is designed to tame the Yangtze River and generate as much power as 18 nuclear power plants. Work began in 1994 and is expected to be completed by 2009. QINGHAI-TIBET RAILWAY -- Expected cost: $3.2 billionThe 670-mile railway will bring train service to the mountainous Tibetan capital of Lhasa for the first time. About 600 miles of the track will be above 13,000 feet; the highest point is 16,640 feet. To be constructed by 2007. Map of China highlighting Chongqing. (Sources: Chinas State Statistics Bureau; Ministry of Water Resources; State Development Planning Commission)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); FLOOD ZONES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (72%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (72%); AIRLINES (71%); TRENDS (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (69%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (68%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (65%); JOB CREATION (64%); BUDGET DEFICITS (61%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (59%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; RAILROADS; AIRPORTS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WATER; PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; GAS (FUEL); DAMS AND DIKES; BRIDGES AND TUNNELS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT 

PERSON: KAHN, JOSEPH 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHONGQING, CHINA (94%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (91%); GUANGZHOU, CHINA (58%) SOUTHWEST CHINA (95%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); EAST CHINA (93%); NORTHWEST CHINA (93%); SOUTH CHINA (93%); YANGTZE RIVER (92%); XIZANG, CHINA (90%); CENTRAL CHINA (79%); QINGHAI, CHINA (73%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%); JIANGSU, CHINA (58%); SHANDONG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); TIBET (94%); CENTRAL ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (92%); MACAO (79%); HONG KONG (79%) CHINA; CHONGQING (CHINA)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2003 



435 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1419 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A2-8

Deaths as Election Nears: 9 Palestinians, 2 Israelis
Nine Palestinians and two Israelis were killed in fighting across Israel and the occupied territories, as diplomatic efforts to stop the violence stalled. In one of the bloodiest incidents, two Palestinians and one Israeli soldier were killed in a gunfight after the Israelis spotted a group of militants who they said were crossing into Israel from Egypt. A1

Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel dismissed Yasir Arafat's appeal for a pre-election halt to attacks on Israeli civilians. Palestinian officials prefer Mr. Sharon's opponent, Amram Mitzna, who has said he would dismantle settlements in the West Bank and Gaza Strip and reopen negotiations with the Palestinians. A6

Iraqi Kurds Battle Militants
Iraqi Kurds are bogged down in a war against Muslim militants while they await a decision on whether the United States will attack Saddam Hussein. The fight has strong parallels and ties to the war in Afghanistan, though on a smaller scale. A1

Talks With South Korea
Assistant Secretary of State James Kelly began consultations with officials in Seoul, South Korea, as the North maintained its combative statements. Mr. Kelly met with North Korean officials in October and later said they had admitted conducting a secret nuclear weapons program, which North Korea denies. A10

Modernizing a Chinese City
In Chongqing, China, construction crews are burrowing through mountains to create 600 miles of superhighways, four new railway lines, an urban light rail system and a new airport. Engineers are also promising parks, drinkable tap water and riverside promenades for the city's 30 million residents. A1

Japan Appeals for Russian Oil
Junichiro Koizumi made the first visit of a Japanese prime minister to Russia's Far East in almost a century because of a struggle with China over Russian oil. Mr. Koizumi openly appealed for the construction of a 2,500-mile oil pipeline that would bypass China, bringing Siberian oil to the Sea of Japan. A3

Talks on Mugabe Deal
Under a deal discussed by Zimbabwe's ruling party and opposition officials, President Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe would resign and hand authority to a new power-sharing government. The offer in an effort to help Zimbabwe regain international legitimacy and renewed aid and investment during a period of transitional rule. A8

Venezuela Strike Discussions
Leading members of the coalition that called a national strike in Venezuela aimed at forcing the ouster of President Hugo Chavez said they are discussing strategies to ease the hardship for Venezuelans, including partly lifting the strike to allow businesses and factories to reopen. A3

NATIONAL A11-19

Officials Share Intelligence To Help Prevent Terrorism
To counter what senior commanders say is a growing threat of attacks on those mobilizing for a possible war with Iraq, the military has begun sharing intelligence warnings directly with commercial transportation companies ferrying forces toward the Middle East. A1

A Close Look at School Lunches
Congress will take up the school lunch issue for the first time in five years, writing legislation that will affect the diet of 27 million children. The yawning discrepancy between what students should eat and what most of them actually pile onto their trays has become a central issue in the national debate over why Americans are growing obese. A1

Al Sharpton Plans Campaign
Al Sharpton, 48, is joining the field of Democratic presidential candidates but admits he has dim prospects. A16

Love Thy Neighbor, or Else
Glendale, Calif., has decided to enforce an 80-year-old law that prohibits fences in front yards. Within the month, 1,500 letters will be mailed to violators demanding that they either remove the fences or face fines. A11

Jury Selection in Spy Case
Jury selection is to begin in federal court in Virginia in the trial of a retired Air Force master sergeant accused of offering satellite secrets to China, Iraq and Libya for more than $13 million in Swiss currency. A19

Foundation Announces Grants
The John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation plans to announce a $42 million package of special grants to commemorate the foundation's 25th anniversary. Many foundations are cutting grants and paring budgets. A11

Unimpressed by Tax-Cut Plan
Four families interviewed two years ago, just before the last federal tax cuts took effect, now say they are working harder and longer than ever in today's bleaker economy. They say they expect little relief from the new tax cuts being proposed. A11

Old Rivals Unite in Senate
Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton, Democrat of New York, and Don Nickles, Republican of Oklahoma, teamed up to help deliver added unemployment benefits to millions of out-of-work Americans. The effort is a case study of how legislative objectives can trump ideology. A12

ARTS E1-10

Taking Stock of Recordings
The 500 to 550 reels of 16-minute Beatles tapes seized by British police on Friday were recorded as part of a planned film project during the sessions for the "Let It Be" album in January 1969. It is unclear what effect they will have on the thriving Beatles bootleg industry. E1

Married Couple Are Rivals
The biographer Claire Tomalin and the novelist and playwright Michael Frayn, are the first couple ever both to be shortlisted for the Whitbread Book of the Year award. E1

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Differing Accounts In Cover-Up of Killing
Detectives investigating the death of the boy found in a cellar in Newark, N.J., are sorting through differing accounts of who tried to cover up the child's killing, law-enforcement officials said. B1

Newcomer Killed Downtown
A 25-year-old man who arrived in New York last week to begin a career in banking was shot to death as he returned to an apartment building on the Lower East Side where he had been staying with his sister and friends, the police said. B1

Taxing New Jersey's Richest
Some New Jersey Democrats are reviving the idea of raising taxes on the state's wealthiest citizens as Gov. James E. McGreevey approaches his State of the State address and the announcement of his budget plan. B1

Slash Victim Stands Firm
Yael Leopold, 21, a University of Massachusetts senior, vowed to realize her goal of becoming a sixth grade teacher in the New York public schools a few days after being slashed by a man on a subway platform. B3

Money Manager Is Abducted
Edward S. Lampert, 40, a Greenwich, Conn., money manager regarded as one of the nation's most successful investors, was kidnapped on Friday night, held for more than 30 hours and released unharmed before dawn, the police said. B5

Neediest Cases B5

SPORTSMONDAY D1-10

Raiders Eliminate the Jets
Oakland beat the Jets, 30-10, in an American Football Conference playoff game. The Raiders will play the Tennessee Titans on Sunday. D1

Buccaneers Over the 49ers
Tampa Bay beat San Francisco, 31-6. The Buccaneers will play the Philadelphia Eagles for the National Football Conference championship Sunday in Philadelphia. D1

OBITUARIES B6-7

Maurice Gibb
A songwriter and harmony singer in the Bee Gees, he was 53. B7

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

AOL Time Warner Chief Resigns
Stephen M. Case, the former chief executive of America Online who engineered its acquisition of Time Warner, resigned as chairman of the combined company, bowing to shareholder anger over the disappointing results of the merger. A1

Oil Production Is Increased
The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries agreed to raise production quotas by 6.5 percent to stem a surge in prices caused by the loss of production in Venezuela and the possibility of war in Iraq. A2

Shake-Up in the Music World
The resignation of Thomas D. Mottola, the chief executive of Sony Music Entertainment, and his replacement by an outsider, has brought to the surface a growing sense of fear within the industry. C1

Sony's announcement that it had hired Andrew Lack led some to wonder if a television executive can save a music company. C1

Deal for TV Network
Comcast, the nation's biggest pay-television provider, and a midsize radio broadcasting company have agreed to create a television network aimed at middle-age blacks, a person close to the negotiations said. C6

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A20-21

Editorials: The education of Governor Ryan; post-Newtonian politics; a job for Mary Donohue; Tina Rosenberg on a South African AIDS activist.

Columns: William Safire and Bob Herbert.

Bridge E7
TV Listings E9
Crossword E8
Weather B8
Metro Diary B2

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); TERRORISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (70%); CONSTRUCTION (70%); IRAQ WAR (69%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (68%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (65%); MILITARY WEAPONS (65%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (65%); AIRPORTS (64%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (63%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (53%); HUGO CHAVEZ (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHONGQING, CHINA (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%) PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (69%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); CHINA (94%); ISRAEL (94%); ZIMBABWE (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); IRAQ (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); JAPAN (93%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (93%); EGYPT (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2003 



436 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 558 words

HEADLINE: Disney Breaks Ground for Hong Kong Park 

BYLINE:  By THOMAS CRAMPTON, International Herald Tribune

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Jan. 12 

 BODY:
Executives from the Walt Disney Company broke ground here today for what they described as the company's most culturally sensitive theme park.
 Shortly before using a golden shovel to turn over a spade of dirt in a recently completed landfill, the chief executive of Walt Disney, Michael D. Eisner, said the park would be a "spectacular entry into southern China." 
 "This park will become profitable sooner than our projections," Mr. Eisner said without elaborating. 
The project, on the outlying Lantau Island, will be Disney's first new park outside the United States since Disneyland Paris, originally called Euro Disneyland, faced initial low attendance and criticism. European visitors complained that open-air rides were more appropriate for Southern California, and public outcries forced the park to reverse its policy against serving alcohol. The company's other overseas theme park is in Tokyo.
"Paris taught us that we always have to listen to our consumers to be sure the park fits within their cultures and desires," the president of Walt Disney Parks and Resorts, James A. Rasulo, said.
"We do find that children like to be greeted in their own language," Mr. Rasulo said. "Our park will be trilingual, with English, Cantonese and Mandarin." 
The park will also be tailored to Hong Kong's drizzly subtropical climate, executives said.
"We learned a lot about weatherization issues in Paris," said Tom Morris, vice president for creative development at Hong Kong Disneyland. "In Paris we needed to do more about making it warm and dry. In Hong Kong we will need to provide shade and protect people from the rain."
The Hong Kong park will have more covered attractions and rainproof dining space than other Disney theme parks, Mr. Morris said. The centerpiece will be Sleeping Beauty's castle and other Disney icons. Changes for cultural reasons will include food, festivals and park layout.
The park will have one restaurant serving Western food, with other outlets offering noodles, Asian barbecue and stir-fried dishes. Festivals celebrated will include Chinese New Year and the autumn lantern festival. Although visitors will enter the park on Main Street USA, one of the two hotels will be designed in Victorian style with Chinese elements.
There will also be a large garden designed for photo opportunities with Disney characters, as well as areas for relaxation.
Disney may be the first big-name competitor to break ground in China, but theme parks are by no means a new concept. Shenzhen, adjacent to Hong Kong, has more than half a dozen homegrown theme parks of varying quality.
In addition, a Disney rival, Universal Park Resorts, a unit of Vivendi Universal of France, signed a deal last month for a movie theme park in Shanghai that will open around the same time as Hong Kong Disneyland.
The deal for the Hong Kong theme park was originally negotiated in the wake of the Asian financial crisis in 1997. The Hong Kong government, eager for an economic and moral lift, took a 57 percent stake in the Disney park in the hopes that the project would attract tourists and provide jobs. Disney invested 2.45 billion Hong Kong dollars, or $314 million, for a 43 percent stake.
Last July, Hong Kong officials learned that Disney was in discussions for a similar project in Shanghai. Mr. Eisner played down discussions about other parks in China.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Members of the Walt Disney staff set up a welcoming line yesterday at groundbreaking ceremonies at the future site of Hong Kong Disneyland. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); FAMILY TRAVEL (78%); CHINESE NEW YEAR (76%); RESORTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); GARDENING (73%); MULTILINGUALISM (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (67%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (67%); RESTAURANTS (63%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (62%); LANDFILLS (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (95%); WALT DISNEY PARKS & RESORTS (86%); VIVENDI (60%); EURO DISNEY SCA (57%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (95%); VIV (PAR) (60%); VIV (BIT) (60%); EDL (PAR) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (95%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (95%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (95%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (95%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (86%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (60%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (60%) SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION; 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (56%) SOUTH CHINA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); EAST CHINA (77%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (57%) HONG KONG (97%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (90%); JAPAN (56%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2003 



437 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: Basra Journal; 
For This Delicacy, Brand Recognition Is a Problem

BYLINE:  By NEIL MacFARQUHAR 

DATELINE: BASRA, Iraq 

 BODY:
The hundreds of packages of dates stacked on the cement factory floor and metal shelves of the venerable Al-Moosawi Company are remarkable for one curious absence. 
 The label does not mention they are Iraqi. The brand itself, "Dubai Dates," is misleading enough, but the name "United Arab Emirates" runs up one side of the package decorated with a drawing of a date bouquet. 
 Anyone handling the packages -- and their predominantly Russian labels signal their ultimate destination -- would have no idea they were grown around this southern port city. 
That is the whole point, of course. Iraqis resort to subterfuge to avoid United Nations sanctions preventing exports of a product once viewed by the cognoscenti as more desirable than even the country's crude oil.
"Nobody wants to hear about anything called Iraqi dates, or for that matter about anything made in Iraq," lamented Fathi Atallah Raja, the Baghdad spokesman for the Iraqi Date Processing & Marketing Company, a semiprivate collective that handles all sales.
To a certain extent, the story of Iraq's dates mirrors the Iraqi experience since Saddam Hussein assumed control. What was once a thriving industry finds itself inexorably fading after 23 years filled with war, economic sanctions and a negligence driven by the pursuit of industrial development and other, more lethal projects. 
Iraqis crow that the reputation of their dates was once such that Americans set sail with a whole shipload of date palm saplings to plant in California in the 1930's. Exports of the dates spanned the globe. 
War wrought the first devastation. Millions of trees in what Iraq boasts was once the largest date forest in the world, on the Fao peninsula, just south of here, were either burned or felled by shrapnel during the raging battles of the 1980-88 war with Iran. 
What were once majestic stands of palms are gone, replaced by a stunted, nightmarish landscape of decapitated trunks and blackened stumps. The former population of 16 million date palms around Basra is now estimated at 3 million.
The Persian Gulf war also took its toll, with a mysterious outbreak of disease afterward that some trace to depleted uranium shells. 
Iraqi scientists identified the disease as a fungus, fusarium, that attacks the crown of the tree, causing it to topple and leaving the flaccid trunk weirdly twisted. It is known around here as Mad Palm Disease. 
"The heart of the palm turns from white to black and it creates a bad smell," said Abbas Mahdi Jassim, director of the Center for the Study of Date Palms at the University of Basra. "We link it with the war because we didn't know this disease before."
The only way found to prevent the spread has been to fell the trees and burn them. Mr. Jassim, who earned a doctorate in horticulture from Kansas State University in 1988, is trying to regenerate tens of thousands of trees through tissue culture in test tubes. On several occasions, the chemically intensive process has attracted the attention of United Nations weapons inspectors trying to determine whether the medium in which the tiny sprouts grow might have a more sinister use. 
Dates have long been a staple around the region's deserts -- they are rich in minerals and vitamins and last for months without refrigeration. The Koran includes no fewer than 18 mostly laudatory references to dates.
Sitting around the lunch table with a group of Iraqis talking about dates is vaguely reminiscent of, say, the French discussing cheese. The official date encyclopedia lists 627 varieties in Iraq, and everyone champions a favorite.
Great nostalgia for the finest Iraqi dates lingers throughout the Arab world. A Saudi household wishing to show a guest particular honor will bring out a basket of the exquisite Barhi variety, now cultivated there. Egyptians of a certain age, when hearing that a traveler is going to Iraq, will urge, "Bring back dates."
Growers in the Emirates and Saudi Arabia have bred millions of Iraqi date palms, becoming the main suppliers of the finer varieties that have all but disappeared in Iraq. Growers here sniff that others can never replicate the combination of conditions that give Iraqi dates their luscious, chewy quality.
"Sure other countries can grow the trees, but the dates of Basra have a special taste," boasted Sayid Abdel Rida al-Moosawi, the patriarch of the clan that founded Basra's first date processing factory in 1959. 
Mr. Moosawi rails against what he calls American piracy in the gulf, stopping Iraqi products like dates -- exports are now less than one-fifth what they were before the Iran-Iraq war. 
He demurs on the subject of the bogus labels, however. "I seem to remember they are marked as made in Iraq," he said during an interview in the sprawling, turquoise-domed mosque that his family built in downtown Basra. "Besides, the Americans watch any ships moving from Iraq's territorial waters and they can confiscate the cargo whatever the trademark."
But Mr. Raja of the collective says Iraqis gamble on a variety of methods to evade the blockade, including phony labeling or shipping the dates on Iranian-flagged ships. (Similar methods have been used with oil.) 
The United Nations bans all exports from Iraq except under the oil-for-food program. 
A Western envoy in Baghdad acknowledged that the United Nations did not pay terribly close attention to contraband dates. It interdicts much of what leaves Iraq by sea, but the land borders are fairly porous, especially for products that are not exactly going to supply the secret wealth Iraq would need to develop weapons of mass destruction. 
As with other fields where they excelled, Iraqis dream that after the sanctions are lifted and peace returns, they will reassert their domination of the market in fine dates. 
"One day we will regain the same reputation, the same position," predicted Mr. Moosawi. "It will probably take 25 years to get back where it was."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fighting during Iraq's war with Iran in the 1980's wiped out millions of date palms, including these near the Shatt al Arab waterway, south of Basra. (James Hill for The New York Times) Map of Iraq highlighting Basra: War and disease have ravaged Basra's date industry.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); BRANDING (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (88%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (84%); CEMENT MFG (78%); BRAND EQUITY (77%); DESERT STORM (77%); TRENDS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); HORTICULTURE (69%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (62%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; DATES (FRUIT); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (72%) MACFARQUHAR, NEIL; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); KANSAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); GULF STATES (78%) IRAQ; IRAN; BASRA (IRAQ)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2003 



438 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: Mrs. Clinton Put Past Behind in Trip Across Aisle 

BYLINE:  By CARL HULSE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 12 

 BODY:
He tried to impeach her husband and hated her health care plan. She was not thrilled when he complained about post-Sept. 11 aid to New York.
 Yet, in a case study of how legislative objectives can trump ideology, Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton, Democrat of New York, and Don Nickles, Republican of Oklahoma, teamed up last week to help deliver added unemployment benefits to millions of Americans. 
 It took concessions from both, since Mr. Nickles and his Republican colleagues had for months opposed a costly expansion of the federal jobless program while Mrs. Clinton and other Democrats had pressed for an even bigger package. And at the end there was some partisan skirmishing that nearly killed the measure and left Mr. Nickles and his new Senate leader, Bill Frist of Tennessee, unhappy on Dr. Frist's first day on the job. 
"That little wrinkle at the end caused a lot of anxiety," Mr. Nickles said.
That problem aside, Mrs. Clinton said she found it rewarding to work with Mr. Nickles, whom she considers an expert in Senate matters and a straight shooter.
"I happen to like him," Mrs. Clinton said, adding a rueful acknowledgment of her reputation in some parts of the country. "I am reluctant to say that because I am sure that will hurt him in Oklahoma."
Allies of the former first lady say the unemployment negotiations should put to rest a central concern expressed when she ran for the Senate -- that she was such a polarizing figure from her years in the White House that she would be unable to work with opposition senators who had led the effort to remove President Bill Clinton from office.
"During the campaign, one of the most frequently asked questions of her was how and whether she would be able to productively exist in a body that had so recently voted to impeach her husband and how she would be able to get along with people like Don Nickles," said Howard Wolfson, who was her campaign communications director. "She was absolutely able to work with Republicans as well as Democrats to get this done."
Mr. Nickles said the sometimes difficult road traveled by the $7.2 billion unemployment bill signed into law by President Bush on Wednesday only hours after it passed the House provided some lessons for how the parties can cooperate.
"I can work with Hillary and I can work with Ted Kennedy," Mr. Nickles said. "You can philosophically be in different directions, but it is still important to come together to get our Congressional business completed." 
Mrs. Clinton said she did not dwell on her previous clashes with Congress; what mattered to her now, she said, was building Senate relationships that could help her legislatively.
"Somebody you disagree with today you may agree with tomorrow but disagree the next day," she said, adding that some colleagues have turned out differently from what she expected. "I have been pleasantly surprised by many of the people whom I didn't know or only knew by some unfortunate or unflattering experience in the past."
The unemployment program had been a bone of contention for months between Congressional Republicans and Democrats in the run-up to the November election. Democrats, trying to shift the political dialogue from security to economic issues, repeatedly pushed for consideration of greater aid to people who were using up their 26 weeks of state aid. Each time, Mr. Nickles objected, citing the $17 billion cost.
During the post-election lame-duck session, the door to compromise opened. On Nov. 14, Mrs. Clinton again raised the unemployment expansion on the floor and Mr. Nickles again objected, leading to a brief but sharp debate in which the Democratic lawmaker expressed an interest in trying to work out a deal with the Republican. She then caught up with him in a hallway and offered to scale back the package significantly to try to preserve benefits for 800,000 people who might lose them as of Dec. 28. Their staffs began talking.
Five hours of negotiations that day that also involved the Republicans Peter Fitzgerald of Illinois and Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania and the Democrat Maria Cantwell of Washington produced an extension of federal unemployment coverage, allowing people an additional 13 weeks. The bill passed at 10:20 p.m. But the celebration was short-lived. House Republicans had their own, more limited extension, and they refused the Senate plan. The extension died as the 107th Congress adjourned.
Republicans came under pressure to act quickly when the new Congress convened and Mr. Bush, who had not intervened in November, urged lawmakers in mid-December to act immediately when they returned. Last Monday, Mr. Nickles put in a call to Mrs. Clinton, asking to renew their partnership. He offered to support a longer extension of the program, through May, and a deal was put together for the first order of business on Tuesday.
But events did not go exactly as planned. When Dr. Frist, taking the floor for the first time, sought to pass the bill by unanimous consent -- meaning no one was expected to object -- Mrs. Clinton rose to offer an amendment to extend coverage to another one million people who had used up their benefits.
Aides say her intent was simply to raise the issue and lay the foundation for a future push for more coverage. But it touched off a flurry of calls by her fellow Democrats for additional coverage and prompted an unexpected objection that stalled adoption of the bill for a couple of hours. Dr. Frist was plainly annoyed and caught by surprise at the sudden partisanship. 
"The response to her amendment got out of hand, to her surprise and mine as well," said Mr. Nickles, who said some Democrats were apparently itching to give Dr. Frist "a hard time."
Mrs. Clinton acknowledged a "bit of a flare-up" that she attributed to miscommunication among lawmakers. "There was just a lot going on," she said. "The final result was we got the legislation through." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senators Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York and Don Nickles of Oklahoma talking to reporters on Tuesday about their compromise bill. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); IMPEACHMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); POLITICS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); CASE STUDIES (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (76%); ETHICS (60%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; IMPEACHMENT; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); ETHICS 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); TED KENNEDY (57%) HULSE, CARL; CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM (SEN); NICKLES, DON (SEN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CLINTON, BILL; LEWINSKY, MONICA 

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2003 



439 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1405 words

HEADLINE: Judging the Tax Plan: Four Families Shrug 

BYLINE:  By PETER T. KILBORN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 12 

 BODY:
How has a new round of proposed federal tax cuts stirred the emotions and economic aspirations of American families? The answer from four of them seems to be: not very much.
 A carpenter, a clerk, a surgeon and a software engineer were interviewed with their families by The New York Times two years ago, just before the last tax cuts took effect. Reached again this week, after President Bush proposed new tax cuts as part of a $674 billion, 10-year economic plan, they said they were working harder and longer than ever in today's bleaker economy. The 2001 cuts, which included a $300 refund check, have made little difference in their lives, these taxpayers said, and they do not expect any new cuts the president and Congress agree on to matter much either. 
 The families expect to get back $100 here, $1,000 there, they say, but not big money. 
Most of these families own little taxable stock, so they said the biggest cut President Bush proposed last week, ending the tax on stock dividends, rang hollow. Tax cuts or no tax cuts, no one is talking of splurging. 
For the moment, debates about federal income taxes that thunder in Washington stir much less interest among these families than influences beyond taxes do. Federal taxes have changed little compared with shifts in jobs, wages, debt, medical expenses and utility bills. And with most states running up their biggest budget deficits in decades, families face state income and sales tax increases that could exceed anything they get back from Washington.
In the face of those changes, some families are not merely cutting back on trips and meals out. They are making hard, life-reorienting choices, such as buying cheaper houses.

The Clines of Austin
"We've scaled way, way down," said Tasha Cline, 37, of Austin, Tex. By any numerical measure, she and her husband, Robert, 41, should be on Easy Street. A colon and rectal surgeon, Dr. Cline cleared $250,000 last year. But that was $30,000 less than two years earlier because of higher expenses, said his office manager, Bessie Crissman.
The cost of Dr. Cline's medical malpractice insurance, for example, rose $5,000 last year and will rise another $10,000 this year, to $23,000, Ms. Crissman said. The rent went up $5,000 last year, salaries for his office workers rose $7,000, their health insurance, $5,000.
"We have a two-way squeeze -- limited reimbursement from Medicare and managed care," Dr. Cline said. "I'm a sole practitioner, so I can't negotiate with big insurance companies. It's 'take it or leave it.' "
The decline hits home, where the Clines are raising six children, ages 2 to 8. A year ago, they sold their house in central Austin for $799,000 and bought another for $580,000. A house in their old neighborhood with enough bedrooms, Mrs. Cline said, would have cost $1 million. 
"We got a fifth bedroom," said Mrs. Cline, much cheered by the move. "It's on a smaller lot, and it doesn't have a pool. But the taxes are less. The utilities are less. Our neighbors are wonderful." 
But the squeeze goes on. Mrs. Cline's monthly spending budget is $3,000, or $36,000 a year, the same as three years ago. "I let the nanny go in September," she said, saving $26,000 a year. No sooner had she completed payments on her 1997 Chevrolet Suburban in July than it started breaking down. Since November, she said, she had spent $2,700 on repairs. 
In their budget calculations, the Clines give little thought to federal income taxes. They have not felt the last cuts at all, Dr. Cline said.
Accountants at Deloitte & Touche, who looked at the tax status of the four families interviewed for this article, said lower tax rates, primarily, could save the Clines $4,500 a year.

The Taylors of Atlanta
The economy batters Barney Taylor Jr., 34, and his wife, LeMeeche, 28, of Atlanta much more than taxes, and right now things look uncommonly promising for the software engineering business Mr. Taylor opened 10 years ago. In his case, it is not America's economy that has ignited his business. It is Nigeria's. 
Mr. Taylor said recent sales of software and government security systems to Nigeria had allowed him to build the professional staff of his company, Thirteen Scribes Inc., to 10 from 4 two years ago. "We're still growing," he said. "I'll probably hire 16 more next month."
Mr. Taylor declined to say what he earned. In the late 1990's, his best years, he made about $100,000 annually, but he turned some of that into a business making low-cost computers for children. It was unprofitable, so Mr. Taylor has changed the business from production to computer training for the young. 
Two years ago the Taylors, parents of a son, Kahlil, 2 1/2, were talking of moving from an apartment where they pay rent to a house of their own. Instead, they have moved to a larger apartment in a nicer neighborhood. 
First, Mrs. Taylor said, she wanted to go to massage therapy school so she could earn a decent wage. In November, she found bookkeeping work for three days a week with a chiropractor. In addition she gives a massage there once or twice a week for $50 each.
She finished school last month, so a house is back on the agenda, she said. But there could be delays. The Taylors' medical expenses, some not covered by insurance, have climbed with care for Kahlil and a skin-cancer scare for Mrs. Taylor. She has completed payments on her 1998 Mitsubishi Mirage but has student loans to pay off.
Deloitte & Touche estimates that proposed tax credits and cuts, and some relief from the way the tax system penalizes married couples, could save the Taylors about $2,300 this year.

The Villas of Helena
Carrie Villa of Helena, Mont., might gain $100 from the president's tax proposal, Deloitte & Touche estimates. She makes $9.36 an hour as a full-time accounting clerk at the Montana Department of Natural Resources and Conservation and $7.80 an hour working 16 hours a week at Wal-Mart.
A divorced mother of three, ages 21, 15 and 13, Ms. Villa, 42, earns about $20,000 a year, low enough to exempt her from federal income taxes and benefits from the cuts. Instead, she is eligible for the earned income tax credit, about $2,300.
She is grateful not to be "one of all those people who have lost jobs." But getting along is a penny-pinching grind. While her wages change little, she said: "My electricity went up $16 a month two months ago. My cable went up $5 a month to $60. I'm thinking of dropping that. 
"My health insurance is going up. I was paying $93 a month and that's going up $40. That's out of pocket." The deductible on the health insurance is rising this year, too, to $435 from $300.
To cope, Ms. Villa moved from an apartment she lived in two years ago to a trailer. A boyfriend she shared it with moved on, so she is planning to move again to reduce her $625 monthly rent. She has chopped up her credit cards, on which she owed $7,200 two years ago. "They're all gone," she said. "This Christmas, I only spent cash. I won't be paying for Christmas for years to come. 
"I'm trying to go back to school," she said, "so I can get a better job." Right now her only obvious way of raising her wages a bit is by hurrying shoppers through her Wal-Mart check-out line. "You can get raises if you go faster," she said.

The Ducharmes of Alfred
Stephen Ducharme, 37, the carpenter, and his wife, Lisa, a waitress and bartender, live in Alfred, Me., about 25 miles south of Portland. They have three children, 14, 4 and 2, and together make around $50,000, which they consider middle class. The government, Mr. Ducharme said, "should be helping people who have a hard time making a meal."
Under the current child tax credit, the Ducharmes save $600 from their taxes for each child, and President Bush would raise that to $1,000.
"Now I know $400 is a lot of money, but we go through that in a week," Mr. Ducharme said. "It's not enough to get all excited about."
The Ducharmes seem to represent the brightest side of the economy. "Recession?" said Mr. Ducharme, who earns about $25 an hour. "I don't see that as a problem. Work up here was bouncing off the walls until three months ago, when the cold weather came, and we're getting a lot of calls for the spring." 
The $1,000 that Deloitte & Touche says the Ducharmes might save under the Bush tax program is not meaningful enough to be important in their family's calculations, they say. "The only thing I look at is my job building houses. Whatever I'm doing, it's working up here."

GRAPHIC: Photos: LeMeeche and Barney Taylor, with their son, Kahlil, at left, are affected less by tax cuts than by the economy of Nigeria, where Mr. Taylor does business. Stephen and Lisa Ducharme, with two of their children, Nick and Josh, say the tax cut money should go to those worse off than they are. (Tim Boyd for The New York Times); (Tami Chappell for The New York Times); Robert and Tasha Cline, with their six children at left, say they have scaled back because of the economy, but have given little thought to the proposed tax cuts. Carrie Villa may gain only $100 from the new plan; she says she is concerned about increasing insurance and utility costs. (Eliza Wiley for The New York Times); (Ted Albracht for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX LAW (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SALES TAX (89%); FAMILY (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); MEDICARE (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY INSURANCE (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); CHILDREN (73%); INSURANCE (72%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (72%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); DIVIDENDS (67%) TAXATION; PUBLIC OPINION; STATES (US); SALES TAX; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) KILBORN, PETER T; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); NIGERIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2003 



440 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1758 words

HEADLINE: A Wily Contender, But Unlikely Winner, Eyes the Presidency 

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 12 

 BODY:
The Rev. Al Sharpton has run for office three times from New York, and has lost each time. He has been embroiled in polarizing disputes throughout his career, including the handling of his personal finances and his involvement in a racially charged rape case that a jury found to be a hoax. Even the ever-energetic and indefatigable Mr. Sharpton acknowledges it is unlikely that he will ever be elected president of the United States.
 Not to say Mr. Sharpton is not going to try. 
 At 48, Mr. Sharpton is joining the field of Democratic candidates for president. He is planning to create a presidential exploratory committee on Jan. 21, and is already delivering speeches across the nation, preparing to open an office in Washington and offering opinions on everything from North Korea to deficit spending. 
"I'm very serious about this," Mr. Sharpton said between cellphone calls over breakfast at the Four Seasons in the Georgetown section of Washington the other day. "I'm not just talking about Sharpton getting a position in the White House. I'm talking about fighting for the soul of the Democratic Party."
Aides in competing presidential camps describe Mr. Sharpton's candidacy as little more than a distraction, a quest on the fringe that will ultimately have little bearing on the Democratic presidential competition.
Yet Democrats acquainted with Mr. Sharpton's style and skills suggest that might be a miscalculation. Many Democrats say he could prove to be a constant and potentially unwelcome complication for the other Democrats seeking to challenge President Bush.
For two decades, Mr. Sharpton has shown an unflagging talent for winning attention for himself and his causes. (He was on the NBC News program "Meet the Press" for 17 minutes this morning.) His wit, bluster and bravado make him endlessly quotable, bolstering his reputation as a ruthless political street fighter.
As the only black candidate in a crowded field, Mr. Sharpton said, he would do well in states with large black populations. In particular, he said, he might win the important South Carolina Democratic primary, an assertion that did not seem outlandish to other Democrats, who noted that 40 percent of the South Carolina Democratic electorate is black.
"He clearly has some potential to get a significant number of delegates, especially in the Southern states," said David Bositis, senior policy analyst with the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, a research group that deals with African-American issues.
Mr. Sharpton is putting the others on the spot by raising issues they have avoided: calling for all Confederate flags to be taken down in South Carolina and Mississippi, for example. 
He tears into the credentials of his rivals with all the enthusiasm of a Republican, calling for the ouster of Terry McAuliffe, the Democratic Party chairman, asserting that his party has abandoned its liberal roots and planning for a prominent speaking role at the Democratic convention in Boston in 2004.
"His rivals will have an impossible time dealing with him," said Mark Green, the Democratic mayoral candidate who lost in New York last year in no small part because of Mr. Sharpton. "At the end of the day, they will have to get 50 percent plus one and attract white, black, Latino and swing voters. All he has to do is attract a strong niche of voters and he's free to attack others when they are loath to respond in kind for fear of offending his niche."
David Axelrod, a Democratic consultant from Chicago who worked in New York during the mayoral race, said: "Sharpton is largely an unknown to the political community in Washington, and his role is being understated here. Anyone who knows him knows that he is a very, very smart and clever politician. I don't think people are fully grasping his capacities."
Referring to the other presidential contenders, Howard Wolfson, the executive director of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, said, "These guys have no idea what they are in for." 
Over a bowl of oatmeal and bananas one recent morning, Mr. Sharpton displayed no reticence about pointing out the deficiencies of his party and its candidates.
"I'm operating from the premise that the Democratic Party lost not only the White House but the Senate and the Congress because their strategy has been to go to the right to get new voters," he said. 
He criticized the Democratic Leadership Council, the moderate group of Democrats that launched the presidential candidacy of Bill Clinton and has close ties to four of the 2004 Democratic candidates. 
"They never regained the Congress," Mr. Sharpton said. "So how long do you keep going over a new strategy that doesn't work? They are no longer the new Democrats. They are the old Democrats. We had another debacle in 2002, we're going to give them another shot? That's crazy."
Mr. Sharpton predicted that he would walk into the convention with an army of delegates disenchanted with the party's move to the center. He would, he said, thus command the same influence and attention that the Rev. Jesse L. Jackson enjoyed when he ran for president based on a similar appeal in 1984 and 1988.
"Politically, that gives me tremendous leverage," Mr. Sharpton said. "I don't want to do a whole interview like I'm not trying to win -- I don't want that kind of article. But assuming, in the unlikely occurrence I don't win" -- Mr. Sharpton paused and chuckled -- "someone who is the winner and the chair of the party would have to sit down with that bloc of voters and deal with it."
But would Mr. Sharpton really be in a position to make these demands?
Many Democrats described the Sharpton candidacy as little more than his latest attempt, this time on the national stage, to win publicity for himself, and contributions to his civil rights organization, the National Action Network.
Mr. Sharpton disputed that, though he could barely contain his delight as he raised the prospect that he might before long be traveling with his own detail of Secret Service agents.
And several Democrats said that if Mr. Sharpton were really treated as a serious candidate, he would have difficulty surviving questions about, for example, his income taxes, or his advocacy of Tawana Brawley, who claimed in 1987 that she had been abducted and raped by a gang of white men. The case was judged a hoax by a grand jury, and Mr. Sharpton was found to have defamed a white prosecutor whom Ms. Brawley accused of being involved in the attack. Mr. Sharpton was fined $65,000.
"If his opponents and voters view him as a normal presidential candidate, he's disqualified," Mr. Green said. "Because he's 0-for-3 in elections for lesser office, never breaking a third of the primary vote, and a jury held that he slandered a law enforcement official."
Referring to Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts and Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut, Mr. Green asked: "Could Kerry or Lieberman stay in the race with that history? His rivals and commentators and voters should view him as a serious variable, but not a serious candidate."
Mr. Sharpton pre-emptively raised, and dismissed, the issue of how the Brawley case would affect his candidacy. "Brawley is a New York media question," he said. "The problem with my Brawley critics is my life didn't end there." 
Here in Washington, it seems as if he is stopped at almost every corner by someone who recognizes him -- evidence, Mr. Sharpton said, that in this field of relatively unknown Democratic candidates for president, he is the celebrity.
"Let's face it, other than Lieberman, you don't have a national household name, other than me," he said. Senator Lieberman is to formally announce on Monday that he is forming his own presidential exploratory committee.
As was evident by his prominent place on the "Meet the Press" set this morning, Mr. Sharpton will encounter little difficulty finding speaking platforms. And he knows how to make the most of his moment.
Asked about Senator Kerry, whom Mr. Sharpton described as the Democratic front-runner, Mr. Sharpton noted the paucity of blacks among Massachusetts's elected officials, and said he read a newspaper article the other day about racial profiling there.
"Where is Kerry in his home state?" Mr. Sharpton asked. "If I'm going to be in the debates, he's going to have to talk about that."
Mr. Lieberman, he said, was "an opponent of affirmative action," a characterization that does not square with how Mr. Lieberman describes his own views on the subject. Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri "stood with the president on the war -- and was part of the leadership that was absolutely defeated in 2002."
He saved his harshest words for Senator John Edwards of North Carolina, a trial lawyer who, Mr. Edwards's advisers argued, posed the greatest threat to Mr. Sharpton's hopes of a strong showing in the South.
"This guy got rich fighting for the regular guy," Mr. Sharpton said. "So I'm going to ask him at the debates: name one regular guy you fought for that you didn't get paid for. With a Sharpton-less race, he's gotten an easy ride."
The platform and the party's candidate, he said, should oppose a war in Iraq, the death penalty and the tax cuts pushed by President Bush, and should champion affirmative action. He said he would push for the ouster of Mr. McAuliffe as the party chairman, calling him a "nice man" who had failed.
When Mr. Sharpton finished a rather contentious interview on "Meet the Press," his host, Tim Russert, bid him farewell by declaring: "To be continued: We look forward to covering you on the campaign trail."
Mr. Sharpton's eyes lit up and he grinned broadly. "I will be looking for you, Brother Russert," he said.

PROFILE
Alfred Charles Sharpton Jr.

BORN: Oct. 3, 1954, in Brooklyn, N.Y.

HOMETOWN: Brooklyn.

EDUCATION: Samuel Tilden High School, three years at Brooklyn College (no degree).

CAREER HIGHLIGHTS: Ordained as a Pentecostal minister at the age of 10, 1964; youth director, Operation Breadbasket, New York, 1969-71; founder and president, National Youth Movement, 1971-86; founder and president, National Action Network Inc., 1991 to present. Ran for United States Senate from New York in 1992 and 1994, and ran for mayor of New York City in 1997.

FAVORITE PRESIDENT: "Take the war in Vietnam out, and Lyndon Johnson is my favorite president. Civil Rights Act, Voters Right Act, worked with Adam Clayton Powell."

FAMILY: Married to Kathy Jordan; two daughters.

This is the sixth article of a series about the prospective candidates for the Democratic presidential nomination in 2004.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "I'm very serious about this," the Rev. Al Sharpton of New York says about mounting his campaign to be the Democratic presidential candidate. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (77%); SEX OFFENSES (77%); LITIGATION (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); POLITICS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); VERDICTS (72%); LIBERALISM (70%); LIBEL & SLANDER (68%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (53%) PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; SURVEYS AND SERIES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; BLACKS; SEX CRIMES; HOAXES; PRIMARIES; ELECTION ISSUES; LIBEL AND SLANDER; SUITS AND LITIGATION 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (65%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (65%)

PERSON: AL SHARPTON (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%) NAGOURNEY, ADAM; SHARPTON, AL (REV); BRAWLEY, TAWANA; PAGONES, STEVEN A 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2003 



441 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: Koizumi Visits Energy-Rich Russian Region, Seeking Oil 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: KHABAROVSK, Russia, Jan. 12 

 BODY:
Almost a century after Japan beat Russia in the Russo-Japanese war of 1905, Junichiro Koizumi today made the first visit of a Japanese prime minister to the Russian Far East, a sprawling, resource-rich region that stretches from Siberia to disputed islands north of Japan.
 This time it was not territorial conquest but a geopolitical chess game with China over Russian oil that brought Mr. Koizumi to this 19th-century railroad city, where ice sculptures glittered in subzero temperatures. Donning a fur hat in the Arctic cold, Mr. Koizumi, leader of the world's second-largest oil consumer, openly appealed for the construction of a 2,500-mile oil pipeline that would bypass China, bringing Siberian oil to the Sea of Japan. 
 "Russia, especially its Far Eastern region, has great energy potential, which must be fully used," Mr. Koizumi told reporters, echoing arguments he made in Moscow to President Vladimir V. Putin earlier in his four-day trip. Bringing Siberian oil east for the first time, the $5 billion pipeline would be three times as long as the Trans-Alaska pipeline and would carry one million barrels of oil a day.
The pipeline has a potential of cutting Japan's dependence on Middle Eastern oil to 65 percent, from 83 percent today, according to Japanese estimates. Speaking in a city that was occupied by Japanese troops in 1918, Mr. Koizumi argued that energy cooperation would help bind together Russia and Japan, two countries that have yet to sign a peace treaty closing their last armed conflict, World War II.
"Japan must import most of its oil from abroad," the Japanese leader told reporters. "There is much that we can do for each other."
Mr. Koizumi also cited Japan's participation in the largest foreign investment project in Russian history: a 10-year, $22 billion project to develop huge oil and natural gas reserves off Sakhalin Island, directly north of Japan. Japanese companies have already invested $1 billion of their planned $8 billion share.
Pointing to a natural cooperation between Japan, a major energy user, and Russia, a major energy producer, he said, "The development of the Sakhalin shelf is one example of energy partnership."
An alternate, shorter pipeline route, designed to bring Siberian oil to fuel industries in northern China, puts China and Japan in direct competition over Russian resources.
Outside official meetings today, Japanese diplomats argued that Russia had geopolitical reasons to go with the Sea of Japan route: a need to counterbalance China. The Japanese hoped to play on Russians' insecurities about their Far East, an economically stagnant, underpopulated colony of about five million Europeans in Asia.
"High-ranking Russians are very cautious not to mention the threat out loud," one Russian-speaking Japanese diplomat said, alluding to China.
"But if you are a realistic Russian, you see you have the longest border on earth," the Japanese diplomat continued. "And on the other side of that border is the world's fastest-growing economy, fastest-growing defense budget, fastest-growing use of energy, and a big, big population."
Russia's late-19th-century nation-builders pushed the Trans-Siberian railroad through this city in 1897, echoing transcontinental railroads in Canada and the United States. Today, the Japanese say that building a pipeline through here to the port of Nakhodka would consolidate Russia's presence on the Pacific.
Indeed, many residents of the Russian Far East will admit that, while Japan was their paranoia of the past, China is their paranoia of the future.
In a nod to the past, Mr. Koizumi laid flowers today on a peace memorial built for thousands of Japanese prisoners of war who died while held in Russia after World War II.
But in this city, where local newspapers routinely carry reports of the police catching Chinese migrants sneaking over the frozen Amur River, Oleg I. Lekhovitser, the regional government spokesman, noted with pride that Khabarovsk keeps illegal Chinese immigration strictly "under control."
Viktor Ishayev, governor of the Khabarovsk region, complained a few weeks ago to Vremya Novosti, a Russian newspaper: "America bombed Japan, but at the moment Japan invests most in America. Japan has invested $620 billion overseas over the last 26 years, out of which the U.S. has received 42 percent, Russia .054 percent, and the Russian Far East .025 percent."
Today, minutes after Mr. Koizumi's official jet took off from here in snow flurries, Mr. Ishayev fielded a question from a Russian reporter who asked, wide-eyed, "Could Russia end up supplying 20 percent of Japan's oil needs?"
"Yes, again it proves that there is now trust between the two countries," said Mr. Ishayev, a veteran of years spent on a government commission that tried in vain to get a peace treaty signed, despite a dispute over four of the Kurile Islands.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi honored Japanese prisoners of war who died in Khabarovsk, Russia. (Associated Press) Map of Russia and surrounding countries highlighting Khabarovsk: Khabarovsk is a railroad hub in the oil-rich Russian Far East region. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (88%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (76%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); SCULPTURE (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (68%); PEACE PROCESS (52%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PIPELINES; TRANS-ALASKA PIPELINE SYSTEM; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-RUSSIA 

ORGANIZATION: PRISONERS OF WAR (59%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (73%) BROOKE, JAMES; PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRES); KOIZUMI, JUNICHIRO (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) PACIFIC OCEAN (93%); ALASKA, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (77%) JAPAN (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); CHINA (97%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); ARCTIC (73%) JAPAN; RUSSIA; SIBERIA; SEA OF JAPAN; CHINA; MIDDLE EAST

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2003 



442 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: ASIAN ARENA; 
U.S. Envoy Starts Discussions in Seoul on North Korea

BYLINE:  By SETH MYDANS 

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Monday, Jan. 13 

 BODY:
Assistant Secretary of State James A. Kelly began consultations with South Korea's president-elect and other officials today about the nuclear threat from North Korea, as the North Korean government maintained a barrage of bellicose statements. 
 There were other developments in the United States and Russia on Sunday indicating that a diplomatic solution might be a bit closer. Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico, the former United States ambassador to the United Nations who talked with North Korean representatives last week, said he expected low-level talks to begin between the United States and North Korea at the United Nations. And the Russian Foreign Ministry expressed some optimism about a possible settlement of the crisis. 
 Mr. Kelly, who is responsible for East Asian and Pacific affairs, met with President-elect Roh Moo Hyun at the presidential Blue House. 
The Bush administration has said North Korea must dismantle its nuclear programs, a path it has abandoned, before there can be any talks about aid and improved ties. 
At a news conference before meeting Mr. Roh, Mr. Kelly, responding to a question about the potential for regional cooperation on energy matters, said, "Once we get beyond nuclear weapons, there may be opportunities with the U.S., with private investors, with other countries to help North Korea in the energy area."
Mr. Kelly's arrival on Sunday began his first visit since October, when he traveled to Pyongyang, North Korea's capital, and met with officials there. He later said they had admitted conducting a secret nuclear weapons program. Tensions have risen since then, and in the last three days North Korea has announced that it plans to withdraw from the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty and that it may resume a suspended program of missile tests.
Hours before Mr. Kelly's arrival here on Sunday, North Korea pressed an earlier denial that it had ever admitted conducting a nuclear weapons program. "The claim that we admitted developing nuclear weapons is an invention fabricated by the United States with sinister intentions," said a North Korean newspaper, Rodong Sinmun, as quoted by the South Korean news agency Yonhap.
Such a program would violate a 1994 agreement in which the United States promised to provide energy supplies if North Korea froze its nuclear program. In December, Washington halted oil shipments under the deal, and experts said North Korea would soon be suffering the effects of severe energy shortages.
Declaring the 1994 agreement void, North Korea removed seals placed on one of its nuclear plants and expelled two inspectors from the International Atomic Energy Agency who were verifying the country's compliance. The agency, based in Vienna, now has the right to make a report of noncompliance to the United Nations Security Council, which could then impose sanctions.
North Korea has said such actions would amount to a "declaration of war." Employing an image common in North Korean threats, Rodong Sinmum said today, "If the United States evades its responsibility and challenges us, we will turn the citadel of imperialists into a sea of fire."
On Saturday, North Korea reported that a million people had rallied in Pyongyang to support what it called "a life-and-death battle" against the country's enemies.
For its part, South Korea repeated that it was seeking a diplomatic resolution to the standoff. "The government's consistent position is that it will do its best to resolve the North Korean nuclear issue peacefully through diplomacy," said Yim Sung Joon, a South Korean national security adviser, who had just returned from a visit to Washington.
Statements of concern and calls for peaceful negotiations have come from around the world since North Korea's announcements in the past three days. "It is important that North Korea be steadfastly worked upon to gain a peaceful solution," Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi of Japan was quoted as saying today as he met with officials in Russia.
In an appearance on the ABC News program "This Week," Mr. Richardson said on Sunday that he agreed with the Bush administration that it should not "engage in an immediate, direct dialogue at the time the North Koreans are talking about 'holy wars.' " He said he expected "the next step to be at the United Nations, at a low level -- some technical talks."
Mr. Richardson, who the administration has said is not speaking for the United States government, also called for "a bilateral, nonaggression, binding pact that basically says the United States is ready to agree that North Korea is not going to be treated in an aggressive hostile action, in other words that we are not going to attack North Korea, in exchange for some of the steps that are needed." Those steps, he said, include discussion of a freeze on work at North Korea's nuclear reprocessing facilities to ensure peaceful use, and allowing international inspectors back in. 
"The North Koreans said they're ready to do that," he continued. "But only after a negotiation."
Russia, thought to be one of the countries best able to influence North Korea, has outlined a compromise proposal for easing tensions in talks with the United States, South Korea, China and France. A spokesman for the Foreign Ministry, Aleksandr V. Takovenko, said today that "the main elements of the package settlement are taking shape," but that negotiations continued.
The proposal calls for North Korea to abandon any nuclear-weapons programs and strictly observe the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, as well as the agreement in 1994 to suspend its weapons programs in exchange for assistance in constructing nuclear power plants. At the same time, Russia is calling for multilateral and bilateral talks between North Korea and other countries, including the United States, aimed at providing North Korea with guarantees of its security, a crucial North Korean demand. The proposal also calls for the resumption of relief assistance and economic aid, which the United States, South Korea and Japan suspended after the disclosure of North Korea's weapons program last fall.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 17, 2003

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Monday about meetings between James A. Kelly, the United States envoy, and South Korea's president-elect, Roh Moo Hyun, misstated the location. It was Mr. Roh's office, not at the Blue House, the presidential mansion.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Assistant Secretary of State James A. Kelly met today with President-elect Roh Moo Hyun of South Korea. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (94%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (76%); POWER PLANTS (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (63%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (63%); TERRORISM (59%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: BILL RICHARDSON (73%) MYDANS, SETH; KELLY, JAMES A (ASST SEC); ROH MOO HYUN; RICHARDSON, BILL (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (91%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) NEW MEXICO, USA (92%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%) NORTH KOREA; SOUTH KOREA; RUSSIA; 

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2003 



443 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: DIPLOMACY; 
North Korean Talks? U.S. Weighs the Possible Price

BYLINE:  By STEVEN R. WEISMAN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 12 

 BODY:
For weeks, while North Korea has stepped up its actions and threats over its nuclear and military programs, Bush administration officials have wondered whether the North would also send word that it might be willing to discuss ways to pull back from the crisis.
 But now that the North Koreans have sent such a signal, through unofficial talks last week with Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico, administration officials must decide whether to open direct negotiations with North Korea or dismiss Mr. Richardson's efforts. 
 Officials said President Bush approved the New Mexico talks with two North Korea diplomats even though some advisers were against them. It is unclear whether he will allow official talks.
Much depends on how much faith the administration puts in the willingness of the main North Korean envoy in the New Mexico talks, Han Song Ryol, to discuss ways of freezing activity at the plutonium-producing nuclear reactor at Yongbyon and to talk about the status of North Korea's program to enrich uranium into weapons-grade fuel at its other plants.
On the ABC News program "This Week," Mr. Richardson said today that the North Koreans were "being belligerent in preparation, I believe, for a negotiation."
"They always do that," he added. "They did say to me that they're ready to negotiate the verification of some of their nuclear-reprocessing facilities. They did say that they would talk to the administration about the uranium enrichment facility. They did say they wanted to improve relations with the U.S."
But because the price for such steps by North Korea is not clear, it is questionable whether the Bush administration will respond positively. American officials said that such vague talk was not reassuring without North Korea signaling a willingness to dismantle those programs.
The Bush administration does not want to be seen as making any kind of offer as a quid pro quo for such steps, though many specialists say that any improvement in relations with North Korea would have to lead to such benefits down the road.
Officials familiar with the New Mexico talks said Secretary of State Colin L. Powell recommended approving them, making the conciliatory gesture of lifting travel restrictions on the North Koreans.
Mr. Powell has generally taken a tough stance on North Korea but is said to favor diplomatic contacts and to oppose further economic sanctions, while a faction led by Vice President Dick Cheney is convinced that isolation and economic pressure are the only way to get it to respond -- or, alternatively, to implode under the stress as the Soviet Union did. 
The administration was reluctant to have Mr. Richardson, a United Nations envoy for the Clinton administration, play a mediating role, said an official close to the New Mexico talks. But with the Bush administration having already reversed its approach on talks, dropping its earlier demand for actions to dismantle its nuclear programs before even indirect conversations, let alone negotiations, could take place, it now appears possible that a meeting at the United Nations could take place.
China, Russia, Japan and South Korea are considered likely to encourage the administration to make a positive response, diplomats say.
Mr. Richardson tried to get the North Koreans to let him say that they expressed "a willingness to have better relations with the United States." Mr. Han was said to have resisted such an expression until the second day of the three-day talks.
The North Koreans were also said to have emphasized to Mr. Richardson their security concerns and their desire for guarantees that the United States would not attack them, rather than asking for food, economic or energy assistance, the focus of their interests when he met with them in the 1990's.
That emphasis could be significant since administration officials say they are quite prepared, as an eventual part of a deal with North Korea, to include some form of nonaggression guarantees, putting in writing the statements that Mr. Bush has been making since the current crisis began last October.
If the administration does take seriously Mr. Han's offer of talks, the next step may be technical discussions at the United Nations that would pave the way for more substantive talks.
Another question is whether Mr. Richardson, who came to know Mr. Han while both were serving at the United Nations, will continue to play a role. The North Korean delegation was said to have asked for him to do so, but that is considered unlikely given the Bush administration's undisguised antipathy for its predecessor. Indeed, when Mr. Richardson praised Mr. Powell at his news conference on Friday, the governor smiled and said he hoped that the secretary's remark would not hurt him.
On the other hand, Mr. Han was said to have told Mr. Richardson that the North Koreans did not trust the Bush team because of its harsh statements about North Korea. Mr. Bush's oft-repeated pledge not to attack was having less effect than his inclusion of North Korea in an "axis of evil" with Iraq, a nation that appears to them to be targeted for imminent attack.
The North Koreans reached out to Mr. Richardson before he took office as governor on Jan. 1, asking him to be their messenger to the Bush administration. At a reception for governors at the White House, Mr. Richardson mentioned the North Korean feeler to a Bush aide. Mr. Powell later called him in New Mexico to give the green light.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Bill Richardson, right, speaking to George Stephanopoulos on the ABC News program "This Week." (Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); APPROVALS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (75%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (65%); TERRORISM (59%) ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TERRORISM 

PERSON: BILL RICHARDSON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); DICK CHENEY (58%) WEISMAN, STEVEN R; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); RICHARDSON, BILL (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW MEXICO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%) NORTH KOREA

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2003 



444 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: Trenton Mulls Tax Increase For Wealthiest 

BYLINE:  By LAURA MANSNERUS 

DATELINE: TRENTON, Jan. 10 

 BODY:
While President Bush promotes income tax cuts that would benefit the wealthiest taxpayers, some New Jersey Democrats are quietly reviving the idea of raising taxes on the same people.
 A discussion born of desperation is growing as Gov. James E. McGreevey approaches his State of the State address on Tuesday, and the announcement of his budget plan three weeks after that. The shortfall for the year beginning July 1 is estimated at $4 billion, about one-sixth of the current budget. 
 Many legislators say some variation of the "millionaire tax" expected in Connecticut can be sold here, despite New Jersey's famous aversion to raising taxes.
"It's on the table, believe me," a member of the Democratic-led Assembly said. "No matter what anybody tells you, at the end of the day it will still be on the table."
It may not seem politically daring to ask for more from taxpayers like Steve Forbes and Jon Bon Jovi, but the prospect of higher income taxes -- for anyone -- has been unmentionable in Trenton for a decade. Last spring, when Mr. McGreevey and legislators were exhausting possibilities for closing a multibillion-dollar budget gap, an income tax increase was not among them.
Mr. McGreevey still vows not to touch the income or sales taxes. But this year promises to be even than last, since the easier revenue sources have already been tapped.
In a much less serious bind, Gov. John G. Rowland of Connecticut recently spun around on the issue, agreeing to an income tax surcharge on incomes over $1 million. Mr. Rowland, a Republican, vetoed the same measure eight months before.
In New Jersey, the Assembly speaker, Albio Sires, touched off both consternation and applause when he suggested raising the top income tax rate, which is now 6.37 percent on individual incomes over $75,000 a year and joint incomes over $150,000. In a television interview two weeks ago, Mr. Sires suggested raising the rate on those making more than $200,000 a year.
"I heard his comments and damned near fell off my chair," said William G. Dressel, the director of the New Jersey State League of Municipalities.
Mr. Dressel said such a proposal, if tied to property tax relief, would probably be well received by his members. They are are still fuming over the governor's freeze on state aid to local governments and school districts and expect it to continue. Last year, property taxes rose by an average of 7 percent across the state.
Mr. Sires, a Democrat, said he had not met with Mr. McGreevey about a new high-end tax bracket. But Mr. Sires said that recently, "I saw the governor at two events and I whispered in his ear.
"I whispered, 'It only affects 2 percent of the population.' "
Mr. Sires, who is also the mayor of West New York, also said he had gotten "a great response" from local officials.
The Republicans, who hold half the seats in the State Senate, insist that they will not approve an increase. "There are very few economists that prescribe higher income taxes, or any taxes, for that matter, during a recession," said Senator Joseph M. Kyrillos Jr., the Republican state chairman. "More than most times, I think it's a particularly bad idea."
But some lawmakers and lobbyists say that even Republicans are trading ideas for selling an income tax increase -- and getting political cover for it in a year when the whole Legislature is up for re-election.
And some Democrats remain openly critical of former Gov. Christie Whitman's cut in the top tax rate, which was 7 percent when she was elected in 1993. "You're talking to someone who voted against the Whitman income tax cuts to begin with," said Senator Bernard F. Kenny Jr., a Hoboken Democrat who is on the Budget Committee. "I voted against them three times."
"I find merit to a number of proposals out there that would raise the rate in the upper brackets half a point to a point," Senator Kenny said.
Voters have expressed a preference for any alternative to the hated property tax. In a Quinnipiac University Poll last month, 74 percent of those surveyed said they would rather see an increase in the state income tax. Even more, presumably, would rather see an income tax increase affect a small group they do not belong to.
In advocating a higher top tax bracket, many Democrats refer to a proposal by New Jersey Policy Perspective, a policy research group directed by a former Florio administration member, Jon Shure. That proposal would raise the top rate to 7 percent for joint incomes over $500,000 and to 8 percent for those over $1 million.
This week Mr. Shure announced a report by a Washington-based organization, the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy, that described an "unfair, regressive tax system" in New Jersey. The report found that families earning less than $19,000 a year pay 12.4 percent of their income in state and local taxes, largely because of the sales tax, while the wealthiest 1 percent, those making over $571,000 a year, pay 8.2 percent of their income.
Of the 32 other states that have progressive income taxes, 20 have higher top rates than New Jersey, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures. Most of those impose the top rate at much lower income levels, however, some at $20,000 or $30,000 a year. (New York's highest personal income tax rate is 6.85 percent for individual incomes over $20,000.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (92%); BUDGETS (91%); TAX INCREASES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); VETO (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); SALES TAX (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (76%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (60%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (60%) TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; PUBLIC OPINION 

PERSON: ALBIO SIRES (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%); JON BON JOVI (51%) MANSNERUS, LAURA; MCGREEVEY, JAMES E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (94%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2003 



445 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 464 words

HEADLINE: 2 Plan Counteroffers for Safeway of Britain 

BYLINE:  By SUZANNE KAPNER and ANDREW ROSS SORKIN 

DATELINE: LONDON, Jan. 12 

 BODY:
Wal-Mart Stores and J. Sainsbury of Britain are each drawing up plans to make a counteroffer for Safeway, Britain's fourth-largest supermarket chain, which last week agreed to be bought by William Morrison Supermarkets, a smaller rival, for $:2.7 billion, or $4.3 billion, in stock.
 The board of Sainsbury, a big rival grocer, met today and agreed to continue working on an offer. The chief executive, Sir Peter Davis, is expected to update investors when Sainsbury announces its sales results for the Christmas season on Monday, people close to the company said. Wal-Mart, which owns Asda in Britain, is also considering its options. 
 Sainsbury is the second-largest supermarket chain in this country, while Asda is third. Though both trail Tesco, the market leader, by a wide margin, analysts said they are big enough to face antitrust hurdles in their effort to acquire Safeway.
To avoid such problems, Wal-Mart, America's largest discount retailer, and Sainsbury had initially considered making a joint bid, and then dividing Safeway's 490 stores, people involved in the negotiations said. But those discussions broke down in October, after Wal-Mart insisted on keeping roughly two-thirds of the stores.
Since then, these people said, Sainsbury has begun sounding out private equity firms, including Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, about forming a partnership to bid for Safeway.
William Morrison is smaller than Safeway, and its offer, which has the backing of Safeway's board, is not expected to draw a lengthy antitrust review. Executives from William Morrison are expected to make their case to Safeway shareholders in meetings this week.
"We will explain the advantages of the deal to shareholders, customers and employees," a William Morrison spokesman said. Representatives from Asda, Sainsbury and Safeway declined to comment today.
If Wal-Mart proceeds with a bid, it is expected to make it all in cash, while Sainsbury would probably offer a mix of cash and stock. The offers are expected to exceed $:3 billion, or $4.8 billion, people close to the companies said.
Britain's supermarket industry has become fiercely competitive since Wal-Mart bought Asda in 1999 and introduced the concept of everyday low prices. Today, price wars among the biggest chains are common as the chains battle for customer loyalty.
Analysts have expected Wal-Mart to expand its presence in Britain, as it seeks to take advantage of economies of scale that would allow it to negotiate the best prices from suppliers. But some have questioned whether Safeway makes a good fit. Safeway stores tend to be smaller than Asda's and more of them are in cities, where Asda is predominantly in the suburbs and rural areas. Until 1987, Safeway was owned by Safeway Inc., which is based in Pleasanton, Calif. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (96%); RETAILERS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (73%); PRICE CUTTING (72%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); PRIVATE EQUITY (70%); PRICE CHANGES (67%); CHRISTMAS (55%) FOOD; SUPERMARKETS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (98%); J SAINSBURY PLC (92%); WM MORRISON SUPERMARKETS PLC (90%); SAFEWAY INC (86%); KKR & CO LP (67%)

ORGANIZATION: WAL-MART STORES INC; SAINSBURY, J, PLC; SAFEWAY PLC; MORRISON PLC 

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (98%); SBRY (LSE) (92%); MRW (LSE) (90%); SWY (NYSE) (86%); KKR (NYSE) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (98%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (98%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (92%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (92%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (90%); NAICS311612 MEAT PROCESSED FROM CARCASSES (90%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (67%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (67%) SIC5411 GROCERY STORES; SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES; 

PERSON: KAPNER, SUZANNE; SORKIN, ANDREW ROSS 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (64%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (64%) UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2003 



446 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Health & Fitness; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1402 words

HEADLINE: As Cases of Induced Labor Rise, So Do Experts' Concerns 

BYLINE:  By JANE E. BRODY 

 BODY:
A number of obstetrical experts are becoming increasingly concerned about the growing number of pregnant women whose labors are induced for no apparent medical reason. Since 1990, the proportion of births resulting from an induced labor has doubled: one baby in five is now born after the birth process has been started by a drug.
 In about half of these cases, the reason for induction is not related to any medical problem in the woman or her unborn baby, said Dr. William F. Rayburn, an expert in maternal and fetal medicine at the University of New Mexico Health Sciences Center in Albuquerque. 
 Rather, a decision to induce labor is often reached for reasons of convenience to the mother, the family or the doctor. In some cases, women worried about the baby's health may exert pressure; in other cases, doctors may fear medical liability for waiting, Dr. Rayburn and his colleague, Dr. Jun Zhang, wrote this year in the journal Obstetrics and Gynecology, after reviewing the research on the topic. 
"Now more than ever, obstetricians are concerned about anything going wrong," Dr. Rayburn said. Increasing numbers of lawsuits have so escalated the cost of malpractice insurance and the burdens of litigation that many obstetrician-gynecologists have abandoned obstetrics altogether.
In most hospitals, Dr. Rayburn and Dr. Zhang reported, the instances of induced labor now exceed the combined number of Caesarean deliveries, vaginal births after a previous Caesarean and vaginal deliveries requiring forceps. The numbers are even higher in many community hospitals, where more than 40 percent of births are induced, with as many as three of four done for no compelling medical reason, according to a review of 7,000 consecutive inductions published in 1999 in The American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology.
Induced labor greatly increases the costs and health risks of childbirth because time spent in labor in the hospital is longer, and the need for Caesarean deliveries is greater, Dr. Karen E. Kaufman, an expert in maternal and fetal medicine at Northwestern University Medical School, and her co-authors at Northwestern and the University of North Carolina reported in an analysis in October in The American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology. 
"Induction increases the length of labor and often increases the need for pain relief because of the more prolonged labor," Dr. Rayburn said in an interview.
Induction results in Caesarean deliveries, he said, when the cervix fails to dilate or dilates very slowly or stops before full dilation, or when the woman becomes too fatigued to push the baby out or when the resulting contractions are too strong for the baby to tolerate them well. Caesareans after inductions are particularly common in first pregnancies, he said.
So why do so many women ask to be induced?
"Most women just want to get their pregnancies over with," said Dr. Deborah A. Wing of the University of Southern California. "They consider it abnormal if they go one day past their due date. They don't realize that the due date is merely a suggestion."
Dr. Kaufman cautioned, "Women should not be asking to be induced just for the sake of convenience."
In an uncomplicated single-birth pregnancy, it is more economical to wait up to two weeks past a woman's due date before trying to induce labor, the researchers from Northwestern and North Carolina wrote.
But, they noted, induction of labor has "potential tangible benefits" because delivery prevents the possibility that the fetus will die before birth, which occurs in 1 pregnancy in 1,000 among women past their due dates who wait for labor to start naturally.
The team acknowledged that the best way to deal with a pregnancy lasting beyond 40 weeks had never been clearly established.
Doctors who favor induction argue that waiting longer increases the risk of a Caesarean delivery because the fetus gets too big for a vaginal birth, and they also cite the risk of stillbirth and complications.
Those who favor waiting for labor to begin naturally point to studies showing that induction increases costs of childbirth and the need for Caesarean deliveries when induced labors fail to progress normally.
For women whose labor is induced before their due dates, or when a due date cannot be firmly established, Dr. Wing said, "there is a small increase in the number of newborns who must be placed in intensive care because of pulmonary complications" related to prematurity. 
There are well-established medical reasons for inducing labor before a woman's due date, Dr. Rayburn said in an interview. They include medical problems in the pregnant woman, like diabetes or high blood pressure; pregnancy-related problems, like premature rupture of the membranes that encase the unborn baby, or a placenta that begins to detach from the uterine wall; and fetal problems, like an irregular heartbeat, retarded fetal growth or insufficient amniotic fluid bathing the fetus.
The current ability to detect fetal distress has raised the rates of both labor induction and Caesarean deliveries.
There are also "soft indications" for inducing labor, Dr. Rayburn said. These may include a woman who is overly anxious because of a previous pregnancy problem, a woman who lives very far from the hospital or a woman with a history of rapid delivery who is at risk of giving birth before reaching the hospital. 
When there is a medical reason for inducing labor, the potential benefits greatly outweigh the risks, the experts said. The benefit-to-risk ratio is less clear when the reasons for induction are psychological or social. Some working women, for example, want the convenience of a planned delivery. 
"Obstetrics has become very consumer-driven," Dr. Wing said. "When a woman can't get what she wants from one doctor, she'll go to another, so economics is driving the issue a bit." But she added: "Spontaneous labor is always preferable. The Caesarean section rates are doubled anytime you try to force the process along. You don't know what you will end up with."
Experts also condemned the practice of some doctors to administer an induction agent and send the woman home, telling her to return when labor is well established.
"Inductions should always be done in a hospital and the woman should be monitored continuously for uterine contractions and for the response of the fetal heart rate to those contractions," Dr. Wing said.
Some concern has also been raised about the use and abuse of certain induction agents. The drug most often used for cervical ripening -- the process of softening the cervix that allows it to dilate -- is misoprostol, a prostaglandin marketed as Cytotec. It is approved by the Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of ulcers, not for labor induction, and its use in obstetrics is considered "off label" but legal; once a drug is approved for one purpose, it can be used by doctors for other reasons.
Dr. Rayburn said misoprostol was "very inexpensive and effective, but requires close monitoring to detect changes in the cervix and excessive undesirable uterine activity." This drug sometimes causes uterine contractions that are more frequent and powerful than normal labor and has occasionally resulted in rupture of the uterus, particularly in women who have had previous Caesarean deliveries. 
In August 2000, Searle, which markets Cytotec, cautioned doctors about administering the drug to pregnant women, noting that off-label use of the drug had resulted in reports of uterine rupture, hysterectomy and the death of women and babies. The warning prompted some hospitals to restrict the use of misoprostol for inductions.
Still, it is considered the drug of choice for labor induction, and when given in low doses and coupled with close monitoring, most obstetricians in this country believe it is safe, Dr. Rayburn said. Alternative agents, Cervidil and Prepidil, are much more expensive, he said.
Dr. Rayburn said that more research needed to be done on the circumstances under which inductions were performed and on the effects of induction on cost and long-term health of mothers and babies.
Meanwhile, he added: "There is nothing better than a natural spontaneous labor. Women should exercise patience and not be overly demanding about having their labor induced." When women are considering induction or when their doctors recommend it for nonmedical reasons, he suggested that women get second opinions.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 20, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article in Science Times on Tuesday about the rising incidence of induced labor misstated the publication date of an article in the journal Obstetrics and Gynecology that cited the trend. It was last year, in July, not this year.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Sara Schwartz) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (95%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (91%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (74%); WRITERS (73%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY INSURANCE (69%); INTERVIEWS (65%) PREGNANCY AND OBSTETRICS; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); DOCTORS 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NEW MEXICO (57%)

PERSON: BRODY, JANE E 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (79%) NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2003 



447 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 115 words

HEADLINE: DeLay and the Jobless 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The comments of Tom DeLay, the House majority leader, declaring that Democrats want "unlimited unemployment compensation so somebody could stay out of work for the rest of their lives," reveal what is really at the heart of the hostility to unemployment benefits by Mr. 
DeLay and many of his colleagues ("Bush Signs Bill to Extend Unemployment Benefits," news article, Jan. 9). 
 Their opposition is punitive because they really do believe that the unemployed are deadbeats who prefer living off the dole to working. 
 If this attitude doesn't contribute to the "class warfare" that the Republicans charge Democrats with, what does?

JOHN A. VITERITTI
Southold, N.Y., Jan. 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LAYOFFS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); LEGISLATION (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) LABOR; LAW AND LEGISLATION; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

PERSON: VITERITTI, JOHN A; DELAY, TOM (REP) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2003 



448 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Fashion Page; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: Front Row 

BYLINE:  By Ruth La Ferla 

 BODY:
Uncertainty in the Meat District
 "Thank heaven, our business is good," Jeffrey Kalinsky declared, his elation almost palpable. Mr. Kalinsky, the owner of Jeffrey New York, a pioneering outpost of hip on West 14th Street, said that his designer-brand shoes and accessories have kept his store aloft, drawing a steady influx of customers to this gritty neighborhood on Manhattan's western rim. 
 In the last year, high-end stores like Stella McCartney and Alexander McQueen have followed, along with newcomers like Scoop, Jussara Lee and RubinChapelle, each setting up shop in the meatpacking district in the hope of thriving as Jeffrey has. Not all, however, will fare as well. 
On a Saturday afternoon this month, prime shopping time for most New Yorkers, foot traffic in the area had thinned to a trickle, an unsettling indication that for fashion retailers, the meatpacking district, its groovy image notwithstanding, leaves a lot to be desired. 
"On weekends, traffic used to be very strong for us," said Laura Mady, a partner in Boucher, a closet-size jewelry boutique on Ninth Avenue. "Now, on a busy day, we might get 30 people." 
Renata Bokalo, an owner of Auto, a three-year-old housewares and fashion accessories store, is also feeling shaky. "We opened in the 90's, when everyone had money, and we did well," Ms. Bokalo said. "Lately, I'm nervous. We are definitely feeling the recession." 
Yvonne Chahine, president of Stella McCartney North America, which is owned by the Gucci Group, was more optimistic, reporting that when the store opened last fall, traffic was great. "We were getting 1,400 or 1,500 customers a day," she said. She maintains that the shop is still healthy but concedes that on a good day, it sees an average of only 350 people.
A slack economy, combined with the falloff in tourism after the World Trade Center attacks, has taken its toll on the neighborhood, and tiny independent fashion boutiques have been the first to feel the pinch. "Tourists used to account for 40 percent of our business," Ms. Mady said. "After 9/11, we lost most of that."
Not all, of course, is gloom. The proximity of tenants like the Milk photography studios and the Sperone Westwater gallery bring out the fashion vanguard, said Laura Pomerantz, a partner in PBS Reality Advisors. But, she added, a trickle of shoppers will not sustain a business that is dependent on foot traffic. "Those businesses may be better off elsewhere," she said. Nevertheless, as she observed, the area draws a "very focused fashion-driven shopper who knows what she wants -- the same type that made SoHo successful years ago." 
Ms. Pomerantz has enough confidence in the area, where rents range from $50 to $80 a square foot, to show it to prospective fashion clients. "The meat district is happening," she said, "but there are going to be some growing pains."

'Make Me Rasta'
Not long ago a young man, a tourist from Poland, sauntered into Dreadlocks Inc., a hair salon on the Lower East Side, gazed at a portrait of Bob Marley on the wall, then wheeled toward the owner. "Make me rasta," he ordered. 
Randi Sabel, the owner of the salon, was not at all taken aback. "These days, my clients come from everywhere," she said. "I've never seen so many people -- Asian, Caucasian, Turkish, even Mexican -- from every type of racial background, asking for dreadlocks. They're back with a vengeance."
As Ms. Sabel spoke, she wrapped tufts of artificial hair into the locks of Vicki Tay. Two years ago, Ms. Tay, a Japanese-American, forsook her pin-straight bob for shoulder-length woolly coils. A window designer for Diesel, Ms. Tay, 24, is one of Ms. Sabel's growing number of Japanese clients. "I've always had an obsession with dreadlocks," Ms. Tay said. "It comes from a passion for the culture." 
Not all fans of locks share that passion. A few blocks uptown, Lior Hermon, 23, a tourist from Israel, stood toying with his caramel-color locks. Was he interested in reggae? "Not really," he said, twirling a 12-inch tendril in his fingers. "These," he said, "they're just a hobby. I play with them all day." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vicki Tay, getting her hair done at Randi Sabel's salon. "I've always had an obsession with dreadlocks," she said. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (90%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (89%); FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (78%); CLOTHING ACCESSORIES STORES (77%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (77%); FASHION & APPAREL (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (68%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (66%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (66%); PHOTOGRAPHY (60%) HAIR; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE 

ORGANIZATION: DREADLOCKS INC 

PERSON: LA FERLA, RUTH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2003 



449 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 550 words

HEADLINE: City to Resume Recycling Of Plastics 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL COOPER 

 BODY:
New York City is poised to resume recycling plastic this summer and save a significant amount of money thanks to a New Jersey company's bid to pay the city for its crumpled water bottles and deli containers, city officials said yesterday.
 The Bloomberg administration suspended the recycling of glass and plastic last July, arguing that the program cost too much money -- and yielded too little environmental benefit -- to justify its existence in the current fiscal crisis. 
 But under a compromise reached between the administration and the City Council, the city will resume its plastic-recycling program this July and its glass-recycling program in July 2004. 
The sanitation commissioner, John J. Doherty, said at a City Council hearing yesterday that the city is on target to meet the July deadline for restarting plastic recycling. He added that the city stands to save a significant amount of money compared with the previous program.
Mr. Doherty said the city hopes to sign a contract in the next two months with a small New Jersey recycling company, Hugo Neu Schnitzer East, that has offered to pay the city $5.15 per ton for plastic and metal garbage, instead of charging for the service. Other, bigger garbage firms, he said, wanted to charge the city more that $67 a ton for removing plastic and metal refuse.
"It's very encouraging," Mr. Doherty said of the bid. If the contract goes through, he noted, the city would save more than $70 a ton on plastic recycling. Over all, however, it would still cost the city money: Mr. Doherty said the money the city would get from Hugo Neu Schnitzer East would not be enough to offset the high cost of collecting the plastic. Still, he described the bid as the best offer the city has had since it passed a law requiring recycling in 1989.
City officials said they were confronting a harsh reality when they suspended glass and plastic recycling: they were spending tens of millions of dollars a year for a program that still wound up putting a great deal of refuse into landfills.
But Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr. released a report in December suggesting that the city was not saving as much money by suspending recycling as it had hoped. The report said that since suspending recycling, the Sanitation Department had reduced its garbage-collection runs by less than 2 percent.
The new contract will not earn the city much money. The city collects a little over 100,000 tons of metal and plastic a year, so at $5.15 a ton it would stand to make a little over half a million dollars. The real savings would be that the city would no longer have to pay firms to remove its recyclables. And by taking plastic out of the regular trash collection, the city would no longer have to pay the high price of exporting it, one truck at a time, to out-of-state landfills.
Councilman Michael E. McMahon, a Staten Island Democrat who is chairman of the Council's Sanitation Committee, said the proposal was a win-win deal. "You've got good news for the environment and good news for the economy," he said.
Mark A. Izeman, a lawyer at the Natural Resources Defense Council, a conservation group, said, "In tight budgetary times, it makes perfect sense for the city to seize opportunities like this to begin lowering New York's astronomical waste disposal costs." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (96%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); RENEWABLE PLASTICS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (89%); LANDFILLS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); LEGISLATION (67%) WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; RECYCLING OF WASTE MATERIALS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); PLASTICS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

ORGANIZATION: HUGO NEU SCHNITZER EAST (CO) 

PERSON: COOPER, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2003 



450 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: Stimulus for Lawyers 

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN; E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
My colleagues on the editorial page dubbed the Bush administration's proposal to eliminate taxes on corporate dividends "The Charles Schwab Tax Cut." Indeed, the idea seems to have originated in remarks Mr. Schwab made last summer in Waco. But a closer look suggests that it should actually be called the "Tax Complication Act of 2003": it will do little if anything to create jobs in the economy as a whole, but will be a bonanza for tax lawyers and accountants.
 In fact, even some of the lobbyists you would have expected to cheer the plan now believe that it is so complex as to be unworkable. 
 By now you've probably read a lot about the economics of the administration's plan; all the criticisms are true. The plan has nothing to do with stimulus, since less than a dime on the dollar will arrive in the next year. Its benefits are almost ludicrously tilted toward the very, very affluent. (Exercise for readers: Explain how the administration can claim that the average family receives a $1,083 tax cut, when 80 percent of families will receive less than $1,000, most less than $300.)
But you may not be aware of the huge technical problems with the plan's centerpiece, an end to taxes on dividends. 
The slogan was simple enough: "No more double taxation." Corporations, it was said, pay taxes on their profits -- so let's not tax the same income again, when it's paid out as dividends. But the slogan was simplistic. On one hand, in our loophole-ridden system many profitable corporations pay little or no profits tax (and the new plan, by the way, will still leave corporations eager to exploit every loophole they can). On the other hand, retirement accounts, which receive most of the dividends paid to middle-class investors, are already sheltered from taxes.
A simple end to dividend taxation, then, would be a blatant giveaway to the rich: it would allow some wealthy investors to pay no taxes at all. That's too much, even for the Bush administration. 
So the actual plan is much more complicated: Dividends will be tax-free only if the company that pays them is deemed to have paid sufficient profits taxes. 
That's only a minor complication, but it gets worse. Companies that reinvest their profits complained about the plan. So there's another fix: when companies choose not to pay the allowed amount of tax-free dividends, the dividends not paid will be counted against capital gains for stockholders, reducing their taxes when they sell the stock. This makes sense, sort of; but it means that individual taxpayers will have to maintain elaborate records, and it also opens substantial new possibilities for abuse.
Are you confused? So are the experts. 
For 90 percent of Americans, none of this matters, because they will get little or nothing from the dividend tax exemption anyway. But among the minority who might expect to gain, many will find their tax cut chewed up by fees for lawyers and accountants.
The really big question, however, is what this will do to tax collection. 
Bear in mind that the I.R.S. is already severely overstretched; for years Congress has starved the agency of resources, and officials privately concede that it is doing an increasingly poor job of policing tax evasion. Yet if a dividend tax exemption will make it complicated to file taxes, it will also make it harder -- much harder -- for the I.R.S. to enforce the rules. Tax lawyers are already devising schemes to exploit the many new loopholes the plan would create. 
So here's a prediction: If the dividend tax exemption is put into effect, the rules that supposedly prevent abuse -- that prevent wealthy individuals from avoiding any taxation at all -- will be subject to extensive evasion. Will the I.R.S. get the resources it needs to police that evasion? Don't be silly. So both the true budget costs of the plan and its tilt toward the wealthy will be bigger than even the harshest critics now assert.
It's tempting to attribute this mess to sheer incompetence: George W. Bush liked what Charles Schwab said, and nobody dared tell the emperor the truth about his wardrobe. But maybe the mess is deliberate. Is this just another clever step on the way to a system in which only the little people pay taxes? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); LOBBYING (78%); DIVIDENDS (78%); TAX CONSULTING (78%); FAMILY (76%); LAWYERS (75%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); JOB CREATION (71%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%) TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; LEGAL PROFESSION 

COMPANY: CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (59%) INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE 

TICKER: SCHW (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (55%) KRUGMAN, PAUL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2003 



451 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TRAVEL: ON THE ROAD; 
How One Air Commuter Made the Sky a Classroom

BYLINE:  By Joe Sharkey; On the Road appears each Tuesday. E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
"I JUST put my headphones on and put in the CD-ROM. I would also do a lot of reading on the plane. Sometimes I'd even manage to write a complete paper. It was a practical way for me to spend my time," said Morgan Hezlep.
 Easy for her to say. Ms. Hezlep, 31, is one of those industrious people you sometimes see on planes -- the ones who actually manage to get work done in an airline seat. 
 She is so good at working on planes that she got her college degree while commuting cross-country for over two years, from San Diego to Boston. Thus she is a role model for those of us who give up in despair on the idea of using our laptops the minute the big fat guy in the aisle ahead cranks his seat all the way down into our tray tables.
"I started off always flying coach, and I managed to do the course work and get things in on time," said Ms. Hezlep, who is now in law school in San Diego after completing her bachelor of science degree last May. "I'm a petite person, so I basically fit in a coach seat and have just enough room to work, even if the seat in front is reclined all the way. I usually found a way to use my laptop and prop up a book." 
In late 1999, with only a handful of college credits under her belt, Ms. Hezlep decided to complete her degree while continuing to work as an Internet-technology specialist in the medical industry. Her company, in Southern California, assigned her to work with a client in Boston, the Dana Farber Cancer Center.
Not wanting to move to Boston, she decided to wing it after discovering that she could get her degree through an online degree program from St. Leo University near Tampa, Fla. It is affiliated with the University Alliance network operated by Bisk Education Inc. and allows adults to pursue college studies long-distance while continuing their careers. Lectures are on videodiscs and online, and tests and teacher consultations are conducted on the Internet.
Early in January 2000, Ms. Hezlep started both a new job and a new college.
Two and a half years later, having bagged about half a million frequent-flier miles and a couple of hundred hours of academic credits, she got her degree in computer information systems just about the time the contract in Boston had ended.
"I was strictly a United flier," she said. After a few months into her cross-country odyssey, she had logged enough frequent-flier miles to start qualifying for regular upgrades from steerage to either Economy Plus -- the higher-cost seats with a little more legroom in the front of the coach cabins on United Airlines flights -- and even occasionally to first or business class.
The drill required heads-up planning. Laptop batteries had to be charged before the weekend commutes. Since classwork and exams were usually due on Sunday nights, scheduling was especially crucial on the weekly Sunday morning flights from San Diego to Boston, with connections in Chicago or Denver.
"You're behind three hours before you start, naturally," she said. "I got to know my airports, including where to hole up in a corner and work on layovers and through weather or mechanical delays. Finally, I joined United's Red Carpet Club, so I could have a guaranteed place to use my laptop and get e-mail."
Security-screening delays that snarled airports after the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, 2001, added new challenges because "any time you spent waiting in line was not productive time," she said.
What about that bane of the young female flier, the overly chatty (usually male) seatmate?
Slipping in the male pronoun with subtlety, Ms. Hezlep acknowledged: "Sometimes the person beside me would see the software on my screen, or see me doing work on the laptop and consulting a book, and he would say, like, 'Oh, you're going to school? That must really be hard on an airplane.' You'd try to accommodate them and reply politely and then go back to your work, but still you're thinking, Can't you tell that I'm studying?"
In dealing with true serial-chatters, sometimes the only polite way to get some peace was to wait for food to arrive. "This didn't happen often, but when it did, there was always the opportunity. When they served the meal, he would finally stop talking to start eating," she said. "I would forgo the meal myself and use the opportunity to study, and then as his tray was being cleared away, I would feign going to sleep myself till he dozed off. Then I'd be able to work again." Sympathetic flight attendants, who miss nothing, would sometimes slip her snacks.
"I have to admit there were times I complained to myself" about the drudgery, "but the truth is I thrived on it," she said.
For business travelers who do try to work on planes, even if they're not grinding out a college degree, conditions have been worsening lately.
On some airlines, upgrades are harder to obtain. With fewer planes in the skies as airlines shrink schedules, some flights are more crowded than ever. Worse, in a growing trend, many airlines are using more 50-seat regional jets on routes once served by full-size airliners. As the airline consultant Michael Boyd notes in a list of predictions for 2003 in his current weekly newsletter (www .aviationplanning.com): "From an ergonomic standpoint, these are not aircraft well-suited to long-haul passenger service. There's a limit to human endurance."
Ms. Hezlep said she did her best to achieve a degree of comfort under challenging circumstances, but she would not want to try it again under current conditions. "I consider myself to be pretty organized, and I can fake it pretty well when I'm not. But I'm very glad I did it when I did," she said.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Chris Gash) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); INTERNET & WWW (86%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (78%); ONLINE SCHOOLS (75%); DISTANCE LEARNING (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (75%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (70%); CANCER (50%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES 

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ST LEO UNIVERSITY; UNIVERSITY ALLIANCE; BISK EDUCATION INC; UNITED AIRLINES 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%)

PERSON: SHARKEY, JOE; HEZLEP, MORGAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); TAMPA, FL, USA (72%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2003 



452 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1216 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TRAVEL; 
Frequent Flier to Rental Driver Has Its Price

BYLINE:  By DAVID JONES 

 BODY:
Hertz, the world's leading rental car provider, has quietly begun imposing a modest fee on customers who want to collect frequent-flier miles, a move that some experts say could help it recoup millions of dollars in marketing costs.
 Avis Rent a Car has decided to follow suit, and several other major rental-car companies are considering doing the same. And one major player is even thinking about pulling out of some airline frequent-flier programs altogether. 
 Though Hertz's new surcharge, which it began on Oct. 1, is only 50 cents a day, up to a maximum of $2 per rental, it is the latest sign of the rental-car industry's struggle to stay profitable amid a severe business slump. It is also likely to cause grumbling by business travelers, who believe they are being nickel-and-dimed by companies that are loath to raise prices directly. 
Similarly, while airlines and big corporations are grudgingly accepting the move as a fait accompli, they are not happy about it.
Aside from supplying badly needed revenue for Hertz, the surcharge can also be viewed as a sign of declining confidence in airline mileage programs from a once prominent customer that would not have dared do this in the boom days, when airline mileage offers were in avid demand by hotel, car rental and other retail customers.
"The cost of participating in these programs is a significant drain on profitability" for rental companies, "even more so now when general volume is down," said Neil Abrams, president of the Abrams Consulting Group, a firm in Purchase, N.Y., that specializes in the rent-a-car industry.
Hertz, a subsidiary of Ford Motor, says the new fee is only one of several tough financial decisions it has been forced to take because of weak demand since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. Last April, Hertz eliminated base commissions paid to travel agents for certain car rentals made with corporations and government agencies, though not those with other business customers or leisure travelers.
Richard Broome, a spokesman for Hertz, which is based in Park Ridge, N.J., said that the company believed that airline frequent-flier programs were a legitimate cost item that needed to be reviewed. Hertz, like other rental-car concerns, pays a fee for every mile a frequent flier collects from an individual rental. Mr. Broome would not discuss how much money Hertz pays to participate in frequent-flier programs, though American Airlines officials say the general rate for frequent-flier partners is about 2.2 cents a mile. Under many airline agreements, a frequent-flier accrues a minimum of 50 miles a day.
Hertz had worldwide rental car revenue of $3.8 billion in 2001 and, according to industry experts, books millions of rental-car transactions a year. Avis, the second-largest airport rental-car company in the United States, with 21 percent of the market, books about 16 million rental-car transactions a year.
With costs rising faster than rental rates, Mr. Broome said, Hertz had to find additional revenue and believed that it was fairer to impose the 50-cent-a-day fee on the one-third of its customers who collect frequent-flier points than to impose a surcharge on everybody. Airline customers represent 90 percent of Hertz's business, and Hertz has about 28 percent of the American airport rental-car market, according to Abrams Travel Data.
Already, several of Hertz's rivals have either decided to duplicate its move or are considering doing so. The Cendant Car Rental Group, based in Parsippany, N.J., which operates Avis, decided last week to impose a fee on customers who take part in its frequent-flier airline loyalty programs, though it has not yet determined the amount or the starting date, according to Ted Deutsch, a Cendant spokesman. He said Avis officials spent several weeks discussing the fee with various airline partners and determined that it would have to take steps to remain competitive with Hertz and other rental companies.
He said a similar plan would probably be put into effect at Budget Rent a Car, which Cendant acquired last year, though a final decision has not been made. "I think the different travel industry companies recognize we're in a pretty dynamic environment," Mr. Deutsch said. "It doesn't signify that we're valuing those relationships less. Our success is very tied into the success of the airline business."
ANC Rental, based in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and the parent of National Car Rental and Alamo Rent a Car, is considering whether to impose a similar fee, and says it might even go a step further by pulling out of some airline frequent-flier programs. ANC, which is operating under Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, said it was meeting with its 14 airline frequent-flier partners as well as 30 corporate travel accounts to determine which direction it will go.
One exception to the trend is the Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group, which says it has no plans to match the fee.
The big rental-car companies first began offering customers points for airline frequent-flier clubs in the 1980's as a way to lure them away from cheaper rivals and to keep them loyal. The strategy worked at first, but as the low end of the industry took up the practice, the competitive edge was lost. "It was a matter of time," said Mr. Abrams of Abrams Consulting and a former Hertz executive.
Most of Hertz's airline partners grudgingly agreed to accept the fee after several months of negotiations, Mr. Broome said, though American Airlines, the nation's largest airline, refused.
"We thought it was philosophically against what we thought was the right thing to do to charge Advantage members for miles," said Tim Kincaid, a spokesman for American, which has 45 million frequent-flier members of American AAdvantage.
Instead of the new fee, American allowed Hertz to change the accrual rate for AAdvantage members to one mileage point for every $2 spent, compared with the previous one-to-one ratio. Officials at Delta Air Lines, the nation's third-largest carrier, said the new fees would not have any impact on its relationships with the rental-car companies.
Some frequent business travelers expressed frustration that they would have to pay for a program that was initially created to attract new customers. "I thought the point of these programs was to build loyalty," said Robin Bechtel, a frequent flier who manages communications for the North American Insulation Manufacturers Association in Alexandria, Va. Big corporations, which have been reducing travel expenses in a sputtering economy, generally view the new fees as the latest annoyance in a series of charges slipped in by service providers.
Curt Mattos, director of travel services at Charles Schwab in San Francisco, said his firm had a preferred-supplier contract with Avis and that he would try to renegotiate if his company had to pay another fee.
"There is work to be done in our business on creating a new revenue model, rather than continually sticking it to consumers," Mr. Mattos said.
Hertz officials say the new policy has not led to a loss of market share or caused a significant number of complaints from business travelers or corporate travel managers, though Hertz acknowledges it worried about those risks.
"You know that most of those fees are not fees that we'd like to impose," Mr. Broome said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Juna Hult, right, a customer service representative for Hertz at San Francisco International Airport, explained a car-rental agreement yesterday to Shimizu Toyokazu, a businessman who was traveling from Japan. (Thor Swift for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (93%); AIRLINES (90%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LOYALTY MARKETING (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); TRAVEL AGENTS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); AIRPORTS (76%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (72%); LEISURE TRAVEL (68%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); TERRORISM (62%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (62%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) AUTOMOBILES; RENTING AND LEASING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES 

COMPANY: HERTZ GLOBAL HOLDINGS INC (92%); FORD MOTOR CO (90%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: HERTZ CORP; AVIS RENT A CAR SYSTEM 

TICKER: HTZ (NYSE) (92%); FORDP (PAR) (90%); F (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532412 CONSTRUCTION, MINING & FORESTRY MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (92%); NAICS532111 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (92%); SIC7514 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (92%); SIC7353 HEAVY CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (90%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (51%) SIC7514 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL; 

PERSON: JONES, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2003 



453 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Pledges an Effort on Race 

BYLINE:  By LYNETTE CLEMETSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 13 

 BODY:
In an effort to improve the Republican Party's image among African-Americans, party leaders agreed today to set benchmarks for the party to gauge how well it is doing in grooming black candidates, hiring black staff members and acting on issues of concern to black voters.
 They also promised to adopt a scorecard, to be vetted by black party advisers, to chart the party's progress on race-related issues. 
 The promises were made in a closed-door meeting at the offices of the Republican National Committee with more than a dozen black Republican business, political and religious leaders, as a way to mend fences after the December controversy surrounding Senator Trent Lott and his glowing remarks about Senator Strom Thurmond's segregationist campaign for president in 1948.
"What we've realized out of that painful moment is that we have a unique opportunity to implement real change," said Marc Racicot, chairman of the Republican National Committee, who attended the meeting along with Senator Bill Frist, the new majority leader. "This was the start of a broader discussion, a way to inventory the things we are doing right and those things we need to do better." 
Though meant to signal a fresh start on racial issues, the meeting could not escape some nagging grievances of the past. Just last week, one of the meeting's attendees, Shannon Reeves, the secretary of the California state party, accused Republican leaders of using blacks as "window dressing" to cover for racists within their ranks.
Mr. Reeves's statement, sent by e-mail to party members, was prompted by the disclosure that the vice chairman of the California Republican Party, Bill Back, included in a 1999 edition of his newsletter an essay written by a conservative research analyst suggesting that the country would have been better off had the South won the Civil War. 
Mr. Back, who has said he "strongly disagreed" with the essay, is running for state party chairman. Mr. Reeves has called on him to drop his bid.
Mr. Reeves did not raise his protest of Mr. Back's candidacy at today's meeting. "It wasn't my meeting, so I yielded to the leadership," he said. But he said he did address the general issue of what he called "recurrent obstacles" faced by black Republicans. 
"When you withstand the things we do as black Republicans, and you still stand firm with the party, that's commitment," said Mr. Reeves, who is also president of the N.A.A.C.P. chapter in Oakland, Calif. "It's time for the party to recognize that and consider our advice very carefully."
The meeting included presentations on issues including building bridges to black churches and business owners. Robert J. Brown, a marketing executive, spoke of a pamphlet he uses with corporate clients about how to avoid racial slurs and code words and suggested that the Republican party run workshops on eliminating incendiary language from its speech. 
Another theme at the two-hour session, those who attended said, was encouraging party leaders to call on black members to represent the party on a broad variety of issues.
"The Republican Party has to change its apparatus from the grass-roots level on up," said Armstrong Williams, a syndicated columnist who organized today's meeting. "When the issue is war or the economic stimulus package, we need to be in on those meetings and out there representing the party's positions. Don't just call us when the issue is race." 
For all the tense topics on the agenda, participants said, there was also acknowledgment of strides the party has made. Mr. Williams noted that more than 25 percent of high-ranking officials in the Bush administration are black. 
Participants also praised the contributions by Dr. Frist, who owes his leadership position to the gaffe by Mr. Lott.
"He was very involved, asking for specific suggestions, wanting to know if he could call and ask our advice on how to implement changes," Mr. Reeves said of Dr. Frist. 
Democrats have been quick to dismiss the Republicans' new efforts at reaching out.
On the floor of the Senate today, Senator Tom Daschle, the Democratic leader, said that with Dr. Frist's new leadership, "there may have been a change of face, but there has not been a change of heart." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Armstrong Williams, a columnist, left, Senator Bill Frist, the majority leader, and Marc Racicot, chairman of the Republican National Committee, at a break in a meeting of black and Republican leaders yesterday. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); RELIGION (70%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BLACKS; ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (91%)

PERSON: TRENT LOTT (58%) CLEMETSON, LYNETTE 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (78%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (54%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2003 



454 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: SHAKE-UP AT AOL: THE INTERNET; 
Resignation May Help Ground a Visionary Medium

BYLINE:  By AMY HARMON 

 BODY:
Anyone checking e-mail on AOL these days will probably be confronted with multiple entreaties to try the company's broadband service, the keystone of America Online's new determination to charge a premium for online information and entertainment.
 If there is symbolic meaning to Stephen M. Case's decision to step down as chairman of the world's largest media company this week, it may lie in the message underscored by the insistent marketing: it is time for the online service to start pulling its own weight. 
 Mr. Case, an archetypal Internet visionary, became famous for his grand notions of how the infant online medium would change the world. But even as many of those visions achieved degrees of reality over the last decade, the online industry is still struggling to turn them into a viable business. 
At AOL Time Warner and dozens of other media companies, tolerance for talk of digital revolutions and electronic frontiers has long since worn thin.
And investors, no longer willing to coddle a not-so-new technology, are pressing for Internet companies and the online divisions of media conglomerates to be held to a grown-up standard of profitability. 
Analysts note that self-appointed Internet visionaries at other media companies, like Jean-Marie Messier at Vivendi Universal and Thomas Middelhoff at Bertelsmann, have already been ousted as their boards acted upon investor unrest. 
"We're at the point where media companies are realizing, 'We can't subsidize our online operations ad infinitum; they have to start paying their way,' " said Jonathan Gaw, an Internet analyst at the market research firm IDC. "Steve Case clung to the vision and didn't pay enough attention to the practicalities." 
Most Internet companies, including AOL, became a lot more practical after the stock boom ended. In many ways, Mr. Case's departure is simply the culmination of a process that began when the AOL service began to drag down AOL Time Warner's share price nearly two years ago. 
In some ways, AOL's problems are a legacy of its own practice of giving away easy-to-use disks that provided Internet access to anyone with a computer, modem and telephone line. And for years, the online service benefited from the rapid acquisition of customers for its dial-up service, on which it had a healthy profit margin. But more recently, the migration of many subscribers to faster broadband services has meant that the company will make less money for each subscriber, unless it can persuade them to pay an additional fee for exclusive online access to its content -- in many cases material from other AOL Time Warner properties, like Time magazine and Warner Music. 
But in some important respects, analysts say that AOL's problems are also emblematic of the Internet industry as a whole. As a social phenomenon, the Internet has been a big, big hit. An ever-growing number of users -- in 103 million United States households, according to Odyssey Research -- sign onto the Internet to e-mail one another and to find information on almost any conceivable subject. But few seem willing to pay for anything other than access to their e-mail. 
"The Internet transforms the way the world works, that is true," said Harold L. Vogel, a media analyst and author of "Entertainment Industry Economics."
"The question," he said, "is how do you make money on it, and that is still unanswered." 
As in any industry after a period of rapid growth, companies like AOL are facing market saturation and slowing subscriber growth -- although the online industry has reached a plateau in an unusually short period. The standard approach to coping with the maturation phase of a business life cycle, economists say, is to innovate by reducing costs and improving quality. But the economics of the Internet may leave little room for that. 
"With the Internet, the normal life-cycle problems are compounded," said Ari Ginsberg, a professor of entrepreneurship at New York University's Stern School of Business. "You've got a customer that's already not accepting very much cost. How do you improve quality and charge a decent price?" 
Moreover, some industry analysts argue that while people may well pay cable television companies for on-demand movies, the Internet has never been about mainstream media, and perhaps never will be. In other words, one of the main rationales for the merger of AOL and Time Warner might have been a fallacy. 
"Most people don't go online to see Warner movies or read Time Life magazines or watch CNN," said Vin Crosbie, managing partner of Digital Deliverance, a consulting firm. "They go online to communicate with one another and find information and content of interest to them that they can't get from mass media." 
And yet, there are signs that Mr. Case's long-held dreams of digital convergence may ultimately be borne out -- whether or not on America Online's terms. Innovation, some analysts argue, is already taking place with high-speed Internet access and entertainment increasingly being delivered in digital form.
Consumers spent $43 billion in online retail sales last year, according to comScore Networks, an Internet research firm. Nearly 20 million homes have broadband connections to the Internet. And online advertising, while still small, is growing at a much faster rate than cable television advertising did in its first few years, noted Michael Zimbalist, executive director of the Online Publisher's Association, a consortium of companies that includes Tribune Interactive and New York Times Digital. 
"The if-you-build-it-they-will-come mentality has certainly been completely tempered by a pragmatic business approach to investment," Mr. Zimbalist said. "But look at this unbelievable shift in consumer behavior. If the Internet had only been treated as an interesting sidelight for the past seven years, that never would have happened."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The AOL Time Warner Center, which is under construction at Columbus Circle in Manhattan. Revenue and costs are under pressure. (Matt Moyer for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (90%); BROADBAND (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); MODEMS (78%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (78%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (77%); ONLINE INFORMATION VENDORS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); CELEBRITIES (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (66%) SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: AOL INC (87%); VIVENDI (82%)

ORGANIZATION: AOL TIME WARNER 

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (87%); VIV (PAR) (82%); VIV (BIT) (82%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (87%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (87%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (82%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (82%) SIC7375 ON-LINE INFORMATION SERVICES; 

PERSON: STEVE CASE (89%); THOMAS MIDDELHOFF (56%) HARMON, AMY; CASE, STEPHEN M 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (74%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2003 



455 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: City for Rent 

BYLINE:  By Christopher Hawthorne; Christopher Hawthorne is a contributing editor at Metropolis magazine.

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
After four years on the East Coast, my wife and I have returned to the San Francisco Bay Area, where both of us grew up. While we were in New York waiting out the dot-com boom, San Francisco had been transformed into an unrecognizably frenzied place where jobs were plentiful but apartments were not. From friends who stayed behind, we heard stories about open houses in which apartment hunters showed up early, dressed well and clutched leather-bound folders holding their credit reports, checkbooks, pay stubs -- even renters' resumes, listing their references and touting their monk-like living habits.
 I knew it couldn't last. The people who came during the boom came for the jobs, not for the city. Sure enough, with the local economy limping along now -- employment in the Bay Area fell by 87,000 people last year -- the scene here is drastically different. 
 On a recent Sunday afternoon, I visited six open houses and saw a total of 11 apartments. I crossed paths with exactly one other prospective tenant, a guy in his 30's who said he was waiting to be "wowed" before he committed to a place. As a forlorn landlord told me that day, three or four years ago anybody could get a job here but nobody could find a place to live. Now the opposite is true.
The residential vacancy rate, which dropped as low as 1 percent during the boom, has climbed to about 7 percent. The average rental price for a two-bedroom, one-bathroom apartment in larger complexes in San Francisco has fallen by more than $650 a month over the last two years, to $1,930 from $2,597. (Meanwhile, rents in Los Angeles County rose in the third quarter of 2002 by 3 percent, the largest quarterly increase in two years.)
The number of San Francisco apartment listings on the popular Web site Craig's List, a sort of Internet bazaar, has jumped about ten fold since the fall of 2000. Bay Area apartment ads on the site, which trailed city job listings in daily volume as recently as two years ago, now outnumber them by about six to one.
Landlords have responded to sagging demand by borrowing strategies from car dealers and appliance salespeople -- offering cash rebates of several hundred dollars and other move-in bonuses. Recently one landlord advertised a $500 rebate and a free DVD player or microwave (tenant's choice) upon lease signing. Another countered with a $200 Ikea gift certificate.
My own day of lonely apartment-hopping began in the Marina district, on the northern edge of the city. In one building I wandered through three empty apartments. A flyer was taped to the wall in each place in which the original rental price had been crossed out and a lower number scrawled in the margin. A little later, on a busy stretch of Bay Street, a landlord told me that the two-bedroom apartment he was now having trouble filling at $2,000 a month used to rent for $2,500. The previous tenants were dot-commers, he said. Though they had lost their jobs several months before, it had taken a few months for them to face reality and move out.
That lag time is one reason rental prices continue to fall more than a year after the Bay Area economy appeared to hit bottom.The last dot-com holdouts are finally cutting their losses now and moving into cheaper, smaller apartments or back in with their parents -- or leaving the city altogether. The result, though painful for landlords right now, can only be good for San Francisco in the long term. This is a city that has always attracted dreamers, but instead of fly-by-night entrepreneurs we need newcomers for whom the city itself is actually part of the dream.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Dave Calver) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (86%); REAL ESTATE (77%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (76%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TRENDS (73%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (70%); SALES REBATES (69%); WEB SITES (61%); CD & DVD DRIVES (50%); NEW CAR DEALERS (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; HOUSING; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT 

PERSON: HAWTHORNE, CHRISTOPHER 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (96%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%) SAN FRANCISCO (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2003 



456 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-11

U.S. Signals It Will Talk About North Korea Crisis
Faced with narrow options for dealing with North Korea and strained ties with South Korea, a senior Bush administration delegation signaled its willingness today to pursue dialogue to resolve the nuclear crisis on the Korean peninsula. A1

Iraqi Scientist Interviews
The Bush administration expects that international inspectors will try to bring Iraqi scientists and engineers out of the country starting next week to interview them about their knowledge of the country's weapons programs, according to officials familiar with the inspection teams' plans. A12

Pope Opposes War in Iraq
Pope John Paul II expressed his strongest opposition yet to a potential war in Iraq, describing it as a "defeat for humanity" urging world leaders to try to resolve disputes with Iraq through diplomatic means. A12

AIDS Stigma in China
Although China has strict laws prohibiting discrimination against people with AIDS or H.I.V., many patients identify the intense stigma -- not the illness -- as their No. 1 problem. The police have a tendency to seize their businesses and doctors tell their employers about their H.I.V. status. A3

Fallout From Sharon Scandal
For the first time in the political advertising war between the major parties in Jerusalem, Labor is attacking Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's character -- and his party, the Likud, has been forced to defend it. A10

New Way to Prevent Cholera
Forcing water through a simple filter made from the cloth of old saris can reduce cholera cases by about half, according to a study in Bangladesh. A11

British Rock Star Arrested
Pete Townshend, the rock guitarist and co-founder of the Who, was arrested on suspicion of possessing indecent images of children. A3

NATIONAL A18-25

9 States Organize Efforts To Cut Medical Expenses
In the strongest challenge yet to manufacturers and distributors of prescription drugs, nine states and the District of Columbia are organizing a joint, nonprofit operation to manage their prescription plans. A1

Two-thirds of the states say they are cutting Medicaid benefits, increasing co-payments, restricting eligibility or throwing poor people off the rolls because of soaring costs and plunging revenues. A24

Berkeley Free Speech Debate
University of California at Berkeley officials have refused to allow a fund-raising appeal to be mailed because it quoted the anarchist Emma Goldman on the suppression of free speech and opposition to war, topics the university deemed too political as the country prepares for possible military action against Iraq. A1

Presidential Bid by Lieberman
Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut announced his campaign for president, declaring that the "American dream had been put into jeopardy" by the economic and terrorism policies of the President Bush. A20

Voter News Service Dies
The Voter News Service, which formerly provided ballot information for dozens of news organizations, has officially gone out of business still facing controversy over the 2000 presidential vote. A23

Military Logistics Problems
The general in charge of military transport says the nation could find itself "significantly short" of cargo planes to rush troops and armor into future combat, although the Pentagon has managed to build up its forces around Iraq. A13

Court Declines to Hear Case
The Supreme Court has opted not to clarify whether juvenile convictions obtained without a jury trial can be the basis for increasing an adult offender's sentence beyond the ordinary maximum. A22

NEW YORK/REGION B1-7

Familiar Issues Raised At Hearing on 9/11 Site
Officials involved in rebuilding the World Trade Center tried to engage a citywide audience in a discussion about a new set of designs, but many who attended a public hearing at Pace University in Lower Manhattan focused instead on issues that rebuilding officials have heard repeatedly before. B1

Mystery Deepens in Slaying
Mystery surrounding the weekend killing of a newly arrived young banker on the Lower East Side deepened after the police filed a murder charge against a college friend who was with the victim when he was shot -- but then dropped the charge and released the man at the request of the Manhattan district attorney. B1

More Criticism of A-Plant
Demands by elected officials for improvements in emergency plans for the Indian Point nuclear plant grew more strident, but experts on the workings of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission said its history suggested that it would not consider emergency planning problems as a reason to order the plant closed. B4

Neediest Cases B7

SCIENCE TIMES F1-10

Health & Fitness F5

FASHION B9

ARTS E1-12

Coca-Cola Donation for Jazz
Against a backdrop of generally shrinking donations to arts groups, the Coca-Cola Company has agreed to give $10 million toward completion of Jazz at Lincoln Center's new home on Columbus Circle. E1

SPORTS D1-7

BUSINESS DAY C1-18

Shake-Up at AOL Time Warner
Three years ago, America Online's purchase of Time Warner appeared to be a lucrative blending of old media brands with a new media growth engine. Now America Online is more like an anchor dragging down the rest of the company. A1

Walter Isaacson, CNN chairman and former managing editor of Time Inc., said he would leave the network this spring to become chief executive of the Aspen Institute. C1

Weeds Gain on Key Herbicide
Roundup Ready soybeans, cotton and corn are the world's most widely grown genetically engineered crops, but the herbicide used to protect them is beginning to lose its effectiveness in controlling weeds. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

OBITUARIES B8

EDITORIAL A26-27

Editorials: The price wasn't right; a sham referendum in Chechnya; soft money, hard revenge; New York's secret lobbying.
Columns: Paul Krugman, Nicholas D. Kristof.

Crossword E9
TV Listings E11
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (83%); IRAQ WAR (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); AIDS & HIV (75%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); MEDICAID (72%); TROPICAL DISEASES (72%); ARRESTS (71%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (70%); DISCRIMINATION (68%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (67%); FUNDRAISING (66%); TERRORISM (65%); PHARMACEUTICALS WHOLESALERS (61%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (61%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); JOE LIEBERMAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (71%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (69%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) IRAQ (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); CHINA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); ISRAEL (79%); BANGLADESH (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2003 



457 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
States Unite in Effort To Hold Down Medical Costs
In the strongest challenge yet to manufacturers and distributors of prescription drugs, nine states and the District of Columbia are organizing a nonprofit operation to manage prescription plans. The states intend to hold down increases in spending on medicines for millions of employees and Medicaid beneficiaries.
 The group is being formed at a time when two-thirds of the states are reducing Medicaid coverage, limiting eligibility or ending benefits for at least a million people. Page A1. 

FAO Seeks Bankruptcy Protection
FAO Inc., the high-end specialty toy retailer that owns F. A. O. Schwarz, Zany Brainy and Right Start stores, filed for bankruptcy protection, saying it was unable to withstand a combination of weak sales, aggressive competitors and restrictions on its ability to borrow. F. A. O. Schwarz has been considered the gold standard in toy retailing, but faced increasing competition from discounters. C12.

Wal-Mart to Join Bidding in Britain
Wal-Mart Stores is expected to announce today that it will bid for Safeway, Britain's fourth-largest supermarket chain. C12.

Everson Named to Head I.R.S.
Mark W. Everson, deputy director of the White House budget office, has been named to run the Internal Revenue Service. C8.

Ex-Chief At G.E. to Teach Principals
In another signal that New York officials are pinning their hopes on corporate solutions to the school system's problems, John F. Welch Jr., the former chief executive of General Electric, will play a major role in a new training academy for school principals. B3.

College Board Buys Out Investors
The College Board is abandoning its foray into the for-profit world after raising $30 million to establish collegeboard.com, a popular education-related Web site. C2.

From the Field and Into the Bag
Sales of bagged salad have soared in recent years, exceeding $2 billion in 2002, ACNielsen said. But it is not easy getting those perfectly formed leaves, washed and still fresh, from the soil to the table. A1.

Dow Rises as Other Markets Fall
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 1.09 points, to 8,785.98. The Nasdaq fell 1.68 points, to 1,446.04. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 1.31 points, to 926.26. C13.

Plan for Seamless Wireless Shift
Motorola, Proxim and Avaya are expected to announce that they will develop technology to allow wireless communications to jump between networks without interruption. If the three companies are successful, a phone call that began over a company's voice-over-Internet network could move to a public carrier as the user leaves the building. C18.

Voter News Service Closes Down
The Voter News Service, the analysis service at the center of the confusion over the 2000 presidential balloting, has closed. A23.

Agency to Study Marketing of Films
The Federal Trade Commission plans to review its guidelines on endorsements and testimonials this year. The process promises to illuminate one of advertising's foggier areas: the blurbs of movie reviews that studios use to promote films. Advertising. C12.

Getting a Degree While in the Air
For one frequent flier, working while in the air became second nature and helped her earn her degree. Joe Sharkey: On the Road. C4.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 8,785.98 up 1.09Nasdaq composite -- 1,446.04 down 1.6810-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.12% down 0.02The euro -- $1.0547 down 0.0025The dollar -- 118.88 yen down 0.43 Graph: "TODAY" shows retail sales since June 2002.December figures due at 8:20 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +1.5% Graph shows Motorola share prices for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS WHOLESALERS (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); MEDICAID (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (86%); VOTERS & VOTING (83%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (79%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (78%); TOYS & GAMES (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (76%); RETAILERS (75%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); BUDGETS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (66%); TAX AUTHORITIES (65%); INTERNET TELEPHONY (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: F A O INC (84%); WAL-MART STORES INC (72%); ZANY BRAINY INC (57%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (51%); AVAYA INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (72%); GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%); MSI (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451120 HOBBY, TOY & GAME STORES (84%); NAICS448130 CHILDREN'S & INFANTS' CLOTHING STORES (84%); SIC5945 HOBBY, TOY, & GAME STORES (84%); SIC5641 CHILDREN'S & INFANTS' WEAR STORES (84%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (72%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (72%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (57%); SIC3942 DOLLS & STUFFED TOYS (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (51%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (51%)

PERSON: MARK W EVERSON (65%); JACK WELCH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2003 



458 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: State Can't Afford to Let Court System Remain Inefficient, New York's Chief Judge Says 

BYLINE:  By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 13 

 BODY:
After 10 years at the helm of the state's highest court, Judge Judith S. Kaye said today that she felt a sense of frustration and urgency over the Legislature's failure to streamline the state's court system.
 Judge Kaye has called again and again for a reorganization of the New York trial courts, but in this year's annual address on the state of the judiciary she cast her argument in economic terms, saying the current, cumbersome system cannot be afforded in such hard fiscal times. 
 "We need to simplify our byzantine court structure, a maze of 11 separate trial courts, each with its own separate jurisdictional universe," said Judge Kaye, the chief judge of the Court of Appeals. "We need to eliminate the costly, incomprehensible barriers and inefficiencies." 
Judge Kaye, 64, also took the Legislature to task for not raising the fees of court-appointed defense lawyers for 17 years. The pay of $40 an hour for work in court and $25 an hour for work outside court has discouraged many lawyers from volunteering for such assignments, leading to needless delays and shoddy representation for the poor, she said.
"It's terrible for clients, terrible for the courts, terrible for all of us, terrible for society," she said.
Judge Kaye sprinkled her hourlong address with several announcements. She said people would now be able to pay fines through the mail, rather than going to court, for minor offenses like illegal fishing or walking with an open beer. She also announced that people can now pay court-imposed settlements with a credit card.
In keeping with her longtime push to make the judiciary more efficient through administrative changes, Judge Kaye said she would expand a pilot program that consolidates under a single judge various cases relating to the domestic violence troubles of an individual family. The project created four Integrated Domestic Violence Courts, which deal with divorce proceedings, criminal trials, protection orders and custody cases. Within three years, all domestic violence cases would be handled in a similar manner, Judge Kaye said.
She said she had developed a plan with Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg to place an additional eight judges on the overburdened Family Court in New York City, increasing that bench to 55 judges from 47.
Addressing elections of judges, Judge Kaye said she was forming a commission, headed by John D. Feerick, the former dean of Fordham Law School, to look into ways to make judicial elections less partisan and to reduce the no-holds-barred style of electioneering that allows judicial candidates to mislead voters about their opponents. She said Mr. Feerick would also investigate public financing for judicial campaigns.
"Judges' campaigns are not like other people's campaigns," she said after her speech, adding that judicial candidates should meet standards that are higher than customary in politics.
Also high on Judge Kaye's list of priorities for this year is an effort to determine why more than 80 percent of people called for jury service are never put on a jury. She said she would form another commission to investigate ways to improve that record.
"What a waste of time," she said. "What a waste of dollars."
Since 1997, Judge Kaye has submitted to the Legislature various versions of a constitutional amendment that would reorganize the state's trial courts from top to bottom, but none have passed. The latest version would condense eight of the courts into one tier.
For the plan to succeed, the Legislature would first have to pass the amendment in two consecutive sessions. Voters would then have to approve it. In her speech, Judge Kaye argued that the proposal would save at least $131 million, a sum some lawmakers dispute.
Judge Kaye also announced that she would commission the Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government at the State University of New York at Albany to analyze by year's end just how much money could be saved by streamlining the courts.
"Hopefully, this study, at long last, will provide impetus for the necessary legislative relief that has so long eluded us," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Judith S. Kaye, chief judge of the New York State Court of Appeals, before her address yesterday in Albany. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (89%); FAMILY LAW (89%); PUBLIC DEFENDERS (89%); FAMILY COURTS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (86%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (85%); LEGAL AID (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); JURISDICTION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (78%); POLITICS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); FAMILY (76%); BUDGETS (76%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); FINES & PENALTIES (69%); LAW SCHOOLS (68%); RESTRAINING ORDERS (67%); CITY GOVERNMENT (65%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (61%) COURTS; JUDGES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); VOLUNTEERS; LEGAL AID FOR THE POOR 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (59%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (56%) MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR; KAYE, JUDITH S (CHIEF JUDGE) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2003 



459 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: Testing Group Ends Effort To Make Profit on Web Site 

BYLINE:  By TAMAR LEWIN 

 BODY:
The College Board is abandoning a highly publicized foray into the for-profit world after raising $30 million to establish one of the most popular education-related sites on the Internet.
 The board, which administers the Scholastic Assessment Tests, had hoped that the for-profit venture, collegeboard.com, would grow into a major educational resource on the World Wide Web, financed largely by advertisers with a wide variety of commercial links for things like opening a bank account or buying and selling dorm-room furniture. 
 The board's president, Gaston Caperton, said the board had bought out the outside investors and intended to fold the Web site back into the parent organization's nonprofit operations. 
"We didn't have the capital to compete in a field where there was a lot of competition," said Mr. Caperton, a former governor of West Virginia who became president of the College Board in July 1999. 
But he added that the venture had paid off by helping the College Board enter the Internet age. "Without that outside investment, we would have been left behind."
In fact, collegeboard.com leads the pack, attracting far more hits and business than the education sites run by the Princeton Review, ACT, Peterson's and others. It offers extensive information about colleges and financial aid, study tips, study aids, and the opportunity to register for the SAT reasoning, Advanced Placement and SAT subject tests online. About two million students -- two-thirds of those who take the tests -- use online registration. In October alone, there were more than 32 million college searches on the site. 
It has been far less successful financially. The site is only now approaching the break-even point, and with the bursting of the Internet bubble, Mr. Caperton said, the for-profit venture ceased to make sense. 
"The investors didn't push me or anything, but we recognized that there was not going to be the opportunity for capital return that they'd expected," he said, "and it became clear to me that the best thing was to buy it back."
As governor of West Virginia, Mr. Caperton won praise for bringing computers into the schools. But in 1999, when he announced that he would bring the stodgy 100-year-old College Board into the highflying world of Internet start-ups, there was widespread concern that the move would lead to increased commercialization of education. 
Occasionally, the site has been an aggressive marketer: last fall, for example, students who registered for College Board tests online received a tantalizing e-mail message announcing that their scores were available online but that to see them early, they would have to pay $13. After a barrage of criticism, the College Board dropped those messages.
"We made a mistake, and when it came to my attention, I was embarrassed, and we stopped," Mr. Caperton said. "And while people had great fears at the beginning, especially about the advertising, I think there is a general agreement now that this is a very useful site that really helps students get the information they need.
While the College Board is retreating to its nonprofit roots, the other testing giant, the Educational Testing Service, has been moving toward a corporate model since Kurt Landgraf, a former DuPont executive, became president two years ago.
E.T.S., which designs the College Board tests, now recruits heavily from the corporate world, pays corporate-style bonuses and derives a growing portion of its revenue from a wholly owned for-profit subsidiary, the Chauncey Group International. The subsidiary specializes in certification for corporate, military and government groups, including nursing and cosmetology licensing exams and Microsoft certification tests.
"The Chauncey Group has revenues of about $85 million, up from about $25 million just a couple of years ago, and we're in the process of acquiring a public company, with e-business with Internet capability, that will increase its size by 25 percent," Mr. Landgraf said. "While the College Board continues to be our largest and most valued client, representing about 20 percent of our $850 million total business, from a gross revenue point of view, it's less dominant than it used to be. E.T.S. is diversifying into a whole variety of areas."
E.T.S.'s other wholly owned for-profit subsidiary, ETS Technologies, a business focused on automated essay-scoring, is being closed and will be folded back into the nonprofit organization later this year. 
Both Mr. Landgraf and Mr. Caperton say that while their organizations are following diverging paths, they remain comfortably linked. 
Indeed, the two men are completing negotiations on a new five-year contract, under which E.T.S. will continue to create the College Board tests, and the College Board will continue to administer them.
Some adjustments are in the works, though. Under the new contract, the College Board will reclaim several tasks, including marketing the tests, finding and paying the proctors and providing customer service.
"We want to be able to serve our customers ourselves, letting E.T.S. focus more on what they're best in the world at, which is creating tests," Mr. Caperton said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); EDUCATIONAL TESTING SERVICES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); STARTUPS (78%); STUDENT HOUSING (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); ADVANCED PLACEMENT PROGRAMS (78%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (78%); WEB SITES (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (75%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%); GOVERNORS (56%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; SAT (COLLEGE ADMISSION TEST); TESTS AND TESTING; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; ADVERTISING 

ORGANIZATION: THE COLLEGE BOARD (94%); ACT (55%) COLLEGE BOARD 

PERSON: CAPERTON, GASTON; LEWIN, TAMAR 

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2003 



460 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: ASIA; 
AIDES DECLARE U.S. 'WILLING TO TALK' IN KOREA DISPUTE

BYLINE:  By HOWARD W. FRENCH 

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Jan. 13 

 BODY:
Faced with narrow options for dealing with North Korea and strained ties with South Korea, a senior Bush administration delegation signaled its willingness today to pursue dialogue to resolve the nuclear crisis on the Korean peninsula.
 While stressing its desire to listen closely to the views of the incoming South Korean president, Roh Moo Hyun, the delegation, led by James A. Kelly, the assistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific affairs, made the most conciliatory sounds from the United States toward North Korea heard after weeks of rising tensions. 
 In a news conference here today, Mr. Kelly even contemplated economic assistance to the impoverished dictatorship once its nuclear weapons programs were ended. 
"We are of course willing to talk," he said. "Once we get beyond nuclear weapons, there may be opportunities with the U.S., with private investors, with other countries to help North Korea in the energy area."
Mr. Kelly's language, both on North Korea and in his discussions with Mr. Roh, reflected a delicate balancing act in which Washington, preoccupied with Iraq and confronted with unappealing military options in Korea, has been nudged back from a position of unwillingness to engage with the North.
Mr. Roh, a political disciple of the incumbent president, Kim Dae Jung, campaigned on the need for continued dialogue with the North and was sharply critical of what he called Mr. Bush's hard-line approach to the country.
His camp was boosted by a strong wave of anti-American protests here, and diplomats say the Americans' giving in to the president-elect's insistence that South Korea play a leading role in shaping allied policy toward North Korea may be the price of maintaining the health of the 50-year-old alliance between Washington and Seoul. 
Today, after a one-hour meeting with Mr. Kelly, Mr. Roh said, "The South Korea-U.S. alliance was precious, is now still precious and will continue to be important in the future."
Mr. Roh's spokesman, Lee Nak Yon, also quoted the president-elect as saying: "We now need the United States Forces Korea, and the U.S.F.K. will also be necessary in the future. I hope that the United States will remain our ally in the future."
Mr. Kelly, speaking to reporters after the meeting, called the election of Mr. Roh "a great opportunity to improve, to build upon the alliance for the next 50 years." 
Spokesmen for Mr. Roh said the president-elect had expressed concerns to Mr. Kelly about reported United States plans for sanctions against North Korea for ending international surveillance of nuclear power plants suspected of being used for its atomic weapons programs. One spokesman for Mr. Roh said Mr. Kelly had assured him that neither sanctions against North Korea nor a military attack were currently being contemplated in Washington. 
When Mr. Roh, a labor lawyer, was an activist in this country's democracy movement two decades ago, he advocated the outright withdrawal of the 37,000 American troops stationed in South Korea. The tenor of his comments today, however, is a far cry even from comments attributed to him last week.
"Although we don't know if it might take 10, 20 or 30 years, someone has to consider an independent defense," Mr. Roh was quoted as saying at that time by the newspaper JoongAng Ilbo. "Senior military officials have to prepare a plan for a special emergency situation when the U.S. Army moves away." 
Aides to Mr. Roh have expressed concern recently over the potential for a badly strained start to relations with the Bush administration and were eager to send a friendly and businesslike message to Washington even before the new government here takes office in February.
Along those lines, a senior aide to Mr. Roh said the president-elect planned to visit United States troops before his inauguration, in a gesture of recognition of their importance for the defense of this country.
Members of Mr. Roh's transition team said Mr. Kelly's delegation had pressed for the earliest possible visit of the new South Korean leader to Washington after his inauguration on Feb. 25. But mindful of the strains between the outgoing president, Mr. Kim, and the Bush administration, which many say date to a poorly prepared visit to Washington shortly after Mr. Bush's inauguration, Mr. Roh's aides sounded cautious.
"I think President Kim's visit with President Bush gave us a lesson, and there is more homework to be done between the teams," a senior transition aide said. "We are not going to have a repetition of the visit between Mr. Kim and Mr. Bush. Hopefully it will be much more productive. Our hands are full right now with the deteriorating nuclear issues, and there must be close coordination."
The United States has said North Korea must dismantle its nuclear programs before there can be any talks about aid and improved ties.
The White House spokesman, Ari Fleischer, said today that North Korea's weapons dismantling must be "verifiable" and "irreversible."
"North Korea wants to take the world through its blackmail playbook, and we won't play," he said. "It's up to North Korea to come back into international compliance with their obligations."
North Korea indicated today for the first time that it might reconsider its withdrawal last week from the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty.
Pak Ui Chun, North Korea's ambassador to Russia, said at a news conference in Moscow that his nation could rejoin the pact if its demands were met for changes in inspections by the International Atomic Energy Agency. 
His remarks, though laced with invective against the United States, appeared to open the door for a negotiated solution to the confrontation. 
"This issue should be resolved taking into account the situation that has taken shape after North Korea's withdrawal from the treaty," Mr. Pak said, according to the Interfax news agency. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: James A. Kelly, assistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific affairs, meeting in Seoul yesterday with President-elect Roh Moo Hyun. Mr. Kelly's visit followed weeks of anti-American protests in South Korea. (Getty Images)(pg. A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); POWER PLANTS (72%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (69%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (60%); TERRORISM (60%) ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FOREIGN AID; ELECTION ISSUES; SOUTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-SOUTH KOREA; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; TERRORISM 

PERSON: FRENCH, HOWARD W; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); KELLY, JAMES A (ASST SEC); ROH MOO HYUN 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (88%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); NORTHERN ASIA (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); ASIA (94%); EASTERN ASIA (93%); IRAQ (92%) NORTH KOREA; SOUTH KOREA; IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2003 



461 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 239 words

HEADLINE: History Channel in Deal With School System 

 BODY:
The History Channel is forming a partnership with the city's school system to provide added resources for teaching history.
 The partnership will be formally announced today by Caroline Kennedy, the school system's new chief executive of the Office of Strategic Partnerships, and Dan Davids, executive vice president of the History Channel. 
 The company, based in New York, will help develop curriculum for the Tweed Academy program at the Department of Education's downtown headquarters.
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has said he hopes to bring students from all over the city to the Tweed Courthouse for lessons in New York City's government, economics and history. 
Although the History Channel has sponsored smaller projects in schools elsewhere, this is the first large-scale effort with a school system, officials said. 
About 300 schools will get a video library with programs focusing on the city, like documentaries on building the Empire State Building and the Brooklyn Bridge. 
"If you love history and have a nice teacher and a good textbook, that's about all you need," said Libby O'Connell, who is in charge of the History Channel's education department and will help to develop the curriculum for the city. "But a lot of 13-year-old kids don't get excited about history."
The channel will also provide three $1,000 grants for history teachers and three $1,000 student scholarships for students especially interested in history. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); CURRICULA (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (73%); TEXTBOOKS (73%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (73%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TELEVISION 

ORGANIZATION: HISTORY CHANNEL 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (71%) BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2003 



462 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1388 words

HEADLINE: Lieberman Announces Run For the White House in '04 

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

DATELINE: STAMFORD, Conn., Jan. 13 

 BODY:
Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut, who rose to national prominence as Al Gore's running mate two years ago, announced his own campaign for president today, declaring that the "American dream is in jeopardy" because of threats of domestic terrorism and the economic policies of President Bush. 
 With his announcement, delivered 22 months before Election Day at his former high school in this suburb 35 miles north of New York City, Mr. Lieberman became the first Democrat to declare unequivocally that he was running for president in 2004. He did it with a relatively brief but hard-hitting speech in which he portrayed Mr. Bush's White House as relentlessly partisan and Mr. Bush's policies as a threat to the security and economic well-being of the nation's middle class. 
 "Today, unfortunately, that American dream is in jeopardy, threatened by hate-filled terrorists and tyrants from abroad, and a weak economy that makes it harder for people to live a better life here at home," he said. "For too many Americans, the middle class of which I've spoken is drifting out of reach." 
He said the president had failed to do enough to protect the nation against further terrorist attacks. The president's policies, he said, are too often "driven by extreme ideologues in the administration or major financial interests." He pledged that as president he would raise the nation "above partisan politics and put our country first."
Mr. Lieberman, a three-term senator, said he would file papers to form a presidential exploratory committee, becoming the fifth Democrat to move in that direction. But he left no doubt that there was nothing exploratory about what he was doing.
He assembled his family, friends, former classmates and teachers in a cramped lecture hall in this city where he was born 60 years ago. From there, he went on to speak to a class of high school seniors, eat lunch at a diner in front of revolving crews of television cameras and, finally, return to his childhood home to plow through a day of interviews.
"Today I am ready to put our country first, to fight for what's right for the American people. I'm ready to protect their security, to revive their economy and to uphold their values," Mr. Lieberman said, his face glistening with sweat under the hot lights set up for the event. "Yes, I am ready to announce today that I am a candidate for president of the United States in 2004."
As applause filled the room, Mr. Lieberman pumped a fist in the air and said, "And I intend to win."
Mr. Lieberman's decisive move this far before the election caught some Democrats by surprise and set him apart from the field. Aides to the other candidates say they have concluded that it is far too early to engage in the formal ritual of a campaign announcement now, arguing that whatever a candidate says now -- no matter how much attention it draws -- will be forgotten well before the first Iowa voter turns out at a caucus a year from this month.
Mr. Lieberman is more conservative than his likely competitors. Some Democrats said that his ideology should make it easy for him to distinguish himself from his opponents and make him a particularly strong candidate to run against Mr. Bush in a general election. But it could make for some rough going for Mr. Lieberman in the primaries, since Democratic primary voters are typically more liberal than the electorate as a whole.
Some of the differences between Mr. Lieberman and his opponents were on display today. He was fulsome in his praise of Mr. Bush's policy toward Iraq but argued that the president had not been firm enough in his dealings with Korea. Like the other Democrats in the race, Mr. Lieberman was critical of Mr. Bush's tax-cut plan, but he said he was intrigued by Mr. Bush's call to eliminate the dividend tax, even though it "doesn't do anything to help get us out of the rut our economy is in today."
Mr. Lieberman also acknowledged the friction he has created among Democrats in the entertainment world with his crusade against what he described as excessive sex and violence in Hollywood. 
"I raise some points of view that may not be traditionally Democratic, including a consistent record of support for a strong defense and a willingness to use our military to protect our security and advance our values," Mr. Lieberman said this afternoon, sitting with a small group of reporters at the dining room table of his childhood home. (His mother, Marcia, who is 88, sat in the kitchen over a table laden with rugelach urging "nosh" on the reporters traipsing through her kitchen on the way to talking with her son.)
This was, by any measure, a full-fledged announcement speech. Yet the theatrics that framed it were notably different from the usual, in a way that reflected the rather mild public personality of this candidate. While most candidates take and leave the stage at an announcement speech to thumping, adrenaline-pumping rock or dance anthems, Mr. Lieberman's speech was framed with the kind of soft jazz one normally encounters in the waiting room of a dentist's office.
Mr. Lieberman's candidacy will be different in another way that makes his prospects particularly difficult to fathom. If elected, he would be the nation's first Jewish president, and his own advisers say they are uncertain how much of a complication that might pose for him -- even though Mr. Lieberman said he was confident that Americans were past the point where that would be a problem.
"I'm asked this question more by the media than voters as I go along," he said. "If there are questions, I'm happy to answer them. I'm running as an American who happens to be Jewish, and not the other way around. As I said, this is all about putting our country first."
Mr. Lieberman is a practicing Orthodox Jew and observes strictures on his working and dietary habits. For example, he is prohibited by Jewish law from working on the Sabbath, which begins at sundown on Friday and extends through sundown on Saturday. 
Mr. Lieberman said today that the strictures on working would not interfere with his ability to serve as president because Jewish law allowed him to do things for the betterment of others -- a definition that he said would permit him to deal with pressing presidential obligations.
Campaigning is another matter. "I will not campaign during the Sabbath -- that's been a rule that I have followed for a long time," he said.
As a candidate for vice president, with decidedly fewer demands on his time than that on a presidential candidate, that was not a problem. But Mr. Lieberman got a reminder of how much more complicated that could be this time around this week. He turned down an invitation to attend a Saturday night county dinner in Iowa that is being attended by at least three of his rivals: Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri and former Gov. Howard Dean of Vermont.
As Mr. Lieberman himself has said, it is doubtful that he would be in the high-profile position he is in today were it not for the decision by Mr. Gore to select him as his running mate. Mr. Lieberman offered warm words for Mr. Gore today, noting how close the two came to winning last time and saying he welcomed Mr. Gore's support in 2004. At least some advisers from Mr. Gore are signing up with Mr. Lieberman.
Yet Mr. Lieberman seemed to take pains to make clear that he was sailing off in his own direction. Asked how he might campaign differently, he noted that in 2000, he largely had to follow the dictates of the Gore campaign, something that at times clearly left him uncomfortable.
"So this gives me an opportunity to do it my way," he said.
At another point, Mr. Lieberman seemed to be pointedly drawing a contrast with Mr. Gore, who was frequently criticized by Democrats for changing course and tactics to accommodate public opinion polls.
"Some mornings when I wake up, I may not know exactly where I am," Mr. Lieberman said. "But I promise you this: I will always know who I am and what I stand for."
In an interview later, he said he had not intended to knock Mr. Gore.
Repeatedly, Mr. Lieberman underscored what he described as the partisanship in the White House.
"These are not ordinary times for our country," he said. "Therefore those of us who seek our highest office or hold it can not practice ordinary politics."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Joseph I. Lieberman at the Stamford Diner in Connecticut yesterday after announcing that he would seek the Democratic nomination for president. "And I intend to win," he said in the announcement speech. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%) PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TERRORISM; PRIMARIES; VICE PRESIDENTS AND VICE PRESIDENCY (US) 

PERSON: JOE LIEBERMAN (92%); AL GORE (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) NAGOURNEY, ADAM; LIEBERMAN, JOSEPH I (SEN); GORE, AL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2003 



463 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1638 words

HEADLINE: Fight Looms Over Who Bears the Biggest Tax Burden 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 13 

 BODY:
A sop to the rich, or soaking the rich?
 As President Bush tries to sell Congress on his $674 billion plan to reduce taxes, much of the looming battle will be over two starkly opposed views about who actually bears the tax burden in America -- and who should. 
 To hear White House officials and Republican lawmakers tell it, today's tax system places a hugely disproportionate burden on the rich. Citing data published every year by the Internal Revenue Service, they noted that the top 1 percent of taxpayers pay a seemingly staggering 37 percent of all federal income taxes.
 By contrast, they say, the bottom 50 percent of taxpayers pay little or nothing. Many working poor people get money back, thanks to the expansion in recent years of tax breaks like the child tax credit. 
 "The income tax is paid almost entirely by the well-to-do," R. Glenn Hubbard, chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, said in a speech last month. "In light of these figures, academic discussions of the progressivity of the income tax often have a 'missing the forest for the trees' feel to them."
Democratic lawmakers and other critics say this argument is wrongheaded, because it fails to take into account the impact of payroll taxes for Social Security and Medicare. These taxes account for almost as much money as federal income tax revenue, but they hit middle-income and lower-income workers much more heavily than the rich.
According to estimates by Citizens for Tax Justice, a liberal research group in Washington, a complete accounting shows that the wealthiest 1 percent of taxpayers earned about 18 percent of all income in 2001 and paid about 25 percent of all federal taxes. "It's a little progressive, but we're not talking about communism here," said Robert S. McIntyre, director of the group.
What nobody disputes is that President Bush's plan would provide by far the biggest benefits to the very rich.
The administration estimates that about 40 percent of the tax cuts under its overall plan would flow to people with incomes above $200,000 a year -- fewer than 5 percent of all taxpayers.
The centerpiece of the plan -- to eliminate most taxes on stock dividends, would itself cost about $300 billion over 10 years. Since the bulk of taxable dividends are received by a small segment of wealthy families, analysts estimate that about 42 percent of the tax benefit from that move alone would flow to the top 1 percent of taxpayers.
The looming fight about who pays what is likely to be one of the biggest, bitterest political battles of the year. But the debate is not only about the distribution of wealth.
It is also about the basic purposes of the tax system, about its role in promoting economic growth, its efficiency in bringing in revenue and its usefulness in promoting particular social goals or economic interests.
Is the tax code supposed to redistribute wealth, either directly from one pocket to another or indirectly through spending on schools, health and highways?
Is its main purpose to promote economic growth? Or is it simply to raise money in a way that is efficient and somehow "fair?"
The most important question may well be the one that is most avoided: the likelihood that the tax cuts will create huge deficits for years to come, even as the nation girds for a costly war with Iraq and just a few years before the costs of Social Security and Medicare are due to escalate sharply because of the aging of the baby-boom generation. 
If those costs end up being paid for by adding to payroll taxes -- which are imposed at the same rate for rich and poor alike and then mostly capped when a person's income exceeds $87,000 -- the tax burden would shift dramatically onto the shoulders of middle-income workers.
 Even beyond conservative circles, many experts consider the distributional issues of taxation to be a red herring. In pursuit of a progressive tax system that placed heavier burdens on those who earned more money, the government imposed a top tax rate of 70 percent in the late 1970's.
Few people paid taxes at that rate, however, because the system had become so riddled with loopholes and special preferences that the wealthiest one-fifth of taxpayers faced an average rate of about 35 percent.
 When Congress, prodded by former President Ronald Reagan, sharply cut the top rate to 28 percent in 1986, it also eliminated most forms of tax shelters. That move, rather than easing the tax burden on the rich, actually helped shift the burden toward the wealthy. Tax rates edged up again under the first President Bush and once again under President Bill Clinton. At the same time, Congress passed legislation that expanded the number of special deductions and credits available to lower- and middle-income workers.
 Those changes, combined with the economic boom of the 1990's, had a contradictory impact on taxpayers. The rich became richer, wealth became more concentrated at the top and tax payments by the very rich skyrocketed.
 According to the I.R.S., the combined adjusted gross income of the top 1 percent soared from $483 billion to $1.38 trillion over the decade. And even though real incomes climbed at most income levels, incomes at the very top climbed fastest of all.
 The I.R.S. estimates that the top 1 percent of taxpayers increased their share of total income from about 14 percent in 1990 to nearly 21 percent in 2000.
 But even though the richest taxpayers now account for a bigger share of federal revenue, some leading independent experts say the system has if anything become more beneficial to the rich.
 "It's true that their share of income taxes has increased, but their incomes have increased even faster," said Joel B. Slemrod, a professor of tax policy at the University of Michigan who has studied the structure of American taxes for years. "I think the system has become less progressive."
 Conservatives see the matter differently. They note that tax breaks for low-income and middle-income families have been expanded in numerous ways over the past 20 years, which is why the lowest-earning half of all households pays only 4 percent of all taxes.
 "I don't know anybody who disagrees with the general proposition that over time fewer and fewer people are paying any income taxes, and that is the result of conscious policy decisions," said Bruce Bartlett, a longtime advocate of supply-side economics and former staff director of the Joint Economic Committee in Congress.
 Led by Mr. Hubbard, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, White House officials are also arguing that the distribution of tax benefits needs to be seen through the prism of "life-cycle" analysis.
 Put simply, the idea is that many people naturally jump from one income level to another as they progress through their careers. The people who earn the least today are not necessarily the people who will still be at the bottom 10 years from now.
 "It is important to recognize the mobility of taxpayers across tax brackets," Mr. Hubbard said in a speech last month. It is normal, he said, for people to begin their careers in low-income jobs, rise into higher brackets and then fall back again when they reach retirement. Their incomes can surge and fall back as a result of business successes and stock market losses.
 But experts say the empirical evidence is mixed. Much of it is based on data collected on individuals over many years by the University of Michigan's Panel Study of Income Dynamics.
 Numerous studies have found that nearly half of people in the top or bottom fifth of income earners moved to a different level within 10 years. But other analysts caution that many of those changes are less dramatic than they appear -- a person who rises from the 79th percentile to the 80th may have jumped to a new group but experienced only a modest increase in earnings.
 Researchers using the same data have also found that people who start out in poor families move up more slowly than others, while people who start off in wealthy families drop back more slowly. And experts report that mobility up and down the income ladder has diminished significantly recently in the United States.
 But perhaps the biggest reason for skepticism, said Mr. Slemrod at the University of Michigan, is that incomes vary almost as much within any particular age group as they do for the population theory as a whole. 
 "I think the idea that people who are dirt poor are just going through a bad patch does not really fit the facts," Mr. Slemrod said.
 To the extent that Mr. Bush and Congress are determined to cut taxes, analysts say it is difficult to come up with reductions that are both sizable and equitably distributed. 
 Mr. Bush clearly tried. In addition to speeding up rate reductions and eliminating taxes on corporate dividends, both of which provide much more relief to high-income people, he called for an immediate increase in child tax credits and immediate measures to offset the "marriage penalty" on two-income households.
 But because so many people pay few or little income taxes already, it is difficult to cut their taxes much more. Meanwhile, in a trend that has received little attention, the share of federal revenue generated from corporate taxes has shrunk from 11 percent in 1987 to 8 percent now.
 Supporters of Mr. Bush's plan say they are not worried, noting that American voters complain little about income inequality and that Democrats failed to rally much opposition against Mr. Bush's first set of tax cuts in 2001.
 In part, Republicans say, that is because many middle-income people think that they too will be wealthy. But distribution issues are also abstract. People may grumble in principle about millionaires saving tens of thousands of dollars, but in practice they may be more drawn to the promise of an additional $400 rebate for every child in their family.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "A Matter of Proportion"Those at the top of the income ladder pay a disproportionate share of federal income taxes, but when all federal taxes are taken into account, the costs are spread much more equally. Graph shows PRETAX INCOME, PERSONAL INCOME TAXES PAID*, and ALL FEDERAL TAXES PAID as the SHARE OF ALL TAXPAYERS . . . in these INCOME GROUPS:$373,000 or more (Top 1%)$147,000 to $373,000 (Next 4%)$72,000 to $147,000 (Next 15%)$44,000 to $72,000 (Next 20%)$27,000 to $44,000 (Middle 20%)$15,000 to $27,000 (Next 20%)Less than $15,000 (Lowest 20)% *Lowest 20 percent had a net refund.(Source: Citizens for Tax Justice)(pg. C1) Chart: "Who Benefits From the President's Plan"Under the White House proposal, taxpayers at lower income levels would shave a greater share off their income taxes, but those at the top would receive the bulk of the savings. CASH INCOME: $ 0 to $ 30,000CHANGE IN INCOME TAXES: -17.0%SHARE OF OVERALL REDUCTION IN TAXES: 2.7% CASH INCOME: 30,000 to 40,000CHANGE IN INCOME TAXES: -20.1SHARE OF OVERALL REDUCTION IN TAXES: 3.4 CASH INCOME: 40,000 to 50,000CHANGE IN INCOME TAXES: -14.5SHARE OF OVERALL REDUCTION IN TAXES: 4.4 CASH INCOME: 50,000 to 75,000CHANGE IN INCOME TAXES: -11.4SHARE OF OVERALL REDUCTION IN TAXES: 10.8 CASH INCOME: 75,000 to 100,000CHANGE IN INCOME TAXES: -13.0SHARE OF OVERALL REDUCTION IN TAXES: 12.7 CASH INCOME: 100,000 to 200,000CHANGE IN INCOME TAXES: -11.4SHARE OF OVERALL REDUCTION IN TAXES: 25.5 CASH INCOME: 200,000 and overCHANGE IN INCOME TAXES: -11.2SHARE OF OVERALL REDUCTION IN TAXES: 40.5 (Source: Treasury Department)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (98%); TAX LAW (92%); INCOME TAX (91%); TAX RELIEF (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); MEDICARE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (75%); FAMILY (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CORPORATE TAX (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); DIVIDENDS (70%); LIBERALISM (70%); BONDS (60%) TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAX EXEMPTIONS; SOCIAL SECURITY (US); MEDICARE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; STOCKS AND BONDS; TAX CREDITS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; MEDICINE AND HEALTH 

ORGANIZATION: CITIZENS FOR TAX JUSTICE (84%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (83%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%) INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE; CITIZENS FOR TAX JUSTICE (ORGN) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) ANDREWS, EDMUND L; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2003 



464 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: O'Neill Expresses Doubts About Tax Cut 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 13 

 BODY:
Paul H. O'Neill, in his first public comment since President Bush fired him last month as Treasury secretary, has criticized the president's plan to eliminate taxes on stock dividends as something "I would not have done."
 His remark came in an interview broadcast on Sunday by the television station KDKA in Pittsburgh. And though Mr. O'Neill tried to avoid saying anything more on the issue, his comment is consistent with reservations he expressed while still in Washington about broad tax cuts. 
 Mr. O'Neill, who had kept his home in Pittsburgh and returned there soon after being ousted in early December, had refused to talk in public until last week about his departure. He continues to turn down requests for interviews from the national news media.
In his interview in Pittsburgh, Mr. O'Neill strove to avoid criticizing President Bush and kept his comments about the tax plan extremely brief.
Asked whether he supported the elimination of taxes on stock dividends, which is the centerpiece of Mr. Bush's economic plan and accounts for nearly half its estimated cost of $674 billion over 10 years, Mr. O'Neill said he saw some value in the move but "I would not have done it." 
Mr. O'Neill had hinted at his discomfort with sweeping tax cuts before his departure. He was skeptical about the need for any broad stimulus, noting in November that many parts of the economy were holding up fairly well. His own approach, he told a group of executives at a public meeting of the United States Chamber of Commerce in November, was to select carefully tax breaks that might help the segments of industry having the most trouble.
Mr. Bush's proposal, by contrast, provides broad tax reductions for individuals and very few measures aimed directly at business.
Though he strove to be a loyal member of Mr. Bush's economic team, Mr. O'Neill said during his confirmation hearing in 2001 that he was skeptical about the wisdom of big tax cuts -- even though President Bush would soon propose his own tax package that year, which eventually passed.
In his interview with KDKA, Mr. O'Neill made it clear he was bitter about the entire swirl of politics and media in Washington.
"It's all about sound bites, deluding the people, pandering to the lowest common denominator," he said. "I didn't adjust, and I'm not going to start now."
A plain-spoken man who had been chief executive of Alcoa, Mr. O'Neill periodically created stirs with seemingly flip comments about policy toward the dollar, the intelligence of Wall Street traders and the wisdom of lending money to Brazil.
"Real leadership requires you to stick your neck out and have a point of view," Mr. O'Neill said in the interview, adding that people in Washington "don't really have the courage of their convictions."
He stopped short of criticizing or even commenting about President Bush or the administration. 
"I'm determined not to say any negative things about the president and the Bush administration," he said. "They have enough to do without having me as a sharpshooter." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DIVIDENDS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); BONDS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); LEGISLATION (68%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAXATION; STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: ALCOA INC (51%)

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (51%); AA (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (51%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); O'NEILL, PAUL H; ANDREWS, EDMUND L 

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2003 



465 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: 3 Facing Extortion Charges in Abduction of Financier 

BYLINE:  By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD with SHAILA K. DEWAN 

DATELINE: GREENWICH, Conn., Jan. 13 

 BODY:
Three people were charged today with conspiracy to commit extortion in connection with the kidnapping of one of Wall Street's most successful financiers, but many questions about the case remained unanswered.
 The three, Shemone Garth Gordon, 23, of New Haven, Devon Harris, 19, of West Haven, and an unnamed juvenile were charged in a sealed complaint with conspiracy to violate the federal Hobbs Act by participating in the 30-hour abduction last weekend of Edward S. Lampert, the chairman of ESL Investments here. Prosecutors said a fourth suspect was being sought. 
 Mr. Lampert, 40, named one of the 300 richest people in the country by Forbes magazine, was kidnapped Friday night and released "physically drained" but otherwise unharmed before dawn Sunday, the authorities said. The F.B.I. took the three men into custody that night. 
Investigators remained tight-lipped about a motive for choosing the victim, and only the barest of details emerged in a hearing in federal District Court in Bridgeport before Magistrate Judge Holly B. Fitzsimmons, who ordered the two men held without bail. The complaint was sealed because of the charges against the juvenile, who appeared separately before the judge in a cleared courtroom.
Both men, who prosecutors said had previous convictions for the possession and sale of drugs, were assigned public defenders because they said they could not afford lawyers. They answered softly when the judge asked rudimentary questions about knowing their rights. They wore street clothes. Mr. Gordon appeared in a blue-checked shirt and glasses, and Mr. Harris was in a black hooded jacket. 
James Finnerty, an assistant United States attorney, said investigators found a shotgun and a mask at the Days Inn motel in Hamden, Conn., where the men were found on Sunday night. He said Mr. Gordon "had control" of the weapon. But the authorities did not disclose how the lives of the men and Mr. Lampert had intersected, or how they had planned to extort from him.
Francis O'Reilly, Mr. Harris's lawyer, said "It appears to be a random thing," but he would not discuss the case further. When asked why the men had released Mr. Lampert, he replied, "the speculation is they got scared."
Mr. Lampert manages more than $5 billion in assets. His clients have included some of America's wealthiest people. He Lampert has a personal worth of $800 million and is the 288th richest American, according to Forbes magazine.
Steve Lipin, a spokesman for Mr. Lampert, said he had no comment. People at ESL Investments declined to comment, and a security guard barred reporters from entering Mr. Lampert's gated Field Point Park neighborhood. Residents here, in one of the wealthiest towns in the country, take security seriously, so much so that at one of Mr. Lampert's former residences, a man dressed in camouflage and wearing a Navy Seal hat nudged reporters away. 
But several residents and visitors said that while they were concerned, they did not know enough about the circumstances of the kidnapping to feel alarmed. 
"When something happens concerning someone that's wealthy it doesn't surprise people," said Jim Amburn, 50, a publisher from Stamford.
Wendy Ray, who was staying at the Days Inn where the three people were arrested, said officers evacuated the motel Sunday about 7 p.m. "The only thing they told us to take were our shoes," she said. 
Patel Patel, who cleans rooms at the motel, unlocked Room 132, where he said police officers spent hours poring over things. Today it remained in disarray: an empty pizza carton, soda bottles, a disposable lighter and red and black leather jacket lay on a bare mattress next to a pile of clothing and a portable radio. A bottle of cough syrup sat on a low bureau. The bathroom was covered in black dust. Mr. Patel said federal agents had dusted the area for fingerprints.
Experts in corporate and private security called Mr. Lampert's kidnapping unusual. Such crimes, they said, are more typical overseas.
But Kelly McCann, a managing director at Kroll Associates, the security firm, said he had seen an increase in calls from corporate chiefs and the well-to-do in recent years out of an overall increase in concern for safety and an economic slide that often yields disgruntled workers.
Even so, he said, abduction is often far from their minds. "A lot of people don't consider themselves as a target or they think abduction is so melodramatic," Mr. McCann said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the Days Inn in Hamden, Conn., where three men were arrested in a kidnapping, investigators pored over evidence in one room, a worker said. (George Ruhe for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (92%); EXTORTION (90%); CONSPIRACY (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); MAGISTRATES (78%); LAWYERS (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); PUBLIC DEFENDERS (72%); JUDGES (72%); BAIL (70%) KIDNAPPING; CHILDREN AND YOUTH 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%)

PERSON: EDDIE LAMPERT (91%) ARCHIBOLD, RANDAL C; DEWAN, SHAILA K; GORDON, SHEMONE GARTH; HARRIS, DEVON; LAMPERT, EDWARD S 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (78%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%) CONNECTICUT, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (93%) GREENWICH (CONN)

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2003 



466 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1506 words

HEADLINE: New Governors Discover The Ink Is Turning Redder 

BYLINE:  By JODI WILGOREN 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Jan. 13 

 BODY:
Moments after being sworn in this afternoon as Illinois's first Democratic governor in 26 years, Rod R. Blagojevich dropped the budget bomb: the estimate of the deficit he had campaigned against had doubled since his election, to more than $5 billion.
 Mr. Blagojevich recalled how John F. Kennedy expressed surprise upon becoming president that the nation's problems were every bit as dire as he had declared. But in Illinois, Mr. Blagojevich said today, "it's my sad duty to report to you it's worse." 
 As they take office this month, their scaled-back inaugural balls featuring barbecue and meatloaf instead of lobster and steak, the country's 24 new governors -- 12 Democrats, 12 Republicans -- face the worst state financial landscape since at least World War II. Many ousted incumbents by highlighting the fiscal mess, then returned from election-night victory parties only to find the gaps yawning much larger than they had expected. 
How the governors patch the deficits, and how voters react to the resulting service cuts and tax increases, will probably have large political implications. Statehouses are increasingly seen as the most promising breeding ground for national leadership, having produced four of the last five presidents and, in the 1990's, an array of celebrated policy innovators.
Politically, the Democratic Party in particular is relying on its governors, given its Congressional election defeats in November. The question is whether the party's rising stars can weather the dismal circumstances surrounding their young administrations.
"Part of this will be managing the expectations of those out there who believe that because there is a change of administration, there will be manna falling from heaven," said Jennifer Granholm, the first woman to become governor of Michigan, who has already been showcased in her party's weekly radio address and is a leading candidate to deliver the Democratic response to the State of the Union address.
The extent of the fiscal problems is staggering, with the collective shortfall for the current year estimated at $45 billion and a projected gap next year of $60 billion to $85 billion -- deficits of 5, 12, even 20 percent of the budget or more in some states. The latest fiscal survey of the National Governors Association is laced with scary adjectives: astonishing, staggering, massive, spectacular.
In Austin, Tex., this fall, at a meeting of the nation's newly elected governors, the introductions went Name, State, Size of Deficit, to which Janet Napolitano, Democrat of Arizona, added, "I think I'm going home to demand a recount."
Across the country, governors-elect have spent the last two months recounting dollars, not ballots, finding themselves forced to abandon colorful campaign promises in favor of dull necessities like debt rollovers.
Ms. Napolitano, who was sworn in a week ago facing a $1 billion shortfall in the $6 billion budget that she will present on Wednesday, said: " 'I Consolidated State Agencies' is hard to get on a bumper sticker. But you know what? We're all going to be doing it. It's a great opportunity to streamline, to show what you can do in a tough time, which is when leadership is really tested."
Since most states emptied rainy-day funds and other one-time sources like the tobacco settlement to balance last year's budgets, the new governors have spent their transitions surveying ugly options: layoffs, tax increases, new fees, program cuts. Those who pledged not to raise taxes -- like Mr. Blagojevich, Ms. Granholm and a fellow Democrat, Jim Doyle of Wisconsin, as well as Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota, a Republican -- face doing less with less. 
In Kansas, Kathleen Sebelius, a Democrat sworn in as governor today, enlisted 60 citizens for a line-by-line budget review that yielded 13 pages of recommendations, among them trimming newspaper and magazine subscriptions ($3 million in annual savings), ending a discount for the elderly at state parks ($267,000) and adding a $100 fee for public defender services ($2.1 million). Mr. Blagojevich's transition director, David Wilhelm, has wielded a knife over Illinois's $88 million, 14,000-automobile fleet and its 460-plus boards and commissions. Mitt Romney, Republican of Massachusetts, is serving without salary. Ted Kulongoski, Democrat of Oregon, announced at his inauguration today that he would cut his own pay 5 percent.
Even governors who overcame budget woes to win re-election face stark choices. On Friday, Gov. Gray Davis of California, a Democrat, proposed plugging a $36 billion gap with $8.3 billion in new taxes and drastic cuts in spending.
Gov.-elect Edward G. Rendell, Democrat of Pennsylvania, said in an interview the other day: "Everywhere I go, people say, 'Can we increase money for higher education?' And the answer is, For sure not this year. This morning I announced my secretary of transportation, and a reporter said, 'Can you guys increase state support for mass transit?' The answer is, Not this year."
"For the new class," said Mr. Rendell, a pragmatic former Democratic national chairman, "the hope is to administer the pain early. Short-run pain for long-run gain."
Though the limping economy and its attendant decline in sales- and income-tax revenue have created the rapid rise in deficit projections, state officials and other experts say the root of the problem is on the spending side. Health care costs, 30 percent of a typical state's budget, have been growing by 13 percent a year even when programs add no benefits or beneficiaries. The problem is exacerbated by unfinanced federal mandates, for programs like education and Medicaid, and an out-of-date revenue model.
"States have tax systems for a manufacturing economy in the 1950's, not for a service-oriented high-technology international economy for the 21st century," said Raymond Sheppach, executive director of the National Governors Association. 
For now, the mantra among the new governors is, "Crisis breeds opportunity," as Mr. Wilhelm, the Blagojevich aide, put it. 
At Blagojevich transition headquarters, Barry Maram, a lawyer who is among 2,000 volunteers on 17 policy committees, taped a huge chart filled with fine print on a conference room wall. Listed on the left was every state agency and department, and the columns were shaded to show the function of each. A dozen do purchasing. A gaggle manage financial resources. Umpteen handle personnel, information technology, public relations.
The idea underlying that overview was to eliminate the crossovers among departments. Mr. Maram also suggested that the state adopt a purchasing card to simplify acquisition of items costing less than $1,000. In addition, Carl Lingenfelder, a consultant, said that ideally the state's Central Management Services would bill other agencies for things like computer support.
Mr. Wilhelm, eyes glazing over, was eager to start slicing away at the state's cars and commissions.
"Boards and commissions are an outrage," he said. "What about cars? I asked somebody about cars, and they said, 'Cars? Hell, what about helicopters?' "
"We won't balance the budget with these things," he said, "but it's an important first step."
As in Illinois, transitions in many other states have been hobbled by the elusive nature of the deficit's size. 
In Kansas, next year's deficit seems to be $1 billion, but "each time they come up with another number, it's worse," said Nicole Corcoran-Basso, a spokeswoman for Governor Sebelius. 
In Michigan, Ms. Granholm campaigned against a $1 billion deficit but now finds herself $1.8 billion short in next year's $9 billion general fund. Though she barely mentioned the budget in her inaugural address, wanting to keep her remarks full of hope, she said it had been "the main underpinning of all discussions" in her transition.
In Arizona, Ms. Napolitano said budget matters had taken 85 percent of her time during the transition. In Kansas, Ms. Sebelius said it had seeped into every conversation, including those in which she tried to recruit new cabinet secretaries whose first act would be to cut their own pay.
Having been feted for taking back statehouses in Illinois, Michigan, Kansas and Wisconsin after long Republican reigns, the new Democratic governors are having to talk mainly about cutting government, typically a Republican issue. And their constituencies are hungry.
"It really delays some of the things that all of us get into government to do, to help people," said Marc Marotta, Wisconsin's new secretary of the Department of Administration, who found himself saying no repeatedly during six town-hall meetings in which people constantly suggested new ways to spend.
The governors' spin is that dire circumstances will allow them to act boldly.
"I took over as D.A. a justice system that was weak and corrupt and in ruins, and I took over a city that people had pretty much signed off on -- it was finished," said Mr. Rendell, a former mayor of Philadelphia. "Sometimes when you inherit a crisis, it's a little easier to move people to accept change."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Rod R. Blagojevich of Illinois and Kathleen Sebelius of Kansas were sworn in yesterday, only two of the new governors who collectively are facing the worst state financial landscape since at least World War II. (Associated Press) Chart: "ADDING IT UP: Many Governors Face Tough Deficits"As they take office, most new governors face a daunting financial landscape. The Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal group, has gathered estimated budget deficits for the approaching fiscal year. Map of the U.S. shows estimated budget deficits, per state. NEW GOVERNORS (nonincumbents) Ala.: Bob Riley -- RAlaska: Frank H. Murkowski -- RAriz.: Janet Napolitano -- DGa.: Sonny Perdue -- RHawaii: Linda Lingle -- RIll.: Rod R. Blagojevich -- DKan.: Kathleen Sebelius -- DMe: John Baldacci -- DMd: Robert L. Ehrlich Jr. -- RMass.: Mitt Romney -- RMich.: Jennifer Granholm -- DMinn.: Tim Pawlenty -- RN.H.: Craig Benson -- RN.M.: Bill Richardson -- DOkla.: Brad Henry -- DOre.: Ted Kulongoski -- DPa.: Edward G. Rendell -- DR.I.: Donald Carcieri -- RS.C.: Mark Sanford -- RS.D.: Mike Rounds -- RTenn.: Phil Bredesen -- DVt.: Jim Douglas -- RWisc.: Jim Doyle -- DWyo.: Dave Freudenthal -- D

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); WORLD WAR II (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TAX LAW (66%) STATES (US); GOVERNORS (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; INAUGURATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (59%)

PERSON: KATHLEEN SEBELIUS (88%); ROD BLAGOJEVICH (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); JANET NAPOLITANO (78%); MITT ROMNEY (73%); SONNY PERDUE (58%); MARK SANFORD (58%); MIKE ROUNDS (58%); DONALD CARCIERI (58%); BILL RICHARDSON (58%); ED RENDELL (58%); TIM PAWLENTY (58%); TED KULONGOSKI (58%); JENNIFER GRANHOLM (58%); PHIL BREDESEN (58%); DAVE FREUDENTHAL (58%) WILGOREN, JODI; BLAGOJEVICH, ROD R (GOV); SEBELIUS, KATHLEEN (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (78%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); KANSAS, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) ILLINOIS; KANSAS

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2003 



467 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: Budget Official Is Bush's Choice to Lead an Embattled I.R.S. 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 13 

 BODY:
President Bush today named Mark W. Everson, deputy director of the White House budget office, to run the Internal Revenue Service, reflecting the administration's belief that the embattled agency needs management help more than tax-policy expertise.
 Mr. Everson is an accountant and former corporate executive, but most of his government experience has been in managing large bureaucracies and applying technology to improving performance and cutting costs. The administration described his current role of deputy director of the Office of Management and Budget as "the president's chief management officer," and said that Mr. Everson's main task at the tax agency would be to make it operate more effectively and responsively. 
 "The position of I.R.S. commissioner is not a tax-policy position," said Ari Fleischer, the White House spokesman. "It really is a management position." Mr. Everson, he said, "has significant experience in financial management and technology issues, making him, in the president's judgment, very qualified to be the commissioner at the I.R.S."
Mr. Bush nominated one of his oldest friends, Clay Johnson, who has been White House personnel director, to replace Mr. Everson at the budget office. The move led to speculation that Mr. Johnson would eventually replace Mitchell E. Daniels Jr., the budget director, who has said he will soon decide whether to return to Indiana to run for governor. 
Mr. Everson, 47, is little known among tax lawyers, accountants and lobbyists in Washington. His nomination left them unsure what changes he might bring to the I.R.S., which has been buffeted in recent years by criticisms that it has cracked down too hard on taxpayers and tolerates too much tax evasion. If confirmed by the Senate, Mr. Everson would replace Charles O. Rossotti, who stepped down in November.
"He has one tough job," said Donald Alexander, who was commissioner of the I.R.S. from 1973 to 1977. "He has to try to turn things around in a way that won't enrage politicians who like to be enraged about the I.R.S., and at the same time make the I.R.S. more effective in the compliance area."
Mr. Everson has been deputy director of the budget office since August. Before that, he served for a year as controller of the Office of Federal Financial Management. He served for six years in a variety of positions in the Reagan administration, including deputy commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service.
Early in his business career, he worked as an accountant and audit manager at Arthur Andersen. After leaving the Reagan administration, he worked for a decade as an executive at Pechiney Group, a French-owned aluminum maker, and then at SC International Services, a Dallas-based food services company.
"The agency's greatest problem remains information technology, so he's a good choice in that regard," . said Paul C. Light, an expert on the management of government at New York University and the Brookings Institution. "He's a surprise in the sense that no one would associate him with tax policy."
Mr. Everson has been involved in the administration's efforts to contract out more government functions to the private sector. That stance has led to considerable tension between the White House and unions representing government workers, including the National Treasury Employees Union, which represents 98,000 employees at the tax agency. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); POLITICS (79%); LOBBYING (78%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); TAX FRAUD (73%); GOVERNORS (73%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (72%); TAX CONSULTING (72%); IMMIGRATION (63%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (60%); FOOD INDUSTRY (60%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (91%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%) INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE 

PERSON: MARK W EVERSON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (92%); MITCH DANIELS (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); EVERSON, MARK W; JOHNSON, CLAY 3D; STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (69%) TEXAS, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2003 



468 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: WINE TALK; 
A Stroll Through the '21' List, Circa 1945

BYLINE:  By Frank J. Prial 

 BODY:
THE restaurant consultant Roger Martin began a long career in New York restaurants by checking coats at the "21" Club in the early 1950's while still a New York University student. Mr. Martin, who died on Dec. 4, went on to work for Restaurant Associates and Windows on the World, and for a time he ran his own place in the Hamptons.
 Last spring, when Food Arts magazine ran an excerpt from his memoirs, about his "21" days, it reminded me that somewhere I had my own "21" memento, a copy of the club's wine list from 1945, when it was known as Jack & Charlie's "21." I pulled it out. 
 Today, greasy spoons have wine lists. Fifty years ago, New York was a steak-and-potatoes town for the most part and wine sophistication, such as it was, was confined to a handful of restaurants and a couple of European-style hotels. The "21" Club was one of those places. Its celebrity-laden clientele may have consisted largely of whiskey drinkers and martini addicts, but the club was proud of its wine cellar. 
In 1945, any wine list was bound to be mostly French. The "21" list was no exception. But long before anyone else did it, "21" also offered wines from Italy, Spain, Germany, Hungary, Chile and Switzerland. And, yes, the United States.
Nowadays, recent vintages will predominate. Anything more than eight years old is special. In 1945, just the opposite was true. The youngest Bordeaux on the "21" list were nine years old -- from 1936 -- and many dated from the 1920's. In fact, it could hardly have been otherwise. World War II had ended earlier that year. Some of the best vineyards in Europe had been devastated, and wine shipments had virtually come to a halt. 
California and New York, which might have been expected to fill the void, had only begun to make fine wine in the 1930's and 40's, and very few people in watering holes like "21" were inclined to drink it. 
So "21" was selling its old wines, and what wines they were. Chateau Lafite-Rothschild 1934 was $11; so were the 1933 and the 1928. The 1924 was $9.50 and the 1920, a 25-year-old wine, was $14. The 1934 Haut-Brion was $10. The 1920 was $12.50 and the 1916 a dollar less. 
A magnum of Chateau Latour from the memorable 1929 vintage was $23 and a magnum of Chateau Margaux was $21, but a magnum of Mouton-Rothschild, listed among the Second Growths because it would not become a First Growth for another 28 years, was $25.
The depth of the restaurant's Bordeaux cellar was exceptional: five vintages of Chateau Brane-Cantenac, the youngest being 1929; six of Gruaud Larose; five of Pichon Longueville; six of Chateau Margaux going back to 1904 ($17.50); and eight vintages of the famous Sauternes, Chateau d'Yquem, from 1936 back to 1919, ranging in price from $8 for the 1936 to $18 for the 1920. 
A separate cellar held truly old Bordeaux, including the 1865 Lafite, made three years before Baron James Rothschild bought the estate, and Mouton-Rothschild 1869, made 16 years after Mouton had become Rothschild property. 
The Burgundy list was long and distinguished, with great wines like a 1934 Chambertin from Liger-Belair and a 1929 Clos de Vougeot 1929 from Mugnier priced at $8 and $11 respectively. The most expensive of the Burgundies was a 1929 Romanee-Conti from the Domaine de la Romanee-Conti for $18. Surprisingly, Beaujolais was not much cheaper than Burgundy. A 1933 Beaujolais was $7, a 1926 Fleurie $7.50, the same price as a 1928 Beaune or a 1934 Pommard Rugiens.
Wine drinkers who are just now beginning to discover German wines would be fascinated by the six pages of German rieslings "21" offered 58 years ago. On average, they were priced two to three dollars more per bottle than the Bordeaux. True, there were 15 Liebfraumilch, but there were dozens of fine estate wines under $15 and a priceless spatlese Moselle, a 1934 Bernkasteler Doktor, Dr. Thanisch, for $18.
Bear in mind that a full dinner at "21" might cost as little as $15 in 1945, and working men and women paid 35 or 50 cents for an adequate lunch at the Automat. Inflation would bring all of these fantasy prices more in line with what we must pay for these wines today. The Bernkasteler Doktor from a current vintage would sell for close to $100 in a restaurant, while contemporary versions of many of those $10 and $11 Bordeaux sell for $200 and more.
Most intriguing to me were the listings in the American wine section part of the old "21" list. Inglenook, Beaulieu Vineyards, Louis M. Martini and Wente Brothers are all represented. There is a nonvintage B.V. cabernet, four different cabernets from Martini and a sauvignon blanc from Wente. Inglenook is represented by a white wine and not by one of its memorable prewar cabernets. New York is represented by American grapes like Niagara, Delaware and Elvira, from Widmer's Wine Cellars in what the list spells as the "Canadaigua District."
The restaurant must have been nervous about offering American wines. Napa rieslings were described as "Alsatian type," a Wente chardonnay as a "Burgundy type" and a Martini cabernet from Santa Clara as a "Chateau Latour type." The Beaulieu Vineyards B.V. cabernet (Bordeaux type) sold for $3; most of the other American wines for about $4. 
These days at "21," $4 might get you a big smile from the coat checker, but not much more.

GRAPHIC: Photo: THE BOOGIE-WOOGIE YEARS -- The wine list from the "21" Club in 1945, when the restaurant was known as Jack & Charlie's "21" and dinner cost $15. (Tony Cenicola/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (92%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); WINE (89%); DRINKING PLACES (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (71%); DISTILLED LIQUORS (70%); WORLD WAR II (69%) ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; WINES 

ORGANIZATION: TWENTY-ONE CLUB (NYC RESTAURANT) 

PERSON: PRIAL, FRANK J 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (95%); SPAIN (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (70%); HUNGARY (70%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2003 



469 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1476 words

HEADLINE: Getting Onto the Internet at 30,000 Feet or So 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WONG

 BODY:
For many air travelers, flying has become an escape from the modern-day cyclone of phone calls, e-mail and instant text messages.
 But some of the world's largest airlines are now rolling out technology that allows passengers to surf the Internet, check e-mail and beam text messages to the ground. 
 Lufthansa Airlines, the German carrier, begins flying a Boeing 747-400 today between Frankfurt and Washington outfitted with Internet connectivity developed by the Boeing Company. Next month, British Airways plans to start a trial flight with the same technology between London and New York. Japan Airlines and SAS, the Scandinavian carrier, have signed contracts with Boeing to outfit nearly a dozen planes each to offer Internet service next year. 
Later this month, Cathay Pacific, the airline based in Hong Kong, will offer e-mail service on 40 planes using technology developed by Tenzing Communications, a small company based in Seattle that is partly owned by Airbus, Boeing's rival.
Another system, jointly developed by Tenzing and a company called ARINC, is already being used by Virgin Atlantic Airways, which has four planes that allow travelers to send brief text messages -- at $2.50 each -- that are typed out on video screens on the backs of seats. Virgin has a contract to install the system on its entire fleet by year's end; the technology has also been tested by Air Canada and Singapore Airlines.
The big question is whether passengers -- especially business travelers -- will pay to plug into the digital grid at 30,000 feet.
Those airlines that use Boeing's service, called Connexion by Boeing, expect to charge passengers $30 to $35 a piece for unlimited Internet access. Tenzing executives said airlines carrying its e-mail system, which does not allow Internet surfing, were expected to charge $10 to $20.
"It all depends on the pricing," said Robert W. Mann, an airline consultant based in Port Washington, N.Y. "Anything airlines can do to empower business traveler connectivity is good for the airlines. If they can do it while making a buck, so much the better. I think those things are doable, and I think business travelers will like them."
Both Boeing and Airbus, the European consortium based in France, announced their intentions to provide Internet connectivity during the height of the dot-com bubble. The three largest United States airlines said at the time that they were in contract talks with Connexion. But after the Sept. 11 attacks, and the slump in air traffic that followed, the airlines scrapped those plans.
The two aircraft makers nonetheless forged ahead with their projects, which are based on competing visions of what they think passengers want from Internet connectivity.
Boeing uses costly high-speed broadband transmission that allows Internet surfing because it says passengers want a full range of options. Tenzing and Airbus argue that most passengers just want an e-mail or messaging service.
"Jumping immediately to broadband is a significant financial risk and immediate financial investment," said Philippe Chenevier, vice president for special projects at Airbus. "It's like if you have a new territory and you build interstates with four lanes whereas you have only two cars."
Other companies also working on airborne connectivity are aiming their products elsewhere because they think the passenger market is too limited. Qualcomm has developed a broadband system that it hopes to sell to the federal government for security uses, said Jonas Neihardt, the company's vice president for federal government affairs.
Boeing and Lufthansa will be able to gauge whether their bet will pay off as the Frankfurt-Washington flight goes through its trial run in the next three months. Passengers will have access to the Internet in one of two ways: by running an Ethernet connection between their laptops and ports available on seats in first class, most of business class and the rear of economy class; or by using a wireless modem that taps into a "hot spot" throughout the cabin.
Lufthansa will not charge fees during the trial because it wants to see how passengers use the service, though the airline will ask each user how much he or she would pay, said Burkard Wigger, general manager of Lufthansa FlyNet, which is what the company calls its product.
Mr. Wigger said he expected Lufthansa to introduce the service more widely next year on long-haul flights, and to charge $30 to $35 a passenger using it.
The British Airways test will also run three months, starting on Feb. 18. But only passengers in the first three of four classes will have Internet access. And Boeing and British Airways have decided to charge about $35 a use during the trial.
"It will help us better ascertain passenger desire, how the meter will run and what to charge for the flight segment," said Scott Carson, president of Connexion.
For broadband, each plane has to be fitted with various hardware and two large antennas that shoot data back and forth between satellite transponders, similar to the transmission of satellite television. Boeing leases the transponders for $2 million each, said Bill Richards, Connexion's chief engineer.
Right now, Boeing leases only a handful of transponders, limiting Connexion's use to the North Atlantic. Mr. Carson said that as airlines in other parts of the world sign on, Boeing will increase the number of transponders to 50, then later to 80 or so. The company may eventually put its own transponders on satellites rather than leasing them, he said, a move that would cost tens to hundreds of millions of dollars for every installation.
Despite skepticism from Airbus and some industry experts, Mr. Carson said that "every study we've done over three and a half years has convinced us there is sufficient demand out there to justify this."
Most of the revenue from passenger fees will go to Boeing, and airlines will also pay Boeing to outfit their planes, Mr. Carson said.
"At the end of the day, I'm not sure I as a traveler would pay more to use the Internet on a plane," said Nicolas Owens, an aerospace analyst with Morningstar. "The market size I think is open to question. That said, I do see it becoming a sought-after and a standard type of feature as people realize the technology is out there."
Tenzing and Airbus are basing their product on existing satellite technology that airplanes use to communicate with the ground. This method is slower, but is cheaper and can be upgraded as demand increases, executives say. Neither Tenzing nor Boeing intend to offer Internet or e-mail access on flights lasting less than two to three hours because passengers on short hops probably would not pay for the services, executives say.
Tenzing has developed two products: a simple text messaging system and a more involved e-mail service. Virgin is equipping its fleet with the former, while Cathay Pacific has been testing the latter for about a year. It has signed on to outfit its entire long-range fleet with the technology.
Wendy Buck, a spokeswoman for Virgin, said the messaging system was preferable to Connexion because it allowed passengers without a laptop to send and, starting in March, receive text.
As for the e-mail service, Cathay Pacific and Tenzing will not charge passengers for another four months or so, even though they will offer the product on many of Cathay's upper-class cabins starting this month, said Eric Frederickson, Tenzing's marketing director.
Passengers will connect their laptops to a port on the seat and install software that allows them to choose one of two types of e-mail access. From their pre-existing e-mail accounts, they can download message titles that come with a few lines of text, similar to abstracts; or they can download just the titles and choose, at an extra cost per message, which ones to open.
Passengers will probably end up paying $10 to $20 a flight, said Alan McGinnis, chief executive of Tenzing.
There are limits on the kinds of e-mail accounts that passengers can use. Right now, only passengers with Pop 3 and Exchange 5.5 accounts can use the service. Companies like Yahoo and America Online have yet to make deals with Tenzing, although Mr. McGinnis said talks with such companies were continuing.
In the end, though, the fate of these projects will depend entirely on the fickle desires of business travelers. Take this traveler, whose behavior in the post-Sept. 11 era would no doubt cause executives at Boeing, Airbus and Tenzing to wince:
"I'm one of those who because of the security hassles have gone completely light and have abandoned my laptop," said Leonard S. Glickman, chief executive of the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society and a frequent trans-Atlantic flier. "I rarely bother taking my laptop with me. With the combination of security hassles and increased enforcement of carry-on bags, I travel as light as possible now." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); TEXT MESSAGING (90%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (71%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (61%); BROADBAND (60%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (94%); AIRBUS SAS (92%); VIRGIN ATLANTIC AIRWAYS LTD (91%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (90%); DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG (90%); AIR CANADA (56%); SINGAPORE AIRLINES LTD (54%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (94%); BAB (BRU) (94%); BA (NYSE) (94%); LHA (FRA) (90%); AC.A (TSX) (56%); C6L (SGX) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (94%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%) SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (72%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%); SINGAPORE (77%); HONG KONG (76%); FRANCE (66%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2003 



470 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1327 words

HEADLINE: COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE; 
Not Going Green Is Called a Matter of Economics

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL BRICK 

DATELINE: ROCKVILLE, Md., Jan. 8 

 BODY:
The tools for constructing environmentally conscious, energy-efficient office buildings have existed for decades, but commercial developers have not adopted the principles of what is commonly called green or sustainable building because a compelling case demonstrating the economic rewards has not been made, according to specialists in real estate, finance, design, construction and environmental health and safety.
 "This is a concept that has sputtered along for 20 or 30 years," said Daniel R. Tishman, executive vice president of Tishman Realty Corporation. "It's an economic thing." 
 It is a phenomenon with parallels to the popularity of sport utility vehicles, except that buildings are responsible for more than 36 percent of the country's energy consumption, and transportation only 27 percent, according to the Energy Information Administration of the Department of Energy.
A movement is under way to promote green development as economically compelling, complete with a trade organization that sets standards and awards certifications to buildings under the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design program administered by the private U.S. Green Building Council. This amounts to the early stages of an effort to create a marketable brand of buildings, one that addresses environmental issues outside the scope of the government's Energy Star program. 
That program, administered by the Environmental Protection Agency, awards certification to voluntarily participating buildings that demonstrate energy efficiency. The Green Building Council's program offers escalating levels of certification, using a point system to measure a broader palette of green. Developers can win points by complying with more difficult, costly and unusual standards like replacing impervious surfaces with vegetative cover and treating waste water at the site.
Governmental entities are also pressing for green building. In 2001, the federal General Services Administration joined the Green Building Council. In 2000, New York State approved a tax credit for developments that comply with requirements for energy use, materials selection, indoor air quality, waste disposal and water use. It was the first state to do so, and others, including Maryland, have followed.
Still, of the 1.6 billion square feet of nonresidential construction projects started last year, only 2.3 percent applied for certification from the Green Building Council, according to an analysis by Robert K. Watson, director of the International Energy Project at the Natural Resources Defense Council. Of government buildings, 16.5 percent applied. In commercial projects, where by far the most construction was started, only 1.07 percent applied for certification. A factor contributing to the low participation rate is that the program has existed only since March 2000, and so far, most types of projects have needed to apply in the early, conceptual phases, though they do not achieve certification until much later.
"We need to make the business case," said Kenneth W. Hubbard, a partner in the Hines Company. "It has not caught on."
There are notable exceptions, mostly experienced developers who hold their properties for many years and who have seen a comparable long-term payoff from the use of distinctive, high-quality architecture. A prominent example in New York is the Durst Organization, developer of 4 Times Square.
Elsewhere in the country, the Hines Company has taken a pioneering role, with environmentally sophisticated office buildings in Boston, Seattle, Houston, Detroit and Atlanta.
Hines estimates that it has spent 45 cents to $1.30 a square foot, varying by building, above conventional construction costs to make mechanical and electrical systems in its buildings exceed building codes.
To date, Mr. Hubbard said, the financial returns are unproven.
Here in Rockville, a private developer called the Tower Companies has built a squat 10-story oval of dark reflective glass and metallic panels, split on the thin ends by angular wedges that look like supports for a lunar module. The 263,000-square-foot Tower Building cost $62 million and sits on 12 acres. It opened at the end of 2001 and is now 85 percent leased. The cost breaks down to $235 a square foot, and of that, $124 a square foot was spent on construction, $2 more than conventional construction by the developer's estimate.
The windows are made of double-paned, spectrally selective glass that reduces the transfer of heat. Carpets and ceiling tiles are made of recycled and recyclable materials. They are manufactured to reduce the emission of volatile organic compounds, the airborne chemicals familiar to most people for giving off the "new car" smell. Fiberglass is sealed behind aluminum to prevent its transformation into airborne particles. 
The closed offices of more senior managers are lined with windows that are above the sight line (unless Shaquille O'Neal is visiting) to provide them privacy while still allowing natural daylight to reach workers in their cubicles.
Tenants cannot hear cars on I-270, an eight-lane freeway that passes within 200 feet of the building; the curtain wall is prefabricated and snapped together on the facade, with window fittings sealed with sound-minimizing gaskets instead of caulking.
In a mechanical room, 210 filters, each the size of a cat litter box, are filled with potassium permanganate, a purple granular powder that kills exposed pathogenic bacteria, part of a three-stage air filtration system that cost $75,000 more than a top-quality conventional system.
The Tower Companies has by no means employed all of the principles of green building, and the most obvious example is that this building does not generate energy. Photovoltaic cells were invented by Bell Laboratories in 1954, and their cost has been declining, but even the 4 Times Square building in New York, a high-water mark in green commercial office development when it opened in 1996, uses only a limited amount of solar power. 
With this modest approach to green building, the Tower Companies says it has secured rental contracts for $30 to $40 a square foot, at a time when average annual asking rents in Rockville are $29.38, according to the real estate services firm Cushman & Wakefield. But Tower employees said that their tenants were driven by more traditional real estate concerns.
"I can tell you the reason Bank of America leased here," said Bernard Sanker, an agent of the company. "Green didn't hurt, but they've got sign rights facing that Interstate."
His boss, Jeffrey F. Abramson, a partner in the company, said that he did not expect tenants to pay a premium for green development, even though the energy cost savings were clearly demonstrable. The monthly bill comes to about $1.50 a square foot instead of the $2 of comparable nongreen buildings the company owns.
"Tenants at Tower refused to be on their own meter," Mr. Abramson said. "They wanted to be on a gross lease."
Leasing structures are a powerful obstacle to making economic sense of green building principles. Most office tenants sign gross leases, meaning that the building owner pays for energy and water, so tenants have no incentive to reduce their energy use. 
"The lease structure is clearly not set up to address this issue," said M. Arthur Gensler Jr., chairman of the design firm that bears his surname.
And the Green Building Council's certifications, created as a marketing tool for developers and building owners, have even in their infancy become less than compelling to their intended audience, corporate tenants, according to brokers and developers across the country.
"They brought me on to this thing three years ago to open the door to the corporate sector, and it's not there; it's not even close," said Edward W. Caulkins, a senior director of Cushman & Wakefield in San Francisco who is a board member of the Green Building Council. "It can be very costly, and at the end of the day, you get a plaque."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dan Wertz, a building engineer, shows the potassium permanganate pellets in the air-purification system of the Tower Building. The windows are made of glass that reduces the transfer of heat. (Photographs by Marty Katz for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (92%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (92%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (91%); GREEN BUILDING (91%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); CONSUMPTION (72%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (55%); INDOOR AIR QUALITY (50%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES 

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (56%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (55%) TOWER COMPANIES; US GREEN BUILDING COUNCIL 

PERSON: BRICK, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) ROCKVILLE (MD)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2003 



471 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE: Regional Market -- Connecticut; 
Tribe Invests Downtown In an Old Industrial City

BYLINE:  By ROBERT A. HAMILTON 

DATELINE: NORWICH, Conn., Jan. 9 

 BODY:
An office building is rising for the first time in decades in the downtown of this old industrial city. It is a structure that local officials see as the harbinger of more investment as a result of the proximity of two large Indian casinos. 
 The Mashantucket Pequots, who operate Foxwoods casino about eight miles from Norwich, are one of the primary backers of the $19 million Mercantile Exchange building, which has about 113,000 square feet of space on five floors. The Mashantuckets have signed a 20-year lease for the building at $1.4 million a year. 
 The tribe intends to move some of its offices to occupy about 30,000 square feet of the building when it opens in November, and rent the rest, said Elizabeth G. Judd of the leasing agent, the Konover Office and Industrial Corporation, which is a unit of the Konover Investments Corporation.
"There is lots of interest in the rest of the space, primarily because it's the first new speculative office building in southeastern Connecticut for a number of years," Ms. Judd said.
"The way the economy is now, I don't think we can guarantee it will be fully leased by the time it's ready, but I think it will fill up fairly quickly with a nice mix of tenants," she added.
Rentable space in the building is estimated at 83,785 square feet, including 6,000 square feet of retail space. Asking annual rents will be $22 a foot for the office space, and $16 a foot (without utilities and insurance) for the retail space.
The project also includes 41 parking spaces under the building and 136 spaces in a lot next to it.
The city is hoping that the project will not only revitalize the downtown retail environment, once hundreds of office workers occupy the Mercantile Exchange, but also that it will attract other commercial investment.
"To some extent that's already happening -- we have six-hour planning meetings every month to deal with all the proposals," said William R. Sweeney, the city planning director. 
"While the rest of the state and most of the Eastern Seaboard is in the doldrums, we're booming," he said.
Foxwoods and the Mohegan Sun, a casino operated by the Mohegan tribe just outside Norwich, in Uncasville, together employ more than 20,000 people, which has created a housing boom in the region already.
The Mashantuckets acquired the Mercantile Exchange property in 1995, intending to build housing or a hotel to take advantage of the waterfront views of the site, just off Norwich Harbor.
Michael Van Leesten, executive assistant to Kenneth M. Reels, the tribal councilor who has been supervising the project, said that those uses were not economically feasible -- the tribe already operates 1,400 hotel rooms and suites near its casino -- but that the Mashantuckets remained committed to improving the downtown. 
So two years ago the tribe turned the property back to the city, which brought in the Norwich Community Development Corporation to look at alternatives. Peter E. Polubiatko, who managed the project for the development agency, said there had been no new office construction in the downtown for several decades, except for the state courthouse in the early 1980's.
The Hartford architectural firm of Jeter, Cook & Jepsen designed an office building that would fit in with the Victorian architecture of the downtown.
"We tried to be sensitive to the scale and design of what surrounds the building," said Scott R. Persing, vice president of Jeter, Cook & Jepsen. Because it is five or six times the size of anything in the area, for instance, Mr. Persing used glass curtain walls and punched windows to break up the building visually.
The development agency got a $6.1 million economic grant from the state and $11.8 million in loans from a consortium of six local banks for the project. The city put up $800,000, as well as the property, valued at $200,000.
"In the absence of these kinds of partnerships, without government support, you cannot make these projects happen in distressed urban areas," Mr. Van Leesten said. "This is a partnership in the truest sense of the word, and I think there are already some indications it will lead to more cooperation."
The tribe recently announced that it will build an $8 million, 35,000-square-foot laundry in Norwich in collaboration with the Mohegans, to clean linens from the casino hotels and other commercial operations.
The tribe is also in discussions with Norwich about building a mixed residential and commercial project of three buildings of six stories each, or two buildings of about 10 stories, on the harbor. The tribe owns two of the properties at the site and the city owns the rest.
"We have a lot of confidence in Norwich," Mr. Van Leesten said. "The whole point of this project is to be a good neighbor, and we're very interested in other opportunities."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The $19 million, 113,000-square-foot Mercantile Exchange is being constructed in downtown Norwich, Conn., along the Thames River. The five-story structure, in rendering below, is to open in November. (George Ruhe for The New York Times) Chart: "Data Update"Value of residential construction contracts, seasonally adjusted annual rate through November. Graph tracks residential contracts (regional in billions) for the south, west, midwest, and northeast from 2000-2002. NATIONAL IN BILLIONSOCT. 02: 264.3SEPT. 02: 257.8NOV 02: 263.0NOV. 01: $221.1 (Source: F. W. Dodge/McGraw-Hill Construction) Map of Norwich, Connecticut, highlighting the location of the Mercantile Exchange Building.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); RETAIL PROPERTY (86%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); NATIVE AMERICANS (77%); CASINOS (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (76%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (75%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); CITIES (73%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (63%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; INDIANS, AMERICAN; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; RENTING AND LEASING 

ORGANIZATION: MASHANTUCKET PEQUOTS 

PERSON: HAMILTON, ROBERT A 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); MIDWEST USA (71%) UNITED STATES (95%) NORWICH (CONN)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2003 



472 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 398 words

HEADLINE: Deals on Cars Help Spur Rise In Retail Sales 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 14 

 BODY:
Retail sales rose 1.2 percent in December as strong car sales offset lackluster holiday business, the Commerce Department reported today. Retail sales had increased 0.9 percent in November.
 Car sales increased 5 percent, the largest rise in more than a year. While low-rate and free financing deals and other incentives motivated car purchases, shoppers seemed choosy in making smaller purchases. Sales at retail outlets other than car dealerships were flat in December, compared with a 0.3 percent gain in November. 
 For all of 2002, retail sales rose 3.4 percent, down from 3.7 percent in 2001. Consumer spending accounts for the majority of economic activity in the United States. 
"Spending is erratic," said Lynn Reaser, chief economist at Banc of America Capital Management. "Consumers will need to see gains in employment and income to support sizable gains in spending." 
Recovery from recession has been slow and uneven, with a quarter of economic growth followed by a quarter of weakness. 
According to the figures released today, the 5 percent rise in car sales in December came after a 2.6 percent increase in November. 
"The reinstatement of more generous incentives, such as zero percent financing, strong cash incentives and, in some cases, delayed payments and no down payments on 2003 models, were irresistible to customers," said Paul Taylor, chief economist at the National Automobile Dealers Association. 
Elsewhere, sales at electronics and appliances stores rose 0.6 percent in December, up from a 0.1 percent increase in November. Sales at clothing stores rose 0.8 percent, balancing a 0.8 percent drop the month before.
Gasoline sales rose 0.7 percent, after a 0.9 percent increase in November. Both figures reflected the increase in world oil prices. 
Bar and restaurant business increased 1.1 percent in December for the second consecutive month. At furniture and home furnishing stores, sales were flat after posting a 1.6 percent rise in November. 
Sales of building and garden supplies fell 1.8 percent last month, after a 0.8 percent rise. Sporting goods, book, music and hobby-store revenue dropped 0.9 percent in December, a turnaround from November's 0.5 percent increase.
Sales at food and beverage stores declined 1 percent, after a 1 percent increase in November. 
And sales at department stores dipped 0.3 percent, after a 3.4 percent drop in November. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (94%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (92%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (79%); RESTAURANTS (79%); CHRISTMAS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); SALES FINANCING (78%); NEW CAR DEALERS (76%); FOOD & BEVERAGE STORES (74%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (74%); DEPARTMENT STORES (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (64%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (63%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES; AUTOMOBILES; CHRISTMAS 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); NATIONAL AUTOMOBILE DEALERS ASSOCIATION (54%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT 

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2003 



473 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1172 words

HEADLINE: Indonesian Province Enjoying First Signs of Peace 

BYLINE:  By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: LHOKSEUMAWE, Indonesia, Jan. 12 

 BODY:
Children are playing outside again, street vendors are selling soda and couples are strolling on the rutted walkways, simple pleasures that perhaps spell some return of normalcy to Aceh, the northern Indonesian province torn apart by conflict for nearly 30 years.
 The first blush of peace in this city is particularly welcome to residents who have missed using the central park, a graceful retreat of green trees, sand pits and slides that had long been too dangerous for residents to frequent for fear of ambush by soldiers or extortion by guerrillas. 
 "We have been waiting for this moment for years," said Cut Syamsurniati, the leader of the human rights organization Rehabilitation Action for Torture Victims in Aceh, as she strolled in the shade, her face wreathed in smiles.
A peace accord signed in Geneva on Dec. 9 by the Indonesian government and the separatist group in this province, the Movement for a Free Aceh, has worked better than expected, Acehnese people and Western diplomats say. 
The number of reported killings of civilians has plummeted. Twelve war-related civilian deaths were reported during the first month of the accord, compared with a monthly average of 87 in 2002, according to David Gorman, a negotiator for the Henry Dunant Center, the Swiss-based private group that mediated the peace deal. So far, armed clashes have been reduced to occasional skirmishes, he said.
Most significantly, the government has permitted foreign monitors to visit Aceh (pronounced AH-chay) for the first time. Previously the Indonesians insisted that Aceh was an internal matter, a posture that diplomats said kept the dirty war and its human rights abuses by both sides -- murders, kidnappings, torture -- hidden from the world.
Behind the scenes, the United States encouraged both sides to go to the peace table. Gen. Anthony C. Zinni, the retired former head of the Central Command, is an adviser to the Henry Dunant Center and was critical to reaching agreement on the final details in Geneva last month.
Now the United States Agency for International Development is financing a public information campaign intended to embolden civilians to call a hot line with complaints about violations of the accord.
A settlement of the conflict would mean less trouble for the large Exxon Mobil natural gas plant near here, which has been a longtime target of the guerrillas.
The Bush administration, which is considering a renewal of military ties with Indonesia, the world's most populous Muslim nation and a place where Islamic militancy has shown some signs of spreading, would welcome improved behavior from the armed forces and the police as well.
But it remains unclear whether the progress of the first month reflected the heady days of a skimpy peace or the long slog to an enduring reconciliation.
 The American ambassador to Indonesia, Ralph L. Boyce, said in Aceh on Tuesday that fulfillment of the peace deal would be a "long-term problem." 
A leader of the rebels, Isnandar Al-Pase, said in an interview that his group was relatively pleased with the specifics of the accord. Moreover, he said, "I am happy when I see our people happy."
The accord makes considerable demands on both sides, with the most difficult tasks to start early next month. The Indonesian Army is to relocate its forces to defensive positions, meaning among other things that it should take down roadblocks.
The most vicious element of the police force, commonly known as Brimob, is to be melded into the regular Indonesian police under the leadership of a newly installed police general, Bachrumsyah Kasman.
For their part, the rebels are expected to deposit their weapons at sites designated by the rebels but open to inspection without notice by the Henry Dunant Center's monitors.
Gen. Tanongsuk Tuvinun of Thailand, who arrived last month to head teams of monitors from Thailand and the Philippines, said he was upbeat so far. "In this one month we have established credibility," he said. But that credibility "will go down" quickly, he warned, unless more foreign monitors arrive and unless a couple of sticking points in carrying out the accord are resolved.
Most critical for cementing the good feelings is a quick infusion of money to rebuild schools, which were a target of the war, and to reconstruct villagers' homes that were burned by the army as it hunted suspected rebels. The World Bank has pledged money, but how fast and how much is still undecided, said Andrew Steer, the bank's representative in Indonesia.
Another early problem is how and where to set up "peace zones" that the peace accord says are to be established in "locations of conflict." 
General Tuvinun said he had been meeting privately with both sides to find agreement on at least a first peace zone. Neither side wanted to give up a supposed territorial advantage. He said he was now considering imposing a zone.
In some contested rural areas, the signs of peace have been promising enough for people to take matters into their own hands and return home from camps of the displaced.
In the village of Indrajaya in the Pidie district, about an hour's drive south of the provincial capital, Banda Aceh, Muhammad Ali and his wife, Nurlaila, were reunited in their house last week. Mr. Ali said he ran away four years ago after the army came looking for him as a suspected member of the rebel movement. They harassed his wife, so two years ago she ran away too, he said.
In the last few weeks the local soldiers have been less abusive, the villagers at Indrajaya said. They said that instead of routine intimidation during patrols, soldiers were now riding through on motorbikes, their weapons no longer so visible.
Further south, along the main dirt track into the village of Cempedak, about 10 miles south of Lhokseumawe, soldiers guarded four roadside posts. This has been one of the most violent areas in the war. A few hundred yards off the track, three workers of Ms. Syamsurniati's group were shot and killed by Indonesian soldiers in December 2000. No case has been brought against the troops.
As she traveled down the track, Ms. Syamsurniati noted that the soldiers appeared to be less threatening. Before, she had to ask permission to go to Cempedak, and soldiers would stop her at each roadside post. Now they just waved her on from the comfort of their shacks.
In the village itself, people milled around on the main center, and at the corner coffee shop the tables were crowded, even at dusk. "We can sit here until late at night," said Zakana, a rice farmer. But the owner, Lutan, said gunfire could still be heard some days, forcing customers to flee. 
Mr. Zakana said: "It's still not completely normal. If you go to the rubber fields, the soldiers come and ask for money." General Tuvinun said he considered such reports of extortion an encouraging sign. 
"Prior to the signing there were a lot more serious incidents," he said, citing killings and rapes. "All those serious cases have gone down," he said. Now people are daring to come out and talk about extortion."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Muhammad Ali, his wife, Nurlaila, and their 6-month-old son in their home village, Indrajaya. Mr. Ali said that he had run away after the army came looking for him as a suspected rebel, and that his wife ran away later. (Jane Perlez/The New York Times) Chart/Map: "TIMELINE -- A Long Conflict"Here are important events in the separatist struggle in Aceh, a province in northern Indonesia. 1976 -- The Movement for a Free Aceh is formed. 1977 -- Aceh declares independence but the Indonesian Army suppresses it. 1989 -- Separatist movement rises again. AUGUST 1998 -- Indonesia human rights report chronicles widespread killings, torture and disappearances in Aceh. MARCH 2001 -- Exxon Mobil suspends natural gas operations in Aceh because of increasing combat between insurgents and government troops. JULY 2001 -- Indonesia government launches military offensive in Aceh to crush the independence movement. AUGUST 2001 -- Gen. Anthony C. Zinni, a Bush administration envoy, begins to help broker a cease-fire agreement. DEC. 9, 2002 -- Insurgents and the Indonesian government sign a peace agreement in Geneva that provides for limited autonomy. Map of Indonesia highlighting Aceh.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TORTURE (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (79%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); CHRONOLOGIES (76%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (75%); ARMED FORCES (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (74%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (68%); RELIGION (64%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (50%) GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS 

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (52%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (52%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (52%)

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE; ZINNI, ANTHONY C 

GEOGRAPHIC: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (93%) SUMATRA, INDONESIA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); INDONESIA (95%); SWITZERLAND (93%) INDONESIA; ACEH PROVINCE (INDONESIA)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2003 



474 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: Microsoft to Give Governments Access to Code 

BYLINE:  By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
To try to slow the acceptance of the Linux operating system by governments abroad, Microsoft is announcing today that it will allow most governments to study the programming code of its Windows systems. Under the program, governments will also be allowed to plug their security features instead of Microsoft's technology into Windows.
 More than two dozen countries, including China and Germany, are encouraging agencies to use "open source" software -- developed by programmers who distribute the code without charge and donate their labor to debug and modify the software cooperatively. The best-known of the open source projects is GNU Linux, an operating system that Microsoft regards as the leading competitive threat to Windows. 
 "Microsoft is doing this to combat Linux and open source," said Ted Schadler, an analyst at Forrester Research. 
One appeal of Linux is that developers have complete access to the underlying source code, whereas Microsoft has kept some Windows technology secret. That has made many governments leery of becoming too reliant on Microsoft technology, and it has been a marketing advantage for Linux. 
The concern about Microsoft abroad has grown as the company has become more dominant and as more and more government operations, from the military to health services, rely on its software.
"The issue is how comfortable are governments depending on the technology of a United States company and Microsoft in particular," said Craig Mundie, a senior vice president at Microsoft. "As a technology platform, we want to be demonstrably neutral to national interests."
In the past, Microsoft has shared some source code -- the computer instructions rendered in a programming language that people can read, instead of binary code of 1's and 0's that machines process -- with selected governments.
But Mr. Mundie said the new initiative, called the Government Security Program, represents "a substantial step beyond our previous efforts."
Under the program, 97 percent of the code to Windows desktop, Windows server and Windows CE hand-held software will be available to governments online for inspection and testing. To view the other 3 percent -- the most sensitive technology -- government representatives must come to Microsoft headquarters in Redmond, Wash.
Governments, under the initiative, will also be allowed to choose their own cryptography software and snap that code into software "sockets" in Windows. Governments can also control their own identification and authentication technology for privacy and security, and still run on Windows.
"Microsoft will partner with and trust the governments where we do business," Mr. Mundie said.
And abroad, there have been steady reports and rumors that Microsoft kept a software "back door" in Windows that it would allow tapping by United States government agencies for national security or espionage purposes. "This should go a long, long way," Mr. Mundie said, "toward eliminating the popular speculation in many countries that has been used to attack Microsoft." 
Microsoft expects that perhaps 60 foreign governments and international agencies will eventually join its government security program. The first to join were Russia and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, and the company is negotiating with 20 other groups. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (92%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (90%); OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (78%); NETWORK SERVERS (78%); PROGRAMMING LANGUAGES & TOOLS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); ESPIONAGE (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (65%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; CODES (CIPHERS); COMPUTER SOFTWARE 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (92%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP 

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (92%); FORR (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (72%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2003 



475 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 404 words

HEADLINE: Philanthropist Gives A.C.L.U. $8 Million 

BYLINE:  By STEPHANIE STROM 

 BODY:
Peter B. Lewis, the feisty philanthropist who has forced several beneficiaries of his largess to practice greater financial discipline, is giving $8 million to the American Civil Liberties Union. But Mr. Lewis said there were no strings attached to his gift. 
 The donation, the largest the organization has ever received from an individual, will support the A.C.L.U.'s efforts to fight antiterrorism measures that it deems a violation of civil liberties. 
 "This gift comes at a critical time in the A.C.L.U.'s work and the country's history," Anthony Romero, executive director of the group, said on Monday. "Even in the midst of an economic downturn, Peter recognizes that civil liberties are not a luxury item to be supported only in times of prosperity."
Mr. Lewis, a longtime member of the organization, said he made the contribution because he wanted to show support for Mr. Romero and the causes with which the A.C.L.U. deals.
"I just think that what they work on is very important," he said.
Mr. Lewis's profile as a philanthropist has skyrocketed since he declared a boycott of charities in Cleveland, his hometown, last fall and then forced the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York to pare its budget in exchange for a $12 million gift.
"My gifts are not given on condition," he said. "But I have discovered that as a philanthropist, one's leverage is substantially before the check is written."
Mr. Romero expressed no concern over Mr. Lewis's penchant for driving hard bargains for his gifts. Rather, he said, he expected to be able to use the gift to encourage other philanthropists, something about which Mr. Lewis was less certain.
"I'm flattered that he thinks it will have that effect, but I think philanthropists tend to be pretty independent," said Mr. Lewis, who made his fortune in the auto insurance business.
Since the Sept. 11 attacks, the A.C.L.U. has seen record growth in membership, Mr. Romero said. In 2000, it attracted 59,607 new members, but in 2001, almost 75,000 people joined.
Last year, its ranks swelled by 90,000, bringing membership to 330,000.
"What this demonstrates is that a growing portion of the American public is concerned that government efforts to ensure national security undercuts core American values such as fairness, equality and freedom," Mr. Romero said.
The Lewis gift means that the A.C.L.U. will probably meet its goal of raising $50 million for its endowment, he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter B. Lewis has become the biggest individual donor to the A.C.L.U. (David Maxwell for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHILANTHROPY (90%); MAJOR GIFTS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); BUDGETS (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); HISTORY (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); LUXURY GOODS (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (61%); COUNTERTERRORISM (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (50%) PHILANTHROPY 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (91%) AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION 

PERSON: LEWIS, PETER B; STROM, STEPHANIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2003 



476 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1039 words

HEADLINE: In Public Input, a Hint Of Rebuilding Fatigue 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WYATT 

 BODY:
Since the new designs for the World Trade Center site were unveiled to great fanfare last month, there has been no shortage of public discussion and debate about the plans, their expected impact on the downtown skyline or the future of Lower Manhattan.
 So it was surprising that a citywide series of public hearings yesterday and Monday to gauge response to the new designs and guidelines for a memorial to victims of 9/11 attracted little more than a predictable array of single-issue zealots and almost no substantive comments about details of the plans. 
 The result, including a very light turnout at satellite hearing sites outside of Manhattan, was even more puzzling in light of the fact that tens of thousands of people have toured an exhibit of the plans in the Winter Garden of the World Financial Center, and millions have visited the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation's Web site to view the nine plans from seven teams of architects. 
More than 4,000 visitors to the exhibit have submitted written comments on the plans, according to development corporation officials, and 2,400 have submitted comments over the Internet -- including about 400 people who did so Monday evening as the hearing was being broadcast online and on television. 
Only a small percentage of those comments have rejected all of the new designs, but that was the favorite position of those who spoke at the hearings this week.
What the response reflects is more likely a combination of poor execution in the latest round of public hearings and a sort of rebuilding fatigue among those who have been most active in the process.
In addition, even people who have closely followed the process remain confused about who will make the decisions about what is built at the trade center site. Still unclear is what the rebuilding effort will look like over the next five years -- before new office buildings go up but as work proceeds on a memorial, a new transportation hub and the reopening of an area of downtown that has been kept largely in limbo for well over a year. 
Certainly few officials of the rebuilding effort were happy with Monday night's meeting. 
"In the end, it didn't feel like a particularly useful meeting, and that was fairly dispiriting," said Billie Tsien, the architect who is a director of the development corporation and is on the joint agency task force reviewing the new designs. "Unfortunately the people who have paid attention to the plans and could comment seriously on them were relatively few." 
The hearings this week at Pace University in Lower Manhattan lacked the rigor of the more fruitful meeting in July at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center, where a demographically representative group was put together by the sponsor, the Civic Alliance to Rebuild Downtown New York, and asked to discuss, in small groups, specific issues and details of the plans. 
But the lack of turnout this week might also have reflected some satisfaction that the new designs are on the right track, as well as a lack of energy among too many people to continue to engage in a debate that has now lasted for more than a year. 
For the hearings specifically on the memorial yesterday, like Monday, comments often strayed from the proposed agenda. At Pace, about 300 people listened as the participants focused on calls for the memorial to take priority over buildings, something that rebuilding officials have stressed and that the architects seemed to take to heart by putting space for a memorial at the center of their designs.
Other speakers opposed some recommendations of a working group that put together preliminary guidelines for a memorial. Those comments called for separate recognition of firefighters and other rescue workers in the memorial, and for more specific references to the terrorist attack. Others endorsed the idea of a tomb of unidentified remains. 
Some architects who have examined the plans closely say they are bold in scope, but are lacking in details. Beverly Willis, the director of the Architecture Research Institute and co-chairwoman of Rebuild Downtown Our Town, said the group's members have struggled to understand each design's underground elements, their topographical layouts, even the square footage of proposed office space.
Two other civic groups have similarly tried to grasp the details of the plans. Imagine New York, a project of the Municipal Art Society, prepared a concise comparison of the nine plans, allowing for direct comparison of details like the number of skyscrapers, the amount of open space and the stages of construction in each. Titled "The People's Response," the document is available at www.imaginenewyork.org.
New York New Visions, a coalition of 21 architecture, planning and engineering organizations, released a far more detailed assessment of the plans on Monday. Its 41-page document, which will be posted online this week at nynv.aiga.org, examines how each design treats the memorial, the street network and the skyline. 
While those efforts can help to make sense of the designs, considerable uncertainty remains about who gets the final word. 
"We've talked consistently about the need for a clear public process and an explanation of what the decision-making procedure is going to be," said Marcie Kesner, an urban planner and co-chairwoman of New York New Visions.
Roland W. Betts, the development corporation director and chairman of the task force, said Alexander Garvin, the development corporation's planner, and Stanton Eckstut, the Port Authority's planner, were evaluating the plans against about 40 categories of design principles. 
Their work will then be considered by the task force, which includes development corporation board members; directors of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which owns the trade center site; and representatives from the offices of Gov. George E. Pataki and Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg.
Mr. Betts disputed the notion that Mr. Garvin and Mr. Eckstut are designing their own plans, a sort of amalgam of the latest designs. 
"They have not been asked to come up with plan No. 10 or a composite plan," Mr. Betts said. "As we come down to one or two or three plans to work with, I think maybe the public will be more involved."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Laura Walker and her daughter Samantha, 5, yesterday at Pace University. The sign refers to the Fresh Kills landfill, where trade center debris was sifted for human remains. Her husband, Benjamin, died on 9/11. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); WEB SITES (73%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (73%); OFFICE PROPERTY (72%); TERRORISM (71%) AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

PERSON: WYATT, EDWARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2003 



477 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 529 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
$70 Million in Fines Paid In Illegal Stock Trading
Seven former traders and executives of Datek Online, once heralded as a pioneer in online stock trading, agreed to pay $70 million in fines for what regulators called illegal trading and fraudulent bookkeeping during the market boom of the 1990's. The Securities and Exchange Commission called it one of the largest securities fraud settlements in history.
 Regulators said the group of former traders and executives made tens of millions of dollars by engaging in stock fraud that went on for nearly a decade and involved taking advantage of a Nasdaq trading system that was intended to help smaller investors. Page A1. 

Charges Raise China Questions
In three separate cases since October, natives of China have been accused of obtaining technology from Silicon Valley companies with the intent of exporting it to China. C11.

Little Detail From WorldCom Chief
In his first extensive public comments since taking over at WorldCom, Michael D. Capellas, left, said his executive team would help cut costs and maintain high ethical standards at the company. But he offered few specifics about how many jobs he intends to cut or other steps the company will take as it tries to emerge from bankruptcy protection. C3.

Kmart Plans to Lay Off 35,000
Financially troubled Kmart will lay off as many as 35,000 workers and close 326 stores over the next three months. C4.

F.C.C. Chief Reassures Lawmakers
The F.C.C. chairman reassured Congress that there would not be radical changes in rules governing phone service, high-speed Internet access and media ownership. C3.

Regulators Halt Gene Therapy Trials
Federal regulators suspended 27 gene therapy trials involving several hundred patients after learning that a second child treated had developed a condition resembling leukemia. A1.

Industry Won't Seek Help on Piracy
The major recording companies said they would not seek government intervention to prevent digital piracy. C3.

Microsoft Offers Access to Code
To try to slow the acceptance of the Linux operating system by governments abroad, Microsoft is announcing today that it will allow most governments to study the programming code of its Windows systems. Under the program, governments will also be allowed to plug their security features instead of Microsoft's technology into Windows. C10.

Airbus Is on Course to Lead Market
Airbus said that it was raising its prices by an average of 2.5 percent and forecast that it would deliver about 300 planes this year, setting it on course to be the market leader over Boeing. World Business, Section W.

Car Deals Spur Rise in Retail Sales
Retail sales rose 1.2 percent in December as strong car sales offset lackluster holiday business, the Commerce Department said. C4.

Strike at G.E. Over Health Costs
Angry about General Electric's decision to force employees to pay more for their health coverage, 17,000 workers at 48 locations in 23 states began a two-day strike. A13.

Going Green a Matter of Economics
The tools for building environmentally sensitive, energy efficient offices have existed for decades. But such buildings are just now drawing interest. Commercial Real Estate. C5.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 8,842.62 up 56.64Nasdaq composite -- 1,460.99 up 14.9510-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.08% down 0.04The euro -- $1.0564 up 0.0017The dollar -- 117.99 yen down 0.89 Graph: "TODAY" shows producer prices.December figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.3% Graph tracks share prices of Microsoft for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ONLINE TRADING (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (86%); RETAIL SALES (86%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ONLINE PIRACY (78%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); SECURITIES LAW (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); ETHICS (74%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (73%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (72%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (69%); PRICE CHANGES (69%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%); GENE BASED DRUGS (65%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (65%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (63%); LEUKEMIA (63%); HEALTH INSURANCE (63%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (62%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (61%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (51%); AIRBUS SAS (51%); BOEING CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (82%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (58%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%); GNE (PAR) (51%); GEC (LSE) (51%); GE (SWX) (51%); GE (NYSE) (51%); BOE (LSE) (51%); BAB (BRU) (51%); BA (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (51%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (51%)

PERSON: MICHAEL CAPELLAS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (76%) CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2003 



478 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: Handful of Indictments Over Technology 

BYLINE:  By MATT RICHTEL 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Jan. 14 

 BODY:
In three separate cases since October, natives of China have been accused of obtaining technology from Silicon Valley companies with the intent of exporting it to China.
 While China policy experts say there does not appear to be any direct connection among the cases, they say they underscore a continuing effort to procure high technology from the United States, particularly in Silicon Valley, and to serve a fertile market for the sale of trade secrets. 
 In the most recent indictment, handed up on Friday, Qing Chang Jiang, the president of EHI Group USA Inc./Araj Electronics in Cupertino, Calif., was accused of illegally exporting technology with military applications. He is the fourth Chinese native to be indicted in the last four months. In the two other cases, the technology appears principally to have commercial, not military uses. 
With government officials scrutinizing technology procurement by Iraq and North Korea, the indictments have raised an issue that came to the fore during the Clinton administration: China's procuring of technology, both for its military and for its growing technology industries.
"There is very aggressive economic espionage and reverse engineering by Chinese commercial enterprises exploiting the diaspora of Chinese," said James Mulvenon, a political scientist at Rand, who has closely studied technology procurement by business and the military in China.
China experts say the issue was intensified by the indictment of Mr. Jiang, 51, also known as Frank Jiang. According to court documents, Mr. Jiang is accused of exporting microwave amplifiers, which have commercial applications but can also be used for military purposes like tracking missiles.
In the spring of last year, according to the documents, Mr. Jiang bought nine microwave amplifiers and sought to export them to a company known as the Hebei Far-East Harris Company. According to an affidavit, that company has the same address as the 54th Research Institute.
According to the affidavit, the secretary of commerce has deemed that "end users" at the 54th Research Institute -- known as the Ministry of Communication, Telemetry and Telecontrol -- "present an unacceptable risk of diversion to developing weapons of mass destruction or the missiles used to deliver those weapons."
The indictment comes a little more than a month after the United States attorney for the Northern District of California indicted Fei Ye, who is a United States citizen, and Ming Zhong, a permanent resident. The two men were arrested at San Francisco airport and, according to the indictment, were in possession of trade secrets stolen from four Silicon Valley companies: Sun Microsystems, the Transmeta Corporation, NEC Electronics and Trident Microsystems.
The indictment contends the trade secrets were obtained in connection with an effort to promote a Chinese venture called Supervision Inc. that sought to produce and sell microprocessors in China. According to the indictment, the defendants in the case told others they sought to recruit, including engineers, that Supervision was being financed by the city of Hangzhou. The defendants also told potential recruits that they were working with a professor from Zhejiang University, a major university in China, according to court papers.
Ross W. Nadel, an assistant United States attorney in the Northern District of California, who oversees the computer hacking and intellectual property unit, said, however, that the indictment did not contend any direct involvement by the Chinese government.
In October, the United States attorney indicted Shan Yan Ming, 32, a citizen of China, who is accused of having obtained unauthorized access to the computers of 3DGeo Development Inc., a company in Mountain View, Calif., that makes software for the oil industry. According to the government, Mr. Shan is an employee of the DaQing Oil Field, a division of a major Chinese company called PetroChina. F.B.I. agents arrested Mr. Shan at San Francisco International Airport as he was trying to board a flight to China, according to prosecutors.
China policy experts said that in general it was difficult to know whether the people accused of procuring or possessing technology might be working at the behest of corporate or government entities. Rather, the experts said the individuals might be working alone, hoping to obtain, or steal, intellectual property in the United States and then find a market for it in China.
Nicholas Lardy, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, said that in the case of semiconductor technology -- like that in the Supervision case -- Chinese entities might have less incentive to mount an operation to procure it illegally because China already imports nearly $2 billion in microprocessors a year. Complicating the analysis further, Mr. Lardy said, there is a "thick interconnection" between Silicon Valley and China's booming high-technology industry -- China is a major maker of consumer electronics.
"When it comes to procurement of commercial technology, what's imponderable is whether you're looking at a guiding hand, or a whole bunch of entrepreneurs," said William Triplett, former chief Republican counsel to the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. "What is not imponderable is that the situation got way out of hand in the 90's." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDICTMENTS (92%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ENGINEERING (89%); TRADE SECRETS LAW (89%); BUSINESS TORTS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ESPIONAGE (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); LARCENY & THEFT (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (76%); SMUGGLING (75%); LAWYERS (75%); REVERSE ENGINEERING (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); MICROPROCESSORS (73%); ARRESTS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (71%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (69%); MICROWAVE COMMUNICATIONS (64%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (63%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

COMPANY: NOVAFORA INC (80%); HARRIS CO (SAN BERNARDINO, CALIFORNIA) (65%); TRIDENT MICROSYSTEMS INC (51%); RENESAS ELECTRONICS CORP (51%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: EHI GROUP USA INC/ARAJ ELECTRONICS; SUN MICROSYSTEMS INC; TRANSMETA CORP; NEC CORP; TRIDENT MICROSYSTEMS; THREEDGEO DEVELOPMENT 

TICKER: 6723 (TSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (80%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (65%); NAICS334418 PRINTED CIRCUIT ASSEMBLY (ELECTRONIC ASSEMBLY) MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3679 ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS, NEC (51%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (51%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (51%)

PERSON: RICHTEL, MATT; QING CHANG JIANG; FEI YE; MING ZHONG; SHAN YAN MING 

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); HEBEI, CHINA (58%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) CHINA

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2003 



479 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 157 words

HEADLINE: Think Rich, Vote Rich, Get Rich 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "The Triumph of Hope Over Self-Interest," by David Brooks (Op-Ed, Jan. 12): 
 Traditionally, increasing income inequality has been associated with decreasing economic fairness. 
What Mr. Brooks is really saying is that in recent years a "disconnect" took place in the inequality-fairness relationship. And he's right; look at the facts.
Despite the widening income gap, the poverty rate in this country is about the same as it was 30 years ago; the yearly income range of the middle class now extends up toward $150,000; and the wealthy (despite the bursting of the bubble) are flourishing as in no other time in history.
Ordinary Americans saw this happening and have come to realize that there is nothing wrong with being rich and getting richer -- as long as it's done fairly. The Republicans got the message. The Democrats didn't.

PAUL RYSCAVAGE
Bluffton, S.C., Jan. 13, 2003

The writer is a former Census Bureau economist.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (85%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); POOR POPULATION (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (59%); POVERTY RATES (55%); CENSUS (50%) TAXATION; PUBLIC OPINION 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (55%)

PERSON: BROOKS, DAVID; RYSCAVAGE, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2003 



480 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 102 words

HEADLINE: Think Rich, Vote Rich, Get Rich 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 I think so highly of David Brooks that he is one of a very small number of conservatives who might influence any political decision I might make. 
 But his argument explaining why middle-class Americans vote like rich people (Op-Ed, Jan. 12) seems to me defective, considering that almost every poll we do about economic and political knowledge shows a vast ignorance among even the better educated middle classes.
It's not the triumph of hope over self-interest; it's the triumph of not realizing the obvious negative consequences of one's own behavior.

ROBERT PRIMACK
Gainesville, Fla., Jan. 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CONSERVATISM (88%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (88%); ELECTIONS (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (87%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (85%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (59%) TAXATION; PUBLIC OPINION; ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS 

PERSON: BROOKS, DAVID; PRIMACK, ROBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2003 



481 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 72 words

HEADLINE: Think Rich, Vote Rich, Get Rich 

 BODY:
To the Editor: 
 Re "The Triumph of Hope Over Self-Interest," by David Brooks (Op-Ed, Jan. 12): The Bush administration may have its problems with running the economy or putting out a coherent foreign policy, but this government is highly skilled when it comes to using aspiration, patriotism and the American public's other admirable qualities to advance its own partisan self-interest.

KEITH R. SCHMITZ
Shorewood, Wis., Jan. 13, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (86%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (86%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); TAXES & TAXATION (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; PUBLIC OPINION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BROOKS, DAVID; SCHMITZ, KEITH R 

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2003 



482 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: BEIJING; 
China Offers to Be Host of Direct U.S.-North Korea Talks

BYLINE:  By ERIK ECKHOLM 

DATELINE: BEIJING, Jan. 14 

 BODY:
China stepped up an effort today to defuse the North Korea nuclear crisis, offering to act as host to direct talks between the United States and North Korea should both sides agree.
 The offer reflected the high importance China attaches to resolving a problem that could potentially destabilize its northeast border or damage its emerging friendship with the United States. 
 In Washington, the White House said it welcomed China's involvement and appeared receptive to talks with Pyongyang, though officials insisted that an end to North Korea's nuclear plans was not negotiable. There was no immediate response to the offer from the Pyongyang government. 
Although China is a longtime ally of North Korea, it strongly opposes North Korean development of nuclear weapons and long-range missiles, which it fears could set off an arms race or conflict in East Asia.
At the same time, China does not want social chaos or war on its borders and hopes to head off harsh international economic sanctions against the North that would produce hordes of refugees or even cause the Pyongyang government to collapse, bringing pro-Western military forces to its border.
"North Korea provides China with a big security buffer," said Shen Dingli, a defense expert at Fudan University in Shanghai. "We can't risk losing this."
China made the offer to act as a host the same day an American diplomat, Assistant Secretary of State James A. Kelly, arrived in Beijing for talks on the impasse over North Korea's nuclear weapons plans. Mr. Kelly, who conferred with South Korean officials on Sunday and Monday, has tried to convey the message that the United States has no desire for war with North Korea and that it might consider economic assistance to North Korea if it backed off its recent nuclear threats.
"The key at present is for the parties concerned to resume dialogue," said Zhang Qiyue, a Foreign Ministry spokeswoman, at a regularly scheduled briefing today.. "We've had frequent contact with all the parties concerned."
In response to a question, Ms. Zhang said, "If the relevant sides are willing to hold dialogue in Beijing, I think we would have no difficulties with that."
China is formally an ally of North Korea and provides essential trade and aid, but officials here often express frustration with the unpredictability of the government in Pyongyang and say their leverage is limited. 
The nuclear impasse is an enormous headache for China, which hopes for regional stability and closer ties with the United States as it pursues economic development.
Because it is one of the few countries with regular access to North Korean leaders, though, China has in recent years played what American officials have often called a "constructive role" in easing tensions in the Koreas. If China can help resolve the current crisis, it may gain favor with the Bush administration.
President Jiang Zemin discussed the Korean issue with President Bush in a telephone call on Friday. The North Koreans had just announced that they would withdraw from the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty, prompting an unusual if mild rebuke from Beijing.
Today, Ms. Zhang repeated China's concern. "We are clearly not in favor of the D.P.R.K.'s withdrawal from the nonproliferation treaty, " she said, using the initials for North Korea's formal name, Democratic People's Republic of Korea.
In Beijing on Saturday, in a statement that must have displeased Chinese leaders, North Korea's ambassador ratcheted tensions still higher by repudiating Pyongyang's promise in 1999 not to test long-range ballistic missiles. Such a test in 1998, in which a North Korean missile flew over Japan, sent shivers through Asia and upset Beijing because it increased Japanese support for the American military alliance and for development of missile defenses. 
Today, Ms. Zhang declined to say whether the Chinese Government had been surprised by North Korea's provocative statement on Saturday, but said, "No party should take moves that would further escalate the situation." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Assistant Secretary of State James A. Kelly talked to reporters today at a Beijing hotel. Mr. Kelly arrived in Beijing last night as China offered to act as host to talks between the United States and North Korea. China is an ally of North Korea, but opposes its development of nuclear weapons. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); ARMS RACE (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); TERRORISM (72%); REFUGEES (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (67%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; TERRORISM 

PERSON: KELLY, JAMES A (ASST SEC); ECKHOLM, ERIK 

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (93%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (74%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); EAST CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%) NORTH KOREA; CHINA; BEIJING (CHINA)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2003 



483 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: Borrowing Seems Inevitable To Close State Budget Gap 

BYLINE:  By AL BAKER 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 14 

 BODY:
With 10 weeks left until the end of the fiscal year, Gov. George E. Pataki is running out of time to close a budget gap projected at $2.5 billion, and it appeared certain today that the state would have to borrow money to balance the books.
 Budget analysts said that borrowing to close a budget gap, thought by many officials to be inevitable now, was extremely unwise, as it would only add to next year's deficit, which has been projected to reach at least $10 billion. 
 Yet today there appeared to be no significant movement toward a budget solution in either the State Assembly or the Senate, and the governor's office offered no alternative plans to manage a problem that all agreed was growing worse by the day. 
And with the legislative session in its second week, Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, the Democratic leader, left for a weeklong visit to Israel, leaving not only the budget gap unaddressed, but also his own ambitious legislative agenda, which includes the extension of rent control laws that are soon to expire.
The Republican governor stood fast with his idea to cover part of the gap by borrowing $4 billion backed by the annual payment the state receives in a court settlement from tobacco companies. The governor never provided legal language or a timetable for the Legislature to act.
The Republican leader of the State Senate, Joseph L. Bruno, had urged his colleagues on both sides of the aisle last month to return to the Capitol to deal with the budget shortfall. But today he announced a plan to address the broader legislative issues that make New York's annual budget process a prolonged ordeal, and proposed a pair of government reform bills to encourage legislative action. The package is likely to make little headway beyond Senate passage, observers said, and the speaker, who has offered his own reform plans in the past, has ideas for resolving this year's problem.
"I have never seen them go this deeply into a fiscal year with this big a problem, and with no plan for completely dealing with it," said E. J. McMahon, an analyst with the Manhattan Institute, speaking of Mr. Pataki, Mr. Bruno and Mr. Silver. "You don't get a sense that they have any mutual understanding on this stuff."
All the signs seemed to suggest that the state was likely to borrow.
Alan G. Hevesi, the new comptroller, said he did not think that the state's finances could be balanced this year without some form of borrowing. An aide to Mr. Silver agreed, saying: "Look, we're going to borrow. I don't care what anyone tells you."
Mr. Bruno said the state might have to resort to short-term borrowing, like issuing revenue anticipation notes, to solve the cash flow problems.
"It will probably lead to short-term borrowing that we'll have to deal with then in the next budget cycle," Mr. Bruno said. Under state law, such short-term borrowing must be accounted for within the next fiscal year, which starts on April 1.
The budget gap stems from the economic downturn, which has given the state its worst revenue shortfall in decades. Because December tax collections were lower than anticipated and the state has fallen short in efforts to reduce its work force, the administration has now put the budget gap at $2.5 billion this year and at least $10 billion next year.
Abraham M. Lackman, a longtime budget expert who was secretary of the Senate's Finance Committee until November, said the gap could be $9 billion to $12 billion in the next fiscal year.
At a forum on New York City's budget at the Federal Reserve Bank in Lower Manhattan today, Mr. Lackman said that the state was experiencing two consecutive years of declining tax revenues for the first time since 1940 and 1941.
"Last year, the state saw its tax base decline by around 4 percent," said Mr. Lackman, who is now president of the Commission on Independent Colleges and Universities. "I expect the state to see another 5 percent decline in revenues for this year."
The state's fiscal woes could make it harder for New York City to pull through its own budget crisis, several budget experts warned at the forum. Mr. Lackman said the state's distress made it highly unlikely that it would be able to bail out the city as it has during previous problems, and he warned that the city might be running a risk by counting on some help from the state.
But he said the crisis might act as a catalyst that could spur the state to approve some of the politically difficult things, like tort reform, that the city is seeking for budget relief.
City Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr., who sponsored the forum along with the New York City Partnership, said he thought the city was "overly optimistic" in its expectation of budget help from Albany. "I think we are going to be very disappointed," he said.
Mr. Pataki does not intend to announce his own plan until Jan. 29, but he and lawmakers have before them several gap-closing options, officials from both parties said.
About $700 million in tax stabilization reserve funds, or rainy day funds, could be tapped, they said, although that would leave the funds virtually depleted.
The administration could try to obtain more federal aid money, though that is considered unlikely, given Washington's growing deficit and the vast need by so many states that are also feeling the effects of a weak economy. Mr. Hevesi today released his office's analysis of the Bush administration's plans for stimulating the economy, which he said showed a loss of $500 million in revenue next year to New York State.
The state could also institute a host of cash management initiatives, including putting off the payment of some debt, budget analysts said.
Mr. McMahon, a critic of state and city fiscal practices, said that short-term borrowing would be a step backward for the state that could also hurt later when Wall Street bond rating agencies took it into account.
"I think it would really threaten their bond rating and their credibility in the municipal financial community if they just went out and floated a deficit note," Mr. McMahon said.
The state is also up against an economy that seems to be getting weaker, rather than stronger.
Mr. Hevesi said that the problem was aggravated by the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attack on the World Trade Center, but that the economy had shown earlier signs of entering a recession. He suggested that spending should have been curtailed in the state much sooner than it had been.
"We knew there was a recession coming, we knew that there were going to be deficits," Mr. Hevesi said. "We knew that two years ago. It would have been better to start dealing with this issue earlier rather than later." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (96%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BUDGET FORECASTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); CASH FLOW (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); BONDS (69%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (69%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (67%); RENT CONTROL (67%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (66%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; GOVERNMENT BONDS; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS 

PERSON: BAKER, AL; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); ALBANY, NY, USA (68%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2003 



484 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 94 words

HEADLINE: Poverty in Cuba 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "Two Things Linger in Cuba: Fidel and a Pointless Embargo," by Adam Cohen (Editorial Observer, Jan. 12): 
 No argument over the most effective tactics for ousting Fidel Castro can be premised on the claim that Cubans "live in poverty as a result of" the American embargo. Cubans' destitution is a direct result of the freedom-strangling policies dictatorially imposed for decades by their self-appointed ruler. And as long as Fidel Castro retains power, no potential benefits from increased trade can be secure.

TARA SMITH
Austin, Tex., Jan. 12, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (84%); TRENDS (82%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (90%) CASTRO, FIDEL (PRES); SMITH, TARA 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%) CUBA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%) CUBA

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2003 



485 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1761 words

HEADLINE: The Burger Takes Center Stage 

BYLINE:  By ED LEVINE 

 BODY:
I HAVE eaten hamburgers every day for the last two months. I have traveled the five boroughs of New York City to do so. And in the city's lowliest corner diners and loftiest expense account restaurants, I have found satisfaction. New York, my research has documented again and again, is a hamburger heaven. 
 All are represented here: the bar burgers, diner burgers, white-tablecloth loaves and fast-food pucks, flame-broiled, pan-seared and roasted. All in some way are deserving of praise. For every New Yorker, my relentless eating suggested, there is a hamburger. 
 With the opening a few months ago of Blue 9 Burger in the East Village, this discovery reached a kind of apotheosis. Truly every burger style is now represented in New York, as Blue 9 serves what might be the city's first California-style hamburger. It is reminiscent of the ethereal hamburgers served by the West Coast's In-N-Out Burger chain: a thinnish patty of meat on a toasted bun with lettuce, tomato and Thousand Island dressing. 
The restaurant already faces competition, however. Tucked away in a corner of the Parker Meridien Hotel's grand lobby is the newly opened Burger Joint, which dispenses a thicker, though smaller in diameter, four-ounce burger on a paper plate.
Burgers go way back in New York. Introduced to the city by German immigrants as steak served in the Hamburg style, they were on the menu at Delmonico's as early as 1833. At 10 cents a plate, or a shade more than $2 in 2002 dollars, a burger was about the best deal in the restaurant.
This long history explains a bit of why many upscale restaurants still serve burgers, at least at lunch. A tremulous economy is part of it, too. Danny Meyer, an owner of the Union Square Cafe, said he currently serves more than 40 burgers a day.
"Especially in these uncertain times," Mr. Meyer said, "a juicy, two-fisted hamburger provides comfort and certainty."
The burger at Union Square Cafe costs $12.50 and comes with French fries; it isn't even close to the city's most expensive. For many years that title was held by the "21" Club, with its $26 burger made with houseground top round and sirloin, which Eric Blauberg, the chef, has recently rejiggered to include duck fat and fresh thyme and marjoram. 
It's a flavorful burger. But really, what kind of a burger joint requires a gentleman to wear a jacket and suggests a tie?
Then Daniel Boulud stepped forward with a $29 hamburger at his DB Bistro Moderne on West 44th Street, although some burger purists insist that with its interior stuffing of black truffles, foie gras and braised short ribs it is a hamburger in name only. 
"It's delicious," said Alan Richman, the food columnist of GQ, "but it certainly doesn't resemble any of the lousy burgers I grew up with in the Philadelphia suburbs."
That's not surprising. It is hard to imagine a burger in Mr. Richman's neighborhood served, as Mr. Boulud's is, on a housemade bun with toasted Parmigiano Reggiano, tomato confit, chicory and fresh horseradish and a side order of habit-forming fries.
More recognizable to Mr. Richman, perhaps, but even more expensive, is the new reigning champion of hamburger pricing: a $41 monster that has just appeared on the menu at the Old Homestead on Ninth Avenue, built of beer-fed Kobe beef, with lobster mushrooms and microgreens, on a Parmesan twist roll. It is genuinely lousy, a mushy, gray thing of loose consistency and little flavor.
The Old Homestead and DB burgers are just two of the extreme burger variations available in New York. Indeed, in New York, if you can grind it and cook it, someone will call it a hamburger.
La Sandwicherie, carved out of the back of the kitchen of the Moroccan restaurant Zitoune, on Gansevoort Street, serves Moroccan-inspired burgers, made with spicy lamb sausage and salmon. At Dim Sum Go Go in Chatham Square in Chinatown, Charn-Hing Man, the chef, makes a burger with a patty of dumpling filling served on a steamed bun. And at Marseille in Midtown, Alex Urena makes a Provencal-inspired seafood burger with salmon, shrimp and scallops topped with a harissa mayonnaise and served on a brioche bun.
Mr. Urena's fish burger is particularly fine. But more in tune with the common New York burger experience is the superlative beef patty available on East 51st Street, at Prime Burger, ne Hamburg Heaven.
Founded in 1938, Hamburg Heaven gently played off its location across the street from St. Patrick's Cathedral with a slogan printed on its menus and doors: "The Gates of Heaven -- Never Closed." Rita Hayworth and Henry Fonda were regulars, fans of the restaurant's prime beef burgers, homemade pies and cakes and perhaps also of its one-person booths with swivel trays that looked like school desks.
Hamburg Heaven fell victim to overly ambitious expansion plans, but New Yorkers can still eat those same burgers and pies in those selfsame booths for one at Prime Burger, which took over the location in 1965. The single-occupancy booths are a particularly lovely anachronism: take your coat off before you sit down, as the space is so confining you'll find yourself twisting like a contortionist to do so after the fact.
Neighborhood taverns and bars have also long been havens for superlative New York hamburgers. The Old Town Bar on East 18th Street has served outstanding burgers since 1980 (the bar itself has been open since 1892). P. J. Clarke's saloon on Third Avenue is currently closed for renovation, but it served its signature small bacon cheeseburgers for 53 years before it was shuttered. Philip A. Scotti, the current owner, promises that the burgers will return. And Upper East Side residents have been eating the burgers at J. G. Melon's for 30 years. 
Burgers can also be found at virtually every coffee shop and diner in the five boroughs. I have had dozens of cheeseburgers at the Cosmic Coffee Shop right off Columbus Circle, and though the Cosmic burger can hardly qualify as great, it is certainly satisfying and graciously served by the warmhearted people who work there. It is a perfectly good burger, and in New York that counts a lot.
The Burger Joint on Broadway and 77th Street serves a similar function (as well as a fine burger) for the Upper West Side, though service there can be a bit more harried. And Downtown artists and families get their good-enough burger fix at Joe Jr.'s on the Avenue of the Americas and 11th Street.
Just what goes into a great hamburger? Here are some ground rules. Burger greatness begins with fresh ground meat , preferably chuck from prime beef, which has more marbling and therefore more fat. The meat should not be too lean -- that results in a mealy, overly dry burger.
THE newly opened Lunchbox Food Company in the West Village makes its excellent burger by grinding hanger steak. Bill Telepan, chef at the Judson Grill, grinds Niman Ranch chuck steak, which he said has a meat-to-fat ratio of 75 to 25. It provides a wonderfully smooth texture and taste to the interior of his hamburgers. And at Peter Luger in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, the burgers (only at lunch) are made of fabulously beefy dry-aged prime beef.
Good meat is only the beginning of a great burger, however. How a burger is cooked also plays a role. Exemplary burgers can be cooked by charcoal, as at Judson Grill, on a griddle as at Blue 9, or in a salamander in the manner of Prime Burger and Peter Luger. The key element is that the cook makes sure there is enough heat to properly sear the ground meat into a tight patty.
And how much meat? As with bagels before them, many New York burgers have fallen prey to a sort of elephantiasis that has left many bagels, at least, looking like spare tires. This obsession with size can be traced to the opening of the first Jackson Hole restaurant in 1973, which served 10-ounce burgers then as now. But bigger is not necessarily better. Unless the ground beef used in the burger is of sufficiently high quality, a diner can end up eating a pile of mushy, tasteless meat. It is also worth noting that bigger burgers also invariably overwhelm their buns, resulting in a dripping mess. (Some burger lovers, particularly those who patronize Corner Bistro in the West Village, consider the mess a virtue.)
Smaller, thinner burgers are more likely to achieve the right ratios of bun to meat to condiment to toppings, which can result in the winsome confluence of flavors and texture that defines the perfect burger.
Still, half-pound burgers have become the norm in New York. For some, there is the impression that more meat represents better value, particularly for a burger in an upscale environment. Mr. Telepan, the chef at the Judson Grill, said he had tried to make his burger smaller to improve the meat-to-bun ratio and to make it easier to eat, but his customers rebelled.
"I started getting complaints that the burger was too small," he said. "So I caved. I myself like a smaller burger."
The half-pound burger has given way to what the owner of Burger Joint, Nick Imiriziades, has dubbed the sumo burger, which weighs in at more than a pound. The sumo has done well. Until recently, Mr. Imiriziades said, his hamburgers came in three sizes: the regular 5-ounce burger, an 8-ounce Big Nick and the sumo. "But no one orders regular anymore," Mr. Imiriziades said. The smallest burger has been relegated to the children's menu.
Then there's the matter of the bun. Purists want their buns lightly toasted or grilled. They are correct. A hamburger bun should be soft enough so that it can embrace the burger and the cheese that comes with it. Store-bought buns work very well, as do those made with brioche dough at fancy-pants burger places like Union Square Cafe and the Judson Grill. The newly opened Burger Joint in the Parker Meridien Hotel has an old-fashioned toaster where the buns revolve around the heating element. As each burger is ordered, one of the young women at the shop puts a bun in the toaster; it's ready the same time the burger is.
Toppings are a matter of personal taste, of course, but the classic New York burger is encased in American or cheddar cheese, with lettuce and tomato and a few slices of onion on the side (burgers that aspire to greatness, I say, should come with sauteed or grilled onions). Fries, of course, should be on the plate as well -- fresh, not frozen, golden brown outside, soft inside, served with plenty of salt. 
And to drink? Mr. Richman of GQ requires "bubbles -- it could be beer or soda or even Champagne." 
I like a shake, or even better, a chocolate malt. That way you get your beverage and your dessert simultaneously. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: (Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)(pg. F1); THICK OR THIN -- The thin grilled patties at Blue 9, above, remind some of California burgers. At Old Town Tavern, center, fat burgers are served in booths.; JUDSON GRILL; DONOVAN'S PUB; DB BISTRO MODERNE; PRIME BURGER; PETER LUGER; BURGER JOINT (Photographs by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)(pg. F6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); FULL SERVICE RESTAURANTS (77%) RESTAURANTS; HAMBURGERS 

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (72%); MERIDIEN HOTEL (55%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (55%)

PERSON: LEVINE, ED 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); WEST USA (76%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (79%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2003 



486 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 547 words

HEADLINE: New Players on Global Warming 

 BODY:
Given the Bush administration's inert approach to global warming, the best hope for getting a start on the problem this year lies with the Senate. The prospect that something will actually happen there improved greatly this week with the introduction of a bipartisan bill bearing the signatures of two marquee sponsors, Joseph Lieberman of Connecticut and John McCain of Arizona. 
 The bill provides an economywide approach to cutting emissions of greenhouse gases, mainly carbon dioxide, that threaten to disrupt the earth's climate in environmentally destructive ways. It would require industrial sources to scale back emissions and would also establish a market-based system of emissions trading, modeled on the successful 1990 acid rain program, to encourage innovation and help polluting industries meet their targets at the lowest possible cost. 
 These targets are more modest than America's obligations under the Kyoto Protocol, the agreement on climate change signed by the Clinton administration in 1997 and rejected as too costly by President Bush. Kyoto has since been ratified by about 100 countries. But given the administration's hostility, even the most aggressive environmentalists in this country would be happy just to establish clear goals and provide incentives for all the big polluters to begin getting a grip on their emissions. 
The McCain-Lieberman initiative is a good place to start. There are other measures on Capitol Hill that address global warming, including a strong bill sponsored by Senator James Jeffords of Vermont that would also impose new limits on other major pollutants that cause smog and acid rain. But these bills are aimed almost exclusively at the electric utilities, whereas McCain-Lieberman is widespread in its application. It also enjoys the support of the major advocacy groups on this issue, as well as that of dozens of progressive companies like Alcoa and British Petroleum that are making emissions reductions in advance of what they are certain will eventually be mandatory targets.
The bill's strongest feature, however, may be its authorship. Mr. Lieberman supported Kyoto and is committed to aggressive action. Mr. McCain is a relatively new ally to the cause, and an indispensable one. As the new chairman of the Senate Commerce Committee, where he commands a majority of like-minded Democrats and moderate Republicans, he has an excellent chance of bringing a useful bill to the Senate floor. The same cannot be said of the other bills like Mr. Jeffords's, which are lodged in the Environment and Public Works Committee, a panel now led by the archconservative James Inhofe of Oklahoma.
Though it's hard to predict how this will play out, there has clearly been a major attitudinal change, even among Republicans, since 1997, when the Senate approved a resolution expressing doubts about the direction the Kyoto talks were then taking. Many legislators are deeply troubled by reports of shrinking glaciers, dying coral reefs and other ecological changes linked to warming. And many of these same lawmakers -- not least Robert Byrd of West Virginia, a co-sponsor of the 1997 resolution -- have lost patience with Mr. Bush's let's-wait-for-more-research stance. The time for the McCain-Lieberman approach may well be at hand. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLOBAL WARMING (92%); EMISSIONS (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); SMOG (78%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (76%); ACID RAIN (76%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (75%); ISLANDS & REEFS (73%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (70%); INFRASTRUCTURE (66%); APPROVALS (65%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (64%) WEATHER; LAW AND LEGISLATION; EDITORIALS; GLOBAL WARMING 

COMPANY: PROGRESSIVE COS INC (65%); ALCOA INC (53%); BP PLC (53%)

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (53%); AA (NYSE) (53%); BP (NYSE) (53%); BP (LSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5146 FISH & SEAFOOD (65%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (53%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (53%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (53%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (53%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (53%)

PERSON: JOE LIEBERMAN (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) LIEBERMAN, JOSEPH I (SEN); MCCAIN, JOHN S (SEN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); EARTH (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2003 



487 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 613 words

HEADLINE: Bush Urges Congress to Extend Welfare Law, With Changes 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 14 

 BODY:
President Bush called on the new Congress today to move quickly to extend the 1996 welfare law for five years and to revise it by imposing stricter work requirements on welfare recipients.
 Speaking at the White House to an audience of women who had left the welfare rolls and found jobs, Mr. Bush urged Congress to take up welfare legislation similar to a bill that passed the Republican-controlled House last year with his support. 
 The Senate, under the control of Democrats last year, developed a different bill in committee, but the legislation never came to the floor for a vote because of a partisan deadlock over money, work requirements and other provisions. As a result, authorization for the federal welfare law technically expired at the end of last year, though it was temporarily extended to keep money flowing to the states, which administer welfare programs. 
With the Senate as well as the House now under Republican control, the president opened a new push for his approach today, despite criticism from Democrats that his plan does not provide enough money and ties the hands of states.
"Today I want to remind the new Congress we have an obligation to reauthorize the welfare bill, welfare reform, to make it work," Mr. Bush said.
The president added that the House and Senate "have got to work closely to achieve the objectives that we have just set out, the idea of getting people to work, make them less dependent upon government, to help people in need, so they can realize their dreams."
It is not clear whether the narrow Republican majority in the Senate will be enough to pass a bill along the lines of Mr. Bush's proposal. Senator Charles E. Grassley, the Iowa Republican who is chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, said the welfare system needed "maintenance and improvements," but he had not yet settled details of any bill he would bring before the committee.
The president's approach would require welfare recipients to work 40 hours a week, although up to 16 could be met by attending school, job-training programs or substance abuse treatment. Under current law, recipients must work 30 hours a week, though up to 10 can be met through other supervised activities.
Mr. Bush said he supported providing the states with $17 billion a year through the main federal welfare program, known as Temporary Assistance for Needy Families. That is the level provided by the current law. He proposed spending an additional $4.8 billion a year for child care, the same as under current law.
Representative Benjamin L. Cardin, Democrat of Maryland, called Mr. Bush's proposal "a step backward that undercuts much of what was accomplished by the successful 1996 welfare reform law."
Other critics of the administration said the 1996 legislation succeeded in moving millions of people off welfare and into the work force, but at a time when the economy was booming. The economy is now sluggish, the unemployment rate has risen to 6 percent from 3.9 a little more than two years ago, and states are facing deep cuts in services because of big budget deficits. All of this suggests that the federal government will need to do more to support state welfare programs, the critics said.
Robert Greenstein, executive director of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal research group, said Mr. Bush was proposing a freeze on financing and imposing expensive mandates on states at the same time that he was pushing for $670 billion in tax cuts, most of which would go to upper-income taxpayers.
"The likely result would be reductions in job training, child care and other services in the years ahead, especially for working poor families," Mr. Greenstein said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The family of Paula Hedrick joined President Bush yesterday at the White House as Ms. Hedrick spoke of benefiting from the welfare law. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (89%); FAMILY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); FAMILY SERVICES (76%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (60%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (50%) WELFARE (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION; WORKFARE AND EMPLOYMENT OF WELFARE RECIPIENTS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; STATES (US) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (58%); BEN CARDIN (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2003 



488 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Music Industry Won't Seek Government Aid on Piracy

BYLINE:  By AMY HARMON 

 BODY:
The major recording companies said yesterday that they would not seek government intervention to prevent digital piracy, in a compromise with computer companies that may hurt the movie industry's efforts to win support for its own anti-piracy plan.
 The music industry and two trade groups representing computer makers and software companies said they had agreed on several basic principles that would help ease the tensions among their industries. Announcing their agreement in Washington, they said they planned to convene a meeting of senior industry executives to discuss technical solutions to combat the illegal copying of digital material. 
 "This agreement says that those who seek to put the burden of piracy on the technology are simply missing the point," said Robert Holleyman, president of the Business Software Alliance, which has Microsoft, Apple Computer and Adobe among its members. "Technology can be part of the solution, but it is not the entire solution." 
As part of the agreement, the Recording Industry Association of America said that under most circumstances it would oppose legislation that would require computers and consumer electronics devices to be designed to restrict unauthorized copying of audio and video material. Technology executives have hotly opposed such measures, which they say would slow innovation, make their devices more expensive and do little to stop piracy.
"We think businesses are capable of meeting these challenges," said Hillary Rosen, the recording industry association president. "Our industries need to work together for the consumer to benefit and for our respective businesses to grow."
In turn, the Business Software Alliance and another technology group, the Computer Systems Policy Project, said they would not support legislation that seeks to clarify and bolster the rights of people to use copyrighted material in the digital age, which the recording industry has opposed as unnecessary.
One such proposal, made by Representative Rick Boucher, Democrat of Virginia, and supported by several consumer groups and some technology companies, including Intel and Gateway, would seek to relax some of the restrictions imposed on users by the 1998 Digital Millennium Copyright Act. The statute makes it a crime for a consumer to make a backup copy or use a clip of video from a DVD, for instance.
"As a matter of first order we believe the marketplace should address these issues," said Ken Kay, executive director of the Computer Systems Policy Project, whose group represents Dell Computer, Intel, Hewlett-Packard and others.
Consumer electronics industry officials did not join the agreement. They said that legislation like Mr. Boucher's is necessary to ensure that consumers can make fair use of digital copyrighted material even when it is secured with technology meant to prevent illegal copying. 
An Intel spokesman said yesterday that his company continued to support Mr. Boucher's legislation, despite signing onto the basic principles of agreement. 
The recording industry's agreement with the computer trade groups is a departure from its longtime alliance with the motion picture industry on the anti-piracy front and underscores for the first time the divergent concerns of music companies and Hollywood. 
With Napster and other file-sharing Internet services in recent years, the music industry may already have taken the hardest hit from digital piracy that it will have to face, as it begins to experiment with technological copy-protection on CD's. 
But the motion picture industry is worried mainly about the future, concerned that digital television broadcasts and movies copied from DVD's will soon be traded over the Internet in the same high volumes as music is currently. Hollywood movie and television studios view federal intervention as a crucial element in avoiding the same fate as their record industry colleagues. 
Jack Valenti, president of the Motion Picture Association of America, said yesterday that his organization still believed that "no reasonable alternative course of action should be eliminated from consideration."
"We are not prepared to abandon the option of seeking technical protection measures via the Congress or appropriate regulatory agency, when necessary," Mr. Valenti, said in a statement. "Designing ways to protect valuable creative works is very much in the long-term best interests of consumers and indispensable to the nourishment of our nation's economy."
Because the recording industry had never been a strong supporter of legislation that would mandate technical solutions to digital piracy, industry analysts said Ms. Rosen appeared to have conceded little that would have a far-reaching effect on the companies she represents. But the decision not to seek government intervention on the piracy issue may make it harder for Mr. Valenti's group to achieve its aims. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (96%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (92%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); RECORD INDUSTRY (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); ONLINE PIRACY (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); COPYRIGHT (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); COPYRIGHT LAW (78%); US DIGITAL MILLENNIUM COPYRIGHT ACT (78%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (74%); COMPUTER MAKERS (73%); CONSUMER LAW (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%) MUSIC; RECORDINGS (AUDIO); COPYRIGHTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER SECURITY; MOTION PICTURES; RECORDINGS (VIDEO); ELECTRONICS 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (85%); APPLE INC (84%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: RECORDING INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (83%) RECORDING INDUSTRY ASSN OF AMERICA; BUSINESS SOFTWARE ALLIANCE; COMPUTER SYSTEMS POLICY PROJECT 

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (85%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (84%); HPQ (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (84%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (84%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (84%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (84%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: RICK BOUCHER (70%) HARMON, AMY 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2003 



489 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: Britain Calls Its Conference on Palestinian Reform a Success 

BYLINE:  By WARREN HOGE 

DATELINE: LONDON, Jan. 14 

 BODY:
Foreign Secretary Jack Straw pronounced a British-sponsored meeting on Palestinian reform a success tonight despite the absence from London of Palestinian representatives barred by the Israeli prime minister, Ariel Sharon, from coming here.
 "This has been a constructive meeting and one which is as much in the interests of the people of Israel as it is in Palestine and the wider community," Mr. Straw said outside 10 Downing Street, where delegates ended the one-day conference with a visit to Prime Minister Tony Blair. 
 Mr. Blair proposed the meeting out of his concern that London and Washington were increasingly seen internationally and in the Muslim world to be practicing what he called "double standards" in paying less attention to re-energizing the Middle East peace effort than to disarming Iraq. 
Mr. Sharon barred the Palestinians, who had been chosen by Yasir Arafat, from leaving the West Bank and the Gaza Strip to come to London after suicide bombers killed 22 people in Tel Aviv on Jan. 5. He rebuffed a personal appeal for reconsideration from Mr. Blair, who said he would hold the meeting anyway.
The Palestinian representatives took part today by video link from Gaza and Ramallah to a conference room in the Foreign Office where 15 delegates from the European Union, the United Nations, the United States, Russia, Jordan, Saudi Arabia and Egypt were seated. 
"We had to find a way around the Israeli decision, and that is what we did today," Mr. Straw explained.
Reporting on the conversations, he said: "There was clear recognition that without credible Palestinian performance on security, the reform agenda will founder. Participants welcomed a clear and unequivocal Palestinian declaration against violence and terrorism."
Mr. Straw said the session had noted "the very significant progress" already made in economic and financial reforms within the Palestinian Authority and laid out plans for a further draft of a new Palestinian constitution providing for a prime minister and a bill of rights to be made available in two weeks.
He said other proposals for reform of public administration and the civil service would also be forthcoming in two weeks. "Continuing terror attacks underscore the fragile nature of all these efforts and demonstrate the need for an immediate, comprehensive cease-fire," he added.
The Palestinians said the success of their reforms depended on an end to current restrictions of their movements, including curfews and road closings. Mr. Straw agreed but said the restrictions should not stand in the way of improving security.
"They have responsibilities, prime responsibilities, to improve the security situation," he said, "and because they can't do everything on account of the security situation doesn't mean they can't do anything."
Mr. Straw said the basis for discussion was the creation of two independent and secure states and the commitment by the so-called quartet of the European Union, the United States, the United Nations and Russia to prepare a "roadmap" for progress to that goal.
Mr. Straw was careful to ascribe the idea to a speech on the Middle East by President Bush on June 24. William Burns, the assistant secretary of state for Near Eastern affairs, attended the meeting as the American representative, but he declined to comment on it.
The Palestinian representative to Britain, Afif Safieh, said, "I am happy to say that the verdict today of the international community is that there is a state which is missing and needs to be created." 
He added, "We have assured our interlocutors that reforms in democracy and meritocracy are a Palestinian aspiration, a Palestinian expectation, a Palestinian right and even a Palestinian duty to ourselves."
Mr. Straw and his Israeli counterpart, Benjamin Netanyahu, clashed on the telephone a week ago over the session, and Israel made it clear today that it still disapproved.
An adviser to Mr. Sharon, Salman Shoval, told the BBC that Israel objected because it held Mr. Arafat -- the head of the Palestine Liberation Organization and its Fatah faction as well as the Palestinian Authority -- responsible for the Jan. 5 bombings. 
"Then this same Yasir Arafat sends people who are part of his terrorist organization in order to bask in the diplomatic limelight in London," he said. "If the Palestinians want to effect reform, reform should be effected right here." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); BOMBINGS (68%); DISARMAMENT (68%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (65%); CURFEW (63%) PALESTINIANS 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%) PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY 

PERSON: JACK STRAW (90%); TONY BLAIR (78%) STRAW, JACK (SEC); HOGE, WARREN 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); JORDAN (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EGYPT (79%); IRAQ (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%) ISRAEL; GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2003 



490 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1257 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: EAST ASIA; 
BUSH SAYS SHIFT BY NORTH KOREA COULD BRING AID

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 14 

 BODY:
President Bush signaled a major shift in approach to North Korea today, saying for the first time that if North Korea abandoned its nuclear weapons program he would consider offering a "bold initiative" that could bring aid, energy and eventually even diplomatic and security agreements to the politically and economically isolated country.
 Just hours before Mr. Bush hinted at the broad outlines of a grand bargain, China offered to arrange a meeting in Beijing in which the United States and North Korea could talk directly. But neither Washington nor Pyongyang has accepted the invitation, and administration officials say they still have no evidence that the Chinese leadership is willing to put more than modest pressure on North Korea to dismantle its two nuclear programs -- a newly discovered uranium enrichment effort and a restarted complex at Yongbyon that can produce bomb-grade plutonium. 
 While Mr. Bush was emphatic today on the choice facing North Korea -- still insisting no deal was possible until Pyongyang dismantles its nuclear facilities in a way inspectors can verify -- his tone changed when he talked about Iraq. Page A9. 
Echoing his aides' arguments that there is no room for Korea-like diplomacy with the leader of Iraq, he said, "I'm sick and tired of games and deception." Raising his voice, he added: "Time is running out on Saddam Hussein. He must disarm."
Mr. Bush spoke just before a luncheon meeting with Poland's president, Aleksander Kwasniewski. Interviewed this afternoon at Blair House, the presidential guest house, Mr. Kwasniewski was asked whether, after speaking to Mr. Bush, he thought there would be a war with Iraq. "Yes," he said, "but I had the sense that he is still listening, still analyzing. He did not say how long he was willing to wait."
As Mr. Bush met with Mr. Kwasniewski, Condoleezza Rice, the national security adviser, was on a mission in New York to meet with one of the chief arms inspectors, Hans Blix. Ms. Rice was believed to be urging Mr. Blix to quickly interview Iraqi scientists outside the country and step up the pace of his searches, but administration officials declined to discuss her trip in any detail.
Mr. Bush's more conciliatory remarks on North Korea marked the first time that he had suggested that a quick disarmament could bring not only economic aid to one of the world's most abject economies but also the security guarantees and diplomatic recognition that the country has long craved. News analysis, Page A12. 
"We expect this issue to be resolved peacefully, and we expect them to disarm," Mr. Bush said, leaving open the question of how he would react if the North Koreans begin to produce plutonium. "We expect them not to develop nuclear weapons. And if they so choose to do so -- their choice -- then I will reconsider whether or not we will start the bold initiative that I talked to Secretary Powell about."
But it is far from clear that the opening Mr. Bush suggested today would be satisfactory to the North Koreans, who have insisted that they would give up their nuclear program only in return for a new, broad deal with Washington -- a prerequisite Mr. Bush has called "nuclear blackmail."
The solution could come through an intermediary like China. But administration officials say they are still wary of the Chinese intervention, fearing that the country is worried less about solving the nuclear problem than it is about a government collapse in Pyongyang that could send refugees streaming across its border. They prefer a new diplomatic initiative championed by Australia, which is sending a delegation to Pyongyang next week to reinforce the American message.
Though White House aides deny it, the president's comments on North Korea appeared to put Mr. Bush on a path parallel to the one that President Bill Clinton was pursuing with Pyongyang in his last months in office. By defining the choice facing Kim Jong Il as both a diplomatic solution and a face-off, it also bore some similarities to one that his deputy secretary of state, Richard L. Armitage, put forth in a paper written before Mr. Bush took office. 
But Mr. Bush's aides, led by Ms. Rice, have been highly critical of Mr. Clinton's 1994 agreement. They say the pact gave too much to the North Koreans upfront while not requiring that they turn over their spent fuel rods -- from which plutonium can be manufactured -- or establish a rigorous inspection regime to prevent Pyongyang from beginning a secret, alternative nuclear program.
Mr. Bush's aides insist there are major differences between his approach and Mr. Clinton's. North Korea must not only refreeze its activities at the nuclear facilities in Yongbyon, they say, but it must actually dismantle them. "We don't ever want to be in the position again where the North Koreans can just flip this switch on again," said one senior administration official.
Mr. Bush seemed to hint at that today when he said, "What this nation won't do is be blackmailed."
Nonetheless, by opening the door to broader talks with North Korea he is almost inviting Pyongyang to explore informally, perhaps through China, Russia or Australia, what kind of aid and guarantees the administration is willing to offer.
There are several ideas -- some old, some new -- circulating in the White House and the State Department about where to go next.
One of them is to fix the defects that the Bush administration has long complained about in the 1994 agreement. Three are often cited. The first is its relatively narrow scope: the accord did not cover North Korea's development or exports of missiles, or its huge conventional forces on the demilitarized zone, or specifically bar a range of other nuclear research outside of Yongbyon. "The next time around, all that has to be included," said one senior official, long hawkish on North Korea.
However, any broader deal would be all the more difficult to negotiate, and a long negotiation gives the North more temptation to try to intimidate the United States into concessions by threatening to produce plutonium, or to resume missile tests over Japan. It would also give them more time to work on their uranium enrichment program.
The second focus is to require North Korea to dismantle Yongbyon rather than just "freeze" its operations, as called for in the 1994 agreement. Mr. Bush, his aides said, never again wants to give North Korea an opening to restart the program. But the threat of resuming work is the only card North Korea holds -- and one it is going to be reluctant to give up.
The third aim is to provide energy aid to North Korea without resorting to nuclear power plants, even the "proliferation resistant" type that Japan and South Korea are now building for the country under the 1994 agreement. The United States is trying to sell the idea of replacing them with conventional, oil-burning plants, which are cheaper and faster.
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell is also exploring, officials say, ways to provide North Korea with the kind of security guarantee it wants, short of the formal "nonaggression agreement" that Kim Jong Il has demanded. "We're thinking of ways that involve a formal, signed statement from the United States, and maybe a parallel statement from the Security Council," said one senior administration official. 
"But will it fly with the North Koreans?" asked the official, who has long dealt with the North. "Beats me. It's possible that they have just decided that the only way to deal with us is to build six or seven nuclear weapons, and then negotiate."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); DISARMAMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); TERRORISM (68%); IRAQ WAR (66%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (77%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (59%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); RICE, CONDOLEEZZA; BLIX, HANS; KWASNIEWSKI, ALEKSANDER (PRES); SANGER, DAVID E; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (72%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CHINA (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); ASIA (92%); EASTERN ASIA (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); POLAND (69%) NORTH KOREA; CHINA; IRAQ; POLAND

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2003 



491 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: Transition in Senate Leads to Impasse and Accusations 

BYLINE:  By CARL HULSE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 14 

 BODY:
Republicans won control of the Senate on Nov. 5, but Democrats are not stepping aside easily.
 What has traditionally been a routine transition of power has turned into a contentious battle as frustrated Republicans accused Democrats today of trying to block the new majority and stall its agenda. 
 "It is tantamount to an attempted coup right here on the floor of the Senate," said Senator Rick Santorum, Republican of Pennsylvania, as the two parties remained unable to reach a deal on reorganization after Republicans won a majority of 51 in last fall's elections. Without the agreements, Democrats remain in charge of committees. 
Republican leaders said the impasse was disenfranchising the voters of 11 states that sent new senators to Washington since they could not yet be seated on any of the panels where most of the business is done. And they said it was blocking Congress from completing work on last year's spending bills, which will be contentious themselves because of planned reductions, as well as other legislative initiatives. It has also stalled hearings.
Democrats said they were simply insisting on the same near-equitable split of committee financing and office space that they gave Republicans when Democrats held the same two-seat margin of control in the last Congress.
"If it was good enough last year, it ought to be good enough this year," said Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic leader.
Republicans said Democrats were executing a strategy to deny the Republicans early legislative momentum and trying to use the impasse to win concessions on the handling of judicial nominations. Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison of Texas cited an e-mail message from a Democratic leadership aide that predicted on Jan. 3 that efforts to shift power would be delayed.
"This is clearly an organized plan," Ms. Hutchison said.
After days of negotiations, Republicans chose to put more public pressure on Democrats to concede. Lawmakers and aides said the rancorous tone of the debate was certain to spill over into coming battles.
"No one can find an example of when the Senate has refused to recognize a new majority," said Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the second-ranking Republican.
The majority leader, Senator Bill Frist of Tennessee, said a resolution he introduced today listing new Republican committee members "simply recognizes the fact that the Republicans won elections in November, that we are in the majority and that it is time for the United States Senate, both sides of the aisles, to make that clear."
As the Senate adjourned tonight, Dr. Frist said that negotiators made substantial progress despite the bickering today and that he hoped a vote could be held on the reorganization plan on Wednesday.
"I believe we are very, very close to working out an agreement," he said.
Democrats indicated they would block any resolution until the matter was resolved. They said that after the change in power caused by the defection of Senator James M. Jeffords of Vermont in 2001, it took a few weeks to work out the details. But Republicans said in that instance they turned over the committee gavels almost immediately.
The main issue is how financing will be divided among the majority and minority members of committees. Before the last Congress, the majority traditionally got two-thirds of the committee's allocation and the minority one-third, giving the ruling party an advantage in staff, research and other resources. With the Senate first split 50-50 in 2001 and then 51-49, the leaders negotiated a new arrangement that divided the resources to reflect the number of members in each camp. Mr. Daschle said that should now be the precedent, but Republicans appear to favor more of a 60-40 split.
Republicans also circulated a letter from Democratic members of the Judiciary Committee that urged Mr. Daschle to seek a set of conditions for judicial nominations as part of the negotiations. Mr. Santorum said the letter was evidence that Democrats were trying to use the organizing negotiations as a lever "to get their procedural agenda through, to try to slow up the nomination process, and potentially the legislative process."
Dr. Frist said the stalemate had left him "handcuffed" on the spending bills, which he had hoped to pass this week but might now be pushed into next week or longer.
Mr. Daschle and his colleagues have been critical of nearly $10 billion in reductions, including what they say is $1 billion from domestic security and $1.7 billion from education.
"We find this all the more egregious, cutting homeland security, cutting education, while the president espouses a 'Leave No Millionaire Behind Act,' its so-called economic stimulus package," Mr. Daschle said.
Dr. Frist said details of the spending package were still being worked out. "Until we can get an appropriation bill or series of bills or omnibus bill or individual bills out there, I don't know what's in it," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Bill Frist, right, said the Senate stalemate left him "handcuffed" on bills. With him were Senators Rick Santorum, left, and George Allen. (Doug Mills/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (73%); COUPS (72%) 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US) 

PERSON: RICK SANTORUM (74%); MITCH MCCONNELL (59%); KAY BAILEY HUTCHISON (59%); TOM DASCHLE (58%) HULSE, CARL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2003 



492 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-7

Bush Signals Major Shift In Approach to North Korea
President Bush signaled a major shift in the administration's approach to North Korea, saying for the first time that if North Korea abandoned its nuclear weapons program he would consider offering what he called a "bold initiative" that could bring aid, energy and eventually even diplomatic and security agreements to the politically and economically isolated country. A1

China stepped up an effort to defuse the North Korea nuclear crisis, offering to act as host to direct talks between the United States and North Korea should both sides agree. A12

Tough Talk From Bush on Iraq
President Bush said that "time is running out on Saddam Hussein" to avert an American-led attack by disarming voluntarily. But the president issued no specific deadline, while Washington's allies reinforced demands that any military action must be approved by the United Nations. A9

3 War Enemies Still at Large
Three leftover enemies from the war in Afghanistan remain at large and, American and Afghan officials say, still pose a potentially lethal threat to peace in the region even as the United States turns its attention toward Iraq. The list includes Osama bin Laden and Mullah Muhammad Omar, the Taliban leader. A11

Police Officer Killed in Britain
A police officer was stabbed to death and four others were wounded during the arrests of three terror suspects in Manchester that police said were linked to the discovery last week of the deadly poison ricin in London. A10

British Crackdown on Porn
More than 1,300 people have been arrested in Britain in the past 10 months as part of a nationwide hunt for users of Internet child pornography. A total of some 7,200 Britons are under suspicion. A7

Labor Won't Join Likud in Israel
The left-of-center Labor Party ruled out joining any government led by Ariel Sharon, increasing the chances that after the elections on Jan. 28, Israel will be governed by a shaky rightist coalition. A6

NATIONAL A13-18

Air Force Pilots in Court Over Attack on Canadians
An Air Force judge began weighing whether two pilots should be court-martialed on charges of involuntary manslaughter, aggravated assault and dereliction of duty for an errant bombing run in Afghanistan that killed four Canadians and wounded eight others. A1

Hearing on Sniper Defendant
Virginia prosecutors told a state judge that fingerprints, notes and phone calls linked Lee Malvo, 17, to the Washington-area sniper shootings. They spoke on the first day of a hearing to decide whether he will be tried as an adult and possibly face a death sentence. A13

Ruling on Double Jeopardy
The Supreme Court ruled that the Constitution's bar against double jeopardy does not protect a murder defendant from being sentenced to death in a new trial after the first jury had deadlocked over the sentence. A14

G.E. Workers Begin Strike
Seventeen thousand workers in 23 states who are angry about General Electric's decision to force employees to pay more for their health coverage began a two-day strike. A14

$8 Million Gift to A.C.L.U.
Peter B. Lewis, the feisty philanthropist who has forced several beneficiaries to practice greater financial discipline, is giving $8 million to the American Civil Liberties Union. A16

EDUCATION B7

Admissions Policy Is Opposed
President Bush has asked administration lawyers to present him with a brief arguing that the University of Michigan's programs for using race in admission decisions go too far, officials said. A1

Plan for Failing Schools
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg will propose that every low-performing school in the city use a single uniform curriculum, officials said. Though Mr. Bloomberg and chancellor, Joel I. Klein, have announced a number of changes to the Department of Education, few have directly affected teaching and learning. B3

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

McGreevey Asks His State To Curb Suburban Sprawl
Gov. James E. McGreevey issued a fervent call to legislators in New Jersey, the most congested state in the nation, to curb the sprawl that he said was devouring 50 acres a day. In his first State of the State address, he spoke with a zeal that surprised planners and environmentalists. B1

F.A.O. Files for Bankruptcy
F. A. O. Inc., which owns F. A. O. Schwarz, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. It is considering closing some of its chain stores. B3

Gotti Prosecutors Open Case
Federal prosecutors opened their case yesterday against Peter Gotti, who the government says is the boss of the Gambino crime family. They evoked the history of Mafia domination of the New York waterfront and repeated their claim of a movie-star extortion. B3

Michael D'Urso, the government's latest Mafia informant, described for the jury what it feels like to be the victim of an attempted rub-out. B3

Neediest Cases B4

ARTS E1-12

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Gene Therapy Trials Suspended
The Food and Drug Administration suspended 27 gene therapy trials involving several hundred patients after learning that a second child treated in France had developed a condition resembling leukemia. A1

OBITUARIES C12

SPORTS D1-7

N.F.L. Vetoes Las Vegas Ad
The National Football League, enforcing a clause in its contracts with networks that prohibits gambling-related advertising, rejected a commercial that the Las Vegas Convention and Visitors Authority submitted to air during the Super Bowl. D3

BUSINESS DAY C1-11

Seven From Datek to Pay Fines
Seven former officials of Datek Online, once heralded as a pioneer in online stock trading, agreed to pay $70 million in fines for what regulators called illegal trading and fraudulent bookkeeping practices. A1

Husband and Wife Suspected
A stock analyst at Lehman Brothers and her husband, a stock trader at SAC Capital Advisors, are under investigation for insider trading. C1

Positive Report From Intel
Intel, the computer chip maker, reported better-than-expected fourth quarter sales and profits and gave investors at least slight reason to hope that the worst of the downturn in the technology industry is over. C1

Asbestos Burden Grows
Travelers Property Casualty will set aside $2.45 billion more to pay potential claims for asbestos-related illnesses and deaths. The action underscores the growing risks of asbestos litigation to the insurance industry. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

DINING F1-14

EDITORIAL A20-21

Editorials: New players on global warming; Tony Blair's keen instincts; a crucial decision on race; the not-so-garden state.

Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Maureen Dowd.

Crossword E9
TV Listings E11
Public Lives B2
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); AIR FORCES (89%); MILITARY OFFENSES (88%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (86%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (84%); DOUBLE JEOPARDY (84%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); PEACE PROCESS (77%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (73%); TERRORISM (73%); MILITARY COURTS (73%); ARMED FORCES (73%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (73%); SEX OFFENSES (73%); TALIBAN (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); DISARMAMENT (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); MURDER (70%); DEATHS (70%); MANSLAUGHTER (70%); ARRESTS (70%); HOMICIDE (70%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (69%); BOMBINGS (69%); PORNOGRAPHY (69%); LITIGATION (69%); APPROVALS (68%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (68%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (67%); JUDGES (66%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (65%); EVIDENCE (65%); SENTENCING (65%); SUPREME COURTS (65%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (65%); CHILD PORNOGRAPHY (64%); INTERNET CRIME (64%); INVOLUNTARY MANSLAUGHTER (64%); RELIGION (51%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (69%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (69%); LONDON, ENGLAND (69%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); ISRAEL (92%); CANADA (92%); IRAQ (92%); ENGLAND (69%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2003 



493 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: Running Fast Into The Past 

BYLINE:  By MAUREEN DOWD; E-mail: liberties@nytimes.com

 BODY:
George W. Bush designed his entire political career and presidency to make sure he would never face this moment.
 The moment where he would pick up USA Today one morning midway through his term and read that his stratospheric approval numbers were dropping because more and more people think he is out of touch with average Americans. 
 For the first time since 9/11, Mr. Bush's ratings have slipped below 60 percent in a new USA Today/CNN/Gallup poll that reflects growing unease with his approach on the economy and taxes, domestic policy and international threats. 
Craig Patterson, a 45-year-old ironworker in St. Louis worried about dwindling construction jobs, summed it up for USA Today: "I trust Bush with my daughter, but I trust Clinton with my job."
Mr. Bush and Karl Rove may be disproving Santayana: They have dedicated themselves to learning from the history of the first President Bush, and yet they seem doomed to repeat it anyway.
Bush Senior was fired by voters who thought he was aloof from their economic suffering, overly consumed with foreign affairs and insulated by an inner circle of rich white patricians. He did little to appease his conservative base and, after the '88 campaign, chafed at being positioned by strategists. In his re-election campaign he was reduced to pleading: "Message: I care."
W. and Mr. Rove tried to reverse the playbook, coddling their base and being hard-nosed on tactics. The strategist packaged the younger Bush as a leader who cared, even if his compassion never evolved from slogan to policy, even if his concern for those in need of stock dividend tax breaks trumped his concern for those in need of stem cell research.
So the pair, fresh from their midterm triumph, must be flabbergasted to hear the same sort of complaints that tripped up Poppy: a Bush favoring rich Republicans and tone-deaf to the alarms of ordinary Americans.
In the new poll, Mr. Bush is still seen as a strong and decisive leader whom the American people want to support. They liked his tough talk after 9/11; they did not want America to be pushed around, or seem afraid. 
But in these anxious times, people are uneasy about the inconsistency of his foreign policy and the inflexibility of his domestic agenda, with conservatives setting the pace at home and in Iraq.
It's hard to understand the economic or political logic of Mr. Bush's relentless tax cuts. Felix Rohatyn wryly suggests that, if you want to push the Dow up a few percentage points, it would be better to take the $360 billion in tax breaks and use it to just buy stocks directly.
The states are struggling with giant deficits, tax increases and cutbacks in programs so severe that some are releasing prisoners. So what good will it do to put Mr. Bush's little tax break in one pocket while taking money from the other pocket to pay higher state taxes?
Despite their desire to support their president, many Americans are uncomfortable with the ideological rigidity of the administration -- the headlong tax cuts unashamedly benefiting the wealthy; the selection of judges who want to reverse two decades of social policy; the moves to impose new restrictions on abortion, and the deletion of information on a Centers for Disease Control Web site about lifesaving condoms, which are viewed by the religious right as morally wrong. 
It's equally hard to fathom the president's bipolar approach to nuclear threats. Yesterday he hurled new ultimatums at Saddam Hussein. "I'm sick and tired of games and deception," he said, even as he responded to Kim Jong Il's games and deception with pleas and promises to send food and oil to Pyongyang. There are inspectors in Iraq who are not finding nuclear weapons, while inspectors have been kicked out of North Korea, which has admitted to a nuclear weapons program. 
So what's the message here? If Saddam had already developed nukes, we'd send him a fruit basket? But since he hasn't, we'll send him Tomahawk missiles. We know Saddam's weak, but we're pretending he's strong so America can walk tall by whupping him.
North Korea used its own version of our pre-emptive strike doctrine to blackmail us, and make the administration's global swaggering look suspiciously selective.
And where in the name of Rummy is Osama? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); TAX LAW (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); POLITICS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); TERRORISM (71%); DIVIDENDS (63%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (50%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (50%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PUBLIC OPINION; USA TODAY-CNN-GALLUP POLL; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); TERRORISM 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); GEORGE H W BUSH (79%); KARL ROVE (59%) DOWD, MAUREEN; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (92%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2003 



494 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: ASIAN DIPLOMACY; 
Solving the North Korean Puzzle: Once Again, the U.S. Will Try Persuasion

BYLINE:  By STEVEN R. WEISMAN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 14 

 BODY:
President Bush's new approach to North Korea, involving an offer to consider food and fuel aid upon an agreement to dismantle the North's nuclear program, reflects a determination on the part of the administration to see the Korean crisis resolved peacefully and the focus kept on Iraq.
 With his advisers split on how to handle North Korea -- in an administration prone to ideological divisions on many international issues -- President Bush has been pressed by hard-liners to try to further isolate North Korea and hope that the dictatorship of Kim Jong Il will give in to American demands or collapse. 
 That course could have intensified the crisis and left North Korea steadily building up its nuclear weapons program, which American intelligence officials say may already have one or two bombs and is capable of amassing a half-dozen weapons within six months.
But some diplomats expressed skepticism today that talk of conciliation toward the North would accomplish anything soon, both because of North Korea's intransigence on the nuclear issue and because it is looking for guarantees on its security rather than for economic benefits. 
"The administration seems to be dangling carrots in front of their noses, but I don't think that's going to be enough," an Asian diplomat said, adding that the best way of resolving the crisis would be for the North to take a "concrete and tangible" step in the nuclear area.
Mr. Bush raised the possibility of rewarding the right behavior by the North a week after the United States and its allies in the region disavowed the idea of quid pro quos. Mr. Bush declared today that he was "absolutely convinced" that the problem would be "solved in a peaceful way."
Since the North Korea issue erupted last fall, when it was disclosed that the North was enriching uranium for possible use for nuclear weapons, the Bush administration has sought to play down the urgency of the problem, while escalating its military buildup in the Persian Gulf. 
The administration's distinction between two of the members of the "axis of evil" Mr. Bush defined in his State of the Union message a year ago was underscored by the diplomacy unfolding this week.
The Chinese and Russians have announced their own contacts with the government of Mr. Kim, and Maurice Strong of Canada, a special United Nations envoy, was in Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, to talk about food aid. An Australian envoy was on his way there, and South Korea was planning its own talks with the North next week.
In addition, Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico held nearly nine hours of discussions with two North Korean delegates over the weekend. Anyone who spoke with the North Koreans was instructed to say that the United States was "willing to address the issues they have identified," an administration official said.
The proviso, he and others add, is that the North Koreans not simply talk about their nuclear programs but talk about their willingness to abandon them. Despite all the meetings, the administration maintains that it has not yet seen such a sign, but there is hope that the North will get the message.
The crisis over North Korea erupted at such an unpropitious moment -- when Washington was orchestrating military and political support for a confrontation with Iraq and preparing Americans for a possible war -- that it has seemed to some almost intentional.
The rationale for dealing with Iraq and North Korea differently was addressed in an unusual way today by Ari Fleischer, the White House spokesman, who said that while Iraq had menaced its neighbors over the last several years, North Korea had not carried out any military assaults at least since the Korean War.
While it is true that North Korea has not waged war on other countries since then, it has sent commandos into the South via submarine and secret tunnel, abducted South Korean and Japanese citizens and assassinated or tried to kill many South Korean leaders, including four cabinet ministers in 1983.
Both Mr. Bush and Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, who has taken as tough a public line as the administration on North Korea, have stepped up signals this week of the administration's readiness to negotiate.
At the White House, Mr. Bush did not specify what sort of aid package might be considered for North Korea in the future, but he reminded listeners that the administration was prepared to offer what he said was "a bold initiative" last year, before disclosures about the North's nuclear ambitions.
The model for aid to North Korea, since 1994, has been the so-called framework agreement negotiated in the Clinton administration that year with the help of former President Jimmy Carter. It called for the United States, South Korea, Japan and the European Union to offer fuel oil and help in building a new light water nuclear reactor that could not easily be used to make a bomb.
In return, North Korea froze its nuclear reactor at Yongbyon and disavowed any interest in nuclear weapons. Now that it was found to have cheated on that accord, administration officials say that even if an aid program is revived for North Korea, it cannot resemble the discarded 1994 framework.
The need for something entirely different was underscored by Mr. Powell in an interview that appeared in The Wall Street Journal today, saying that the United States needed "a new arrangement" to constrain North Korea. For example, Mr. Powell said that while the 1994 accord promised help to build the light water reactors, the United States might give a green light to "some other form of energy."
That sort of talk was not being uttered a week or two ago by any administration officials. At that time, administration officials said they were only thinking of tightening economic penalties on the North in what one official called a policy of "tailored containment." When talk of such penalties was reported in the American news media, the North Korean government reacted with scathing denunciations of Washington and threats of war.
An administration official said today that a better way of describing American policy now was "persistent pressure" rather than "tailored containment."
By that, he said he meant that American allies and partners were all trying to send the message that North Korea had only to signal its willingness to talk about reaching the goal of ending its nuclear programs to get a real negotiating process going.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Maurice Strong of Canada, a special United Nations envoy, was greeted by a North Korean official as he arrived yesterday in Pyongyang, the North Korean capital. Mr. Strong said he planned to discuss food aid. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (88%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (74%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (69%); TERRORISM (68%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); KIM JONG IL (78%); BILL RICHARDSON (59%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); WEISMAN, STEVEN R; STRONG, MAURICE; KIM JONG IL 

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%) NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (52%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); GULF STATES (58%) NORTH KOREA; IRAQ; RUSSIA; CHINA

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2003 



495 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 116 words

HEADLINE: The Invisible Jobless 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Jobless, and Stunned," by Bob Herbert (column, Jan. 9): 
 In addition to the long-term unemployed, another group of American workers is trying to survive without jobs and without unemployment insurance: independent contractors. 
 In recent years, as corporations became leaner and meaner, they eliminated more and more jobs and used independent contractors to get the work done. Downsized workers who couldn't find staff jobs became independent contractors, ineligible for benefits.
These people are also unable to find work in the current economy. Since they were not "employed," they are not counted among the "unemployed" and remain invisible.

BETSY FEIST
New York, Jan. 9, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SELF EMPLOYMENT (90%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT 

PERSON: FEIST, BETSY 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2003 



496 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1519 words

HEADLINE: Doubt Meets Determination On the Road to Sundance 

BYLINE:  By RICK LYMAN 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Jan. 15 

 BODY:
Times are always tough in the indie world, and by all accounts they are particularly tough on the eve of this year's Sundance Film Festival, which opens Thursday night with a gala in Salt Lake City before moving up to Park City, Utah, for its remaining nine days.
 Keith Gordon, whose latest film, "The Singing Detective," will be the opening night film in Park City, has yet to find a United States distributor for it. He wonders whether the film, based on Dennis Potter's groundbreaking British television mini-series from 1986, would generate anything like the bidding wars that have sometimes transformed Sundance into the buzz capital of the movie world. 
 "We decided that rather than shopping the movie around, we'd hold it back and really unveil it at Sundance," Mr. Gordon said. "Now, we'll see what happens." 
Though Sundance continues to be the most important platform for American independent film and the one place where the entire indie world comes together to make deals and to take stock, there is a widespread sense that the market for independent film financing is depressed. 
In interviews with more than a dozen filmmakers, producers and indie-film distributors in recent days, it became clear that the decline of the United States economy, the disappearance of much German financing and the near collapse of once-lucrative pay-television deals in Europe (and to a lesser extent in Asia) have forced filmmakers to seek new ways to finance and distribute their work.
Ed Solomon, a well-regarded screenwriter, whose first feature as a director, "Levity," will be featured at Thursday night's gala in Salt Lake City, described the six-year struggle to make the film, a drama about an ex-convict's uneasy return to society. "I went through that humiliating thing of calling friends of people who were related to people who had money," he said. "At one point, if the film hadn't happened, I'd have been forced to sell my house."
Even after Billy Bob Thornton agreed to play the lead role, and stars like Morgan Freeman and Holly Hunter joined the cast, it took Mr. Solomon another year to raise the cash. "In the end I had to be willing to make the movie for so little money that it was mathematically impossible for the financiers to lose their investment," he said. "That was the only way to get it done. And I wanted to get it done so badly that I was happy to do it."
Mr. Gordon did not have that kind of trouble with "Singing Detective." Though he had to shoot it on an extremely tight budget, by the time he came to the project, it was fully financed by Mel Gibson's production company, Icon, and had Robert Downey Jr. as its star and Mr. Gibson in a supporting role (as a bald, slouching, nearsighted psychiatrist). 
But there is no question that filmmakers and stars are being forced to shoulder even more of the risk if they want to get their films made.
"It's a good thing for us," said John Schmidt, co-founder of ContentFilm, an indie production company. "It forces directors and producers to think more like entrepreneurs, to be creative about how they can shoot something at a certain budget and to attract stars willing to participate in the economics of the picture rather than taking their fees up front."
This has led some to explore new ways to finance and distribute independent films. Larry Meistrich, a founder of the defunct Shooting Gallery production company, has formed Film Movement, which mixes theatrical releases of its indie films in major cities, where they are likely to find an audience, with simultaneous DVD releases elsewhere. Civilian Pictures is considering an arrangement in which investors would buy stock in individual films much as they do in companies.
Geoffrey Gilmore, the festival's director, said he had heard the dire predictions from some that the money crunch would cause the number of films entered in the festival to dwindle. But thus far, he said, that has not happened. "We did have more entries arrive later than usual this year, partly, I think, because they didn't get their production money in time," Mr. Gilmore said. "There's no question that it's tough out there. But I think the result may be stronger movies. More of the films we're seeing are the products of a real personal passion rather than driven by commercial considerations."
In other words, when the dot-com and the pay-television millions were flowing in the 1990's, and filmmakers found it easier to raise cash, a lot of movies were inexpensive imitations of Hollywood genre pictures, intended to bring fledgling directors to the attention of the mainstream studios.
"We're not seeing many of those genre pictures anymore," Mr. Gilmore said. Tough times have weeded out all but the most passionate.
And despite the hard times, there is no shortage of aspiring filmmakers. The festival had 832 dramatic features submitted this year, Mr. Gilmore said, compared with 750 last year. Even more surprising, he said, the number of short films submitted jumped to 3,400 from 2,100 last year.
One result is that many more of the films are being shot with digital cameras, making them cheaper for a number of reasons, but mostly because there are no film costs. The number of digital dramatic features entered went to 537 from 440 last year, Mr. Gilmore said.
Predictions differ about how robust the acquisitions market will be at this year's festival. Last year Miramax jump-started the event by paying $5 million at the end of a brisk bidding war for the comedy "Tadpole," which went on to a disappointing theatrical release. In all, 26 films from last year's festival landed American distributors.
But this year many distribution executives -- like Amir Malin, chief executive of Artisan Entertainment, and Jon Feltheimer of Lions Gate -- say they see only a handful of movies at Sundance that interest them.
Bob Berney, president of Newmarket Films, said: "My sense regarding the market is that this doesn't seem to be a bidding war sort of year given the economics. But you never know."
Some of this talk is due to the annual stare-down that takes place between distributors and filmmakers in the days leading up to Sundance. Distributors always claim that the market is terrible, while filmmakers and their representatives claim a robust crop of potential money makers will be introduced and fought over.
John Sloss, one of the most active filmmaker representatives at Sundance, said he discounted the poor-mouthing from distributors who, after all, need films to distribute.
"If you look at the supply and demand, the demand is absolutely there," he said. "The last year was the most robust I can remember for specialized films. You would think that would translate very fluidly into more resources for financing, but so far there has been a sort of disconnect."
The issue, Mr. Malin said, is that for every indie hit there are dozens of films that barely register at the increasingly competitive art-house box office.
There will be 16 feature films in competition at this year's Sundance, from "The Cooler," with William M. Macy as an unlucky gambler, to "American Splendor," starring Paul Giamatti as a depressed comic-book author, and "Pieces of April," with Katie Holmes enduring the Thanksgiving dinner from hell.
Add to that 16 documentaries in competition, 26 world cinema offerings, a new section featuring 9 foreign documentaries and, out of competition, 17 features in the American Showcase series and 18 other premieres, and there will be plenty to fill up more than a dozen cinemas and makeshift screening rooms at the festival.
Mr. Gordon said that he was hoping to enjoy the experience and that he remained convinced that despite appearances independent film remains a potent force.
The arrival of a film like "Singing Detective" might indicate a lack of originality in the indie world. Are indie filmmakers now bowdlerizing foreign works much as American television networks and Hollywood studios have done? Not if you look below the surface. 
Dennis Potter, who died in 1994, created this grimly comic story of a man plagued with debilitating psoriasis who escapes his torment by fantasizing about a film noir world in which he is a private eye. He also had the ideas to update the fantasy sequences from the florid 1940's to the grittier 50's and to transfer his detective from Britain to America.
"I'm just concentrating on the movie and letting the people at Icon worry about getting a U.S. distributor and the rest of it," Mr. Gordon said. "There's no question that this is a grim time for money in the independent film world. But I'm confident it's all going to work out."
At least one filmmaker, Larry Charles, has less to worry about going into Park City. His film, "Masked and Anonymous," with a cast including Bob Dylan, Jeff Bridges, John Goodman, Jessica Lange and Penelope Cruz, was picked up by Sony Pictures Classics on Tuesday.
"Selling the movie has never been an issue for me," said Mr. Charles, probably best known for his work on "Curb Your Enthusiasm," the HBO comedy series. "Bob Dylan told me a long time ago, don't look at the short term when it comes to this movie."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ed Solomon directing Holly Hunter in "Levity," his directorial debut. (Jonathan Wenk/Sony Pictures Classics)(pg. E5); Robert Downey Jr. in Keith Gordon's "Singing Detective," to be screened at Sundance. (Icon Productions)(pg. E1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE RELEASE DATES (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); INTERVIEWS (79%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (75%); BUDGETS (74%); DRAMA LITERATURE (73%) MOTION PICTURES; FINANCES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TELEVISION; PAY TELEVISION 

PERSON: LYMAN, RICK 

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (93%) UTAH, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (72%); GERMANY (69%) GERMANY

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2003 



497 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: Guess Who's Coming for a Mortgage? 

BYLINE:  By Ishmael Reed; Ishmael Reed is the author of "Another Day at the Front" and "From Totems to Hip-Hop."

DATELINE: OAKLAND, Calif. 

 BODY:
In 1979, I bought a dilapidated five-bedroom Queen Anne Victorian house in Oakland's inner city. The house was in such bad shape that it rained in the living room. The house would have remained that way had I not obtained a low-interest rehabilitation loan from the city. I got some free paint along with the deal. With the loan and other improvements, I have come close to restoring the house to its 1906 state. It's a sturdy old thing, having survived two major earthquakes and hundreds of small ones. The 1989 earthquake left only some cracks in the plaster.
 Last Aug. 26, I decided to take advantage of low interest rates and refinance my mortgage. I approached a lending agency and its loan officer said I could lock in a 15-year fixed-rate loan at 5.8 percent. Fine. I did the paperwork and waited for the loan to close. On Sept. 19, I received a contract in the mail from the bank for a 6.875 percent variable interest rate. 
 I called the loan officer and asked for an explanation. Obviously embarrassed, she said the computer had made a mistake and the initial rate was still good.
Mystified, I decided to approach the bank where I'd obtained the rehab loan in the mid-80's. Perhaps they would have better, state-of-the-art computers. I didn't think that I'd have trouble there. After all, I'd paid off the rehab loan long before it was due.
The loan officer there and I agreed upon "a good faith estimate" of a fixed 5.4 percent interest rate for 15 years. He requested that I pay some upfront fees so that he could close that day. In the weeks following, some problems occurred. Although my credit and work history are excellent -- I've been a senior lecturer at the University of California for 34 years -- the bank required additional paperwork, which, curiously, duplicated paperwork I'd already submitted. Papers sent from the bank took forever to arrive. None of the calls I made to the loan officer was returned. I had to go to the bank to track him down. Finally, I received a contract, but instead of the 5.4 percent interest rate that he was eager to close on the day of our first meeting, a 5.8 percent interest rate was listed.
I called and asked why. He said he'd have to ask the underwriter. After consulting the underwriter, he said that the 45-day limit for the loan commitment had passed. I informed him that the delays were caused at his end and that I had been prompt at every step. He then explained that the rate was higher because the house was considered a duplex instead of a single-family residence. I told him that none of the loans I'd gotten in the past had cited that difference, that I didn't rent space and that the home was my primary residence. He then said he'd appeal the decision from the underwriter. I never heard back.
At this point, I vented my frustrations to the real-estate broker who helped me buy the house in the first place. He recommended a mortgage broker with an office in one of the more upscale districts of the East Bay. The broker had read my books and was excited to do business with me. I told him the problems I had with the other lenders and he sympathized. I got a great rate of 5.125 percent and the loan closed within 10 days.
So what was going on? Had I been redlined by the lending companies because I live in the Oakland flats, an African-American neighborhood, instead of the Oakland hills, a predominately white section of the city? It was impossible to know for sure. Banks have never been models of efficiency and many people have trouble with their mortgages. Still, it's hard not to rule out something more insidious. After all, there's plenty of evidence that redlining is alive and well.
In just one of many studies, a housing advocacy group in Washington, the Center for Community Change, last year examined federal data on mortgages and found that regardless of income, black people were more likely than whites to end up with high-interest loans when they refinanced their mortgages. A 2001 study by another advocacy group, the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now, found that lenders rejected prospective black home buyers more than twice as often as white applicants nationwide.
According to these studies, if I were redlined, there are millions of African-Americans like me. We have great credit ratings and work histories. As an owner of a small business, I even pay taxes to the City of Oakland. 
There are those who try to convince us that because Colin L. Powell and Condoleezza Rice have prominent roles in the Bush administration or because Halle Berry and Denzel Washington get leading roles in Hollywood movies, "we're getting there," in terms of race relations and equality. As I reach for the popcorn, I'm rejoicing. But when it comes to issues like the lending practices of the mortgage industry, blacks are still in the back of the bus.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Leigh Wells) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITY LIFE (78%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (74%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (69%) HOUSING; MORTGAGES; BLACKS; INTEREST RATES; DISCRIMINATION 

PERSON: REED, ISHMAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: OAKLAND, CA, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) OAKLAND (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2003 



498 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: An Appeal To Uncle Sam 

BYLINE:  By BOB HERBERT; E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Felix Rohatyn, the civic-minded financier who helped guide New York City through the perilous waters of its 1970's fiscal crisis, is going to Washington next week to talk to the nation's mayors about possible solutions to the current fiscal crisis that is threatening to overwhelm budgets in states and cities across the country. 
 The crisis is enormous and growing. "I don't think we even have a handle on how big the problem is because people have been pushing this under the rug," said Mr. Rohatyn. "People have not been candid about how serious it is. And people aren't being candid about how to deal with it." 
 States from one coast to the other have begun the dreaded process of raising taxes, cutting services and laying off employees. Hardly any states have been spared. And when the states are in trouble, the whiplash effect on cities can be profound.
Mr. Rohatyn, who will speak next Friday at a meeting of the U.S. Conference of Mayors, does not believe the problem can be solved without federal assistance. He would like to see a nationwide program that includes both budgetary assistance to state and local governments and federal assistance that can be used for state and local infrastructure needs. That would ease the immediate budget crisis and provide an important stimulus to the economy, which continues to lag.
The infrastructure component would be a significant source of new jobs, and would include funding to help offset the cost to local governments of increased homeland security requirements.
There were reports early this month that President Bush would include a small package of aid to distressed state and local governments in his most recent tax-cut package. That did not happen. As it stands, the president's tax-cut proposal would result in reduced revenues for most states, thus worsening the crisis. 
Mr. Rohatyn strenuously opposes the cornerstone of Mr. Bush's tax-cut plan -- the elimination of taxes on corporate dividends paid to shareholders.
"As a priority, it makes no sense to me," he said. At best, the dividend-tax cut is aimed at giving a modest boost to the stock market. But, said Mr. Rohatyn, "The stock market is down because the economy is down. So if you want to get the stock market up, get the economy up."
What would make more sense, he said, would be "some kind of tax-cut program for people who are having a difficult time now and who need some direct assistance." A temporary payroll-tax cut could be helpful, he said.
Mr. Rohatyn believes that a $75-billion-a-year program of federal assistance to state and local governments combined with a $75-billion-a-year tax cut for working people would provide a substantial boost to the economy, and over time would result in the creation of several million jobs. 
I asked Mr. Rohatyn why he thought the Bush administration had not moved to help state and local governments, which are faced with their worst budgetary crisis in more than half a century.
"I can't understand it," he said. "I mean, they are very smart people. And it seems to me that both the economics and the politics cry out for this sort of thing. You've got a lot of Republican governors. You've got Republican mayors. You've got people living in these cities and in these states who know what the problem is." 
Given the way Washington works, it's not unlikely that the administration would try to work out a compromise -- say, a 50 percent cut in dividend taxes in return for a small (and, ultimately, ineffective) package of assistance for the states.
Mr. Rohatyn said that should not be allowed to happen. The problem is much too large for a quick fix. The state of New York, for example, faces a $2.5 billion budget gap for the current fiscal year, which ends in just 10 weeks. Desperate state officials are looking to borrow the money to close the deficit.
That is bad not just for New York, but potentially for the nation.
"There's a real risk here to the New York State credit rating," said Mr. Rohatyn. If that kind of borrowing to pay operating expenses were to continue, "you could see a downgrading" of credit for states and municipalities across the country.
Those who lived through the municipal crisis of the 70's in New York City know that this is a road you don't even want to think about traveling. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MAYORS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); LAYOFFS (73%); TAX INCREASES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); INFRASTRUCTURE (68%); CORPORATE TAX (68%); DIVIDENDS (66%); SHAREHOLDERS (61%) STATES (US); TAXATION; LOCAL GOVERNMENT; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF MAYORS (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%) ROHATYN, FELIX G; HERBERT, BOB 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2003 



499 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: Seoul's Choice: The U.S. or the North 

BYLINE:  By Richard V. Allen; Richard V. Allen, national security adviser from 1980 to 1982, is a senior fellow at the Hoover Institution.

DATELINE: EDWARDS, Colo. 

 BODY:
It seems almost heretical to question the merit and durability of the United States alliance with South Korea. Yet recent events in Seoul -- huge anti-American protests, a reluctance to join with the United States in facing down the North Korean nuclear threat -- should prompt just such a reconsideration. South Korea may soon have to decide whether it stands with the United States, which is responsible for much of Seoul's present security and prosperity, or whether it will take another path.
 While American attention has been focused on problems in North Korea and Iraq, a troubling shift has taken place in our relationship with South Korea. On Dec. 19, Roh Moo Hyun was elected president after promising in his campaign to distance South Korea from the United States. Mr. Roh capitalized on long-smoldering anti-American sentiment: some Koreans still blame America for the division of Korea after World War II; others insist that the current tensions with North Korea are the result of the Bush administration's hard line on nuclear proliferation; still others object to the presence of 37,000 American troops on Korean soil. In his quest to win election, Mr. Roh suggested that South Korea may stay on the sidelines if war broke out between the United States and North Korea. 
 Our relations with South Korea began to fray under the country's departing president, Kim Dae Jung, particularly after the Bush administration rightly made the North a member of its "axis of evil." Mr. Kim's Sunshine Policy of closer ties between the two Koreas has depended in large measure on North Korean goodwill. President Kim, who was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for his breakthrough with the North and will leave office next month, has now been confronted with the chilling fact that during his five-year term, North Korea was hard at work developing a secret uranium enrichment program. When the cover on this program was blown by the United States in October, the likely basis for his "breakthrough" was exposed. Since then, Mr. Kim, eager to preserve his legacy, has pressured Washington to be "reasonable" with North Korea.
In the process, Seoul has stepped into the neutral zone, and now pretends to a role of mediator between Pyongyang and Washington, declaring that both sides must make "concessions." The cynicism of this act constitutes a serious breach of faith. Moreover, it has invited the North to try to drive a wedge deeper into the American-Korean relationship by appealing to regional and ethnic solidarity against the United States.
Of course, the South Koreans are entitled to pursue whatever policies they wish, and are free to continue to prop up a ruthless regime with large-scale investments by Hyundai and other enterprises. But they must now consider that this course will alter the type of security that the United States has provided -- at enormous expense to itself -- for the last five decades. 
Certainly, there is room for some differentiation in South Korean and American policies toward the North. After all, a conflict on the peninsula would claim many lives and the unfortunate geostrategic location of Seoul is the main deterrent to dealing with North Korea on military terms. If Seoul were, say, 150 miles to the south and the border region were sparsely populated, the situation would be different.
There's also an economic imperative. North Korea has one of the cheapest labor markets in the world -- doing business there is key to helping the South restore its economic competitiveness.
Still, South Korea's position is vexing, particularly because its people are divided on the issue of reunification and the huge financial burdens that would come with it. I know from conversations with Korean government officials that Seoul took a hard look at the reunification experience of Germany and made up its mind to keep a secure border with the North. Judging from the scant practical steps its government has taken, nobody in South Korea seems to expect reunification to happen anytime soon.
The Sunshine Policy, which I used to support, once had an outside chance of changing the course of North Korean policy. But it has only increased the dependence of the donor upon the recipient. South Korea pumps more money into the North than does any country but China. 
Fine. Then let United States support go elsewhere. Among the modifications Washington should now consider is the continued presence of 37,000 United States troops in harm's way, especially now that the harm can come from two directions -- North Korea and violent South Korean protesters. We must make clear to the South that while we will honor the terms of our mutual defense treaty, which means that we will respond to any aggression by the North, we will not stay where we are not wanted.
The first step should be to reduce our military presence on the peninsula by 25 percent by the end of 2004. After that, we should pull out roughly 10,000 troops a year for the following three years. If Seoul is serious about neutrality, then it can plan to assume eventual responsibility for its own frontline defense with its more than 600,000 well-armed troops. The gradual withdrawal of American troops will be neither destabilizing nor provocative, especially if combined with a reaffirmation of our security commitment to South Korea.
Some will say this is a strategic blunder, sending the wrong signal in a fragile region and robbing our forces of an important training ground. But the United States will continue to have a large presence in Asia and our troops will be able to get experience elsewhere.
China, as North Korea's main provider, is said to hold the trump card, but shows no sign of playing it any time soon to ease the situation, preferring to use North Korea as a lever against the United States. We have our own cards to play, not least in guiding Japan to a sensible policy of considering arming itself with nuclear weapons should North Korea persist.
President Bush sees no merit in rewarding Kim Jong Il, North Korea's leader, for stopping what he pledged not to do in the first place. Mr. Bush has said he will talk, but not negotiate with, North Korea. Now he needs to make clear to South Korea that staying in the neutral zone will not be without cost to the bilateral relationship. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); KOREAN WAR (78%); AWARDS & PRIZES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); NOBEL PRIZES (71%); WORLD WAR II (68%); TERRORISM (59%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; TERRORISM 

PERSON: ALLEN, RICHARD V 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); IRAQ (79%) NORTH KOREA; SOUTH KOREA

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2003 



500 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Share Prices Fall Sharply As Intel Cuts Spending Plans

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Mixed news from Intel shook up Wall Street yesterday, sending stocks sharply lower as investors unloaded shares on worries that profits might not be so strong after all.
 Analysts said plans by Intel, the chip maker, to lower capital spending damped investors' hopes of a resurgent economy in the coming months, while a bleak outlook from the DuPont Company added to the pessimism. 
 "There is a recovery and companies are hitting the numbers, but maybe the street was over optimistic as to capital spending for the tech sector," said Charles Pradilla, chief investment strategist at SG Cowen Securities. "It isn't coming on with the vigor people need to give satisfactory profits." 
The Dow Jones industrial average declined 119.44 points, or 1.4 percent, to close at 8,723.18, after gaining 56 points on Tuesday.
The broader market also fell. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 22.19 points, or 1.5 percent, to 1,438.80. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 13.44 points, or 1.4 percent, to 918.22.
Intel, a Dow component, dropped 44 cents, to $17.35, after it reported fourth-quarter earnings that beat analysts' expectations, but also said that capital spending in 2003 would range from $3.5 billion to $3.9 billion, down from $4.7 billion in 2002.
The news hurt other technology stocks, including Applied Materials, whose shares fell 91 cents, to $14.45, and KLA-Tencor, which dropped $1.20, to $38.45.
DuPont, another Dow component, lost $1.50, to $42.50, after the company lowered its fourth-quarter earnings forecast, citing weaker-than-expected operating results in the second half.
The news "shows the overwhelming caution that exists in corporate America," said Mr. Pradilla, who added that tensions with Iraq and North Korea also weigh heavily on investors' minds.
"It doesn't mean a new bear market," he said, "but just that we will be in a terrible trading range for quite some time."
Investors are closely watching earnings announcements for signs that the economy is strengthening. Analysts say that while the market has been somewhat resilient in recent days, disappointing profit news could quickly change that.
Still, many analysts say the market is generally moving upward and should grow strong by year's end, particularly if President Bush's proposal to cut taxes by $670 billion over 10 years is passed by Congress.
Shares of Bank of America fell $1.03, to $71.45, even though the company reported quarterly earnings that beat analysts' estimates.
Gainers included Continental Airlines, which rose 20 cents, to $9.10, after the airline reported a fourth-quarter loss narrower than Wall Street's estimates. 
Investors largely ignored a Labor Department report that wholesale prices were flat in December. With prices falling 0.4 percent in November, the report showed that inflation is not a danger. Analysts were expecting a rise of 0.3 percent. 
In the bond market, the price of the 10-year Treasury note rose 3/32, to 99 15/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.06 percent from 4.08 percent on Tuesday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond gained 16/32, to 106 5/32. The bond's yield fell to 4.97 percent from 5 percent on Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Chart: "Freddie Mac Yields"Average for Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. participation certificates, plotted weekly. Graph tracks average yields for 15 and 30-year mortgages from October to January. (Source: F.H.L.M.C.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BONDS (91%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (88%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); SEMICONDUCTOR EQUIPMENT MFG (77%); WHOLESALE PRICES (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); PRICE INCREASES (64%); TAX LAW (60%); AIRLINES (60%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); KLA-TENCOR CORP (54%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FREDDIE MAC 

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); KLAC (NASDAQ) (54%); UAL (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); NAICS333242 SEMICONDUCTOR MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2003 



501 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 347 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: COMMODITIES; 
Supply andIraq War Worries Push Crude Oil Above $33

BYLINE:  By Reuters 

 BODY:
Oil prices rose markedly yesterday after an Energy Department agency reported that inventories of crude oil fell to near their lowest levels in more than two decades, reduced by a wide-ranging strike in Venezuela. 
 In addition, further talk of a war in Iraq aggravated supply concerns that have pushed prices up more than 30 percent in two months and reinforced fears that rising energy costs could limit economic recovery. 
 In New York, crude oil for February delivery rose 84 cents yesterday, or 2.6 percent, to $33.21 a barrel. 
Information released by the Energy Information Administration, the analytical arm of the Energy Department, showed that crude oil supplies fell more than 2 percent in the week ended last Friday, to 272.3 million barrels, 2 million barrels above the lowest level since the government started keeping records in 1979. 
The report strengthened fears of tight supplies as the nation copes with heating needs. Frigid temperatures are forecast to continue in the Northeast for the next 10 days.
The Energy Information Administration also warned that "localized disruptions" would occur at United States refineries if oil inventories fell below 270 million barrels. 
"With very tight crude inventories and international tension still a key driver, the market remains just a shade away from spiking sharply higher," said Paul Horsnell of the J. P. Morgan investment bank. 
Before the Venezuelan strike, called in an effort to force President Hugo Chavez to schedule early elections, the United States had been obtaining about 14 percent of its crude oil imports from Venezuela. But in recent weeks, Venezuela has been exporting barely 20 percent of its usual normal level. 
Higher refinery production and strong imports have so far cushioned inventory levels of refined oil, the agency said. Supplies of both gasoline and distillates, including heating oil and diesel fuel, rose last week. 
Product price increases have been limited somewhat by a decision by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries to raise output quotas by 1.5 million barrels a day.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks crude oil prices (near-month contract), since July 2001. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (91%); PRICE INCREASES (91%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); INVENTORIES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (87%); HEATING OIL (79%); FUTURES (79%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); DIESEL FUEL (74%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%); SECURITIES TRADING (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (59%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INVENTORIES (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); LABOR; STRIKES; PRODUCTION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: J P MORGAN INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (83%) ENERGY DEPARTMENT 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%) VENEZUELA; IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2003 



502 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: The Economy Remains Soft, The Fed Finds 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 15 

 BODY:
The economy's current "soft patch" extended into early January, the Federal Reserve said in a report today, as consumers were cautious about spending over the holidays. 
 "Most districts characterized growth as 'sluggish,' or economic activity as 'soft' or 'subdued,' " the Fed said in its so-called beige book report, an anecdotal roundup of conditions compiled from reports submitted by its 12 regional banks. 
 "Reports on consumer spending were consistently weak, with disappointing holiday sales that, in nominal terms, mostly were at or below last year's levels," the Fed said. Car sales, however, surged at the end of the year, the central bank said, attributing the gain to sales incentives. 
"In most areas, sales were stronger at large discount chains than at traditional, higher-priced department and specialty stores," the Fed said. "Consistent with these observations, substantial discounting on holiday retail sales items was reported in all districts." 
The report said demand for workers was "mostly flat," and that while employee benefits and some resources were costing more, wages and consumer prices were being held in check. 
The report did contain a few bright spots, including a mildly upbeat assessment on manufacturing. It also noted that home sales and construction remained high, but were slower in some areas, and that bank lending expanded in most districts. 
In a separate report, the Labor Department said today that discounts by automakers in December helped to offset higher food and energy prices and helped keep inflation in check.
While the overall Producer Price Index held steady last month, the so-called core rate, which excludes volatile food and energy costs, fell 0.3 percent, largely because of falling car prices, the agency said. 
"This number points to very modest inflation, probably not deflation, however," said Patrick Fearon, an economist at A. G. Edwards & Sons in St. Louis.
The unchanged reading followed a drop of 0.4 percent in November, while the decline of 0.3 percent in the core rate mirrored a fall seen in November. 
For all of last year, producer prices were up 1.2 percent, largely because of an 11.9 percent gain in energy costs. Excluding food and energy prices, the index fell 0.4 percent last year, the weakest reading since 1973.
A third report today from the Commerce Department showed that overall inventories at retailers, manufacturers and wholesalers rose 0.2 percent in November, a seventh consecutive monthly increase, despite a gain of 0.3 percent in sales.

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: "Despite Discounts, A Poor Holiday Season for Retailers"A roundup of regional economic conditions in recent months for the Federal Reserve Boards 12 districts, according to the beige book report issued by the Fed yesterday. Minneapolis -- Manufacturers and homebuilders reported growth, while tourism and agriculture slowed. Chicago -- Consumer spending was soft and holiday sales were disappointing. Capital spending was cautious. Cleveland -- Businesses expressed uncertainty over the economic outlook and the impact of foriegn affairs on consumer confidence. Boston -- Manufacturers reported no increase in demand. Retail sales were below forecasts. Residential real estate slowed. New York -- Holiday sales were below expectations. The housing market exhibited signs of slower growth. Philadelphia -- The economy was mixed. Holiday retail sales were poor, but manufacturers reported a rise in new orders. Richmond, Va. -- Retail sales were sluggish, but there was modest growth in the services sector. Home sales remained very strong. Atlanta -- The economy was subdued. Discounting was widespread among retailers. Manufacturing production slowed. St. Louis -- Growth slowed. Reports of plant closings, layoffs and cutbacks increased. Holiday sales were poor despite heavy discounting. Kansas City, Mo. -- The economy was very sluggish, with little growth in holiday retail sales and weak commercial real estate markets. Dallas -- Economic activity remained anemic. Manufacturers and service providers reported weak demand. Holiday retail sales were disappointing. San Francisco -- Sluggish growth was reported. Retailers resorted to widespread heavy discounting. Manufacturing was mixed, with improved semiconductor sales. Map of United States (includes Alaska and Hawaii) highlighting above mentioned cities. (Source: Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); RETAILERS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); DEFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); INVENTORIES (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (77%); CHRISTMAS (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (75%); AUTOMAKERS (74%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (74%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); FOOD PRICES (73%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (71%); SALES & SELLING (70%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; CHRISTMAS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES; LABOR; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FRINGE BENEFITS; WAGES AND SALARIES; PRODUCER PRICE INDEX; INVENTORIES (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); HIRING AND PROMOTION 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US); COMMERCE DEPARTMENT 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%) MISSOURI, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2003 



503 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 343 words

HEADLINE: Bank of America Reports Higher Profit 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: CHARLOTTE, N.C., Jan. 15 

 BODY:
The Bank of America Corporation said today that its fiscal fourth-quarter earnings increased 27 percent on higher fees from mortgages and credit card loans and from cuts in expenses.
 Net income rose to $2.61 billion, or $1.69 a share, compared with $2.06 billion, or $1.28, a year earlier. Revenue was little changed at $8.8 billion as fees from investment banking, trading and money management fell. Analysts had expected earnings of $1.63 a share, according to Thomson First Call. 
 The bank's chief executive, Kenneth D. Lewis, is focusing on earning more from individuals as corporate demand for credit stagnates and defaults increase. Consumer and commercial banking units accounted for two-thirds of the fourth-quarter profit.
Corporate loans remain "very spotty, very erratic, very uncertain," the chief financial officer, James H. Hance Jr., said.
Bad loans are expected to total $800 million to $900 million this quarter, with the bank most worried about loans to utilities and, to a lesser degree, telecommunications, media, airlines and Latin America, Mr. Hance told investors and analysts in a conference call.
Loans rose 2.9 percent, to $343.1 billion, in the quarter from a year earlier, led by a 19 percent increase in consumer loans. Commercial loans fell 13 percent as businesses largely shunned expansion.
Mortgage banking income increased 23 percent, to $206 million, as consumers took advantage of the lowest interest rates in four decades to buy or refinance homes.
Deposits grew 8 percent, to $343 billion.
Global corporate and investment banking profit fell 47 percent, to $230 million, on weaker demand for securities underwriting. The bank set aside $28 million, or 5.6 percent more, for corporate loan defaults.
Expenses declined 9 percent, to $4.83 billion, as the bank eliminated 8,726 jobs, or 6.1 percent of its work force a year earlier. At the end of 2002, it had 133,944 employees .
The bank will continue cutting costs "because our competitors are," Mr. Hance said. "We will never, ever not be focused on increasing productivity." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); MERCHANT BANKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); RETAIL BANKING (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (73%); CONFERENCE CALLS (70%); PRODUCTIVITY (67%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (58%) COMPANY REPORTS; BANKS AND BANKING 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (97%)

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF AMERICA 

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (97%); BAC (LSE) (97%); 8648 (TSE) (97%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (97%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (97%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (97%) SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES; 

PERSON: KENNETH D LEWIS (58%) HANCE, JAMES H JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2003 



504 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: Harvard Aims to Stimulate Public Service With Scholarships 

BYLINE:  By KAREN W. ARENSON 

 BODY:
In a new program to encourage graduate students to enter public service, Harvard University plans to give $14 million in "presidential scholarships" over the next three years to 200 to 300 graduate students interested in public service or research careers.
 It will also offer below-market-rate loans to all 12,000 of its graduate and professional students -- including those from outside the United States -- and solicit donations for a new universitywide fund to support students who enter less lucrative public-interest careers. 
 "I believe these steps represent a significant move toward the ultimate objective of drawing more young people into public service, and making possible careers of many different kinds for the most talented young students from all over the world," Harvard's president, Lawrence H. Summers, said yesterday. 
Mr. Summers, an economist who served as United States Treasury secretary before becoming Harvard's president, said he had become convinced of the need for such a program as he talked to students about their career plans.
"There were things they wanted to do, and they felt it was very hard to afford to do them," he said. 
The average cost of a year of graduate or professional school at Harvard is $45,000, including living expenses, tuition and fees, although tuition and fees vary by school.
Mr. Summers said students headed for lucrative fields like investment banking had more access to lower-cost aid. The new below-market loans, which will come through Citicorp, extend a program available now to students at Harvard's business school and some others.
Catharine Stimpson, dean of the graduate school of arts and science at New York University, applauded the program.
"Permitting people to pursue the public good is a gain for us all," Ms. Stimpson said. "Unless countries have really able people going into public service, they will lose a streak of idealism and a cadre of competent people devoted to government and civil society."
Harvard's new loan program will begin next month and the scholarships in September.
Mr. Summers said that if donors contributed to its new graduate student aid fund, Harvard would expand the public interest fellowships.
The fellowships will extend to most of Harvard's graduate programs, excluding business and law, Mr. Summers said, because they already have "quite generous programs" for graduates who go into public service.
Harvard officials said their graduate students had borrowed about $80 million through low-cost federal loan programs, $8 million more from Harvard loan programs, and at least $45 million from higher-cost private lenders, not including sources like credit cards and family loans. Harvard expects students with higher-cost debt to use the new loans, which will carry variable interest rates. The current rate would be about 4 1/8 percent.
The fellowship programs will vary by school. The medical school, for example, will supplement salaries for graduates in low-paying public service jobs. The graduate school of arts and sciences will give grants to students in the humanities and social sciences. 
Besides covering tuition and fees for five years, the arts and sciences fellowships will pay a $25,000 annual stipend -- nearly $5,000 more than standard fellowships -- and guarantee a year of support for thesis completion. Harvard expects to give at least 50 fellowships in the arts and sciences in the next three years. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (94%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (91%); TUITION FEES (90%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (90%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (73%); PHILANTHROPY (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; SCHOLARSHIPS AND FELLOWSHIPS; RESEARCH; CREDIT; FINANCES; PHILANTHROPY; FOREIGN STUDENTS 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%) HARVARD UNIVERSITY 

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%) SIC2731 BOOK PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (89%) SUMMERS, LAWRENCE H; ARENSON, KAREN W 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2003 



505 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: Even as Foundation Is Set, a New 7 World Trade Center Faces Barriers 

BYLINE:  By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
Construction workers are laboring busily these days beneath the arc of a crane and the pipes pouring concrete at Vesey and Washington Streets, where the developer Larry A. Silverstein wants to rebuild 7 World Trade Center, one of the skyscrapers destroyed in the terrorist attack 16 months ago.
 But it is by no means certain that Mr. Silverstein's planned 52-story skyscraper will rise on the site of the old tower anytime soon. 
 Mr. Silverstein, a persistently optimistic man, must still contend with a sluggish real estate market, the lack of a tenant to occupy the building, and the uncertainties of talks with his lenders, his insurer and the landowner, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. Any one could delay, or in the worst case scuttle, the $700 million building. 
State and city officials are promoting the project because of its symbolic value in demonstrating progress in rebuilding Lower Manhattan, while the debate over the nearby 16-acre site of the twin towers drags on. On Tuesday, the city's Industrial Development Agency approved up to $400 million in tax-exempt Liberty Bonds to rebuild 7 World Trade Center.
"Larry Silverstein is going to build this 1.7-million square-foot tower with no tenants," said Andrew M. Alper, president of the city's Economic Development Corporation. "That's a pretty bold thing to do."
"I have no doubt he'll get commercial tenants over time," he added.
That remains to be seen. In the past decade, no developer has built a major office tower in Manhattan without a tenant for about half the building, typically a requirement of lenders. Mr. Alper acknowledged that vacant office space abounds in New York.
"Larry's under the mistaken notion that he can do this without an anchor tenant," said one real estate executive. "Why would the banks allow that?"
But Mr. Silverstein and city officials contend that unless construction starts now, the building will not be finished when the market improves, perhaps in a couple of years. Insurance money, they say, enables him to start quickly and reduces the risk to any lender.
The developer has told city officials that Merrill Lynch has expressed interest in underwriting the Liberty Bonds, while the Bank of New York and HSBC are interested in guaranteeing the bonds.
"This will be the first building to be rebuilt at the trade center and thus is symbolic of the importance that all New Yorkers attach to redeveloping the area and creating a vital economic engine for Lower Manhattan," Mr. Silverstein said on Tuesday.
At 7 World Trade Center, where Con Edison is building an electric substation to replace the one in the old building, Mr. Silverstein's crews are laying the foundation for a new building. But Mr. Silverstein must work out a number of issues.
According to the financial plan Mr. Silverstein filed with the city, he had an $861 million insurance policy; the insurer was Industrial Risk Insurers, a unit of General Electric's Employers Reinsurance division. He has already spent about $65 million on mortgage payments, development fees and other items related to the project. He plans to pay off the existing mortgage, totaling about $489.4 million. That leaves $306.6 million in insurance money, together with up to $400 million in Liberty Bonds, for construction of the tower.
But Mr. Silverstein has been squabbling with the mortgage holders on the old tower, the Blackstone Group and Banc of America Securities, over what he owes them and what they say was his unilateral decision to build a tower that is smaller than the original building. The sticking point is a provision in the loan agreements that provides the creditors with a 40 percent stake in the equity, and the two sides have been as much as $90 million apart in their estimates. According to people involved in the talks, Mr. Silverstein has contended that there is no equity since there is no longer a building.
The two sides met on Tuesday, according to an executive who was briefed on the negotiations, and outlined a potential deal that would pay the lenders at least $489.4 million, if not more, depending on when the loan is repaid. Mr. Silverstein is paying an interest rate of 10 percent, but city officials say that he should be able to borrow money for the new building at 3 percent interest.
"We are optimistic about reaching an agreement for Larry to pay us off in accordance with our agreements," John Z. Kukral, chief executive of Blackstone Real Estate Advisers, said yesterday.
Another possible sticking point is a clause in Mr. Silverstein's insurance policy that requires him to rebuild within two years. He says he has fulfilled that term by signing contracts for at least some of the work on a new tower, although the insurance company may take a different view, according to a person working on the project for Mr. Silverstein. Mr. Silverstein does not expect to complete the tower until late 2005 or early 2006.
Mr. Silverstein is also negotiating a new ground lease with the Port Authority, which was a big tenant in the old building. The current lease guarantees the Port Authority a minimum rent, payments in lieu of taxes and 40 percent of the property's net income. Mr. Silverstein wants to get rid of the 40 percent clause, said executives who have been briefed on the talks, but the Port is unlikely to give in.
The Port Authority, which had a relatively large and inexpensive lease at the trade center, has expressed an interest in returning to Lower Manhattan under the terms of its old deal. But Mr. Silverstein has demanded a higher rent. 
"There are a lot of people feeding at this trough," said one real estate executive. "It's a lot for Larry to handle all at once."
Several real estate executives said they expected the tower to be built, if only for political reasons. "They need to show some sort of progress downtown," an executive said, "and that's the easiest place to do it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Even with work on a new 7 World Trade Center well under way, its completion is far from certain. (Justin Lane for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (88%); TERRORISM (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); HIJACKING (77%); INSURANCE (75%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (75%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (70%); APPROVALS (69%); PORT AUTHORITIES (69%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (66%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (65%); EXECUTIVES (65%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (57%) AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); HIJACKING 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (70%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (53%); CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BLACKSTONE GROUP; BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES; ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORP (NYC) 

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (53%); ED (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (70%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (70%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (50%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (50%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (50%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: BAGLI, CHARLES V; SILVERSTEIN, LARRY; ALPER, ANDREW M 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2003 



506 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: KOREAN PENINSULA; 
2 Koreas Agree to Resume Talks on Nuclear Crisis

BYLINE:  By HOWARD W. FRENCH 

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Jan. 15 

 BODY:
North and South Korea agreed today to resume high-level talks here next week, as diplomatic efforts to resolve the North Korean nuclear crisis accelerated.
 The announcement of the meetings in Seoul next Tuesday, which will be the first cabinet-level talks between the two countries in months, came as North Korea rejected signals by the Bush administration that it was open to dialogue. 
 "In essence, there is no change in the U.S. conditional stand that it would have dialogue with the D.P.R.K. only after it scraps its 'nuclear program,' " the North Korean Foreign Ministry statement said, using the initials for North Korea's formal name, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. "It is clear that the U.S. talk about dialogue is nothing but a deceptive drama to mislead the world public opinion." 
Ari Fleischer, the White House spokesman, called North Korea's assertion an "unfortunate statement." "North Korea has a habit of saying many inflammatory things," he said. Mr. Fleischer denied North Korea's assertion that the United States wanted to disarm the nation. "The U.S. supports a "denuclearized" Korean Peninsula, he said. "That's not the same as disarmament."
Despite the vitriol that often characterizes North Korean statements in times of crisis, however, the message contained signals that the North might be positioning itself for negotiations with Washington, analysts said. 
"It is the consistent stand of the D.P.R.K. to settle the issue on an equal footing through fair negotiations that may clear both sides of their concerns," the statement said. "We have already clarified that the D.P.R.K. is ready to solve the nuclear issue through negotiations on condition that the U.S. recognizes the D.P.R.K.'s sovereignty, assures it of nonaggression and does not obstruct its economic development." 
One longtime analyst of North Korea called the language a nuanced reply to the Bush administration, meaning "nice try, but wrong target." 
The United States has said that if North Korea verifiably eliminates its nuclear weapons program it will consider economic aid, recognize the country's sovereignty and formalize recent promises not to attack. 
One longtime analyst of North Korea said he interpreted the latest North Korean statements as an invitation for Washington to deliver "a piece of paper that has it all written down in one place."
From the beginning of the current crisis, which began when the United States presented North Korea with evidence that it knew the North was secretly developing a program to produce highly enriched uranium, in violation of a number of the country's international commitments, North Korea has insisted that any solution must come out of direct talks with Washington. North Korea has insisted on a nonaggression treaty with the United States, saying that with formal security guarantees it would open its doors to American inspectors.
The position of the United States has evolved substantially in recent weeks, nudged by South Korea, Japan, Russia and China, from a refusal to engage with North Korea to its current willingness to talk. What has remained, however, is the American insistence that North Korea take a major first step by dismantling its nuclear program and submitting to verification.
President-elect Roh Moo Hyun has insisted that South Korea be allowed to play a leading role in international diplomacy involving North Korea. "The North crisis should be resolved peacefully," Mr. Roh said today. "It could also be resolved through dialogue based on mutual cooperation between South Korea and the U.S. with the help of diplomatic efforts among Japan, Russia, and China." Despite the scheduled resumption of North-South talks next week, however, it is unclear whether South Korea will be able to influence North Korea on nuclear and other security matters.
Meanwhile, South Korea's departing president, Kim Dae Jung, abruptly canceled a meeting scheduled for Thursday with Japan's foreign minister, Yoriko Kawaguchi. The reason was a visit Japan's prime minister, Junichiro Koizumi, made on Tuesday to the Yasukuni Shrine, a Shinto war memorial. The shrine is considered a symbol of Japanese wartime military imperialism.
"We are outraged and deeply disappointed," the South Korean Foreign Affairs and Trade Ministry said in a statement, urging the Japanese government "not to damage the feeling of South Korean people any further."
In another development, South Korea's Supreme Court decided today to recount votes cast across the nation in last month's presidential election amid doubts over the accuracy of the vote-counting machines. The recount will begin before the end of this month at 80 polling districts, including 17 in Seoul, the Supreme Court ruled. 
Mr. Roh defeated Lee Hoi Chang by a margin of 570,980. The recount was not expected to change the outcome, however. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (92%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (87%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); WORLD WAR II (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); TERRORISM (60%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; WORLD WAR II (1939-45); MONUMENTS AND MEMORIALS; TERRORISM 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); KAWAGUCHI, YORIKO (MIN); KOIZUMI, JUNICHIRO (PRIME MIN); KIM DAE JUNG (PRES); FRENCH, HOWARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%) UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%) NORTH KOREA; SOUTH KOREA; JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2003 



507 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 2; Circuits; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1335 words

HEADLINE: STATE OF THE ART; 
PC's Aside, Digital Ideas Aplenty

BYLINE:  By David Pogue; E-mail: Pogue@nytimes.com

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS 

 BODY:
IF you had awakened on the floor of the Las Vegas Convention Center and tried to figure out where you were, you might have first guessed the Conclave of American Optimists. You would have seen 115,000 people buzzing with confidence and excitement. On the other hand, noting how many passers-by were loudly talking to themselves, you might have concluded that you had wandered into the International Expo of Eccentrics. 
 Instead, it was the 2003 Consumer Electronics Show, also known as C.E.S., held Jan. 9-12. No wonder those attending were happy. 
 First, of course, they were in their element, surrounded by the smallest and shiniest new gadgets. Second, despite the gloom in other slices of the economy, sales of consumer electronics in the United States actually grew last year (to a record $96 billion). This trade show of manufacturers, retailers and customers was alive with energy and crowded with exhibits. (As for the eccentric passers-by, the show probably represented the world's greatest concentration of people with earbud cords and concealed cellphones.) 
The vitality of this exposition is a sign of the times. The interest and innovation in PC's is nothing next to the action in other realms of high tech. As proof, compare the show with what was once its big brother: Comdex, the personal-computer trade show held each November at the same site. Thanks to the severe slump in the PC industry, the 2002 Las Vegas Comdex was only half the size of its 2000 incarnation. 
If you ever go to C.E.S., wear sensible shoes. It's like attending the Cellphone Show, Digital Camera Convention, Entertainment Expo, Palmtop Powwow, Games Get-Together, Hi-Fi Audio Assembly, Wireless World, Techno-Car Convocation, Robot Rally and Karaoke Confab all in one week. 
The 2,200 booths included lavish displays by Panasonic, Sony, Philips, Toshiba and other heavy hitters. But hundreds of smaller, quirkier companies were also present, exhibiting electric toothbrushes, illuminated cellphone faceplates, laser pens and publications from Widescreen Review to Progressive Grocer. There were 46 exhibitors in the alarm-clock category alone, and even an electric-typewriter company.
To reach those smaller booths, though, you had to pass what seemed like half the $10,000 plasma TV screens ever made. This proliferation of gorgeous wide-screen sets was only one hint that TV makers, at least, are ready for the great American switch to high-definition television, which the Federal Communications Commission hopes to see completed by 2006.
But a few obstacles stand between the average American and high-def happiness: the prices of these sets, the reluctance of cable companies to broadcast high-definition shows, Hollywood's campaign to cripple high-definition broadcasts so that you can't record them, and so on. (As many seminar panelists observed, however, strides are being made in all those areas.)
The most interesting items at Microsoft's booth were the prototype wristwatches that use the company's new Smart Personal Object Technology (SPOT) software. Due by year's end from Citizen, Fossil and other companies, these watches can receive messages, news, weather, sports and stock reports wirelessly in metropolitan areas -- for a small monthly fee, of course.
The most alarming item at Microsoft's booth, on the other hand, was its six-room mock-up of an American house with Microsoft products -- cars, phones, TV's, games, appliances -- in every nook and cranny. It's only a matter of time before you'll see people rebooting their toasters. 
This will also be the year of the Video iPod, for want of a better term: a pocket-size component that plays back not only music, but also your photos and even video. Some are designed only for playback (like the Archos AV340, the Pogo Flipster and prototypes shown by Intel and Microsoft); others can also record movies (like Samsung's ITCAM-7 and Panasonic's tiny AV30). The Flipster is already being sold. Most, like the ITCAM-7, will come to market later this year, and all spell bad news for the wallet-photo industry.
The digital camera models on display were cheaper, better and smaller than their predecessors. Olympus's Stylus 400, for example, is a tiny, silver, pocketable wonder that takes four-megapixel photos (enough resolution for 13-by-19-inch prints). It's due in the spring for $400. 
The stunning Casio Exilim EX-Z3, available in April for $450, has most of the chic appeal of the earlier Exilim cameras (which resemble brushed-aluminum credit cards), but with better resolution (3.2 megapixels) and a true, telescoping 3X zoom lens. Only Casio knows where it goes when you turn off the inch-thick camera.
C.E.S. also offered answers to the age-old question, Why can't a camcorder take decent still photos, too? Sony's newest digital camcorders, due in March, can snap two-megapixel pictures (good for 4-by-6 prints), the highest resolution of any camcorder yet.
Any, that is, except the Samsung DuoCam SDC5000, a camcorder that becomes a still camera when you rotate its entire lens barrel 180 degrees, swinging a second lens assembly into position. This is a bulky, strange-looking, expensive hybrid ($1,500). But when it arrives in May, it will be the first camcorder to take still photos with excellent resolution (four megapixels). Just don't lose it.
In the late spring, phones with built-in cameras will arrive in force, a vast improvement over the clumsy clip-on camera attachments available now. Samsung's i205 and Sanyo's SCP5300, for example, let you snap low-resolution photos and e-mail them wirelessly.
If you would rather have an organizer than a camera on your phone, Samsung has your number. Its i500 is the most beautiful Palm-based phone yet, a svelte, shirt-pocketable flip phone with number keys for dialing and a Graffiti handwriting area just beneath the hinge. The i700 is similar, but it is larger and runs Microsoft's PocketPC operating system. Both will be available by summer. 
Sony's P800 (due in March) offers a camera and organizer functions in addition to music and video playback. Based on the Symbian operating system, it synchronizes your calendar and address book with a Windows PC. All of this fits in a slender phone whose battery lets you gab away for 13 hours without a break.
Among showgoers whose feet had yet to blister, a few made it to the second story of the South Hall. There they were rewarded by the tiny booths, most representing utterly obscure companies and products, where some of the most ingenious thinking was on display. 
There, for example, was the Tsuen Shing Baby Monitor (due in April; www.tsuenshing.com). It looks like any other white, plastic, walkie-talkie-style baby monitor. But as you carry this one around the house, you can actually watch your baby on the screen instead of just listening. Why didn't anyone think of this before?
Skull Candy may not sound appetizing, but it's the name for a delicious idea: a $30 pair of headphones that plug into your phone and music player simultaneously (skullcandy.com). When you're out hang-gliding, you can answer an incoming call with the touch of a button; the music volume drops automatically. If it turns out the conversation isn't all that interesting, you can turn the music volume back up -- and only you hear it. 
Finally, there's the KidSmart smoke alarm (www.voicealert.com). Having recognized that children sometimes freeze in reaction to shrill smoke alarms, its inventors designed this one to alternate its beeps with a recording of your own voice: "Honey, this is Mommy. Meet me downstairs as soon as you can."
If you're a card-carrying gadget hound, you can probably see why a show like this is so exciting: You're completely surrounded by the coolest, sleekest, newest stuff. Heck, if you had the money, you'd happily spend another $96 billion on it all by yourself. The only hard part is waiting until all of the prototypes become finished, shipping products -- and trying not to think about how it will all be obsolete by C.E.S. 2004.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 17, 2003

 CORRECTION:
The State of the Art column in Circuits yesterday, about innovative products on display at the 2003 Consumer Electronics Show, misstated the model number of a cellphone-camera due this year from Samsung. It is the v205, not the i205.
The State of the Art column in Circuits on Thursday, about innovative products at the 2003 Consumer Electronics Show, misstated the Web address for the maker of the KidSmart smoke alarm. It is www.kidsmartdetector.com.

GRAPHIC: Photos: ON DECK -- The Pogo Flipster, a sort of video iPod, above and left, is available now. The Samsung ITCAM-7 is scheduled to appear in July. (pg. G6) Drawing (Stuart Goldenberg)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE SHOWS (94%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (87%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (86%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (76%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (76%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (76%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (75%); COMPUTER MAKERS (74%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MFG (73%); RETAILERS (71%); CABLE INDUSTRY (70%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (70%); ORAL CARE PRODUCTS (69%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (68%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (65%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (64%); PLASMA TELEVISIONS (60%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; TRADE SHOWS AND FAIRS; ELECTRONICS; CONSUMER ELECTRONICS SHOW 

COMPANY: TOSHIBA CORP (53%)

TICKER: TOS (LSE) (53%); 6502 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: POGUE, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2003 



508 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: McGreevey Hopes Sprawl Is His Salvation Issue 

BYLINE:  By DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI 

DATELINE: TRENTON, Jan. 15 

 BODY:
By turning his first State of the State address into a rallying cry against suburban sprawl, Gov. James E. McGreevey put the most valiant possible face Tuesday on the limited political options now at his disposal.
 Mr. McGreevey campaigned on a promise to make New Jersey government more efficient and responsive, but when he took office last January he was greeted by a budget crisis that forced him to increase business taxes and slash popular programs. Faced with a divided State Legislature, another budget shortfall this year and wobbly approval ratings in recent polls, Mr. McGreevey appears to be gambling that the issue of sprawl has wide enough appeal to help him regain political momentum. 
 In the short term, his decision to label sprawl the state's greatest threat appears to have potential, according to many political analysts.
New Jersey's heavy property taxes and the daily annoyance of traffic jams, crowded schools and ugly strip malls have become dominant issues in many communities. The governor's proposals to limit development, expand the state park system and preserve more open space are likely to delight environmentalists and many suburban swing voters, while his call to channel development to the blighted cities is likely to please the Democrats' core urban constituents. His proposals also have the virtue of demanding little immediate financing in a year when the state is facing a $4 billion budget gap.
The risk in taking on an issue as knotty as suburban sprawl is that Mr. McGreevey will be expected to show voters tangible signs of progress, and he already faces intense opposition.
Republicans say it is hypocritical of the governor to blame the building industry for the state's traffic and its property tax problems, because his campaign accepted hundreds of thousands of dollars in contributions from people in the construction industry, and Mr. McGreevey has appointed real estate developers to some of the most coveted patronage positions on state authorities.
Many municipal officials argue that New Jersey's strong tradition of "home rule" gives them the power to make decisions about development, and that they will fight any state move to weaken that power. The state's builders are also bitterly opposed to the governor's position, asserting that it would aggravate a shortage of homes that makes New Jersey's housing costs among the highest in the nation.
"Those families who need homes, and there are 40,000 to 50,000 each year, should recognize that price is not their only problem -- it's also going to be availability," said Patrick J. O'Keefe, chief executive of the New Jersey Builders Association. 
The Republican co-president of the State Senate, John O. Bennett, said he was concerned that the regulations could further weaken an already stagnant economy. 
Planning advocates say that some of his proposals could be accomplished by changing the way government agencies issue building and water permits and would not need legislative approval. 
The political challenge for Mr. McGreevey will be finding a way to convince voters that the state is making progress in its war against sprawl. New Jersey is the nation's most densely populated state, and even if all building were to stop immediately, its existing traffic problems and lack of open space would continue to infuriate many residents. The governor's intention of channeling home construction to cities and older suburbs would also be a long-term project, requiring a huge investment in improving schools and police protection.
Republicans had little criticism for the open space plan, but they repeatedly faulted the governor for failing to offer proposals to ease the state's onerous property taxes. Many political observers view that tack as a preview of this fall's campaign for the evenly divided Senate.
"It sounds good to be against sprawl, but citizens may be left asking what can he do about my taxes for the next few years," said David Rebovich, a political science professor at Rider University.
The governor has argued that sprawl is to blame for the high property tax burdens, because unplanned growth forces communities to pay for costly expansions of their school systems. Environmentalists say the public has grown so weary of the drawbacks of overdevelopment that Mr. McGreevey can use the issue to portray himself and Democrats as champions of middle-class voters.
"If Republicans prevent him from doing that, they become the party of suburban sprawl," said Jeff Tittel, executive director of the Sierra Club. Mr. McGreevey said he had braced for a struggle in the Legislature.
"We cannot turn back or postpone this battle," Mr. McGreevey said. "It is the fight that will define and shape the New Jersey we leave behind for our children and grandchildren."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. James E. McGreevey, right, told Ryck Suydam, a Franklin Township farmer, that he preferred farmland preservation rather than requiring more acreage for new houses as a way to meet his goal of open space. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); SUBURBS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); POLITICS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); TAX CONSULTING (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); STATE PARKS (67%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); APPOINTMENTS (65%); EXECUTIVES (60%); RETAILERS (53%) LAND USE POLICIES; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; STATE OF THE STATE MESSAGE (NJ); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) 

PERSON: KOCIENIEWSKI, DAVID; MCGREEVEY, JAMES E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2003 



509 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: The Northern Front 

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM SAFIRE; E-mail: safire@nytimes.com

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
An alliance with a price tag is no alliance at all. 
 I like the Turks. They shared our human sacrifice in the Korean War, were a NATO bastion against the Soviet Union in the cold war, and provided all we asked for in gulf war I. In recent years, the "secret alliance" -- quiet military cooperation among the Turks, Israelis and Americans -- has been one of the few forces for stability in the Middle East. 
 That history of reliable alliance is the basis for longtime American support of Turkey's interests. This has ranged from influencing the International Monetary Fund to bolster its economy to urging the anti-Muslim European Union to admit this model of a secular Muslim democratic state. 
Paradoxically, the growth of democracy in Turkey -- which America cheers -- has introduced an element of uncertainty in that alliance. The new, freely elected government in Ankara, with roots more Islamic than secular, is waffling about joining President Bush's "coalition of the willing" against Iraq. The old Turkish power structure -- the nation's military leadership and governmental establishment, which previously called the shots -- is laying back to show Europeans how sensitive to public opinion Turkey has become.
That public opinion is neither as pro-Saddam nor anti-U.S. as recent polls report it to be. When asked, "Are you for war?" of course the answer 9 times out of 10 will be "No," but if asked, "Are you for the overthrow of Saddam?" Turkish friends tell me the answer would be much more sharply divided. 
New officials in Turkey's leading party, which controls two-thirds of Parliament, are doing nothing to prepare the public for the necessity of deposing Saddam. Instead, the temporary prime minister, Abdullah Gul, has been racing around to Arab capitals to show how eager he is for a way out of siding with the U.S.; he rejects cooperation with any allied attack without another this-time-we-mean-it U.N. resolution. A large delegation of Turkish businessmen just visited Baghdad.
Such failure to rally the Turkish voters' support for Turkey's long-range best interest in ending the tyranny oppressing its neighbor was Mistake No. 1. Worse than that is the mistake its Justice and Development Party is now making, which threatens to damage the valuable Turkish-American alliance: to seem to attach a price tag to taking part in our liberation of the Iraqi people. 
When the U.S. asked for permission, as required by Turkey's Constitution, to use bases in Turkey from which to stage an invasion, dickering began over how many hundreds of millions of dollars would be provided to upgrade the bases and lengthen landing fields. While this dragged on with no concrete being poured, an economic aid package was sought that Ankara estimates at $5 billion and U.S. sources say is more than double that. 
If the Turkish economy, already in deep trouble, takes a hit in the coming war, our ally could legitimately turn to the U.S. as well as to New Iraq's oil resources for recompense. And surely Ankara should make the Turkish public aware of America's interest in cushioning any shock to its major local ally. But the unseemly hard bargaining going on now over money for military assistance is demeaning and could change the nature of the two nations' alliance. 
What should Turkey's new leaders do? First, make prompt parliamentary and construction arrangements to welcome the U.S. troops. And then go the extra mile: Volunteer to mass 100,000 Turkish troops on its border with northern Iraq. (When it did this with Syria, which had provided the base for the harassment of Turkey by P.K.K. terrorists, the Syrian dictator got the message and booted the terrorist leader out of Damascus, which led to his capture.) 
The real threat of a Turkish Army descending on Baghdad from the north would hasten the surrender of Iraqi generals facing an American army rolling up from Kuwait in the south. 
It may be that we would decline a Turkish offer to join the allied invasion, lest the Turks be reluctant to leave oil-rich Kirkuk. But if Turkey acted like a strategic ally rather than a nervous renter of bases, it would have an unwavering superpower on its side for decades to come. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); COLD WAR (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); DESERT STORM (78%); KOREAN WAR (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); TERRORISM (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); RELIGION (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; FOREIGN AID; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); ABDULLAH GUL (55%) SAFIRE, WILLIAM; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ANKARA, TURKEY (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) TURKEY (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (93%); EUROPE (92%); ISRAEL (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) IRAQ; TURKEY

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2003 



510 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: BUSH AND AFFIRMATIVE ACTION; 
Bush's Remarks on Michigan Admissions Policies

 BODY:
Following is a transcript of President Bush's remarks yesterday at the White House on affirmative action, as recorded by The New York Times:
 The Supreme Court will soon hear arguments in a case about admissions policies and student diversity in public universities. I strongly support diversity of all kinds, including racial diversity in higher education. But the method used by the University of Michigan to achieve this important goal is fundamentally flawed. At their core, the Michigan policies amount to a quota system that unfairly rewards or penalizes prospective students based solely on their race. 
 So tomorrow my administration will file a brief with the court arguing that the University of Michigan's admissions policies, which award students a significant number of extra points based solely on their race and establishes numerical targets for incoming minority students, are unconstitutional. 
Our Constitution makes it clear that people of all races must be treated equally under the law. Yet we know that our society has not fully achieved that ideal. Racial prejudice is a reality in America. It hurts many of our citizens. As a nation, as a government and as individuals we must be vigilant in responding to prejudice wherever we find it. Yet as we work to address the wrong of racial prejudice, we must not use means that create another wrong and thus perpetuate our divisions.
America is a diverse country, racially, economically and ethnically. And our institutions of higher education should reflect our diversity. A college education should teach respect and understanding and good will. And these values are strengthened when students live and learn with people from many backgrounds. Yet quota systems that use race to include or exclude people from higher education and the opportunities it offers are divisive, unfair and impossible to square with the Constitution. 
In the programs under review by the Supreme Court, the University of Michigan has established an admissions process based on race. At the undergraduate level African-American students and some Hispanic students and Native American students receive 20 points out of a maximum 150 not because of any academic achievement or life experience, but solely because they are African-American, Hispanic or Native American. 
To put this in perspective, a perfect SAT score is worth only 12 points in the Michigan system. Students who accumulate 100 points are generally admitted, so those 20 points it awarded solely based on race are often the decisive factor. At the law school, some minority students are admitted to meet percentage targets while other applicants with higher grades and better scores are passed over. This means that students are being selected or rejected based primarily on the color of their skin. The motivation for such an admissions policy may be very good, but its result is discrimination, and that discrimination is wrong.
Some states are using innovative ways to diversify their student bodies. Recent history has proven that diversity can be achieved without using quotas. Systems in California and Florida and Texas have proven that by guaranteeing admissions to the top students from high schools throughout the state, including low-income neighborhoods, colleges can attain broad racial diversity. In these states, race-neutral admissions policies have resulted in levels of minority attendance for incoming students that are close to, and in some instances slightly surpass, those under the old race-based approach.
We should not be satisfied with the current numbers of minorities on America's college campuses. Much progress has been made. Much more is needed. University officials have the responsibility and the obligation to make a serious, effective effort to reach out to students from all walks of life without falling back on unconstitutional quotas. Schools should seek diversity by considering a broad range of factors in admissions, including a student's potential and life experiences.
Our government must work to make college more affordable for students who come from economically disadvantaged homes. And because we're committed to racial justice, we must make sure that America's public schools offer a quality education to every child from every background, which is the central purpose of the education reforms I signed last year.
America's long experience with the segregation we have put behind us and the racial discrimination we still struggle to overcome requires a special effort to make real the promise of equal opportunity for all. My administration will continue to actively promote diversity and opportunity in every way that the law permits. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (93%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (90%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); TRANSCRIPTS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); LAWYERS (74%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (73%); NATIVE AMERICANS (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (72%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; ADMISSIONS STANDARDS; AFFIRMATIVE ACTION; BLACKS; MINORITIES 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%) UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN; SUPREME COURT (US) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2003 



511 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: Bush Says He Will Ask Congress To Extend Africa Trade Benefits 

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 15 

 BODY:
President Bush said today that he would ask Congress to postpone the expiration of a trade law that gives 35 African nations duty-free access to American markets, an announcement he had planned to make as a centerpiece of a trip to Africa that was put off because of the confrontation with Iraq.
 Mr. Bush said that he would urge lawmakers to extend the African Growth and Opportunity Act beyond 2008 to give foreign businesses an incentive for long-term investment in Africa. "America is committed to building on the great success of AGOA," as the bill is known, Mr. Bush said in videotaped remarks to delegates at an African economic forum in Mauritius. The remarks were released in transcript form by the White House this morning. 
 Mr. Bush also reiterated his support for a 50 percent increase in general American aid over three years, which would bring the current $10 billion foreign aid budget to $15 billion by 2006. Only a portion of that would go to Africa. Mr. Bush first proposed the increase a year ago at an international conference in Monterrey, Mexico. 
The trade law, which President Clinton signed into law in May 2000, has allowed Africa's poorest nations to sell textiles to the United States with few or no tariffs and has as a result significantly increased African imports to the United States, from $14 billion in 1999 to more than $21 billion in 2001.
The law, Mr. Bush said, "is helping to reform old economies, creating new incentives for good governance and offering new hope for millions of Africans."
Democrats and international development specialists praised the president's announcement today, even as some continued to criticize the Bush administration for its large subsidies to American farmers that effectively undercut the trade law. 
"It is a positive step, definitely," said Muna B. Ndulo, a law professor and the director of the Institute for African Development at Cornell University. "But we still need to do more in terms of tackling the questions of subsidies."
Mr. Ndulo said that a farm bill that Mr. Bush signed into law last year -- giving farmers $190 billion in subsidies over 10 years -- had made American sugar and cotton cheaper than their African counterparts.
He noted, too, that $19 billion year in subsidies to American farmers was more than the $15 billion a year in foreign aid that Mr. Bush wants to spend by 2006. "So you don't even need to give aid," he said. "You need to reduce subsidies."
Mr. Bush's Africa trip, intended to showcase what administration officials have called the softer side of his foreign policy, was to have occurred this week. Mr. Bush had scheduled stops in Nigeria, Kenya and South Africa as well as in Mauritius, and had planned to describe plans for improving AIDS research.
Mr. Bush said in his remarks today that he still planned on visiting Africa "later this year." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); BUDGETS (76%); TRANSCRIPTS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (70%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (69%); TEXTILES (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); AIDS & HIV (62%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); BILL CLINTON (79%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BUMILLER, ELISABETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); MAURITIUS (92%); IRAQ (92%); NIGERIA (79%); MEXICO (79%); KENYA (79%) AFRICA; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2003 



512 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: NUCLEAR STANDOFF; 
North Korea And the U.S. Must Talk, Carter Says

BYLINE:  By PHILIP SHENON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 15 

 BODY:
Former President Jimmy Carter, who helped defuse a nuclear crisis with North Korea in 1994, has urged the Bush administration to open direct talks with North Korea to resolve the latest showdown. He said any settlement should require North Korea to go beyond its earlier promises and verify that it had shut down all research aimed at the production of nuclear weapons.
 Mr. Carter, who said he was willing to act as a mediator if requested by the White House, was optimistic that the latest dispute would be ended peacefully, so long as both the Bush administration and North Korea agreed to talk. 
 In his first extended interview about the showdown with North Korea, Mr. Carter, who was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize last October, said on Tuesday that he believed that North Korea was sincere in its repeated public statements that it wanted to move toward normal diplomatic and trade relations with the United States.
"There need to be direct talks between North Korea and the United States, without either side having to lose face," Mr. Carter said in the telephone interview from his home in Plains, Ga. "My hope and my belief is that it is certainly not too late now, and that there can be some opening."
But he said a peaceful resolution would require a "more comprehensive agreement" than the so-called Agreed Framework of 1994, under which North Korea was expected to freeze its nuclear weapons program in return for economic and energy aid. That pact focused on the Yongbyon nuclear plant, which was capable of producing weapons-grade plutonium, and did not deal directly with other facilities in the country. 
"Any future agreement would have to be comprehensive enough to forgo North Korea from developing any kind of nuclear explosive capability," he said, suggesting that while the 1994 agreement was an important accomplishment at the time, it may have failed to sufficiently constrain North Korea's ability to develop nuclear arms. He said North Korea would also need to agree to "pervasive and unimpeded" inspections of its nuclear facilities.
"The international community cannot permit North Korea to become a nuclear power with any substantial arsenal," he said, condemning "what I consider to be a very dangerous and counterproductive set of decisions by North Korea," including its announcement last week that it was withdrawing from the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty.
North Korean diplomats have suggested in public statements in recent weeks that Mr. Carter would be a useful mediator between their country and the Bush administration, given his role in 1994 in opening a dialogue with North Korea that ended a similar nuclear crisis.
Mr. Carter said that he would be willing to take on the role, but that he considered it improbable that President Bush or his deputies would ask him to intervene. 
Many in the Bush administration are openly disdainful of the 1994 agreement negotiated by the Clinton administration after Mr. Carter's June 1994 visit to Pyongyang, North Korea's capital, saying the nuclear pact amounted to appeasement of the Communist government.
And while Mr. Carter did not directly criticize the Bush administration for its handling of North Korea, he made clear that the administration's harsh rhetoric toward North Korea since Mr. Bush took office might have unnecessarily antagonized its leaders, leading them to fear that the United States would consider a pre-emptive attack.
"In the Clinton administration and in the present administration," he said, "there were and are very deeply committed people who see the North Koreans not as potential trade partners with whom we can have normal diplomatic relations, but only as people to be distrusted."
But he added that Mr. Bush's description of North Korea as part of an "axis of evil," along with Iraq and Iran, and the administration's repeated assertion that it was building a missile defense system specifically to protect against North Korea had left it fearing an imminent threat. 
Mr. Carter said that while there was the possibility North Korea was now serious about developing a nuclear arsenal, he believed that "they are using these fiery and public statements in order to accomplish their long-standing goal of negotiating a permanent and positive relationship" with the United States.
"I don't think at this point that North Korea is contemplating any attack, and I am not certain that North Korea actually has at this time a nuclear explosives capability" of any sort, he said, questioning intelligence reports that it already has one or two nuclear devices. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (93%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (76%); NOBEL PRIZES (74%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (74%); AWARDS & PRIZES (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); TERRORISM (59%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; RESEARCH; TERRORISM 

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) SHENON, PHILIP; CARTER, JIMMY; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%) NORTH KOREA

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2003 



513 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1640 words

HEADLINE: THE SUPREME COURT; 
Court Majority Says It Won't Second-Guess Congress

BYLINE:  By The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 15 

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from the Supreme Court decision today upholding the Copyright Term Extension Act of 1998, which added 20 years to all existing copyrights. The vote in the case, Eldred v. Ashcroft, was 7 to 2. Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg wrote the majority opinion. Justices Stephen G. Breyer and John Paul Stevens dissented.

FROM THE DECISION
By Justice Ginsburg
 Congress's consistent historical practice of applying newly enacted copyright terms to future and existing copyrights reflects a judgment stated concisely by Representative Huntington at the time of the 1831 act: "Justice, policy and equity alike forbid" that an "author who had sold his work a week ago, be placed in a worse situation than the author who should sell his work the day after the passing of the act." 
 "Since 1790, it has indeed been Congress's policy that the author of yesterday's work should not get a lesser reward than the author of tomorrow's work just because Congress passed a statute lengthening the term today." The C.T.E.A. follows this historical practice by keeping the duration provisions of the 1976 act largely in place and simply adding 20 years to each of them. Guided by text history and precedent, we cannot agree with petitioners' submission that extending the duration of existing copyrights is categorically beyond Congress's authority under the copyright clause.
Satisfied that the C.T.E.A. complies with the "limited times" prescription, we turn now to whether it is a rational exercise of the legislative authority conferred by the copyright clause. On that point, we defer substantially to Congress. "It is Congress that has been assigned the task of defining the scope of the limited monopoly that should be granted to authors . . . in order to give the public appropriate access to their work product." 
The C.T.E.A. reflects judgments of a kind Congress typically makes, judgments we cannot dismiss as outside the legislature's domain. . . .
In sum, we find that the C.T.E.A. is a rational enactment; we are not at liberty to second-guess Congressional determinations and policy judgments of this order, however debatable or arguably unwise they may be. Accordingly, we cannot conclude that the C.T.E.A., which continues the unbroken Congressional practice of treating future and existing copyrights in parity for term extension purposes, is an impermissible exercise of Congress's power under the copyright clause. . . .
More forcibly, petitioners contend that the C.T.E.A.'s extension of existing copyrights does not "promote the progress of science" as contemplated by the preambular language of the copyright clause.
To sustain this objection, petitioners do not argue that the clause's preamble is an independently enforceable limit on Congress's power. Petitioners acknowledge that "the preamble of the copyright clause is not a substantive limit on Congress's legislative power." 
Rather, they maintain that the preambular language identifies the sole end to which Congress may legislate; accordingly, they conclude, the meaning of "limited times" must be "determined in light of that specified end." The C.T.E.A.'s extension of existing copyrights categorically fails to "promote the progress of science," petitioners argue, because it does not stimulate the creation of new works but merely adds value to works already created.
As petitioners point out, we have described the copyright clause as "both a grant of power and a limitation," and have said that "the primary objective of copyright" is "to promote the progress of science." The "constitutional command," we have recognized, is that Congress, to the extent it enacts copyright laws at all, create a "system" that promotes the progress of science.
We have also stressed, however, that it is generally for Congress, not the courts, to decide how best to pursue the copyright clause's objectives. . . .
On the issue of copyright duration, Congress, from the start, has routinely applied new definitions or adjustments of the copyright term to both future works and existing works not yet in the public domain. Such consistent Congressional practice is entitled to "very great weight, and when it is remembered that the rights thus established have not been disputed during a period of over two centuries, it is almost conclusive." Indeed, "this court has repeatedly laid down the principle that a contemporaneous legislative exposition of the Constitution when the founders of our government and framers of our Constitution were actively participating in public affairs, acquiesced in for a long term of years, fixes the construction to be given the Constitution's provisions." 
Congress's unbroken practice since the founding generation thus overwhelms petitioners' argument that the C.T.E.A.'s extension of existing copyrights fails per se to "promote the progress of science." . . . 
The C.T.E.A., in contrast, does not oblige anyone to reproduce another's speech against the carrier's will. Instead, it protects authors' original expression from unrestricted exploitation. Protection of that order does not raise the free speech concerns present when the government compels or burdens the communication of particular facts or ideas. . . .
The First Amendment securely protects the freedom to make -- or decline to make -- one's own speech; it bears less heavily when speakers assert the right to make other people's speeches. To the extent such assertions raise First Amendment concerns, copyright's built-in free speech safeguards are generally adequate to address them. We recognize that the D.C. circuit spoke too broadly when it declared copyrights "categorically immune from challenges under the First Amendment." But when, as in this case, Congress has not altered the traditional contours of copyright protection, further First Amendment scrutiny is unnecessary.
As we read the framers' instruction, the copyright clause empowers Congress to determine the intellectual property regimes that, overall, in that body's judgment, will serve the ends of the clause. Congress may "implement the stated purpose of the framers by selecting the policy which in its judgment best effectuates the constitutional aim." Beneath the facade of their inventive constitutional interpretation, petitioners forcefully urge that Congress pursued very bad policy in prescribing the C.T.E.A.'s long terms. The wisdom of Congress's action, however, is not within our province to second-guess. Satisfied that the legislation before us remains inside the domain the Constitution assigns to the first branch, we affirm the judgment of the court of appeals.

FROM THE DISSENT
By Justice Breyer
The economic effect of this 20-year extension, the longest blanket extension since the nation's founding, is to make the copyright term not limited, but virtually perpetual. Its primary legal effect is to grant the extended term not to authors, but to their heirs, estates or corporate successors. And most importantly, its practical effect is not to promote, but to inhibit, the progress of "science" -- by which word the framers meant learning or knowledge.
The majority believes these conclusions rest upon practical judgments that at most suggest the statute is unwise, not that it is unconstitutional. Legal distinctions, however, are often matters of degree. And in this case the failings of degree are so serious that they amount to failings of constitutional kind. Although the copyright clause grants broad legislative power to Congress, that grant has limits. And in my view this statute falls outside them. . . .
The extra royalty payments will not come from thin air. Rather, they ultimately come from those who wish to read or see or hear those classic books or films or recordings that have survived. Even the $500,000 that United Airlines has had to pay for the right to play George Gershwin's 1924 classic "Rhapsody in Blue" represents a cost of doing business, potentially reflected in the ticket prices of those who fly.

FROM THE DISSENT
By Justice Stevens
Congress set in place a federal structure governing certain types of intellectual property for the new republic. That Congress exercised its unquestionable constitutional authority to create a new federal system securing rights for authors and inventors in 1790 does not provide support for the proposition that Congress can extend pre-existing federal protections retroactively.
Respondent places great weight on this first Congressional action, arguing that it proves that "Congress thus unquestionably understood that it had authority to apply a new, more favorable copyright term to existing works." 
That understanding, however, is not relevant to the question presented by this case -- whether "Congress has the power under the copyright clause to extend retroactively the term of existing copyrights?" Precisely put, the question presented by this case does not even implicate the 1790 act, for that act created, rather than extended, copyright protection. That this law applied to works already in existence says nothing about the first Congress's conception of their power to extend this newly created federal right. . . .
By failing to protect the public interest in free access to the products of inventive and artistic genius -- indeed, by virtually ignoring the central purpose of the copyright-patent clause -- the court has quitclaimed to Congress its principal responsibility in this area of the law. 
Fairly read, the court has stated that Congress's actions under the copyright-patent clause are, for all intents and purposes, judicially unreviewable. That result cannot be squared with the basic tenets of our constitutional structure. It is not hyperbole to recall the trenchant words of Chief Justice John Marshall: "It is emphatically the province and duty of the judicial department to say what the law is." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COPYRIGHT (91%); SUPREME COURTS (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); APPEALS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); WRITERS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PETITIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%) COPYRIGHTS; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; SUITS AND LITIGATION 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US) 

PERSON: RUTH BADER GINSBURG (88%); JOHN PAUL STEVENS (73%); STEPHEN BREYER (73%) GINSBURG, RUTH BADER (ASSOC JUSTICE); BREYER, STEPHEN G (ASSOC JUSTICE); STEVENS, JOHN PAUL (ASSOC JUSTICE) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2003 



514 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene; 
What would be the long-run impact of tax-free dividends on markets?

BYLINE:  By Hal R. Varian; Hal R. Varian is an economics professor and dean of the School of Information Management and Systems at the University of California at Berkeley. E-mail: hal@sims.berkeley.edu.

 BODY:
PAUL H. O'NEILL, the former Treasury secretary, was known for saying "the right thing at the wrong time." The phrase is a fitting description of President Bush's recent proposal to eliminate taxes on stock dividends.
 Such a measure is certainly worth considering as part of a fiscally responsible, balanced-budget package of tax reform. But as short-run macroeconomic stimulus, it is next to worthless, and in terms of its long-run impact on the deficit, it is downright irresponsible. 
 The Democrats' plan actually offers some stimulus. If it works as well as they hope, it would lead to robust growth by the summer of 2004, giving a big lift to Mr. Bush's re-election prospects. Hmmm. Perhaps the Democrats aren't quite as enthusiastic about their plan as they pretend to be.
One interpretation of the Bush proposal is that the White House believes that left to its own devices, the economy will recover by summer 2004 anyway, so the administration may as well carry on with its tax-cutting agenda now.
But leaving short-run politics and macroeconomic stimulus aside, what would be the long-run impact of tax-free dividends on financial markets? In thinking about this question, it is important to keep in mind two relatively recent developments.
First, we really have become a nation of shareholders. According to "The Rise of the Equity Culture," a paper by the M.I.T. economist James Poterba, the number of individuals owning corporate stock has increased by nearly 60 percent in a decade, with about half of American households now owning stock, either directly or indirectly.
Second, much of this stock is held in tax-deferred accounts like 401(k) plans, IRA's, and Keoughs. This means that more than half of dividends paid already escape immediate taxation. But if the tax treatment of dividends is changed, portfolio allocations could also change, and a complete analysis has to examine the impact of such adjustments.
Let's briefly review the theory of portfolio choice in the presence of tax-deferred accounts. Suppose an investor has a tax-deferred account and a taxable account. He can invest in a risky asset (stocks) or a safe asset (corporate bonds).
Stocks tend to have most of their payout in the form of capital gains, which are taxed relatively lightly. Bonds pay out interest, which is highly taxed. Hence it makes sense to put the bonds in the tax-deferred account, holding the lightly taxed stocks in the taxable portfolio.
A neat theory, but, unfortunately, it doesn't hold up empirically. Professor Poterba, along with two other professors, John Shoven of Stanford University and Clemens Sialm of the University of Michigan, looked at the consequences of various investment strategies, using the actual returns on various mutual stock and bond funds over the last 36 years.
Contrary to the conventional wisdom, they found that allocating stocks to the tax-deferred account, and holding extra income in nontaxed municipal bonds, was far and away the best strategy.
There are two reasons for this discrepancy between theory and practice. First, most managed mutual funds are highly "tax inefficient." They typically pay dividends and capital gains distributions quarterly or yearly, making investors pay taxes they would rather defer.
Second, municipal bonds typically have attractive yields compared with the after-tax yields on corporate bonds, particularly for investors in high tax brackets. Taken together, these two facts turn conventional wisdom on its head.
Still, the conventional wisdom holds true for some mutual funds. If you invest in an index fund, a highly tax-efficient vehicle, the economists show that it is best to hold it outside your tax-deferred portfolio. Since index funds, and other tax-optimized funds, have become more popular in recent years, the conventional wisdom is looking much wiser these days.
If taxes on dividends were eliminated, there would be an even greater incentive to hold stocks outside a tax-sheltered portfolio.
So we would expect to see investor portfolios shift more in the direction the theory predicts: taxable bonds in tax-deferred accounts, and stocks in taxable accounts to take advantage of lightly taxed capital gains and untaxed dividends.
What about municipal bonds? Odds are we would see their prices fall, since dividend-paying stocks would be pretty close substitutes under the Bush proposal. This means the cost of borrowing for state and local governments will be driven up -- particularly bad news given their precarious economic position.
One way to estimate the likelihood of the Bush plan's passing is to watch the prices of municipal bonds over the next few months: the more likely the plan is to pass, the lower those prices are likely to go.
Judging from the reaction of the municipal bond market so far, and the prices of dividend-paying stocks, the markets seem to think it unlikely that the Bush plan will actually pass.
So far we've focused on the demand for dividends; if the tax is eliminated, what would be the consequences on the supply of dividends?
Economic theory isn't very helpful here. Dividends have been so heavily taxed in the past that it's something of a mystery why companies pay them at all. The most compelling view is that investors don't trust managers to make sensible investment decisions with retained earnings, so they prefer the dividend bird in the hand to the capital gain pie in the sky.
If paying dividends became the norm, companies would have to subject more investment plans to market scrutiny, which, by and large, would be a good thing.
But a cynic might say little will change in this regard since the Bush plan allows a company to declare a dividend, but not pay it out to shareholders, instead keeping the money as retained earnings. This provision weakens a substantial benefit of changing the tax treatment of dividends.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Nation of Shareholders"The number of Americans directly or indirectly owning stock has risen by 60 percent in the last decade. Many of the stocks held in taxdeferred accounts, like 401(k) plans and IRA's, already escape immediate taxation. Percent of adults owning stock IN ANY FORM'98: 51.8%'89: 35.6 IN TAXABLE ACCOUNTS'98: 29.9'89: 21.5 IN 401(k)'s'98: 29.8'89: 16.3 (Source: James Poterba) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); DIVIDENDS (89%); BONDS (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); INCOME TAX (86%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TAX RELIEF (77%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (77%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (77%); POLITICS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); US 401K PLANS (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); TAX REFORM (71%); CORPORATE BONDS (69%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (68%); MUTUAL FUNDS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (60%); BOND FUNDS (54%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LAW AND LEGISLATION; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; TAXATION; TAX EXEMPTIONS; STOCKS AND BONDS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) VARIAN, HAL R; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN); ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2003 



515 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1039 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-11

U.S. Restates Willingness To Go It Alone on Iraq
The Bush administration resisted calls by other nations today that it secure the explicit blessing of the United Nations Security Council before going to war with Iraq, suggesting it could decide in favor of military action even if weapons inspectors do not turn up concrete new evidence against Saddam Hussein. A1

Strike Tears at Venezuela
Venezuela is in the seventh week of a national strike aimed at shutting down the economy and toppling President Hugo Chavez, and as the country divides into rival camps, Venezuelans have begun to take stock of the effect on their society. A1

Russia Wary of Western Help
A series of moves in Russia against American and other foreigners, including Peace Corps volunteers, is part of a trend that could undermine not only Russia's image as an emerging democracy but also its relations with the United States. A3

Israel Closes Arab Universities
The Israeli Army shut down two Palestinian universities in the West Bank, stepping up pressure on Palestinian institutions and individuals it said were linked to terrorism. In separate incidents, Israeli soldiers killed three Palestinians. A11

U.S. Bolstering Israeli Defenses
The United States has sent Patriot antimissile systems and 600 troops to Israel to strengthen its ability to defend against missile attacks. The American forces have been sent for an exercise, but they will also be in position to help defend against attacks by Iraq's Scud missiles. A12

Carter Urges North Korea Talks
Former President Jimmy Carter urged the Bush administration to open direct talks with North Korea to resolve the latest showdown and said he was willing to act as a mediator if requested by the White House. A14

South Korean Reassures U.S.
South Korean President-elect Roh Moo Hyun moved to ease concerns about anti-Americanism in South Korea by visiting its military headquarters in Seoul and invoking American sacrifices in the Korean War. A14

NATIONAL A18-27

Administration to Oppose College Policy on Race
President Bush denounced direct preferences for racial minorities in university admissions and said his administration would file a brief with the Supreme Court urging that the affirmative action admissions policies at the University of Michigan be declared unconstitutional. A1

Deficits Likely to Set Record
The White House said the federal deficit would exceed $200 billion this fiscal year and probably climb to more than $300 billion next year. The ballooning deficits, the largest ever in dollar terms, could put Mr. Bush's tax plan in peril. A1

Surveillance Program Opposed
Opposition is growing in Congress and among public-interest groups to a domestic antiterrorism surveillance program being developed by the Defense Department. A16

Adult Trial for Sniper Defendant
A juvenile court judge in Fairfax, Va., ruled that Lee Malvo, the 17-year-old charged with murder in the Washington-area sniper shootings, can be tried as an adult. He now faces the death penalty. A18

Harvard Backs Graduate Plan
In a new program to encourage graduate students to enter public service, Harvard University plans to give $14 million in "presidential scholarships" during the next three years to graduate students interested in public service or research careers. A21

Arrests in Kidnapping Ring
Detroit police said they have broken up a kidnapping ring that took teenage girls from the streets, held them in captivity and forced them to peddle cheap jewelry and sex. A22

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Worms Aid Study of Obesity
Biologists have laid a new basis for studying human obesity by identifying almost all the genes that regulate fat storage and metabolism in laboratory roundworms. A22

NEW YORK/REGION B1-9

Bloomberg Outlines Plan To Centralize Schools
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced a plan to impose rigorously centralized control over the New York City school system and its teachers, wiping out local districts and imposing a single curriculum for reading, writing and mathematics on all but the top-performing schools. A1

New Trial Sought in Bombings
Lawyers for four terrorists convicted in the 2001 embassy bombings trial in Manhattan said in court papers that jury irregularities may have affected the verdicts and could be the basis for granting a new trial. B1

Obstacles to Rebuilding
The developer Larry A. Silverstein wants to rebuild 7 World Trade Center, but the $700 million project is up against a host of uncertainties, including a sluggish real estate market and the lack of a tenant to occupy the building. B1

Children's Agency Overworked
The unceasing turnover of caseworkers at New Jersey's child welfare agency has caused hundreds of open investigations of abuse to go unattended for weeks and sometimes months at a time, caseworkers and supervisors with the agency said. B1

Neediest Cases B7

CIRCUITS G1-8

HOUSE & HOME F1-14

ARTS E1-14

SPORTS D1-8

OBITUARIES B10

Riley D. Housewright
A microbiologist who helped direct United States research in biological warfare from World War II until 1970, he was 89. B10

BUSINESS DAY C1-26

Copyright Extension Upheld
In a victory for corporate copyright holders, the Supreme Court ruled that the 20-year extension Congress granted to all existing copyrights in 1998 might have been bad policy but fell within Congress's authority. A24

Aiming Autos at the Young
Some automakers are building cars meant specifically for young drivers, hoping that the attempt to be cool does not brand them as hopelessly not. C1

Yahoo Expanding Broadband
The Internet portal Yahoo plans to extend high-speed, or broadband, Internet access to customers nationwide by the end of the year. C1

New Harry Potter in June
The publishers of the Harry Potter fantasy book franchise announced that the series' long-delayed fifth installment, "Harry Potter and the Order of Phoenix," will be released on June 21. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A28-29

Editorials: A promising school reform plan; the Supreme Court docket -- states' rights vs. civil rights, the coming of copyright perpetuity; defending France's Jews.

Columns: Bob Herbert, William Safire.

Bridge E5
TV Listings E14
Crossword E13
Weather B11
Public Lives B2


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (88%); BUDGET DEFICITS (84%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ARMIES (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); ARMED FORCES (77%); KOREAN WAR (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); EVIDENCE (76%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (72%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); COUNTERTERRORISM (71%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (70%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (67%); TERRORISM (66%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); SUPREME COURTS (65%); NATIONAL DEBT (64%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (64%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (64%); JUDGES (62%); JUVENILE COURTS (60%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (60%); VOLUNTEERS (54%); MURDER (52%); RACE & RACISM (50%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); PEACE CORPS (56%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); HUGO CHAVEZ (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); ISRAEL (94%); IRAQ (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2003 



516 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1404 words

HEADLINE: Strike's Effects Tear at Social Fabric in Venezuela 

BYLINE:  By GINGER THOMPSON 

DATELINE: CARACAS, Venezuela, Jan. 15 

 BODY:
The sign on the door says "closed." The lights are dim. The staff is not in uniform. Customers are only allowed in through the out door. But in the seventh week of a national strike aimed at shutting down the economy and toppling President Hugo Chavez, Blockbuster Video began covert operations in at least two popular stores in the capital.
 The staff and managers refused to fully identify themselves, or to even respond to simple queries about store hours and movie releases coming soon. However, in one brief outburst, a store manager who identified herself only as Eugenia, strived to make clear that her decision to open for business weighed heavily on her conscience. 
 "It is hard to work," she said. "But it is harder not to work." 
The strike that once left most commercial areas of the city dark and abandoned -- at an economic cost of more than $50 million a day -- is now a collage of contrasts: abandoned shopping malls and bustling street markets; long lines outside gas stations and traffic jams; shuttered McDonald's outlets and packed gourmet restaurants. Venezuelan beer has been replaced by Mexican and German brands. Movie theaters are closed, but neighborhoods are setting up screens in parks and plazas.
Since it began on Dec. 2, the strike has become the fault line that divides this society into rival camps, wreaking havoc on neighborhoods and families alike. It was organized by a coalition of business executives, union leaders and civic organizations to force Mr. Chavez to call new elections.
So far, the strike leaders have failed to accomplish that goal. In the lingering war of attrition between President Chavez and his opponents, Venezuelan society has begun to take stock of the consequences. The economy is in ruins. A country that already endures one of the highest violent crime rates in the hemisphere -- dozens of people are killed on an average weekend in this metropolitan area -- has now been pushed to the brink of civil conflict. Mr. Chavez shows no sign of leaving.
In some places the strike holds firm, particularly in the state-owned oil company, which pumps the black blood of Venezuela's economy and is a chief supplier to the United States. Thirty-thousand workers walked off the job soon after the strike started. The government has been unable to lure them back in significant numbers, causing oil shortages around the world.
Marches by flag-waving Chavez opponents, rolling through the city like red, blue and yellow tidal waves, continue almost every other day; the most vibrant display, some analysts say, of the politicization of a once comfortable middle class that considered politics a frivolous pursuit. In a nightly ritual called the "cacerolazo," or pot-banging, a cacophonous clatter echoes through the skyscrapers and condominium complexes across this valley city at 8 p.m. as opponents of Mr. Chavez -- housewives and professionals, rich and working class -- emerge from their homes and offices to blow whistles and bang on cooking pots.
In a local newspaper interview, the poet Rafael Arraiz Lucca described the atmosphere: "Venezuelans are living a collective hypnosis very close to hysteria."
Still, in the day-to-day life of the city, the strike comes more in fits and starts. Some private and public schools have not reopened. Others have opened with the help of neighborhood volunteers. Banks and supermarkets are open for limited hours. Subway and bus service continues as normal.
"This is not a strike that will be lifted," said Ibsen Martinez, a newspaper columnist. "This is a strike that will slowly languish."
The opposition's base of support among the Venezuelan middle class -- especially the owners of small and medium-sized businesses -- consider President Chavez a dictator in a democrat's clothes. They point to his control over the Congress and the justice system as signs of a grand plan to install a Cuba-style government. But their dwindling financial resources have them grappling over how much longer they can hold out.
Gonzalo Garcia, owner of a Subway sandwich shop, has lost more than $30,000 since the strike began. He added that if the Chavez government survives the strike, he and his family would leave their homeland.
"I would love to recover my store and even open others," he said, but "I cannot let my children grow up in an atmosphere of violence."
Lawlessness is not limited to Caracas. Local news media reported that three people were shot and wounded today as looters ransacked the town of Guiria, 310 miles east of the capital. Looting also was reported in Ciudad Bolivar, 280 miles southeast of Caracas. 
Supporters of President Chavez seem simply fed up. Behind the marches and cacerolazos, they see a plot orchestrated by a group of the wealthy elite who are determined to impose their will on a democratically elected president.
Nicolasa Veita, a nurse the Centro Medico de Caracas, said the privately owned hospital had closed all but its emergency services. Last Friday, supervisors notified the nursing staff that they would not be paid this month. But she and the 130 other nurses refused to walk off the job.
"The first right that all people have, no matter what their political views, is the right to life," she said. "The doctors are looking for an excuse to close the hospitals and blame it on the government. The nurses are not going to let that happen."
On Tuesday the political storm that has battered this country came crashing down on the Mater Salvatori girls' school. Two-thousand parents -- almost all of them mothers -- packed into the small assembly hall to vote on whether to break the strike by opening the sprawling, affluent campus for classes.
The meeting turned into a rally, with parents roused from their seats, chanting "Not one step back." By the end of the morning, there was no need to take a vote.
One daring father stood briefly against the furious female outpouring against Mr. Chavez to ask how long parents were willing to keep their children out of school, and how teachers planned to make up the classes that would be lost.
The assembly hall filled with hissing. Then another father spoke up.
"This is not about losing some classes, or even the whole semester if that is what is necessary," he said, his bespectacled face turning red with emotion. "This is about losing our country."
School meetings like that one have become flashpoints for the strike against Mr. Chavez. After a vote at a private elementary school in a neighborhood called California Norte, Elenitza Guevara, a lawyer and mother of two, left fed up. The parents, she said, were not interested in a real debate about closing the school, she said. People like her, who were opposed to closing, were shunned. "I told them, what kind of tolerance are we going to be able to teach our children if we cannot let everyone express their views?" she said, still riled from the meeting. "The truth is, there was no room for negotiation."
What made her even more angry, she said, was that the cost of the decision had been passed on to the parents. While school administrators encouraged parents not to reopen the school, they advised the parents that they would be expected to make this month's tuition payments.
"If some parents do not want to send their children to school, they should have that right," she said. "But why should they take away my right to send my child to school? Why should they take away my child's right to an education?"

	 	 		--------------------	 	

U.S. to Join Mediation Group
WASHINGTON, Jan. 15 (Agence France-Presse) -- The United States said today that it would take part in a new group to assist regional mediation efforts to end the political crisis in Venezuela, whether President Hugo Chavez likes it or not.
"We would expect to be part of it and others would expect us to be part of it," said Richard Boucher, a State Department spokesman. After initial opposition, the United States now supports the creation of a "Friends of Venezuela" group to help mediation by the secretary general of the Organization of American States, Cesar Gaviria. 
Otto J. Reich, the United States special envoy to Latin America, discussed the plans on Tuesday with Mr. Gaviria in Quito, where they were attending the inauguration of the new Ecuadorean president, Lucio Gutierrez. 
Earlier, Mr. Chavez, who also attended Mr. Gutierrez's inauguration, had signaled that he did not want Washington to take part in meetings to set up the group.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 18, 2003

 CORRECTION:
A nurse quoted in an article on Thursday about the impact of a national strike on day-to-day life in Venezuela says the article misstated the context of her comments. The nurse, Nicolasa Veita, who works at the Centro Medico Caracas, said, "The doctors are looking for an excuse to close the hospitals and blame it on the government." Later, in the presence of Centro Medico administrators, Ms. Veita said her comments had referred to Vargas Hospital, a public facility, where she also works, not to the Centro Medico.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A nationwide strike now in its seventh week has crippled much of the Venezuelan economy. Jose Gregorio Hernandez, 11, waited in line for a fourth day yesterday in Caracas to fill his family's containers of cooking gas. (Associated Press)(pg. A1); The broken windows of a McDonald's in Caracas attest to the levels of friction and violence between supporters of the strike and its opponents. (Reuters); Even schools have engendered fierce debate during the strike. Some have remained opened with volunteers, while others are shut. (Getty Images)(pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TRENDS (89%); POLITICS (89%); GAS STATIONS (78%); FAST FOOD (78%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); RESTAURANTS (76%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (75%); CITY LIFE (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); STRIKES (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); RETAILERS (71%); CITIES (68%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (67%); CRIME RATES (62%); VIOLENT CRIME (62%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (60%); CONDOMINIUMS (50%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (50%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (50%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (50%) STRIKES; LABOR; SMALL BUSINESS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE 

COMPANY: BB LIQUIDATING INC (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (84%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (84%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (89%) CHAVEZ, HUGO (PRES); THOMPSON, GINGER 

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (79%) VENEZUELA; 

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2003



517 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 862 words

HEADLINE: Yahoo Plans Big Expansion Of Broadband 

BYLINE:  By SAUL HANSELL 

 BODY:
Buoyed by its growing sales and profits, Yahoo is planning to take its high-speed Internet access service nationwide.
 Yesterday, the big Internet portal announced better-than-expected financial results for the fourth quarter of 2002. It was able to expand its sales of online advertising, even as it added new services that generate monthly fees from users. 
 One of the fastest-growing of those services is high-speed, or broadband, Internet access, which Yahoo now offers as a co-branded service with SBC Communications, the phone company that serves about one-third of the nation. 
"Sometime this year, if you are a Yahoo user, you will have the ability to be part of Yahoo broadband all over the country," Terry S. Semel, Yahoo's chief executive, said in an interview yesterday.
In particular, he said that cable companies, which until now have tried to promote their own broadband services, are now preparing to open their networks to a variety of offerings. Yahoo, he said, will compete with America Online, Microsoft and EarthLink in providing broadband services over cable. Mr. Semel said Yahoo would explain its broadband strategy at a meeting with investors next month.
Safa Rashtchy, an analyst with U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray, said that such deals had the potential to be significant for Yahoo. "SBC hasn't produced a lot of revenue for Yahoo yet, but we estimate it will be $100 million this year," he said. "If they get the other two-thirds of the country, that could be $300 million a year."
Over all, Yahoo earned $46.2 million for the quarter, in contrast to a loss of $8.7 million a year ago. Last year, however, Yahoo had to write off some acquisition-related costs that are no longer required. If current accounting rules prevailed, it would have had a profit of $6.8 million in the fourth quarter of 2001. Yahoo's profit comes to 8 cents a share, better than the 6 cents analysts expected. The company posted sales of $285.8 million, up 51 percent from a year earlier. Excluding HotJobs, an employment site that Yahoo acquired early last year, its sales would have risen 31 percent.
Fee-based services were the fastest-growing area for Yahoo. It said it had a combined total of 2.2 million subscribers for its broadband service; a dial-up Internet service, also offered with SBC; its rapidly growing online personals service; and a range of other, smaller offerings. That is up from 375,000 subscribers a year ago. Revenue from those services, which also includes the HotJobs site it acquired in January 2002, was $9.4 million. Excluding HotJobs, that represented a 65 percent increase.
But online advertising, which is plummeting at rivals like America Online, also performed well for Yahoo. Its advertising sales rose 31 percent to $177.5 million, largely as a result of sales of text advertising on its search pages and other advertising products for small businesses. 
Yahoo also boasted that it had been able to create big animated ad formats that big national advertisers find increasingly appealing. In a conference call with investors, Mr. Semel said that Yahoo had recently expanded its sales to Gap and General Motors, among others.
A big priority for this year, he said, is advertising related to Web searches, Yahoo's original service. Largely as a result of its deal to incorporate paid listings from Overture Services, its revenue from search advertising was $120 million last year, about 20 percent of its total. Yahoo is hoping to increase this by putting search-related advertising on other areas of its site. And last month, it agreed to buy Intkomi, a maker of search software, to help its search service win back users who have defected to Google.
Mr. Semel said the company expected its overall advertising sales to grow at least 20 percent this year.
Yahoo's advertising sales rose in each quarter of last year, but the company has yet to reach the heights of its business in the dot-com boom. For all of last year, Yahoo's sales were $953 million -- up from $717 million in 2001, but below the $1.1 billion level of 2000.
But Yahoo yesterday increased its guidance for financial results this year. It now expects to post revenue of $1.14 to $1.21 billion for the year, beating its record. 
Mr. Semel said that the company was confident of this sales increase of 20 percent to 27 percent, even if the economy and the advertising environment did not improve. 
Moreover, he said, the company can grow while keeping a tight lid on costs. As a result, it expects its earnings before income tax, depreciation and amortization, a measure of cash flow popular with media companies, to increase 43 percent to 60 percent this year. Those earnings last year were $206 million.
Yahoo reported that its user base continued to grow briskly. Its audience worldwide, excluding Japan, was 213 million people in December, up from 188 million a year earlier. 
Mr. Semel said that this user base, most of whom buy Internet access from America Online, Microsoft's MSN and others, creates the best opportunity for Yahoo's expanding broadband offering.
"Every time a Yahoo user comes in contact with Yahoo, we can talk about our own broadband service," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROADBAND (95%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (91%); INTERNET & WWW (91%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (90%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (89%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); SEARCH ENGINES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (75%); ONLINE DATING SERVICES (73%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (72%); BRANDING (72%); ACCOUNTING (66%); EXECUTIVES (54%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; ADVERTISING; COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: YAHOO! INC (95%); AT&T INC (93%); PIPER JAFFRAY COS (68%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); AOL INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SBC COMMUNICATIONS; YAHOO INC; AMERICA ONLINE INC; EARTHLINK INC; MICROSOFT CORP 

TICKER: YHOO (NASDAQ) (95%); T (NYSE) (93%); PJC (NYSE) (68%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); AOL (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (95%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (95%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (95%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (93%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (93%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (68%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (68%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (68%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (68%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (68%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (68%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (55%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: TERRY SEMEL (88%) HANSELL, SAUL; SEMEL, TERRY 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2003 



518 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: Bush Aide Sees Deficit in 2003 Of $200 Billion 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM and EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 15 

 BODY:
The White House said today that the federal deficit was likely to exceed $200 billion this fiscal year and probably hit $300 billion next year. 
 The ballooning deficits -- the largest ever in dollar terms but smaller relative to the economy than deficits in the 1980's and early 1990's -- could put President Bush's tax plan in peril. 
 This afternoon, 11 moderate senators -- five Republicans and six Democrats -- met to discuss their qualms about the president's proposals and made plans to draft alternative tax legislation. 
The group's consensus, a participant said, was that the tax plan was too costly and that its centerpiece, the elimination of individual income taxes on most stock dividends, would not help the economy enough.
Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, the most influential senator on tax legislation, said in an interview that the president's tax package would probably have to be changed to get it through the Senate. 
The deficit forecasts were made by Mitchell E. Daniels Jr., the president's budget director, in answer to questions after a speech at the United States Chamber of Commerce here. The estimates assume enactment of the tax plan but do not take account of the potential cost of a war with Iraq, which officials have said could be $50 billion or more.
The forecasts are in line with those of many private economists, but this was the first time the administration had acknowledged the magnitude of the expected deficits.
Mr. Daniels did not spell out his exact deficit projections, which will be published in early February as part of the administration's budget for the 2004 fiscal year, which begins on Oct. 1. 
But he said the deficit would equal 2 percent or 3 percent of the nation's gross domestic product in the next year or two. With an annual economy of roughly $10 trillion, that would translate to deficits of $200 billion to $300 billion.
Providing additional detail, Mr. Daniels said the president's tax plan would add several "scores of billions" to the deficit in 2003 and about $100 billion to the deficit in 2004. 
Coming on top of last year's budget deficit, which was $159 billion, that means the president's tax plan alone could increase the shortfall to $250 billion by 2004 and new spending for domestic security and other priorities could raise the total above $300 billion. The budget Mr. Bush submitted to Congress a year ago forecast a deficit of $80 billion for fiscal year 2003, which ends on Sept. 30, $14 billion for 2004 and surpluses thereafter.
Mr. Daniels suggested today that the budget was not likely to be in surplus in the next 10 years. But he and other administration officials emphasized that the anticipated shortfalls of 2 percent to 3 percent of the nation's gross domestic product were modest in relation to the size of the entire economy.
"We ought not to hyperventilate about this," he told reporters. "By any historical measure, these are manageable deficits."
The deficit reached 6 percent of the economy in the mid-1980's under President Ronald Reagan and was more than 4.5 percent in the last two years of the administration of President Bush's father.
When Bill Clinton became president in 1993, he raised taxes, the economy boomed and the deficit shrank steadily. From 1998 through 2001 the government ran a surplus. 
Then the economy turned sour, taxes were cut and security spending was increased after the terrorist attacks. In the fiscal year 2002, which ended last September, the deficit was $159 billion.
Mr. Daniels's remarks provided new grist for Democrats critical of the administration's economic agenda. Senator Kent Conrad of North Dakota, the top Democrat on the Budget Committee, called the administration's policy reckless and asserted, "It's amazing how these guys have gone from being conservative to radical with respect to economic views."
The deficit was also on the minds of the moderate senators at the meeting on taxes this afternoon.
"I am concerned about the size of the president's package at a time when we have pressing needs and are possibly on the verge of a second war with Iraq," one participant, Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, said.
The other Republicans at the meeting were Senators Olympia J. Snowe of Maine, Lincoln Chafee of Rhode Island, George V. Voinovich of Ohio and Norm Coleman of Minnesota. The Democrats were John B. Breaux of Louisiana, Blanche Lincoln and Mark Pryor, both of Arkansas, Dianne Feinstein of California, Max Baucus of Montana and Thomas R. Carper of Delaware. 
They agreed that their staffs would immediately begin meeting to develop an alternative tax plan to the president's. Some senators expressed doubt about whether any tax cut was wise, but they were in the minority, one of those present said. But nearly all the senators had concerns about the proposed elimination of taxes on most dividends.
"I question whether this is truly stimulative," Senator Collins said.
With the Senate so closely divided -- 51 Republicans, 48 Democrats and an independent who votes with the Democrats -- and almost all Democrats opposed to Mr. Bush's tax proposal, any Republican defections put the plan in jeopardy.
Senator Grassley, who is chairman of the Finance Committee, attended the meeting with the moderates to take soundings. He said that the president's plan was basically sound and that "I agree with most of it."
But he added, "I have to be realistic, and I want the president to be realistic that I've got to have some flexibility to work a bipartisan majority."
For his part, Mr. Grassley suggested that scrapping the tax on dividends, which accounts for $364 billion of the $674 billion 10-year revenue loss from the tax proposals, would not have been his top priority. 
He said he wished the president had "put more emphasis" on lowering tax rates. He said he also would prefer a tax cut directed more at small businesses and less at dividend-paying corporations. Those steps, Mr. Grassley said, would create more jobs and help the economy more than the president's package.
Mr. Daniels conceded that the dividend proposal had generated opposition, and his tone and body language suggested that the administration would not be rigid.
"It's clearly going to be the focal point of dispute," he said. "There's going to be a lot of give and take, absolutely."
Some private economists predict a significantly higher shortfall than that projected by Mr. Daniels. For example, Edward McKelvey, a senior economist at Goldman Sachs, said today that the deficit could reach $300 billion this year and $375 billion in 2004.
Asked about impending deficits at a breakfast meeting with reporters, R. Glenn Hubbard, chairman of the president's Council of Economic Advisers, replied, "What matters is what you're doing with the money."
Using it for a party is unacceptable, Mr. Hubbard said, but using it to invest in future growth is good policy.
Asked whether cutting taxes at the same time a war was being fought was tantamount to a party, he said: "We're not throwing a party. We're encouraging business investment."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mitchell E. Daniels Jr., the president's budget director, forecast deficits yesterday that could put President Bush's tax plan in jeopardy. (Associated Press)(pg. A27) Graph: "BALANCE SHEET: A History of Deficits"The White House is now forecasting deficits of more than $200 billion for the 2003 fiscal year and $300 billion in fiscal 2004, which would be 2 percent or 3 percent of the gross domestic product. PAST FEDERAL BUDGET SURPLUSES OR DEFICITS Graph tracks the past federal budget surpluses or deficits, in billions of dollars, since 1960. Graph tracks the past federal budget surpluses or deficits, as a percentage of G.D.P.*, since 1960. *Not available for the 2002 fiscal year (Source: Congressional Budget Office)(pg. A27) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (92%); BUDGETS (91%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); BUDGET FORECASTS (87%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); DIVIDENDS (69%); IRAQ WAR (65%); INCOME TAX (54%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (55%) OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); MITCH DANIELS (89%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (56%) DANIELS, MITCHELL E JR (BUDGET DIR); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; ANDREWS, EDMUND L 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2003 



519 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Supreme Court Upholds Extension of Copyright
The Supreme Court upheld the 20-year extension that Congress granted in 1998 to existing copyrights, declaring that while the extension might have been bad policy, it fell clearly within the authority of Congress.
 The decision came in the court's most closely watched intellectual property case in years, one with financial implications in the billions of dollars. A victory for the Hollywood studios and other big copyright holders, the ruling will keep the original Mickey Mouse as well as other icons of mid-century American culture from slipping into the public domain. Page A24. 

Deficit Expected to Top $200 Billion
The White House said the federal deficit would exceed $200 billion in this fiscal year and probably go over $300 billion next year, with deficits continuing for the next decade. A1.

Unwanted Attention for Hedge Fund
The disclosure that a stock trader at SAC Capital Advisors, the company owned by Steven A. Cohen, is being investigated by securities regulators for possible insider trading may put Mr. Cohen and SAC under a spotlight that by all accounts he would rather avoid. C2.

Tougher Accounting Rules Offered
The nation's accounting rulemakers took steps intended to make it harder for companies to hide debts and assets from their shareholders. At the same time, the Securities and Exchange Commission adopted rules aimed at changing other practices that were thrown into a harsh light by recent financial scandals. C4.

Goldman Sachs Invests in Japan
Goldman Sachs placed a major bet on a revival in Japanese asset values, agreeing to buy several hotels from a troubled retailer and $1.3 billion in preferred shares from a major bank. World Business, Section W.

Parsons Is Likely Successor at AOL
As the directors of AOL Time Warner prepare to meet today, Richard D. Parsons, the chief executive, is emerging as the most likely successor to chairman Stephen M. Case. C4.

Investor Takes Control of Globalstar
Globalstar, the bankrupt satellite phone company, agreed to sell control of itself to New Valley, an investment firm run by Bennett S. LeBow, for $55 million. C9.

Apple Reports a Loss for Quarter
Apple Computer reported that it lost money in its first quarter on revenues that were slightly weaker than expectations. Apple's lost $8 million, or 2 cents a share. That compares with a profit of $38 million in the year-earlier quarter. Its quarterly revenues were $1.47 billion. The results were hurt by a $17 million charge for discontinued operations. C6.

Share Prices Fall Sharply
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 119.44 points, to 8,723.18. The Nasdaq dropped 22.19 points, to 1,438.80. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock fell 13.44 points, to 918.22. C10.

Oil prices rose to $33.21 a barrel after an Energy Department agency reported that inventories of crude oil declined to near their lowest levels in more than two decades. C10.

The economy's current "soft patch" extended into early January, the Federal Reserve said in its beige book, as consumers were cautious about spending over the holidays. C6.

Tax-Free Dividends and the Market
Examining the long-term implications of President Bush's plan to eliminate taxes on stock dividends while putting aside the short-run politics and macroeconomic stimulus. Economic Scene: Hal R. Varian C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 8,723.18 down 119.44Nasdaq composite -- 1,438.80 down 22.1910-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.06% down 0.02The euro -- $1.0547 down 0.0017The dollar -- 118.10 yen up 0.11 Graph: "TODAY" shows consumer price index figures from June to November. Consumer Price IndexDecember figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.2% Graph tracks the daily closing price of Apple Computer shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUPREME COURTS (92%); COPYRIGHT (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); APPEALS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); INSIDER TRADING (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); COMPANY LOSSES (68%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%); PREFERRED STOCK (68%); SCANDALS (68%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (67%); SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (66%); COMPANY REVENUES (65%); EXECUTIVES (63%); OIL & GAS PRICES (63%); PRICE INCREASES (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (53%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); AOL INC (81%); APPLE INC (81%); SAC CAPITAL ADVISORS LP (56%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); AOL (NYSE) (81%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (81%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (81%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (81%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (81%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (81%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (81%)

PERSON: STEVEN A COHEN (67%); STEVE CASE (56%); STEVEN COHEN (52%); RICHARD D PARSONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2003 



520 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1176 words

HEADLINE: BUSH AND AFFIRMATIVE ACTION: THE CONTEXT; 
With His Eye on Two Political Prizes, the President Picks His Words Carefully

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 15 

 BODY:
In announcing today that his administration would urge the Supreme Court to declare the University of Michigan's admissions program unconstitutional, President Bush was careful to present a hard-line decision to intervene in the case with soft language, as he has with great effectiveness throughout his public career. 
 He denounced "the wrong of racial prejudice" and emphasized the value to society of racial diversity. In a sign of the careful political calibration of his words, the president repeatedly used the term "quotas," to describe Michigan's admissions policy, a word that inevitably draws strong opposition in polls. 
 The president's firmly worded decision will no doubt bolster his standing with the crucial conservative wing of the Republican Party, whose leaders expressed delight and relief as they learned of his position. Once again, Mr. Bush seems to be drawing a lesson from the missteps of his father, whose failure as president to tend to those on the right contributed to his defeat in 1992. 
Mr. Bush took his stand on the Michigan case nearly two years before Election Day, perhaps allowing time for him to try to repair any damage his decision may deal to efforts to widen the Republican Party's appeal to blacks, Hispanics and moderate voters.
During his 2000 campaign, Mr. Bush tried to cast himself as an inclusive "big tent" Republican. His political advisers have told him he must do better in 2004, because minority populations are expanding in so many closely divided states.
And it is no small matter that Mr. Bush took this stand less than a month after his White House helped push Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the former Senate Republican leader, out of his leadership post for remarks that were criticized as racially insensitive.
For all that, Mr. Bush's decision today would seem to be highly risky, coming at a moment of turmoil for the Republican Party, and at the very moment when the Democratic presidential competition has begun. While Mr. Bush and his party have been trying, with success, to distance themselves from Mr. Lott, today's decision by the president offered Democrats another opportunity to present the party as hostile to civil rights -- and thus to mobilize minority voters. 
They wasted no time in doing so. Democratic critics of today's announcement included presidential candidates, like Senators John Edwards and John Kerry and Representative Richard A. Gephardt, as well as figures like Senator Tom Daschle, the minority leader, and the Rev. Jesse Jackson.
"Frankly, I don't understand it," said David Bositis, senior political analyst at the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, a liberal-leaning research organization as he considered the political implications of the stand for the White House. "Hispanics support affirmative action as much as blacks do. Even in terms of suburban whites, they have to worry -- this makes it much more difficult for them to keep up their political appearance of being 'compassionate conservatives.' "
Conservatives hailed Mr. Bush's decision as correct, brave and reassuring -- especially given that it happened so soon after Mr. Lott's ouster -- as well as in keeping with his past positions.
"There's been a battle for his heart and mind on the issue since the Trent Lott business," said William J. Bennett, a prominent conservative who had urged Mr. Bush to intervene in the case.
"A number of people feared that people would take the Trent Lott episode and misinterpret that, and think this would require that the Republicans and the president to pander and go supine before the civil rights establishment," Mr. Bennett said.
Ralph Reed, the Georgia Republican chairman, said Mr. Bush's statement "was consistent with his view that we need to maximize opportunities for all Americans without discriminating against anyone -- which I think is good public policy."
Some conservatives described themselves as not only delighted but also a bit surprised that Mr. Bush had come down where he had. A few staunch opponents of affirmative action also fretted that the administration's legal brief, to be filed on Thursday, might be more narrowly drawn.
A review of Mr. Bush's public record -- from his time as governor of Texas to these busy weeks since the turn of the year -- would suggest there should be no surprise in what he did, or how he did it.
Even Mr. Bush's detractors said today that they believed his decision to oppose the program, no matter how much it heartened his conservative supporters, reflected genuine feelings. When he was governor, Mr. Bush applauded a decision by a federal appeals court overturning a similar admissions program used by the University of Texas. 
More tellingly, though, was the way Mr. Bush presented his position. In Washington as in Texas, he took a stand praised for its ideological clarity by conservatives, but with language that seemed designed for broad political appeal.
"The modus operandi is to speak centrally and act from the right," Bruce Buchanan, a professor of government at the University of Texas, said tonight. "The conservative constituencies won, because they got exactly what they want. And the minority constituency, who is exactly what the Republican Party is courting, get the soft words."
Mr. Buchanan noted that in Texas, Mr. Bush had proclaimed his support for "affirmative access" even as he rigorously opposed programs that many Democrats said would accomplish that result. And, he noted, Mr. Bush enjoyed a huge and unwavering support from Latino voters in Texas.
That effective use of language, and the ability to present conservative positions while still appealing to a broad political spectrum, is without doubt a hallmark of Mr. Bush's political skill. Several Democrats, reviewing Mr. Bush's speech today, compared it to the way he had framed his call to eliminate the tax on stock dividends last week, and the way he endorsed strict limits on stem-cell research last year.
Mr. Bush may have wider latitude to make the kind of moves now that might prove more difficult a year hence. His announcement came after he has pursued the appointment of conservative judges to the federal bench, and after he released a second plan of tax cuts. 
Aides to some of the Democrats, while not disputing his ideological commitment to conservative causes, suggested that Mr. Bush was dealing with the right side of the agenda today, precisely so that he would have flexibility when he finds himself in the middle of a re-election campaign. While some Democrats described what Mr. Bush was doing as calculating and even a bit cynical, there was also a bit of admiration for what the White House was doing.
"There's no question I understand his calculation," said Steve Elmendorf, a senior adviser to Mr. Gephardt, who filed a brief today with the court urging it to uphold the program. "They are feeling pretty good about where they are so they can take a few of these. It's not like they are in a precarious position."
"But this is not a 'compassionate conservative' move," Mr. Elmendorf said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (87%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (71%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; BLACKS; MINORITIES; ADMISSIONS STANDARDS; QUOTAS; AFFIRMATIVE ACTION; PUBLIC OPINION 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%) SUPREME COURT (US); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JOHN EDWARDS (58%); TRENT LOTT (58%); TOM DASCHLE (58%); JESSE JACKSON (53%) NAGOURNEY, ADAM; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2003 



521 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times; 
They're All Amateurs. Go Figure.

BYLINE:  By SELENA ROBERTS 

DATELINE: DALLAS 

 BODY:
THERE is a teenage phenom with the vertical leap of an astronaut on a moonscape who possesses the flair of a Vegas act and enough potential to rock a sport. LeBron James? No, Sasha Cohen. 
 There is a high school senior with a life story that has unfolded on TV who doesn't have an agent, but has companies panting like groupies wanting to turn the hot teenager's head. This could be King James, but it's Sarah Hughes. 
 There is an S.U.V.-driving athlete who has graced magazine covers since age 16, a captivating star who cannot gaze into the future without a camera lens there to project the thought to a national audience. If this wasn't Michelle Kwan, it could be Gloria James's son.
But amateur status isn't one size fits all. All of these young stars have been exploited by their sports. Pick your poison: little girls skating in plunging necklines, or a peek at LeBron's hoop skills on pay-per-view.
All unsavoriness being equal, the Olympic skaters are the ones given a quid pro quo, allowed to take from the takers. After rolling into Texas this week, Hughes, Cohen and Kwan will compete for the national title even though they all have spent the off-season stuffing ice-show money into their cookie jars.
Why not? The life span of an Olympic skater ends before 20. Or does it? At age 22, Kwan has raked in an average of $5 million a year for nearly seven years. No gold, no problem. 
"It's clear that she is past the point to where the gold medal is the be-all, end-all to her popularity," said Kwan's agent, Shep Goldberg. "It was true after Nagano, and it has proven true after Salt Lake. She's at a level of public awareness and acceptance that supersedes the Olympics."
If so, why not turn pro? Just the illusion of another chance at Olympic redemption for Kwan is more lucrative than becoming another lounge act on the slumping pro exhibition scene. 
"What is life without competition?" Kwan said after her practice today. "It's hard, but it's something I love. I'm nervous right now, because I'm human. But I feel that as long as I can keep up the drive, why not? 
"You'd think that after six nationals, I'd be, 'O.K., that's enough,' " Kwan added, referring to her six United States titles. "But I was on the phone with a few skaters on tour, and I said, 'I'd either be on the tour bus with you, doing exhibitions, or I'd be competing.' I've chosen this road."
Kwan's car on this journey? A Chevy Tahoe. No investigation into its purchase necessary. Her amateur status is safe. 
If James could only muster a quadruple axel, he could steer his 2003 pewter-colored Hummer H2 down the streets of Akron, Ohio, without rousing the eligibility police. 
As it is, the Ohio High School Athletic Association is investigating the increasingly murky waters of amateurism. Officials are looking into whether James's unemployed mother financed the car legitimately (perhaps using her son's name as collateral), or if the 18th birthday present was a gift from an outsider that violates the state's amateur bylaws. 
The inquiry must be made. There is something of a double standard here, but it's necessary when applied to James's situation.
Given that he doesn't intend to play in college, and is expected to be the N.B.A.'s top draft pick, some believe James has just as much right to the dough he generates as the vendors who hawk his jerseys. But there is no more room for pro treatment at the high-school level. One Sonny Vaccaro on the loose is enough. Unaccountable gift-giving only fans the seediness spreading through prep-age athletics. Shoe wars? How about car wars?
What may seem fair for one special player is not in the best interest of the majority. If an investigation leads to a violation, James can move on, punching the pedal, with millions just months away. His St. Vincent-St. Mary teammates, however, could have their wonder season crushed.
And to think, James probably alerted officials with his own horn. If anything, that is the more unfair issue here. If his mom had given him a Ford Bronco, would the outcry be the same? Somehow, poor kids in fantasy cars trigger disdain in the mainstream. Pimp-mobiles, some mumble in stereotype.
Olympians? They're all so pure, aren't they? An ice darling can drive a Zamboni or a Mercedes, and no one blinks at all. In the world of skating, the amateurs have purchase power.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michelle Kwan (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ICE SKATING (91%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); WINTER OLYMPICS (89%); OLYMPICS (89%); SPORTS (77%); AMATEUR SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (77%); SPORTS AWARDS (77%); PAY PER VIEW (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); BASKETBALL (72%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (72%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (71%); ETHICS (60%) ICE SKATING; FIGURE SKATING; SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN); BASKETBALL; ICE SHOWS; ETHICS; INTERSCHOLASTIC ATHLETICS 

PERSON: LEBRON JAMES (91%) ROBERTS, SELENA; KWAN, MICHELLE; JAMES, LEBRON 

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (70%) TEXAS, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2003 



522 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 456 words

HEADLINE: Czech Deputies Fail to Pick Successor to Havel 

BYLINE:  By PETER S. GREEN 

DATELINE: PRAGUE, Jan. 15 

 BODY:
The Czech Parliament failed today to elect a successor to the departing President Vaclav Havel. A second balloting is expected after Mr. Havel steps down on Feb. 2.
 A divided Parliament, led by an equally fractured center-left coalition government, could not agree on a successor to Mr. Havel, the playwright and rights activist who led his countrymen to overthrow Communist rule in the 1989 velvet revolution. 
 The election is widely seen as a vote by parliamentarians on the legacy of Mr. Havel's 13 years as president. Despite a commanding early lead, Mr. Havel's longtime political nemesis, the rightist former prime minister Vaclav Klaus, was unable to win the required majority in a contest against the Senate president, Petr Pithart, a long-time Havel ally backed by the government's minority Christian Democrats.
The next president needs an outright majority in both the 200-seat Chamber of Deputies and the 81-seat Senate. In the last round today, Mr. Klaus secured 80 votes in the lower house, and 33 votes in the Senate. Mr. Pithart won the backing of 44 deputies and 40 senators.
News reports said that in the next round of voting, expected in mid-February, the governing Social Democrats would probably nominate their former leader, Milos Zeman, who was prime minister from 1998 until last year. Supporters of Mr. Pithart said it was not clear whether he would run again.
Analysts say a victory by either Mr. Zeman or Mr. Klaus would probably bring down the government, led by the Social Democrat prime minister, Vladimir Spidla, a bitter enemy of Mr. Zeman, and could jeopardize the outcome of a vital referendum expected this spring on joining the European Union.
In a farewell speech that prompted a standing ovation in the ornate Spanish Hall of Prague Castle before Parliament began a long day of horse-trading and back-room politicking over his successor, Mr. Havel urged members to work for freedom and dignity for all Czech citizens.
Mr. Havel said he was confident they would elect a "good" leader and urged them to follow their consciences.
"We were elected," he said, "in the hope that we would do what, according to our knowledge and convictions, is in the long-term interests of human society as a whole; what is in the interest of freedom, security and dignity for all of us; what is in the interest of our life in peace and prosperity." 
Mr. Klaus, who openly detests Mr. Havel, earlier told journalists, "I think that Vaclav Havel has only been interested in himself for the past 13 years."
Mr. Havel said that as a citizen who has never been able "to keep silent" on public affairs, he would not withdraw from public life, but that he would for the time being withdraw and reflect before jumping back into the fray.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vaclav Havel, the Czech president, left the Spanish Hall of Prague Castle yesterday after his farewell address. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); TRENDS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); COUPS (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); REFERENDUMS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; COUPS D'ETAT AND ATTEMPTED COUPS D'ETAT; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INDIANS, AMERICAN 

PERSON: VACLAV KLAUS (79%); MILOS ZEMAN (79%) GUTIERREZ, LUCIO (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (79%) CZECH REPUBLIC (97%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%) ECUADOR

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2003 



523 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 52

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES; 
Why Your Waitron Can Serve Brunch but Not Linner

BYLINE:  By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:
PREDICTING NEW WORDS
The Secrets of Their Success
By Allan Metcalf
Illustrated. 206 pages. Houghton Mifflin Company. $22.
 Why do some new words become staples of our everyday language while others fade away? Why have words and phrases like "moonlighting," "politically correct" and "yuppie" entered the mainstream, while other recently minted ones like "velcroid" (a person who sticks by the president, "especially for photo opportunities"), "prosultant" (emphasizing the positive in the consulting business) and "shuicide bomber" ("terrorist with bomb in shoes") have failed to catch on? 
 Why did "server" as a gender-neutral term for waiter or waitress prevail over "waitron"? Why do restaurants serve "brunch" but not "linner"? Why did "Lilliputian" catch on, but not "Brobdingnagian"?
In tackling such questions, Allan Metcalf, executive secretary of the American Dialect Society, has come up with an intriguing idea for a book. But while "Predicting New Words" is filled with interesting tidbits and asides, the book as a whole is full of holes and flawed by a dogmatic and not always logical thesis.
It is Mr. Metcalf's contention that you can tell what words are likely to survive by applying a simple formula involving what he calls the FUDGE factors: the Frequency with which a new word is used; the Unobtrusiveness of the new word, meaning its ability to slip unnoticed into daily usage without calling attention to itself; Diversity of users and situations in which the new word is employed; Generation of other forms and meanings (i.e., "Watergate" giving birth to "Travelgate" and "Whitewatergate"); and Endurance of the concept, meaning that the idea to which the new word refers proves durable over time (unlike, say, Y2K).
Other factors, Mr. Metcalf argues, do not matter much. It doesn't matter whether a word is new: chad, for instance, had been around for ages before achieving celebrity with the messy 2000 election standoff in Florida; in contrast, a phrase like Saddam Hussein's "mother of all" locution was a new formulation that quickly caught on.
While new creations or phenomena sometimes get a new name -- like "software" or "affirmative action" -- gaps in the language are not always filled: a compelling and widely embraced name for the first decade of the 21st century has yet to be found, though many suggestions like "the aughts," "the naughts," "the zeros" and "the oh-ohs" have been floated. Nor does an existing term for an idea or concept rule out the adoption of trendy new phrases: running amok and going berserk, for instance, did not preclude the introduction of "going postal" in the 1990's.
Intriguing as some of Mr. Metcalf's observations are, his overarching thesis about predicting the staying power of new words remains unconvincing. In the first place, he doesn't back up his theory with enough examples to make it feel fully grounded. "Predicting New Words" seems highly cursory in the extreme. It pays little attention to the role that popular culture has played in promoting new words and phrases: no discussion of words from movies like "neuralizer" (from "Men in Black") or "hurl" (given a popular new meaning by "Wayne's World") and scant discussion of computer slang and teenage talk as well.
In addition, some of the examples Mr. Metcalf cites in support of his thesis are decidedly dubious. His citation of "Frankenfood" ("a scary word for genetically modified foods") as "a fairly successful new word" is debatable at best, as is his contention that the phrase "sex kitten" is obsolete.
Of the five FUDGE factors, he says, "Unobtrusiveness seems especially important." He argues that people use words to make jokes but don't want the words themselves to be jokes: "The more general principle is that a word shouldn't call attention to itself, by humor or by any other means -- its looks or origin, for example. If it does attract notice, chances are it will be rejected." 
This principle, however, seems to be contradicted by some of the examples Mr. Metcalf cites. "Couch potato," for one, was a term based around the comical image of a fat, dumpy creature perched on a sofa, all eyes on the television, and wordplay stemming from a term for television aficionados: "tubers." As for "gerrymander," it has roots in a 19th-century joke about Eldridge Gerry, a Massachusetts governor who rearranged the election districts in the state to the advantage of the Democratic party. Although Mr. Metcalf argues that these words succeeded only when their jokey beginnings were forgotten, the fact remains that they began life as humorous constructions.
Words like "googol" and "scofflaw" challenge Mr. Metcalf's belief that successful new words tend not to be conspicuous or bizarre. And his assertion in one chapter that "relatively few foreign words are directly imported into our language with success" because "they look too foreign" is contradicted by his observation, in another chapter, that "English is famous for swallowing words whole from other languages."
One additional oddity of this book is the amount of space it devotes to examples of ungrammatical language and plain old-fashioned gaffes, most notably those made by President George W. Bush. Among the famous Bushisms cited in this book are: his use of terms like "mential" ("This is still a dangerous world. It's a world of madmen and uncertainty and potential mential losses") and "misunderestimate" ("They misunderestimated me"), and his substitution of "hostile" for "hostage" ("We cannot let terrorists and rogue nations hold this nation hostile or hold our allies hostile") and "anecdote" for "antidote" ("A tax cut is really one of the anecdotes to coming out of an economic illness").
The problem is that in citing such examples, Mr. Metcalf is himself confusing grammatical mistakes with innovation: just one of the stumbles in this book that makes it a lot less persuasive than it might have been.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Allan Metcalf (MacMurray College) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); BOMBINGS (75%); RESTAURANTS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); TERRORISM (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: HOUGHTON MIFFLIN HARCOURT PUBLISHING CO (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS611710 EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT SERVICES (91%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2003 



524 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 1538 words

HEADLINE: ART REVIEW; 
Pedigreed Feast of Winter Is Back at the Armory

BYLINE:  By GRACE GLUECK

 BODY:
The Winter Antiques Show, an enticing consumerama whose goods range from massive pedigreed furniture to petite pocket tchotchkes, is back in its element at the Seventh Regiment Armory after last year's switch to the Hilton Hotel. And its officials and organizers seem much, much happier.
 The switch was engendered by 9/11 and the National Guard's need for more of an operational base at the Armory in case of another attack. But dealers and buyers apparently did not feel that the Midtown hotel site was right for the prestigious show. 
 "It's an East Side institution," one dealer said, "and the Hilton location on Sixth Avenue confused people. They weren't used to going out of their ZIP code. The disaster itself and the change it occasioned were a double whammy." 
This year, despite the downturn in the economy, dealers seem optimistic that buyers will not sit on their pocketbooks. Some objects scheduled to appear in the show, in fact, have already been sold. "A catalog I sent out recently got one of the best responses ever," said Donald Ellis, a Canadian dealer whose gallery specializes in American Indian artifacts.
Helen Fioratti of L'Antiquaire & the Connoisseur, a New York gallery, said: "Although the market is not doing well, people are looking for alternatives for their money. They're investing in art so at least they can make their surroundings enjoyable."
The show, now in its 49th year, was established in 1955 as a benefit for the East Side Settlement House, a Bronx-based social services agency more than a century old. The show is regarded as the most established and esteemed of the increasing number of stylish big-ticket antiques bazaars in cities across the country. Although it includes fine and decorative art objects from Europe and Asia, its strength lies in Americana, with more than one-third of its objects from the United States.
Its opening gala, which traditionally kicks off the winter social season, was last night. And the event is expected to draw an attendance of 25,000 during its 10-day run. "It's a very buyable show," said Arie L. Kopelman, chairman of the event and president of Chanel U.S.A. "People come here expecting to find not only museum pieces, but a nice little something they can tuck under an arm and go home with."
Its 70 dealers make a highly eclectic mix, specializing in items like rare books and manuscripts, carpets and tapestries, jewelry, ceramics, furniture, folk art, paintings, textiles, military items, nautical artifacts, garden antiques, prints, silver and portrait miniatures.
Most are regulars at the show, but one, the Richard Green Gallery of London, has dropped out on short notice this year. The show's officials would not comment on the matter. But other dealers pointed out that the gallery was one of several that sold art to L. Dennis Kozlowski, the former chairman and chief executive of Tyco International, who last June was charged with evading New York City sales tax on his purchases. They speculated that a New York appearance for the London gallery could result in a subpoena.
Reached in London on Wednesday, a spokesman said the gallery had no comment. When the Kozlowski story broke in June, however, the gallery denied any violation of New York law and said it was cooperating fully with the investigation into the Kozlowski transactions.
Furniture, naturally, is one of the hottest categories. At the top of the line are major pieces like the early 19th-century Sheraton-style Regency sideboard at Philip Colleck Ltd., a mahogany bow-front fitted out with lead-lined, mahogany-covered hot-water urns. There is also a very proper Queen Anne bonnet-top highboy at G. K. S. Bush, made in Boston in the mid-18th century for the merchant John Rowe. Its $325,000 price is justified by the fact that it retains its original finish.
At Hirschl & Adler, the prize is a recently discovered center table, a stately statement in rosewood and mahogany with a round marble top, produced in New York around 1815 to 1819 by the French-born cabinet maker Charles-Honore Lannuier, a rival of Duncan Phyfe.
Phyfe, too has a handsome presence here in the form of several furniture pieces attributed to him at Carswell Rush Berlin. One is a rare, drop-dead mahogany sofa in Grecian style, with five intricately carved panels, circa 1815, and there are also six Federal carved Phyfe-attributed mahogany side chairs with similar carving.
A more recent counterpart to these early exquisites is an elegant low-slung sofa as wide as a daybed at Barry Friedman Ltd. Of palisander wood with ivory insets, it was made around 1920-22 by the distinguished French designer Jacques-Emile Ruhlmann. Among furniture items might also be included a smashing grille of gilt bronze and opalescent glass at Geoffrey Diner of Washington that ranks among the show's top 10. Designed by Louis Comfort Tiffany, it was part of a running balustrade in the now-demolished Havemeyer town house in New York.
This is not the show to seek out art of an avant-garde persuasion, but older treasures in the field are not in short supply. At Joan B. Mirviss Ltd., specializing in Japanese fine art, one standout is the naturalistic "Three Cranes by the Shore," a painting on silk with sprinkled gold leaf done around 1820 by the master Keibun, noted for bird and flower painting.
The London-based Fine Arts Society is showing a touching Pre-Raphaelite-style painting by John Roddam Spencer-Stanhope (1829-1908), depicting Ulysses's wife, Penelope, at her loom, with head in hand as she mourns for her long-departed husband. At the Connecticut dealer Peter Tillou's booth, a large and gorgeous image of a floral wreath meant to surround a mirror is attributed to the 17th-century Italian painter Giovanni Stanchi.
Elle Shushan, who deals in portrait miniatures, is offering, among other lively examples of this long-neglected art, a tiny likeness on ivory of Louis XVI, his crown floating above his head as cherubic angels dance around it. It is an apotheosis done in 1798, five years after the ruler's execution, by his miniaturist Pierre-Noel Violet, and presented to the king's only surviving daughter, the Duchesse d'Angouleme.
A knockout sculptural work is a splendid 14th-century Neapolitan tomb effigy at the English dealer Peter Finer. A life-size knightly figure in full regalia faithfully carved in marble, it is thought to depict a member of the Ferretti family of Ancona, vassals of the French court of Anjou, which ruled the area at the time.
Folk art, from painted furniture to children's toys, is a vital part of the show, and what's here doesn't disappoint. One appealing piece is a wool merchant's trade sign, at the London dealer Robert Young. Carved in flat pine and painted, with a stick-out horn of real bone and a glass eye, the sign depicts a fat, cuddly sheep plentifully garbed in carved wool.
Olde Hope Antiques of New Hope, Pa., has fine examples of painted furniture, namely a blanket chest by Moses Eaton (circa 1825 to 1835), one of two chests extant by this well-known wall stenciler. It is adorned with a variety of wall stencil patterns, along with flower and leaf motifs. Well worth inspecting, too, is a blue two-section farmhouse cupboard, author unknown, dated around 1810 to 1820. It is stroked all over in a light, whimsical style known as feather painting, in an unusual combination of light and dark blues.
Eagles abound, as might be expected. One magnificent pair, massive in scale, carved in wood and painted gold, date from 1840. Among the largest carved eagles known, they are roosting temporarily at Hyland Granby of Hyannisport, having once graced a farmhouse in Essex, Mass.
What else? Why, the place is a veritable cornucopia. There are fabulous carpets at Keshishian, among them an imposing Arts and Crafts number in a red and green floral design by the English architect C. F. A. Voysey, circa 1900, and an intricate, splendidly worked 17th-century Caucasian known as the "Gohar Carpet" at Peter Pap Oriental Rugs of Dublin, N.H.
At S. J. Shrubsole, there is silver no well-appointed home should be without, including a coffeepot by Paul Revere, circa 1760, once owned by the merchant David Sears of Boston. At Aronson of Amsterdam, there are brilliant examples of Dutch delftware, among them a very rare 18th-century black basin charmingly adorned with floral motifs. (If you thought delft was all blue and white, you're wrong.)
At Barbara Israel, there is awesome garden furniture, like the large rendition in marble of Diana the Huntress by the French sculptor Maximilien-Henri Hiolle, a 19th-century version of a 17th-century original by Antoine Coyzevox. (It turns out to be a portrait of the Duchess of Burgundy swanning as the goddess Diana, attended by a hunting dog.)
By now, you must have the picture. It also includes, not by the way, a splendid not-for-sale loan display of art, Americana and artifacts from the famous Shelburne Museum in Shelburne, Vt., that is the Winter Antiques Show's bonus.

The Winter Antiques Show is at the Seventh Regiment Armory, 643 Park Avenue, at 66th Street, through Jan. 26. Hours: daily, noon to 8:30 p.m., except Sunday and Thursday, noon to 6 p.m. Admission, $16, includes catalog. Information: (212) 628-0417.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A 1900's grille designed by Louis Comfort Tiffany is at Geoffrey Diner's booth at the Winter Antiques Show. (Geoffrey Diner Gallery) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (89%); PAINTING (78%); ART DEALERS (76%); VISUAL ARTS (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (68%); NATIVE AMERICANS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2003 



525 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1503 words

HEADLINE: JOURNEYS; 
36 Hours Fort Myers, Fla.

BYLINE:  By LINDA SALISBURY

 BODY:
 WITHIN 24 hours of arriving in Fort Myers in March 1885, Thomas Edison bought 13 acres on the Caloosahatchee River, and before long he was planting palm trees along the dirt road between downtown and his spread. The road is now McGregor Boulevard, lined with thousands of royal palms (not all courtesy of Edison) and congested in tourist season, and Fort Myers is still seducing Northerners. Now a mally, sprawly city of 48,000, spawning suburban housing developments, it offers not only warmth and sunshine, but boating, beaches, spring-training Minnesota Twins and Boston Red Sox games, and a pedestrian-friendly downtown historic district with restored buildings and diet-busting restaurants. There are frequent downtown festivals, where retirees can impress their visiting families with their new outdoor lifestyle and rub shoulders with tourists and longtime Floridians. The largest is the Festival of Light, celebrating Edison's bulb, which began last week and runs through Feb. 15. For its big parade (Feb. 15 this year), people reserve viewing spots a week in advance along Cleveland Avenue by positioning their folding chairs, which no one disturbs. LINDA SALISBURY

Friday

5 p.m.
1) Slip Into Sandals
Shed heavy coats to stroll the winding walkways of Centennial Park on the Caloosahatchee River and sit for a moment by "Uncommon Friends," a fountain with statues of Edison, Henry Ford and Harvey Firestone. Wander out on the docks to look at sightseeing and dinner-cruise boats (J. C. Cruises, 239-334-7474), the yacht-filled city marina, and the new high-speed ferry that runs daily round trips between Fort Myers and Key West (Fast Cats, 239-332-7777). Take in the scene: teenagers huddled under a shelter, slapping bongos; a bicyclist pausing to toss chips to sea gulls; dozing fishermen along the seawall. Take a picture of the sherbet-hued sunset fringed with mangroves and coconut palms.

6:30 p.m.
2) Conch Sushi at Shannon
Head for Shannon (1406 Hendry Street, 239-689-2675), where brick walls, a fireplace, overstuffed chairs and the yellow pine bar offer the ideal setting for unwinding and imbibing. Have an appetizer of conch sushi ($4) or mussel tapas ($8) and a chocolate martini ($8).

8 p.m.
3) Music of the Night
Feast on good things for the palate and the ear at Ellington's Jazz Bar and Restaurant (2278 First Street, 239-337-5299; live jazz at 8 p.m. Fridays and Saturdays and 7 p.m. on weeknights). Try the smoked duck with sweet potato risotto and glazed turnips ($26) or the grilled New York strip steak ($26). Save room for the cocoa-flavored bread pudding with hazelnut ice cream and raspberry puree ($7). A gray-haired woman at a table one recent night confided that the man leading the combo and alternately playing sax, clarinet and jazz pennywhistle was her husband and had been with Tommy Dorsey's band.

Saturday

9 a.m.
4) On Broadway
Sit by the front door at Bara Bread Bistro (1520 Broadway, 239-334-8216) to visit with its Breton baker, Jean Pierre Cadiou, while you have coffee and a white omelet with spinach and tomato ($5.95) or a French pastry breakfast ($4.95). You may catch Mr. Cadiou mixing almond cream for king cakes, traditional in early winter. After breakfast, walk to the end of the block and check out Flowers to Fifties (2133 Main Street, 239-334-2443), which sells relics of the 1930's to the 1970's. Reminisce among polyester leisure suits, pointy bras and chrome toasters.

10:30 a.m.
5) An Electrifying Experience
Join other tourists at the winter homes (2350 McGregor Boulevard, 239-334-3614) of Edison and Ford, his neighbor after 1916, who, according to the tour guides, rolled up the rug here almost every day for a square dance with his guests. (Shown above in 1931, from left, are Ford, Edison and Firestone.) Tour the laboratory where the three experimented with goldenrod to make a rubber for tires, achieving some success. There are more than a thousand plants from around the world in Edison's botanical garden (9 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Monday through Saturday; noon to 5:30 p.m. Sundays. Admission is $14 for adults, $7.50 for children).

Noon
6) Food Trumps Decor
Don't let the unimpressive ambience of Ida's Bon Appiteatery (2208 First Street, 239-332-8151), with its peachy paint and scuffed wooden booths, deter you from having homemade tomato bisque soup ($2.50) and a Reuben ($6.95) in this friendly neighborhood spot where thirtysomething locals mingle with out-of-towners.

1 p.m.
7) Do Downtown
Wander in the downtown historic district, making sure to look up at the ornate, colorful facades of commercial buildings dating to the late 19th and early 20th centuries. You will find outdoor restaurants, courtyards and fountains, a browsable independent bookstore called Shakespeare Beethoven & Company (1520 Broadway, 239-332-8300), and scattered antiques and gift shops. On the first Saturday of the month there is a walking tour here ($5 for adults and $3 for children, 239-332-5955) and streets close for an antiques and collectibles fair. The Arcade Theater, built in 1908, houses the Florida Repertory Theater (2267 First Street, 239-332-4488). The eclectic Southwest Florida Museum of History (2300 Peck Street, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. Tuesday through Saturday, 239-332-5955; $6 for adults and $3 for children) offers a self-guided tour that starts with prehistoric animals and ends in a 1929 private Pullman railway car.

2:30 p.m.
8) Times Square, Beach Style
Pack your towels for a 16-mile drive (starting southwest on McGregor Boulevard for 10 miles, then turning left onto San Carlos Boulevard) to the town of Fort Myers Beach, a 30-minute trip if traffic is light. Once you cross the 65-foot-high Matanzas Pass bridge, turn right to find public parking; the wide, white sandy beach on the Gulf of Mexico; a fishing pier; and, yes, Times Square. Follow the brick path to the town clock hub, where Birdie McClarine, a street performer, recently juggled rubber chickens and flaming torches and spray-painted a picture of outer space. Snack on conch fritters ($7.95) and locally harvested steamed clams ($9.95) at the Beach Pierside Grill and Blowfish Bar (1000 Estero Boulevard, 239-765-7800), where you can watch parasailers, boaters, fishermen and the sunset over Sanibel Island. The restaurant offers free plastic sand pails and shovels to children who eat there.

7:30 p.m.
9) Polished Grits
For an elegant meal in an old-Florida setting, make reservations at Veranda (2122 Second Street, 239-332-2065). It is housed in two 100-year-old homes, above, that were joined by Peter Pulitzer, the publishing heir, in the 1970's. A garden courtyard is used for outdoor dining. Try artichoke fritters stuffed with blue crab ($7.95) or savor grit cakes with pepper cheese ($6.95). Then dine on local grouper with blue crab hash and a caper vinaigrette ($27.95) or rack of lamb ($27.95).

Sunday

9:30 a.m.
10) Under the Live Oak Tree
As you sit at an umbrella table on the tiled patio at the McGregor Cafe (4305 McGregor Boulevard, 239-936-1771), look up into the branches of the large live oak tree covered with fuzzy air plants called ball moss. Order eggs and grits ($5.50) or homemade biscuits and sausage gravy ($5.50) and maybe a frothy latte ($3.25). The cafe opened as a burger joint in 1937, according to Cristof Danzi, the owner and chef, who frequently leaves the grill, which he refers to as his office, to visit with customers.

11:30
11) She Sees Sea Cows
From downtown, drive 10 minutes east on State Route 80. At the Florida Power and Light power plant turn right into Lee County Manatee Park (239-694-3537). During the winter, as many as 100 manatees, some with calves, are visible from an overlook; many of these endangered mammals are scarred by encounters with boat propellers. They flock to the warm water of the power plant's discharge canal. You will see ripples in the dark water, then a large flat back surfacing, and perhaps a small whiskery face. Amble along trails to the Orange River to see how Florida looked before developers arrived. (The park is open from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. through March, then until 8 p.m.)

THE BASICS
Visiting Fort Myers
Downtown Fort Myers is about 20 minutes from the Southwest Florida International Airport. By car, Fort Myers is about three hours from Tampa, four from Orlando and two and a half from Miami. The city is 15 miles inland from the Gulf of Mexico; good beaches are on Sanibel Island and at Fort Myers Beach, a separate city nearby. You will need a car to get around.
The Holiday Inn Riverwalk and Marina (2220 West First Street, 800-664-7775) has 147 rooms and suites, many overlooking the Caloosahatchee River. Weekend winter rates are $79 to $159.
About half of the 420 rooms and suites at the 25-story Ramada Inn at Amtel Marina (2500 Edwards Drive, 800-833-1620), have river views. Weekend winter rates are $69 to $139.
The Black Tie is a floating bed-and-breakfast (239-826-2457) in a wooden motor yacht built in 1936 and now based in the City of Fort Myers Yacht Basin. There are two staterooms, $120 and $140 a night.

GRAPHIC: Photos (McGraw-Hill); (Alan Youngblood); (Steven Shukow for The New York Times) Map of Florida highlighting Fort Myers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); RESTAURANTS (88%); FESTIVALS (88%); BOATING & RAFTING (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ICE CREAM (76%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (76%); CRUISES (76%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (76%); MARINE VESSELS (75%); MARINAS (75%); TOURISM (72%); FERRIES (64%); DRINKING PLACES (60%); SUBURBS (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: MINNESOTA TWINS (57%); BOSTON RED SOX (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT MYERS, FL, USA (97%); KEY WEST, FL, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (97%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2003 



526 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 5; Escapes; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 270 words

HEADLINE: DRIVING: BELLS & WHISTLES; 
Your Wishes At a Fingertip

BYLINE:  By DAN McCOSH

 BODY:
Audi's new A8 sedan responds to a light touch -- literally. The console on certain models of this aluminum-bodied luxury car incorporates a device that recognizes the driver's fingerprints. 
It then responds with an individual adjustment of several controls, like radio presets or the position of the seat, steering column and mirror. It can even adjust the automatic transmission -- to stay in low gears longer for high performance driving, for example, or to shift faster for fuel economy.
 The fingerprint sensor, seemingly worthy of the front door of an F.B.I. office, is a postage-stamp-size pad located on the starter button. Using 24 fingerprint characteristics stored in its digital memory, it compares the fingerprint of the person pressing the button with the owner's, also stored in its digital memory. If the driver passes the test, the stored presets come into play. 
 The sensor can also unlock a personal address book with up to 100 entries and even engages a personal program on the car's satellite navigation system. It is capable of remembering and recognizing up to 60 fingerprints, allowing the owner to let other drivers use the features.
So far, the system is available only on some European models of the A8, but the company hopes to add it soon to models sold in the United States.
In the meantime, American buyers will have to make do with the similar, though more limited, device that some automakers add to the key fob. It expands the function of the familiar key-based system that unlocks cars from a few feet away so that it also activates a few presets, like the seat position. DAN McCOSH

GRAPHIC: Photo: PRESS HERE -- A fingerprint reader, to the right of the gearshift, on an Audi A8. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); SEDANS (90%); FINGERPRINTING (77%); BIOMETRICS (77%); AUTOMAKERS (74%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (74%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (69%); NAVIGATION SYSTEMS (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2003 



527 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 2; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 3005 words

HEADLINE: ART REVIEW; 
A Bread-Crumb Trail to the Spirit of the Times

BYLINE:  By ROBERTA SMITH

 BODY:
Connecting the dots formed by New York gallery exhibitions is a perpetual art world pastime. The process involves matching little details or broad stylistic trends, recognizing recurring themes and common materials, or sometimes just finding the shared thread in one's own seemingly unrelated reactions. And everybody comes up with a different diagram. 
 Right now there are interesting connections to be drawn from a handful of exhibitions spread around Manhattan, including some impressive solo debuts and a remarkable group show. Visiting them takes one through a progression of neighborhoods, architectural settings and ways of making and presenting art -- to arrive, at least by my lights, at the suspicion that there is something new and exciting percolating beneath the surface of the art world of New York. 
 For one thing, there's something of a youthquake going on, with a rash of young artists interested, as most young people are, in the thrills and dilemmas of being young. For another, New York art is having a hands-on moment. While artists have always worked with their hands, right now those hands seem to be especially busy. Knitting, sewing and quilting have a raised profile; so do quirky, even craftlike ways of drawing and painting, and approaches to video that make the medium feel thoroughly worked over -- touched, so to speak. 
And the underground is everywhere. It is no longer the pride or bane of a few gentrification-ready neighborhoods. You can find new art on the Upper as well as the Lower East Side; in Chelsea, which is much less the homogenized blue-chip zone it is often thought to be, as well as in Harlem. 
Of course, these developments are not entirely unrelated. They are, to stretch observation into metaphor, all signs of people taking things into their own hands, of a healthy autonomy. They have, for me, the atmosphere of 1970's pluralism and laissez-faire, but this time more fleshed out and purposeful. It is less a pervasive condition than a question of personal style, if not a philosophy. It may be perpetuated by artists' collectives or by individuals working in so many mediums that each artist could appear to be a one-person collective.
These artists are confidant, free of ideology and, despite being camera savvy and computer adept, transfixed by the physical possibilities of art-making. Using Photoshop doesn't mean you can't also knit. Taking up a video camera doesn't mean you can't wield it like a paintbrush, or edit with the precision of a jeweler. Several of these shows may remind you that the children of the original flower children are becoming artists.
After all, boiled down to its essence, craft is simply concentration and care made manifest. It is materialized love, which partly explains the sincerity found in much of the new art that's around today. 
Craft is also an effective way for young artists to reclaim pop culture: a direct grass-roots effort to subvert and reshape the stuff they have been force-fed from an early age.

Kenny Schachter Contemporary
The place to begin this tour, because it provides the most undiluted glimpse of youth-crazed craft and love, is "Air Show," the tour-de-force debut of Misaki Kawai at Kenny Schachter Contemporary, a gallery on an old alley in the West Village that is straight out of "Gangs of New York."
Ms. Kawai, who is 24 and lives in Tokyo, gives new meaning to the word aircraft with a fleet of elaborately handmade airplanes, accompanied by puffy cotton jet trails and blue felt clouds. The latter are sewn to the angled steel-mesh walls of the gallery, whose intimist (read: tiny) industrial interior was designed by the Acconci Studio. 
Suspended in midair, Ms. Kawai's fleet ranges from a large airliner to fighter jets and biplanes, all stitched together from assorted fabrics -- underwear, baby blankets, flannel pajamas -- that remind you that patchwork is among the oldest forms of appropriation. Ms. Kawai has the funky exquisiteness of the classic dollhouse vernacular down cold, from tiny pillows and emergency instructions to busy flight attendants and imaginatively attired, werewolf-wigged passengers (their faces are all photographs of Beatles) who are reading, tending computers and, in one case, drawing.
She may be indebted to that master of miniaturization Charles LeDray, but she could also be the 21st century's version of Ettie Stettheimer, the dollhouse-building sister of the self-taught painter Florine Stettheimer, who was also one of the great art salonistes of 1920's New York.
While in the vicinity, some side excursions can provide further evidence of craft's current prominence and recent history in art: "Cheap," a group show at White Columns; Tom Sachs's miniature city at the Bohen Foundation; and, at Elizabeth Dee in lower Chelsea, Kevin Landers's latest excursion into handmade social commentary, which includes a plastic-putty-and-fabric re-creation of the wall of Nike sneakers made famous by Andreas Gursky's panoramic photograph.

John Connelly Presents
An equally significant stop is "K48: Teenage Rebel: The Bedroom Show," Scott Hug's ode to the chief laboratory of adolescent fantasy and subversiveness. John Connelly Presents, a young Chelsea gallery, occupies a small perch in a huge building that is an art-world microcosm. Tenants include galleries at all levels of economic viability, dozens of artist studios, the odd hip magazine (Index) and now a health club. A glance at the extensive lobby directory can induce social fatigue.
Mr. Hug's show is a delight. Packed into one room is a collage of works by a total of 70 artists, designers and collectives that is at once a finger-on-the-pulse survey and a personal manifesto, almost a solo show. A live-in environment where visitors can watch videos, listen to music and sift through bureau drawers, the show is, additionally, the walk-in equivalent of K48, the sharp-looking yet oddly homey magazine of art, fashion, music, design (and sex), now in its third issue, that Mr. Hug publishes.
The mix is beyond ecumenical. The displays include, for example, Claire Corey's Richter-esque digital abstraction as well as distinctive patchwork T-shirts by the collective Dearraindrop, whose members also contribute similarly bristling collage paintings, and the antic drawing-photocopy-cartoon collages of Billy Grant.
The feverish interaction of art, popular culture, craft, graphic design, film and music is everywhere apparent, and richly informative, both artistically and sociologically. But what makes it pop visually is Eli Sudbrack's wallpaper, mostly red, with its sweet, savvy fusion of psychedelic poster, Kate Greenaway and Renaissance tapestry.
And that Mr. Hug is living in the middle of all this makes his show the latest addition to the tradition of the fully furnished, mostly functional installations by Lucas Samaras, Ben, Chris Burden, Andrea Zittel, RirkritTiravanija and, most recently, Marina Abramovic. 
While in the building, you can see more craft consciousness at Greene Naftali, in the abstract paintings of Sergej Jensen, a 29-year-old Danish artist living in Germany, who prefers glued-on pieces of denim and leather and occasional daubs of bleach to paint; and at Rush Arts, which is showing pieced-together garments by Gerald Jackson.

Daniel Reich
Another excellent visual adventure is "Life Is a Gift," Christian Holstad's first gallery show. The work centers on a plastic-enclosed bedroom that is a tribute to outsiderness in the form of a homage to David Vetter, the "bubble boy" whose defective immune system sentenced him to a brief, 12-year life of physical isolation in a germ-free plastic bubble. The show fills the small studio-apartment gallery of Daniel Reich, who sleeps in the piece each night (and is in the unusual position of not having to roll up his mattress each morning before he starts work). 
Mr. Holstad is a one-artist collective, equally at ease with knitting, quilting, collage, drawing and sculpture; his work has a multimedia mix that mirrors Mr. Hug's effort at Connelly. But it also clarifies much that is merely glimpsed in the rich loam that Mr. Hug has brought together, especially the penchant for obsessive, half-invented techniques that often yield small-scale but concentrated results shot through with a fervent mysticism.
Everything in this show refers to the bubble boy, more or less directly. An exquisite color-pencil rendering of a garden includes a pair of big rubber gloves like the ones built into the bubble's interior to enable David's parents to hug him. Graphite-toned drawings made from newspaper photographs, which are erased and configured into little Symbolist dramas, touch repeatedly on the theme of freakishness and difference.
Perhaps the most characteristic of Mr. Holstad's odd fusions of innocence and subversiveness are pornographic collages whose coupled figures -- "bubble boys" who have found each other -- are layered with photographic patterns that turn out to be bits of hand-knit afghans cut from the pages of magazines.
Other signs of Mr. Holstad's ecumenism include a quilt, a strange wool-knit tree branch that culminates in a skull made of rubber foam and a removable quilted deer's head, and a trompe l'oeil rag rug carefully pieced together from faux-carpet linoleum.

Oliver Kamm/Apartment 5-BE
A sign of the Chelsea underground is the gallery that Oliver Kamm, who formerly worked at Marianne Boesky and Paul Morris, has opened in his one-bedroom apartment on West 23rd Street. For his second show, he is presenting the New York debut of Colin McClain, a young artist from Tennessee who derives his motifs from Gray's Anatomy.
Mr. McClain's oil paintings of figures and torsos are the work of a developing artist. But his slightly skitterish drip technique, and his brash palette of pinks, greens and yellows, supposedly inspired by skateboard graphics, give the human form a neon vibrancy.
In many ways the blunt force and homogeneity of this show, and its images of totally exposed bodies, may be the perfect chaser to the air of haunted fragility and its wild range of emotions and materials that dominate Mr. Holstad's show.

Triple Candie
"Sugar & Cream," a modestly ravishing excursion into the recent history of quilts, banners, flags and embroideries, looks great in the big white space of Triple Candie, a scrappy Harlem alternative space. The show underscores that such techniques have been around for a while, even if exhibitions like "The Quilts of Gee's Bend" at the Whitney Museum of American Art have given them a new visibility. Nearly everything here points up the flexibility of so-called craft mediums.
The outer limits are defined by David Hammons's "African-American Flag," Dinh Q. Le's black-on-black embroidery, James Hyde's formalist webbing-paintings and Oliver Herring's 1993-94 "Curtain," an immense swath of knit transparent tape that is aging beautifully. 
Honing closer to traditional craft are the the quilts and quasi-quilts of Tracey Emins, Rosie Lee Tompkins and Trenton Doyle Hancock, whose paint and felt "Torpedo Boy's Chest Mess" is especially good. Caught in the crossfire between these works is a kind of quilt ghost: Jim Hodges's big, fluttery "Here's Where We Shall Stay," a semi-transparent expanse of sewn-together chiffon head scarves.
This show should inspire a larger, more inclusive effort, which might also encompass Faith Ringgold, who has three new painting-quilts at the ACA Gallery in Chelsea; Mike Kelley, whose "All the Love Hours" at the Whitney is looking more and more like a generational touchstone; Thomas Lanigan-Schmidt with his cellophane-embellished altarpieces; and maybe even Lari Pittman, whose paintings bring suggestions of graphic design, illustration, embroidery and textile design into a fruitful alignment.
Down the street from Triple Candie, the Project is showing "Pink Slips and Golden Parachutes," a lively show of work by past and present employees of the gallery. It includes "We Are Left," a large mural-size expanse of embroidered organdy, by Jessica Rankin. While indebted to artists like Julie Mehretu and Matthew Ritchie, this work has a casual finesse and compositional intelligence all its own.

Salon 94
If anyone needed confirmation that the underground can bubble up anywhere, look no further than East 94th Street and Salon 94, perhaps the poshest project space ever to sashay into any art scene. Established by Jeanne Greenberg Rohatyn, a partner in the Artemis Greenberg Van Doren Gallery, on Fifth Avenue just off 57th Street, Salon 94 is a semiprivate showcase for young artists.
Its setting is the ground floor of a former orphanage between Madison and Fifth Avenues that has been extensively redesigned by Rafael Vinoly with a curving glass wall and burl staircase, and stylishly decorated by his wife, Diana Vinoly. It could position Ms. Greenberg Rohatyn, who lives on the building's upper floors with her family, as a contemporary Peggy Guggenheim, a collector and dealer of means with an eagle eye for the latest thing. 
The gallery's outstanding inaugural show manages to withstand all the built-in glamour. It introduces the percussive, narratively complex videos of Aida Ruilova, which are fraught with an air of slightly muffled domestic hysteria. As it happens, Ms. Ruilova also has an ultrarefined drawing of wolf-eyed figures in Mr. Hug's show at Connelly, and that rendering is consistent with the needle-sharp precision she brings to video editing.
Working with tapes of friends as they creep about decaying houses, peer through windows, hang from rafters and dart up staircases, Ms. Ruilova slices and dices their gestures and sounds with a D.J.'s sense of economy and rhythm, creating a cast of young shut-ins, stuttering eccentrics and assorted sociopaths. Shown at intervals on small screens or monitors, the videos' sounds play off one another to eerie effect.
In "Come Here," the title is repeatedly hissed by a young man in the shade of a large potted plant who seems to be summoning a zombie version of himself. "Almost" is the strangled message from a disheveled girl who crawls up (or down?) a rickety staircase and picks at a crumbling plaster wall. A sense of gothic foreboding and obsession that doesn't preclude comedy infuses the images, which recall some of Anna Gaskell's photographs. Their haunting snippets of sound and image force an extraordinary concentration; they remain mysterious even while they are drummed into the mind.

Maccarone
If Ms. Ruilova patches together videotape with a jeweler's sensitivity to nuance and facets, the young California artist Anthony Burdin, who is making his debut at Maccarone on the Lower East Side, begins by wielding the camera like a trowel. And while Ms. Ruilova's single drawing at Connelly has a silverpoint fineness, Mr. Burdin's works on paper, with titles like "Witchy Forecast" and "Legendary Ghost Scrawl," vibrate with a jittery paranoia to the verge of disintegration. Their out-of-focus, speaking-in-tongues wildness brings to mind H. C. Westermann, or the lettering on a goth teenager's notebook. They would be even more at home in Mr. Hug's installation.
Mr. Burdin's extraordinary show liberates youthful reverie from the bedroom and takes it on the road. With the camera and a boombox as his constant companions, he seems to spend a great deal of time creating raw material. This means playing rock on the boombox (for the videos in this show, it was all Blue Oyster Cult all the time) while waving the camera all over the place, sometimes singing along with the music as he goes.
He assumes two personas. As Voodoo Vocal, he views Los Angeles from behind the wheel of his ancient funky car, which functions as both a sound studio on wheels and a private performance stage. As Desert Mix, he beomes a kind of rogue D.J., dragging the boombox through fields of brush and wildflowers, muttering, growling and drooling from behind the camera. 
Once these tapes are made, Mr. Burdin assiduously reworks them in the computer. Unlike Ms. Ruilova's work, his involves no cutting, just distortions and manipulations of sound and image until he achieves a satisfactory degree of hallucinatory spookiness or semiabstractness. The country videos, with their off-camera portrait of the artist as shaman or Abominable Snowman, are less effective: they have the feeling of a "Saturday Night Live" skit with no punch line.
But in the Voodoo Vocal tapes, magic happens. The street lamps and traffic lights are transformed into swarms of hovering diamond-shaped spaceships, rain on the windshield can resemble fields of diamonds, and the sound pulses around us. Melding imagination, lived experience and video into a fresh combination, Mr. Burdin leaves no doubt about his hands-on involvement with his medium. He is in tune with his time.

Where to Find Them

The Manhattan exhibitions reviewed by Roberta Smith:

MISAKI KAWAI, "Air Show," Kenny Schachter Contemporary, 14 Charles Lane, near West Street, West Village, (212) 807-6669. Through Feb. 5. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m.

"K48: TEENAGE REBEL: THE BEDROOM SHOW," John Connelly Presents, 526 West 26th Street, Chelsea, (212) 337-9563. Through Feb. 1. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.

CHRISTIAN HOLSTAD, "Life Is a Gift," Daniel Reich, 308 West 21st Street, Chelsea, (917) 408-9097. Through Feb. 28. Wednesdays through Saturdays, noon to 6 p.m.

COLIN McCLAIN, Oliver Kamm/Apartment 5-BE, 255 West 23rd Street, Chelsea, (212) 807-0420. Through Feb. 15. Wednesdays through Saturdays, 2 to 6 p.m.

"SUGAR & CREAM," Triple Candie, 461 West 126th Street, near Amsterdam Avenue, Harlem, (212) 865-0783. Through Feb. 2. Thursdays through Sundays, noon to 5 p.m.

AIDA RUILOVA, "Come to Life," Salon 94, 12 East 94th Street, (646) 672-9212. Through Wednesday. Wednesdays 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. and by appointment.

ANTHONY BURDIN, "Dark Laughter Over the Streets," Maccarone, 45 Canal Street, near Orchard Street, Lower East Side, (212) 431-4977. Through Jan. 31. Wednesdays through Sundays, noon to 6 p.m.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A partial view of "Air Show," Misaki Kawai's installation at Kenny Schachter Contemporary in the West Village. (Kenny Schachter Contemporary)(pg. E41); Top, Scott Hug's bedroom, packed with works by 70 artists, at John Connelly in Chelsea. Above, Anthony Burdin's "Witchy Forecast" at Maccarone on the Lower East Side. Left, quilts, banners, flags and embroideries at Triple Candie in Harlem. Below, "Life Is a Gift," a plastic-sealed bedroom by Christian Holstad at Daniel Reich in Chelsea. (Above, John Connelly Presents; below left, Triple Candie; below right, Bob Coulter/Maccarone; bottom, Jason Frank Rothenberg/Daniel Reich.)(pg. E53) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); PAINTING (78%); SEWING & NEEDLECRAFTS (77%); QUILTS & QUILTING (73%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (71%); KNITTING & CROCHETING (71%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2003 



528 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2169 words

HEADLINE: HAVENS; 
Greetings from ... Wyotana "Home of the Second Home"

BYLINE:  By ANNA BAHNEY

 BODY:
JAGGED mountain peaks pierce the clouds as their nine-million-year-old spires loom above a patch of delicate blue harebells still wet with morning dew. The lake below reflects the shifting colors of the rocks -- green at the bottom, gray melding to white at the top -- as they stretch toward the infinite blue sky. Off in the distance, a moose slowly makes its way to the water's edge. A bald eagle soars above, talons ready, looking for breakfast. 
 Welcome to Wyotana: part State of Wyoming, part State of Montana, part state of mind. 
 You won't find it on any maps, but Wyotana (or Montoming, as it might be dubbed every odd-numbered year when the Montana Legislature is in session) exists nonetheless. It's the home of the second home for celebrities like Harrison Ford, Tom Brokaw and David Letterman and hundreds of other out-of-staters willing to pay $5 million or more to embrace their inner ranch owner. It's the land of big sky and big prices. 
Thinking about moving in? Before whipping out your checkbook, get out the map. With Yellowstone National Park as its anchor, Wyotana stretches with eminent-domain-like authority over the forested and mountainous regions of northwest Wyoming and central and western Montana. From Sheridan County, Wyo., draw a line slanting down to the Utah-Idaho border. Follow the state line of Idaho upward until it is even with the Flathead Valley, and then go over to Kalispell, Mont. Shoot straight back down to Sheridan, making sure Billings, Mont., is included. Now you have the rough parameters of Wyotana, a 103,300-square-mile enclave of sweeping vistas and storied beauty. 
Nora Tygum, 60, who has owned Nora's Fish Creek Inn in Wilson, Wyo., for 20 years -- Vice President Dick Cheney, a longtime Wyoming resident, is a breakfast regular -- sees few differences between the two states that make up Wyotana. "I think Wyoming is really compatible with Montana," she said. "We're horsy people, ranchy people. We've got the Levi's, the big belt buckles, the pickup trucks." 
Wyotana's spiritual capital is Jackson Hole, a sagebrush valley that opens to views of Grand Teton National Park to the north, and its social epicenter is the town of Jackson, where insiders gather at the Snake River Grill to dine on braised antelope shanks, and mingle at the Jackson Rodeo every Wednesday and Saturday night from Memorial Day to Labor Day. Coveted Wyotana invitations are for gatherings at Herb Allen's sprawling ranch in Cody, Wyo., and for the fund-raising costume ball at the Yellowstone Art Museum in Billings. 
Membership in the Nature Conservancy is a social calling card, and the creation of a conservation easement on personal property is a status symbol. Lear 35's and Citation 550 Bravos lie in wait at Arlin's Aircraft Service at Gallatin Field, near Bozeman, Mont., to ferry their owners back to New York or Washington. Red-letter dates on the Wyotana calendar are March 1, the first day fly-fishing licenses are available; Oct. 1, the opening day in most places for deer, elk and antelope hunting; and the first week in December, when the Jackson Hole Mountain Resort skiing season begins.
The two components of Wyotana do, of course, have their distinctive attributes. "Wyoming is a little drier than Montana -- not as many trees, not as green," said Jim Taylor, the president of Hall & Hall Real Estate, a firm that handles property sales and management in both states. He grew up on a 300,000-acre ranch in a part of southern Montana so remote that the family had to drive 50 miles to Sheridan, Wyo., to do their shopping.
"Montana is lusher," he said. "Probably a lot of people will find the ranches in Montana are prettier. But Wyoming is big and open and rough and dramatic."
The two states also attract slightly different crowds: in Wyoming, it's business types and politicians from the Northeast; in Montana, it's Silicon Valley dot-comers and Los Angeles entertainment moguls.
There are other, less subtle differences. In Wyoming, there is no state income or inheritance tax; in Montana, no sales tax. Hunting licenses are easier to get in Wyoming, but there is more land under private ownership in Montana. 
The options for Wyotana buyers are varied. Those put off by the relative congestion of Jackson might head for the open landscape of the Flathead Valley, dominated by the 28-mile-long Flathead Lake. Or they might build a log home in the lower Bitterroot Valley, between Missoula and Hamilton, with its wide valley surrounded by the Bitterroot National Forest. Looking for some rolling, lush countryside with Yellowstone nearby? Head for Paradise Valley in southern Montana.
But for anyone looking for a second home these days, the choices may depend less on geographical preferences or tax concerns and more on the simple fact of what's available, and at what price.
Mostly, prices are still strong, although they have begun to soften at the high end of the Jackson market since Sept. 11. Peter Linsey, a vice president and the managing broker at Sotheby's International Realty Jackson Hole, said that sellers were getting about 20 percent less for houses listed at $5 million or more. 
For properties listed at $1 million to $5 million, there is not a lot of availability, Mr. Linsey said. As for anything under $1 million, "it's hardly on the market -- it just gets snatched up," he said.
Right now, in Jackson Hole, Darren Kleiman of Jackson Hole Realty said, buyers can expect to pay about $2 million for a 4,000-square-foot house on 3 to 10 acres of land.
The Jackson Hole market has gotten so overheated, said Bill Bahny, a broker with offices in Helena, the Montana capital, and Broadus, Mont., that "they've run the millionaires out of there." Only billionaires can afford Jackson Hole these days, he said. 
While one reason for the spike in real estate values in recent years is the sheer natural beauty of the area -- an intoxicating expanse of creeks, cliffs, crags and limitless views -- another and perhaps more important factor is the relative scarcity of property available for development. Privately owned acres in Wyoming and Montana are not as available as the landscape suggests because of the federal government's extensive holdings. In the 60-mile-by-20-mile valley of Jackson Hole, for instance, 97 percent of the land is controlled by the National Park Service, the National Forest Service or the federal Bureau of Land Management. That leaves just 3 percent of this highly prized land for 400 real estate agents to scramble over.
The market in Wyotana has been simmering steadily for 20 years. There were several eye-popping sales in the early 80's, including the one that opened the floodgates: in 1981, the 11,500-acre Forbes family ranch was sold to the Church Universal and Triumphant for $7 million. That price, said Mr. Taylor of Hall & Hall, was roughly 10 times what the land was worth based on how much livestock it could support, a measure that is going the way of grazing land. By the mid-80's, the Wyoming/Montana market really began to take off, with increasing numbers of people eager to buy land adjacent to Yellowstone. "Basically, people started to pay for view, for fish, for wildlife and access to more desirable towns," Mr. Taylor said. "That's what pushed the market."
The fact that celebrities were coming didn't hurt, either. In 1992, Susie Graetz, a writer and photographer in Helena, created the "Montana Celebrity Cookbook" as a fund-raising project for the Intermountain Children's Home in Helena, with recipes from local homeowners: bean soup as cooked by Ted Turner and Jane Fonda, Michael Keaton's lemon squares, Glenn Close's biscuits, Hank Williams Jr.'s vegetable casserole and Tom Brokaw's granola.
Maybe it's time for a second edition. Since Ms. Graetz's book came out, the Montana crowd now includes Mel Gibson, who ranches near Columbus; Connie Chung and Maury Povich, who have a place in the Flathead Valley; and David Letterman, who has a house outside Choteau.
And, Ms. Graetz said, they all want to be treated just like regular folk. "The way that they -- meaning celebrities or people in that sort of limelight -- are all treated here, they are treated like real people. That word spreads."
Mr. Kleiman of Jackson Hole Realty agreed. "They say, 'I'm going to be part of your community, but don't treat me like I'm anything special,' " he said. "You can go down to the bar on a Thursday night, and Harrison Ford is kicking back."
Not everyone, though, is quick to embrace the emergence of Wyotana as the home of second homes. David Taylor, a professor and extension specialist in the department of agriculture and applied economics at the University of Wyoming in Laramie, produced a report on the growth of the second-home market in the state based on the 1990 and 2000 censuses. "We aren't against development," but the matter could use some discussion, said Mr. Taylor, who is known as Tex. "Manage growth, or growth will manage you." 
And if there is anything that chafes people who are in the thrall of open spaces, it is being managed. "There are concerns about second-home development in Wyoming," he said. "It tends to be rural, and that leads to effects on open space and wildlife habitat. There are concerns about the cost of county government. Most studies have found that residential developments themselves do not pay for public services. The other concern is the effect on culture and lifestyle."
According to the 2000 census, Wyoming ranked 11th in the nation as the home of second homes, and Montana ranked ninth. Mr. Taylor's study indicates that the number of second homes in Wyoming increased 30 percent from 1990 to 2000 and that Montana experienced an 18 percent increase in the same period. 
While second-home living in Wyoming is certainly not a new development, the study shows that areas like Hot Springs County and Sublette County have really put the "Wyo" in Wyotana, joining Jackson Hole as prime destinations for second-home buyers. 
Still, in many ways Teton County, which includes Jackson, reigns supreme. Jonathan Schechter, the executive director of the Charture Institute, which studies growth and change in places of ecological significance, said that Teton has the highest adjusted gross income of any county in the country. The Bureau of Economic Analysis says that in terms of per capita personal income, Teton ranks 14th in the nation. Either way, that indicates a huge concentration of affluence for a county that has no metropolitan area. 
"I have people come to me and say, 'I'm looking for property that is undervalued.' " Mr. Kleiman said. "I can only tell them, 'It doesn't exist.' "
Mr. Bahny, the Montana broker, said that there are some standoffs in the real estate market now as buyers and sellers alike wait to see if there will be some softening in prices. "I have deals that are stuck at a difference of $100,000," he said. "The buyer ain't coming up, and the seller ain't coming down. A year and a half ago, I could have made that deal in an afternoon."
So are there any bargains at all? Mr. Bahny has been directing out-of-staters to eastern Montana, where a second-home boom hasn't quite taken hold. "It's pretty country out there," Mr. Bahny said.
It may be pretty, but it's not Wyotana. 

IF YOU'RE BUYING

WHERE -- Near Jackson, Wyo.
WHAT -- 3-bedroom house with carriage house
HOW MUCH -- $2,950,000
This log house on five acres has a trout-filled pond with a waterfall. There are three and a half baths, granite countertops and antique pine flooring. Floor-to-ceiling windows provide views of the Tetons. A one-bedroom, 841-square-foot guest suite is above the detached garage. Furnishings can be included for an additional sum. Agent: Victoria Springer, Sotheby's International Realty Jackson Hole, (800) 359-8007; www.jacksonhole.sothebysrealty.com.

WHERE -- Whitefish, Mont.
WHAT -- 4-bedroom house
HOW MUCH -- $895,000
On 20 acres in the gated community of Wolf Tail Pines, this five-year-old log and stucco house has views of Glacier National Park, the Big Mountain ski area and Whitefish Lake. The 3,854-square-foot house has a river-rock fireplace, a wood-burning stove, a curved staircase and three and a half baths. The guest suite includes a sitting room, its own bathroom and a private deck. There is a three-car attached garage with a second-floor unfinished room. Broker: Phyllis Sprunger, Re/Max of Whitefish, (406) 863-3400; www.phyllissprunger.com.

WHERE -- Ennis, Mont.
WHAT -- 88-acre ranch
HOW MUCH -- $975,000
This property, known as the Palisades Ranch, is in southwestern Montana, 47 miles from Yellowstone National Park. The undeveloped land has a half mile of frontage on the trout-dense Madison River, known for its dry-fly fishing. The surrounding countryside of peaks and bluffs offers elk hunting. The Lee Metcalf Wilderness Area and the Gallatin and Beaverhead National Forests are close by. A building site has been designated for a house that would have river and mountain views. Broker: Greg Fay, (800) 238-8616; www.fayranches.com.

GRAPHIC: Photos: BIG SKY COUNTRY -- Fishing on the Big Hole River near Wisdom, Mont., above, and viewing the elk, top, at the national refuge near Jackson, Wyo. (George Wuerthner for The New York Times); (Lucas J. Gilman for The New York Times)(pg. F6) Drawing (Ron Barrett)(pg. F1) Map of Wyoming/Montana borderland. (pg. F6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (89%); NATIONAL PARKS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); EMINENT DOMAIN (70%); LAND USE PLANNING (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%); EASEMENTS & RIGHTS OF WAY (67%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (61%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (54%); US LABOR DAY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (54%); DAVID LETTERMAN (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BILLINGS, MT, USA (92%); SHERIDAN, WY, USA (79%) WYOMING, USA (96%); MONTANA, USA (95%); IDAHO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2003 



529 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Mixed Results on Earnings Leave Investors Reticent

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Investors were cautious yesterday, sending share prices moderately lower despite better-than-expected earnings by Sears, Roebuck and United Technologies. 
 The declines, which erased an early advance in blue-chip stock prices, suggested that some prospective buyers were waiting for more earnings results before making commitments. Analysts said that some investors also continued to worry about the effects of a war with Iraq after reports yesterday that United Nations inspectors had found empty chemical warheads at an ammunition storage area. 
 After trading up a little less than 100 points, the Dow Jones industrial average closed down 25.31 points, or 0.29 percent, at 8,697.87.
Broader measures also retreated. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 3.62 points, or 0.39 percent, to 914.60. The Nasdaq composite index fell 15.05 points, or 1.05 percent, to 1,423.75. Advancing issues on the New York Stock Exchange outnumbered those declining, 1,747 to 1,501, but on the technology-heavy Nasdaq, the decliners predominated by a margin of about 6 to 5. Big Board volume rose to 1.53 billion shares from 1.43 billion on Wednesday.
Among stocks that were lower yesterday, Microsoft declined 92 cents, to $55.35, ahead of its second-quarter earnings report. After the market closed, Microsoft said it had a fourth-quarter profit of $2.55 billion, up from $2.28 billion, and a 10 percent increase in revenue.
I.B.M. declined $1.54 in regular-session trading, to $86.05. After the bell, though it reported revenue and earnings that exceeded analysts' expectations, the stock price fell further. 
Some analysts attributed the skittish trading yesterday to recent earnings reports that served merely to confuse investors. "The earnings have been kind of mixed," said Barry Berman of Robert W. Baird & Company in Milwaukee. "Like Intel's earnings were good but they said their capital spending would be down, so that put a drag on the market." 
Late Tuesday, Intel, the dominant chip maker, reported better-than-expected earnings but also said it was reducing capital spending this year. It traded lower yesterday, losing 15 cents to close at $17.20, after a 44-cent loss on Wednesday. 
News was also mixed on the Internet company Yahoo, which late Wednesday posted quarterly earnings of 8 cents a share, surpassing analysts' forecasts for a 6-cent profit. But yesterday, Credit Suisse First Boston downgraded Yahoo on concern that the stock was overvalued, and Yahoo fell 83 cents, to $18.75. 
Some earnings results helped stave off larger declines. Sears climbed $1.83, to $28.53, after posting fourth-quarter profits that beat expectations by 20 cents a share. 
United Technologies rose $1.81, to $66.21, on earnings that exceeded Wall Street estimates by 2 cents a share. 
Some positive economic news also bolstered the market. The Labor Department reported that consumer prices inched up 0.1 percent in December, which was less than expected. It also said that new claims for unemployment benefits fell last week by a seasonally adjusted 32,000, to 360,000. It was the second consecutive week that claims declined, and analysts had been expecting a rise in initial claims. 
In the bond market, the price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 5/32, to 99 10/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 4.09 percent from 4.06 percent on Wednesday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 2/32, to 106 3/32. The bond's yield was unchanged at 4.97 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Graph: "Tax-Exempt Yields"Average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly. Revenue bonds: 5.20%General obligation bonds: 4.95% Graph tracks the average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds since Sept. 2002. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); BONDS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); ELECTRONICS (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); DEPARTMENT STORES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); MICROPROCESSORS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (71%); IRAQ WAR (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); INTEREST RATES (59%); RETAILERS (59%) STOCKS AND BONDS; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (85%); ROBERT W BAIRD & CO INC (65%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (58%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%) SEARS, ROEBUCK & CO (S); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (UTX) 

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (85%); UTX (NYSE) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); CSGN (SWX) (51%); CS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (65%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%) SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (77%) WISCONSIN, USA (77%) IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2003 



530 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
Merrill Lynch brings back the bull for its latest campaign.

BYLINE:  By Patrick McGeehan 

 BODY:
MERRILL LYNCH is trying to reinvigorate an old bull with some new tricks.
 In ads that are scheduled to start appearing on Sunday, Merrill, the nation's biggest brokerage firm, is introducing a new slogan, "Total Merrill" to accompany a push to manage all of its investors' financial needs. The new campaign also brings back the bull -- the first to appear in Merrill's commercials since the mid-1990's -- even though it has dropped all references to its own bullishness. 
 Indeed, Merrill has suffered along with its customers through a long bear market that began almost three years ago. It has also watched its reputation be tarnished by regulatory investigations into the advice its stock analysts gave in the late 1990's. 
The new ads barely mention Merrill's investment banking operation or its investment research. Instead, they emphasize some of the firm's newer products and services, like checking accounts and mortgage lending. 
"We want to reinforce that we are more than brokers and stock pickers," said Paula Polito, head of marketing for Merrill's global brokerage operation. 
To tie all its offerings together, the firm coined the phrase "Total Merrill" and the slogan, "We see your financial life in total."
Merrill has not used a slogan since it dropped "Be Bullish" a year ago. Since then, the firm has spent a lot of time and money on damage control.
In April, Merrill became the first Wall Street firm to agree to pay a big fine to end an investigation into the conflicts of interest of its stock analysts. Merrill paid $100 million to state regulators months before 10 of its biggest competitors agreed to pay more than $1 billion to end similar investigations.
Merrill's chairman, David H. Komansky, and its chief executive, E. Stanley O'Neal, publicly apologized for the analysts' conduct. In June, they appeared in newspaper ads that spelled out the changes Merrill had agreed to make in its research department, including switching to a simpler stock-rating system. Analysts now rate each stock they cover either a buy, a hold or a sell, rather than the previous confusing five-tier system.
Merrill ran other ads last fall that addressed the stock market's long slump in sober tones seldom heard from the firm famous for being "Bullish on America." Those ads reflected more accurately the views of the firm's investment strategists, who have been among the most bearish on Wall Street for more than a year.
As investors withdrew from the market after the stock bubble burst, Mr. O'Neal went on a cost-cutting drive that eliminated more than 15,000 jobs. Merrill also cut back sharply on ad spending, according to data compiled by CMR/TNS Media Intelligence in New York, a division of Taylor Nelson Sofres.
In the first 10 months of last year, Merrill spent about $60 million on advertising, or about half of the $118 million it spent in all of 2001, according to CMR. Not all of Merrill's competitors took the same tack. Morgan Stanley spent $151 million through October, almost as much as the $160 million it spent in all of 2001, CMR said.
The new TV ads strike a more optimistic chord. Underscored by orchestral music, the one that begins on Sunday flashes through everyday scenes of the lives of the affluent: Broadway shows, horseback rides, school plays. 
"Unlike Wall Street, your life doesn't stop every day at 4," the announcer intones. Then, he adds, "You want to guard and grow your portfolio and things more valuable than portfolios."
The commercial ends with a cameo appearance by a bull -- a Wyoming resident appropriately named Dollar -- which is a hint of what is to come. In later ads, the bull will be a fixture. One commercial that is still being completed will depict a Merrill client in his living room discussing the benefits of managing all of his finances through one firm while the bull pants at his feet like a cloven-hooved black Labrador.
Placing the beast in people's homes demonstrates that he is "a part of these people's lives and that they feel very comfortable with him," said James Overall, creative director of Boathouse, a two-year-old agency in Dedham, Mass., that created the ads.
J. Walter Thompson in New York, part of the WPP Group, remains Merrill's agency of record, Ms. Polito said. Thompson created a new logo for "Total Merrill" that incorporates the firm's mascot.
But the association with the bull was too valuable to be relegated to a two-dimensional logo, Ms. Polito said.
"Much like McDonald's has had the arches, we've had the bull," she said. "It's been a great icon for us."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A new Merrill Lynch television ad puts its bull in the living room. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (90%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); INVESTMENT BANKING (79%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (78%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); BONDS (77%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); FINES & PENALTIES (69%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; ADVERTISING; LOGOTYPES; RESEARCH; BROKERS AND BROKERAGE FIRMS 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (92%); TAYLOR NELSON SOFRES PLC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: MERRILL LYNCH & CO; THOMPSON, J WALTER, CO 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%) SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS & DEALERS; 

PERSON: STAN O'NEAL (59%) MCGEEHAN, PATRICK 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2003 



531 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 302 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Prices Edge Up; New Jobless Claims Drop 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 16 

 BODY:
Consumers paid slightly higher prices in December but inflation ended the year on a tame note, while fewer Americans lined up last week for jobless benefits, according to government reports released today. 
 The Labor Department said the Consumer Price Index, a widely watched gauge of inflation pressures, inched up a seasonally adjusted 0.1 percent in December. 
Excluding volatile food and energy, prices also edged up 0.1 percent. Both gains were smaller than expected. 
 Most categories of the index, which measures a set basket of goods and services paid by consumers, posted only modest price increases in December, with the largest gain coming in medical care, which rose 0.3 percent. 
Energy prices were down for a second consecutive month, dipping 0.4 percent. Clothing and transportation costs also fell, the latter mostly because of cut rates for new cars. 
The lower prices are good for consumers, but they may not be so good for businesses. 
In the second report, the Labor Department said that new claims for state unemployment benefits in the week ended Jan. 11 unexpectedly fell to their lowest level since November. 
They dipped by 32,000, to a seasonally adjusted 360,000, down from a revised 392,000 in the previous week. 
While the level was much lower than economists expected, an analyst at the agency warned that adjustments intended to deal with seasonal fluctuations in claims may have had a downward effect on the numbers. 
Still, the claims level was the lowest in six weeks. The decline brought the four-week moving average of claims, considered by some analysts to be a more reliable indicator of trends, to 387,500, down from 407,000 in the previous week. 
A prolonged period of claims below the crucial 400,000 level would be seen as showing an improvement in the lackluster job market.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Consumer Prices"Graph tracks the percentage change of consumer prices, month to month, from Jan.-Dec. 2002. U.S.Index for Dec. 2002: 180.9*Percent change from previous:Month: -0.2Year: +2.4* Major Metropolitan AreasNot seasonally adjusted New YorkPercent change from previous:Month: -0.2Year: +3.1 Los AngelesPercent change from previous:Month: -0.2Year: +3.7 ChicagoPercent change from previous:Month: -0.4Year: +2.5 San Francisco+Percent change from previous:Month: -0.6Year: +1.4 Philadelphia+Percent change from previous:Month: -0.3Year: +3.0 Detroit+Percent change from previous:Month: -0.4Year: +3.6 Boston+ (Nov.)Percent change from previous:Month: +0.7Year: +4.0 Dallas+ (Nov.)Percent change from previous:Month: +0.2Year: +1.2 Houston+Percent change from previous:Month: -1.7Year: +1.7 Washington+ (Nov.)Percent change from previous:Month: Unch.Year: +2.8 *Not seasonally adjusted.+Calculated bimonthly. Figures are for Dec., except as noted. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (91%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INFLATION (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); FOOD PRICES (74%); EMPLOYMENT (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; LABOR 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2003 



532 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: Is a Dividend Taxable? Investors Can't Tell 

BYLINE:  By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
SHORT selling will become harder, and perhaps more expensive. Companies will no longer be able to use losses in one year to get refunds of taxes paid in prior years. Mutual funds may split into two camps -- those marketed to retirement accounts like 401(k)'s and those sold to investors who must pay taxes.
 And there may be big surprises for investors. Months after they collect a dividend, they could learn that the dividend they had been told was tax exempt was really taxable. 
 Those are some of the consequences -- intended and otherwise -- that arise from the Bush administration's proposal to end the taxation of dividends that are paid from profits on which taxes were already paid by the company. But dividends would remain taxable if the company had not paid federal taxes the previous year, and would be partly taxable if it had not paid enough federal taxes to offset all its dividends. 
Unfortunately, companies will not file tax returns until many months after they pay the dividends. So some companies could declare in good faith that a dividend would be tax free, only to figure out months later that they were wrong.
Moreover, that confusion may be afoot now. The Bush proposal is supposed to be retroactive to Jan. 1, thereby covering dividends paid this year. But companies declaring dividends now are not saying what their tax status would be under the new law. Company executives may know how much their companies actually pay in federal taxes, but they do not have to say. That information would be critical to investors if the Bush plan were in effect.
Under the Bush plan, companies that start to lose money would be in worse shape than they are under current law. Now, a company can use a loss in one year to offset profits made during the previous two years, and get a refund of taxes paid on those profits. But that would end.
The Bush administration is thus making a 180-degree turn. Just last year Congress changed the law to provide that companies that lost money in 2001 or 2002 could get refunds of taxes paid in the previous five years, increasing the refunds that would be paid during the economic slowdown. The two-year limit resumed in 2003.
The new proposal requires that a company pay dividends -- or so-called deemed dividends that provide reduced capital gains taxes for investors -- based on profits that were taxed. Those payments must be made in the year after the profits were earned. And after the company makes those dividend or deemed-dividend payments, it cannot seek a refund of the original tax payment. 
Companies will not like that. But many will be pleased that short selling may become more expensive. That is because an owner of shares on which tax-free dividends are paid will get the tax-free income only if the shareholder receives the dividend from the company. If that investor's shares were lent out to a short seller at the time of the dividend payment, the short seller would have to make a payment in lieu of the dividend. But that payment would be taxable to the shareholder.
As a result, individual investors will demand that their shares not be lent out at dividend time -- something that brokerage firms probably would have to allow to retain customers.
Other investors would be quite willing to have their shares lent, for a fee. That would include pension funds and charitable organizations, which will not benefit from the new tax benefits. The result could be that shares of dividend-paying companies will become more expensive to borrow around the time of dividend or deemed-dividend payments. Those later payments are all supposed to be on Dec. 31, the administration says. 
Robert Gordon, the president of 21st Securities, said he expected that pension funds might demand that they be paid more than the value of the dividend when they lend the stock.
Mutual funds will have to decide whether to lend their shares, a move that would bolster pretax returns but hurt aftertax returns. Funds sold only to retirement accounts would be happy to seek such profits, and it seems likely that mutual funds would be started with that as part of their investment strategy.
If the Bush plan becomes law, Wall Street no doubt will try to develop procedures to transfer the tax benefits. The idea would be for shareholders who cannot use such benefits to sell them to investors who can.
"Wherever they draw the line, people will try to game the system," said Les Samuels, a tax partner at Cleary, Gottlieb, Steen & Hamilton who served as deputy Treasury secretary for tax policy in the first Clinton administration.
Greg Jenner, the deputy assistant Treasury secretary for tax policy, said in an interview that the administration would try to stop such tactics, and might require investors to hold shares for 90 days to qualify for tax-free treatment of dividends. He said investors might be required to own shares for a full year to get the capital gains benefit from deemed dividends.
Part of the confusion of whether or not a dividend will be tax free comes from the schedule envisioned in the Bush proposal. A company that pays tax on a calendar-year basis would have to file a tax return by the following Sept. 15. The tax status of dividends paid during the earlier months of that year would be determined based on the return, and if the return ended up with surprises, companies could discover that the tax treatment would be different from what had been anticipated.
Under current law, corporations that buy stock in other companies get a tax break on the dividend income they receive. A company will typically pay taxes on just 30 percent of the dividends paid to it, and some companies invest excess cash in preferred shares to get tax-advantaged income.
Companies pursuing the strategy this year could find that they are doing better than expected -- or much worse. Under the Bush proposal, a company that collects tax-exempt dividends would owe no taxes on them, and could pass them on to its own shareholders on a dollar-for-dollar, tax-exempt, basis. But if it collected taxable dividends, it would get no tax breaks on the income.
Some corporations could find themselves in the position of learning that information after they file their returns. A company with a January fiscal year would include dividend income received in January when it filed its return, perhaps a few months later. But months after that, it could learn that the tax status of the income was not what it had understood.
The ending of double taxation of dividends will probably persuade more companies to begin paying dividends, as Microsoft said yesterday it would do in March. The percentage of companies paying dividends, after falling for many years, began to rise in 2001 after investors learned that capital gains were not a sure thing.
But a way needs to be found to make the tax treatment certain when dividends are declared, or at least to make it possible for companies to be sure if they wish to be. Investors might pay a premium for such assurance.
One way to do that would be to allow companies to base one year's dividends on profits from two or more previous years. That would also mean that companies would still be able to seek refunds from earlier years if their businesses ran into financial difficulties. 
Making a new system confusing, and leaving those who collect dividends in limbo for many months on the question of whether a particular dividend will be tax exempt, is no way to encourage investors to value companies that pay dividends.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the percentage of companies paying dividends, from 1980-2000. (Source: Standard & Poors) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); DIVIDENDS (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); US 401K PLANS (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (77%); INCOME TAX (75%); BONDS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; TAX EXEMPTIONS; STOCKS AND BONDS; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2003 



533 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Sun Posts Its Largest Quarterly Loss Ever

BYLINE:  By MATT RICHTEL 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Jan. 16 

 BODY:
Sun Microsystems Inc., still reeling from the collapse of the Internet bubble and facing steep competitive pressures, posted its largest quarterly loss ever today.
 The results were hurt by charges related to two previous acquisitions, and from costs associated with layoffs and company restructuring. Excluding those one-time charges, Sun -- which makes powerful computers for businesses -- broke even, slightly exceeding the performance estimates of Wall Street analysts. 
 Departing from recent practice, the company declined today to provide analysts with projections for its performance this quarter, which ends March 31. The company also said that it would not hold a midquarter call with financial analysts to discuss its performance.
The projections are relied upon by Wall Street analysts and investors. But a growing number of public companies have said they are finding it difficult to give accurate projections because the business environment remains murky -- the reasoning Sun Microsystems used today for its decision.
"It's difficult to provide a meaningful forecast," said Steve McGowan, Sun's chief financial officer. "Times are still uncertain."
In Sun's quarterly conference call today, Mr. McGowan urged analysts to make some inferences about the current quarter's results from past seasonal sales patterns. But when analysts pressed him, noting that seasonal patterns could vary greatly, Mr. McGowan said, "I'll let you take your best cut and judgment on that."
Previously, Sun had told analysts that it would return to profitability by the middle of this year. The company said it was neither affirming nor backing away from that earlier position.
The call today was primarily about Sun's second fiscal quarter, which ended Dec. 29. For that quarter, Sun reported that it lost $2.28 billion, or 72 cents a share, its largest quarterly loss ever. That return compares with a loss of $431 million, or 13 cents a share, in the period a year earlier.
This quarter's figure includes expenses of $2.125 billion, some of which is known as good will impairment indirectly related to a fall in the value of two companies Sun acquired, Cobalt Networks and HighGround System. As part of its expense, the company took a $308 million charge for costs associated partly with a restructuring that has involved the cutting of some 3,100 jobs, with 1,300 more layoffs planned. 
Excluding those charges, the company reported earnings that were slightly better than break-even. That exceeds the projections of Wall Street analysts, who expected a loss of 2 cents a share.
Sun reported that its sales were $2.9 billion, roughly in line with the projections of analysts.
Shares of Sun, which is based in Santa Clara, Calif., fell 17 cents, to $3.70, before the report and as much as another 15 cents after hours.
Sun, while considered a financial and technological stalwart, has faced a growing threat in the sale of high-performance servers from those using the Linux operating system rather than the Unix system Sun primarily employs.
Linux systems can run on servers based on Intel microprocessors, rather than higher-price Sun processors, noted A. M. Sacconaghi Jr., an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Company. "That is an inexorable threat," he said.
On the upside, the company noted an increase in gross margins, a closely watched measure of the company's profits, minus the cost of producing its goods. The company's gross margin of 43.3 percent was slightly higher than last quarter, and 6.7 percent higher than in the quarter a year earlier.
The company said that gross margins were helped by the lower cost of its products' components, although price competition eroded some of those gains.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Scott G. McNealy, chief executive of Sun Microsystems, at a trade show in the fall. His company said it lost $2.28 billion last quarter. (David McNew/Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY LOSSES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (77%); CONFERENCE CALLS (70%); EXECUTIVES (52%) COMPANY REPORTS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: ORACLE AMERICA INC (94%)

ORGANIZATION: SUN MICROSYSTEMS INC 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (94%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (94%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (94%) SIC7378 COMPUTER MAINTENANCE & REPAIR; SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; 

PERSON: RICHTEL, MATT; MCGOWAN, STEVE 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (75%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2003 



534 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 313 words

HEADLINE: As Worries Over Iraq War Rise, So Does the Price of Crude Oil 

BYLINE:  By ERIC PFANNER, International Herald Tribune 

DATELINE: LONDON, Jan. 16 

 BODY:
Oil prices rose to two-year highs today, building on a weeklong surge after an emergency OPEC decision to raise output failed to assuage growing fears over a possible war in Iraq.
 Crude oil rose 1.4 percent today, to $33.66 a barrel in New York trading. In London, Brent crude rose 1.5 percent, to $31.70 a barrel. 
 Oil prices have risen 6 percent since Sunday, when the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries raised its official production quota by 6.5 percent, to 24.5 million barrels a day.
Since the meeting, concerns about Iraq have grown, with one of the chief United Nations weapons inspectors, Hans Blix, warning today that the situation "is very tense and very dangerous."
The OPEC meeting in Vienna was ostensibly called to address the supply disruption caused by antigovernment strikes in Venezuela. But analysts said the increase in quotas was unlikely to fill all of the gap. 
"The market is nervous, and it is going to stay so for a while, as long as it doesn't know what is going to happen in Venezuela and Iraq," said Vera de Ladoucette, director of Middle East Research for Cambridge Energy Research Associates.
Adding to the short-term worry over supplies were disruptions in shipments from Norway this week. Bad weather prevented tankers from being loaded, while damage to an oil rig briefly limited production.
Analysts said OPEC's new production efforts would fall short of the 1.5 million extra barrels promised by the group. That is because the higher quotas were assigned proportionally to all members, including Venezuela, which is producing only about one-quarter of the 2.82 million barrels a day that it will be allowed to pump under the new system, due to take effect Feb. 1.
"As soon as OPEC agreed to include Venezuela, the numbers were meaningless," said Leonidas Drollas, chief economist with the Center for Global Energy Studies in London.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "THE MARKETS: COMMODITIES"Graph tracks crude oil prices (near-month contract), since July 2001. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (93%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (92%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); FUTURES (79%); OIL EXTRACTION (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%); ENERGY RESEARCH (71%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (70%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); PRODUCTION; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

COMPANY: IHS INC (68%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); UNITED NATIONS (57%) ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES 

TICKER: IHS (NYSE) (68%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (68%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (68%)

PERSON: PFANNER, ERIC 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (91%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); AUSTRIA (73%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2003 



535 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 381 words

HEADLINE: Restoring Peace to Ivory Coast 

 BODY:
West Africa is facing another disastrous civil war. Ivory Coast, once a beacon of relative stability and wealth, is split across the middle, convulsed by mercenary gang killings reminiscent of recent conflicts in neighboring Liberia and Sierra Leone. If the situation deteriorates further, the entire region could be imperiled. As the world's biggest cocoa producer, Ivory Coast remains central to West Africa's economy. 
 France, which likes to describe its policy toward its former colonies as "neither interference nor indifference," is being forced into direct involvement. It has intervened with 2,500 soldiers and a vow to bring the conflict to an end. The warring sides have been wooed to a sports complex south of Paris for a closed, marathon negotiating session that began on Wednesday and is scheduled to end with a meeting of West African heads of state. To succeed, the French will need fortitude, a clear political plan -- and perhaps support from the United States and other allies. 
 The current crisis began last September when the main rebel movement took over the north, leaving the south in the hands of Laurent Gbagbo, the president who won a tainted election in 2000. But the situation has been some years in the making. Ivory Coast is the victim of its own success. The thriving cocoa industry drew in millions of foreign workers, most of them Muslim. Their presence threatened the Ivoirians already there, most of whom are Christian or animist. This led them to promote the notion of Ivoirite, or Ivoirian-ness. Under this concept, which was soon enshrined into law, both parents have to be Ivoirian for someone to qualify for citizenship. This effectively leaves 30 percent of the country's residents as second-class citizens. 
Mr. Gbagbo has used the citizenship doctrine to maintain his grip on power. The rebels are demanding early elections and a revision to the identity laws. Their complaints are legitimate but their methods deplorable. 
Over the coming days, the French mediators will try to gain agreement on a timetable for elections, perhaps through a referendum. The goal must be to rid the country of the unreasonable citizenship qualifications and produce a more representative and inclusive form of government as well as reformed land ownership laws. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); ELECTIONS (88%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); HOMICIDE (73%); SPORTS (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION (69%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (69%); ELECTION FRAUD (68%); REFERENDUMS (66%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (57%) COTE D'IVOIRE (95%); WESTERN AFRICA (94%); AFRICA (94%); SIERRA LEONE (92%); FRANCE (92%); LIBERIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2003 



536 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 398 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Reports a Final Deal For Singapore Trade Pact 

BYLINE:  AP

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 16 

 BODY:
Bush administration officials announced today that they had cleared the last hurdle to a free trade agreement with Singapore, securing the deal a month after a similar one with Chile.
 Officials said a final round of telephone negotiations between the Treasury under secretary for international affairs, John Taylor, and Koh Yong Guan, managing director of Singapore's monetary authority, resolved the sticking point: the treatment of capital flows during periods of financial crisis. 
 Under the agreement, Singapore can impose capital controls if it deems them necessary, but United States investors can file claims to recover any investments that are trapped in Singapore. 
While it was unable to obtain a prohibition on the use of controls, officials said they had succeeded in making sure that they were used infrequently.
The Treasury Department said the agreement "reflects the shared commitment" by the two countries "to the free transfer of capital and the avoidance of capital controls."
After winning the Congressional authority last summer that was needed to negotiate new trade agreements, the administration has embarked on an effort to catch up with the European Union. The Europeans have struck a number of such deals over the last eight years while American presidents have lacked the authority to close deals quickly -- under arrangements in which Congress only can vote yes or no without making changes.
The administration hopes to use the accords with Chile and Singapore to add momentum to the negotiations on wider agreements -- a deal covering all countries in the Western Hemisphere except Cuba, and new global trade talks covering the 144 nations in the World Trade Organization.
The deal with Singapore would wipe out tariffs and other trade barriers on about $33 billion in merchandise trade between the two nations. It would give United States banks and service companies more access to Singapore, which is one of Asia's main financial centers.
Officials said the language on capital controls tracked similar wording in the deal with Chile. Under the terms of that pact, American investors can seek damages if Chile decides to impose capital controls, but only after a cooling-off period of six months to a year.
All these agreements are subject to approval by Congress. The administration said it expected votes on the deals with Chile and Singapore in the spring. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); FUTURES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (77%); STRIKES (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); APPROVALS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); DAMAGES (70%); EUROPEAN UNION (52%) FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; COMMODITIES AND FUTURES TRADING 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SINGAPORE (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); CHILE (95%); ASIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (69%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (58%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2003 



537 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: M.T.A. Faces Bigger Woes Linked to Debt, Study Says 

BYLINE:  By RANDY KENNEDY 

 BODY:
The financial problems of the city's subway and bus system over the next two years do not appear nearly as dire as transit officials have portrayed them, according to an analysis released yesterday by the city's Independent Budget Office.
 The findings raise questions about whether a proposed fare increase to as much as $2 by this spring is needed. But the report adds that there are big storm clouds on the horizon, ones that critics of the transit agency say could explain the need for the increase and more soon after: decisions by Gov. George E. Pataki and top transit officials over the past several years to borrow extensively for repairs and capital projects. 
 That borrowing will drive debt costs sharply higher by the end of next year, the analysis found. And -- like a rapidly rising payment on a credit card balance -- those costs threaten to put pressure on the agency to raise fares much more over the coming years.
"Debt service will become an increasing burden on New York City Transit's operating budget and absorb a growing portion of fare and other revenues," said Doug Turetsky, a spokesman for the budget office, a nonpartisan city agency.
According to the analysis, debt payments will grow so rapidly by next year -- to $436 million, from $294 million this year -- that they will eat up all of the excess money from bridge and tunnel tolls traditionally used to support subway and bus operations and keep fares low. Those toll surpluses were dedicated to mass transit operations in the late 1960's when the Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority was wrested from Robert Moses, whose policies favored cars over transit.
Officials with the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, the parent agency that runs subways, buses and the commuter railroads, said they did not disagree with the Independent Budget Office's analysis, which used the authority's own public financial disclosures. But transit officials took exception yesterday to accusations that they have exaggerated or distorted their budget problems to build a better case for a fare increase.
The independent analysis found that the M.T.A.'s total budget gap over the next two years is $951 million. But in notices that began running in city newspapers this week to announce a series of public hearings on a fare increase, the authority reports that its budget shortfall over the next two years is $2.8 billion, or nearly three times as much as the figure from the analysis.
Gary G. Caplan, the authority's budget director, said yesterday that the $2.8 billion estimate was not inaccurate. It simply did not take into account a series of cost-cutting measures and a corporate restructuring plan that officials hope will result in significant savings over the next two years.
He added, however, that the lower estimates were made public last month as part of a budget document. "It shows you the whole megillah," he said of that document.
Critics such as the Straphangers Campaign, an advocacy group, have contended repeatedly over the last several months that while those numbers may have been publicly released, they were confusing and difficult to find and that the authority has highlighted the higher numbers.
In its analysis, the Independent Budget Office said that it found serious deficiencies in the way that the authority discloses its finances. The city comptroller's office has said it has similar concerns and last month ordered an audit of New York City Transit.
While continuing to defend their practices, M.T.A. officials said yesterday that Katherine N. Lapp, the authority's executive director, would announce today at a City Council transportation hearing that she plans to make some changes in the way budget numbers are reported, to make them more clear to the public.
The independent analysis found that rising labor costs and stagnant revenues from riders have contributed to the M.T.A.'s rapidly mounting financial problems over the last two years, as the city's economy has suffered. But debt costs could represent a much larger threat to the authority's budgets over the coming years.
The authority had $10 billion in debt seven years ago, from borrowing that helped it to buy new trains, rebuild stations and draw riders back to the system. That debt has climbed to nearly $16 billion now, and the total is projected to rise to $25 billion over the next few years. In large part, this is because direct state and city aid for capital projects has evaporated over recent years.
While the transit operating budget keeps trains and buses running and pays employees, much of the service payments on transit debt also come out of the operating budget, and the share of operating funds being consumed by those payments is growing.
The situation places pressure on the authority to raise fares not only to maintain operations but also to assure bond-rating agencies that the outstanding debt is backed by revenues.
Mr. Caplan said yesterday that it was too early to say exactly how much debt-service payments would rise by 2005 and the following years. But the payments will continue to increase, he said. When asked whether this would create pressure for more frequent fare increases, he answered by saying that the borrowing plan has been responsible for reviving the transit system.
"The alternative," he said, "is to go back to 1980."
But Gene Russianoff, staff lawyer for the Straphangers Campaign, contends that another alternative is for the state and the city to find ways to offer more support to mass transit. 
"This is what business and civic leaders feared when the M.T.A. began its massive borrowing program -- that debt would explode and swallow up a huge chunk of the money that goes to operations," Mr. Russianoff said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (91%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (74%); CREDIT CARDS (69%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (69%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (64%); SUBURBS (62%) TRANSIT SYSTEMS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; CREDIT; BRIDGES AND TUNNELS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TOLLS; SUBWAYS; BUSES 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY 

INDUSTRY:  SIC4111 LOCAL & SUBURBAN TRANSIT; 

PERSON: KENNEDY, RANDY; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2003 



538 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: KOREAN PENINSULA; 
South Korea's President-Elect Rejects Use of Force Against North Korea

BYLINE:  By HOWARD W. FRENCH 

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Jan. 16 

 BODY:
In a determined defense of engagement with North Korea, President-elect Roh Moo Hyun today all but ruled out the use of force against his isolated neighbor, which he said was seeking a way to open up to the world. 
 "North Korea wants to escape from its status as a rogue state," Mr. Roh said when asked why he had faith in a conciliatory approach. "I believe once those things are guaranteed, North Korea will abandon its nuclear ambitions." 
 In his first interview since winning the election last month, Mr. Roh insisted on a peaceful approach even as South Korea's defense minister, Lee Jun, told Parliament that South Korean forces were prepared for a "worst-case scenario" if diplomacy fails to resolve the four-month old nuclear crisis.
Mr. Roh said he would not contemplate a military strike from South Korean territory against the North Korean nuclear complex at Yongbyon -- even if North Korea were found to be reprocessing nuclear fuel for bomb production there. 
"I don't think we should even go so far as to imagine such a situation," said Mr. Roh, whose approval as president would be required for any military action by South Korean troops or Americans stationed here.
The president-elect also said that South Korea would not develop nuclear weapons in response to North Korean armaments, insisting that "nuclear development will not be permitted in Korea -- either North or South."
Mr. Roh did not discuss his views on Korean reunification, a goal that both North and South have embraced. Nor did he offer his views on when, or whether, the 37,000 American troops in South Korea should be withdrawn. But he tried to play down a recent wave of protests against the American forces here, and said that anti-Americanism had no meaningful place in South Korea. 
"There are some voices of anti-Americanism in Korea, but the number of those voices is small, and the chances of their leading public opinion is even smaller," he said.
Earlier this week, in a conciliatory change of tone, Mr. Roh visited the United States military headquarters here to demonstrate his gratitude for American sacrifices during the Korean War.
Mr. Roh, a liberal lawyer with a background in the country's labor and democracy movements dating back to the military dictatorships of the 1980's, rejected a common assertion that his candidacy rode a wave of anti-Americanism, allowing him to narrowly defeat the more conservative candidate, Lee Hoi Chang.
"During my campaign, unlike Mr. Lee, I did not participate in any candlelight vigils or sign any petitions," Mr. Roh said. "It is not just that I did not participate, I rejected it. After my election I asked for the candlelight vigils to stop, and my request produced some results."
In recent weeks, concerns have been expressed by both South Koreans and Americans that Mr. Roh's politics, by some accounts more liberal than his predecessor, the departing President Kim Dae Jung, would exacerbate already difficult ties with this country's most important ally, the United States. 
Mr. Roh's lack of international experience and his background as a one-term legislator have heightened these anxieties and have prompted some commentators here and abroad to question his preparedness. Others, however, say they have been impressed with his intelligence and self-assuredness. "I don't think we should be nervous about him, although he has far less international experience than presidents of most major nations," said one Western diplomat.
Since October, the Korean Peninsula has been in crisis over North Korea's acknowledgment of a secret program to produce highly enriched uranium, a core ingredient for nuclear weapons. Mr. Kim's government has urged Washington toward dialogue with North Korea.
Mr. Roh vows to keep his country's relationship with the United States strong, while trying to usher North Korea out of its international isolation. "At this point it is too early to say that the South-North relationship has failed," he said. Later, referring to his own background as a labor mediator with a reputation for effectiveness in tough situations, he said, "I have a lot of experience in solving problems." 
During his campaign, Mr. Roh criticized the Bush administration's policy toward North Korea as "hard-line," but carefully avoided such judgments today, declining at one point the use of the word "mistake" to characterize American diplomacy. On the contrary, Mr. Roh said he expected to get along well with Mr. Bush, who looked like a "cool guy," by which he meant amiable, on television and had impressed him as being candid and frank.
"I myself like to talk candidly, straightforward," Mr. Roh said. "People can have better dialogue when frank. We are the same age. His birthday is a little earlier than mine. I look forward to meeting him in person and having a frank and candid dialogue with him." 
"He may be able to sell himself in Washington a lot better than Kim did," said Michael Breen, author of "The Koreans: Who They Are, What They Want, Where Their Future Lies," and of a forthcoming biography of Kim Dae Jung. "You look at pictures of Kim at the White House and he is sitting there, dour, looking straight at the wall. By contrast, Roh is positive and personable and looks very comfortable with himself."
Mr. Roh said that there were "a lot of theories and views on the personality" of Kim Jong Il, the reclusive North Korean leader, but that he believed Mr. Kim was sincere in his wish for dialogue. "If you treat someone with mistrust he will come back to you with more mistrust and skepticism," Mr. Roh said. "I think the fundamental thing here is Mr. Kim Jong Il's situation." 
"He has to keep his people fed and he has to assure the stability of his own system, and he has to come out to the world," he added. "There are various occasions on which he has made this clear." For evidence, he cited several recent North Korean initiatives to reform the country's economy and open it to foreign investment.
Mr. Roh said he had no communication back channels to North Korea, but defended himself against the charge of naivete, saying in effect that the source of his faith in dialogue was the lack of anything but utterly terrible alternatives.
"If you say it is foolish to have dialogue with him then we should exercise pressure on Kim Jong Il," Mr. Roh said. "But if he does not bend to pressure, then it means we should go ahead and attack. It all comes down to the fact that we can't have a military attack.
"It is our judgment that we cannot face or embrace war with North Korea. It is such a catastrophic result that I cannot even imagine. We have to handle the North-South relations in such a way that we do not have to face such a situation."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President-elect Roh Moo Hyun of South Korea said dialogue was the only acceptable method for resolving the standoff with North Korea. (Choi Hang Young for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); KOREAN WAR (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); CONSERVATISM (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); ARMED FORCES (73%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (70%); PETITIONS (70%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (68%); TERRORISM (67%); LIBERALISM (64%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; TERRORISM 

PERSON: FRENCH, HOWARD W; ROH MOO HYUN 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%) NORTH KOREA; SOUTH KOREA; YONGBYON (NORTH KOREA)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2003 



539 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-8

Inspectors Find Warheads, Blix Adopts Harder Tone
U.N. weapons inspectors discovered 11 empty chemical warheads and carted documents away from the homes of two Iraqi scientists. Hans Blix, who heads the chemical and biological weapons team, also hardened his tone, warning Iraq that it faces a "very tense and very dangerous" situation. A1

Antiterror Strategy Approved
The chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff has approved and sent to the armed services and the military's worldwide commands a comprehensive plan for how the military will combat terrorism, Pentagon officials said. A10

Minor Party, Major Israeli Voice
Opinion polls in Israel consistently indicate that Tommy Lapid's minor Shinui Party is poised to become the third-largest faction in the next Parliament, which could make his a pivotal voice in determining the next governing coalition. A3

Chavez Digs in His Heels
Putting an abrupt end to signs he was softening his stance toward a seven-week strike that has crippled his country's economy, President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela vowed he would triumph over attempts to force him out. A4

S. Korean Leader Seeks Talks
In a determined defense of engagement with North Korea, President-elect Roh Moo Hyun all but ruled out the use of force with his isolated neighbor, which he said was seeking a way to open up to the world. A12

Vatican Primer for Politicians
The Vatican issued guidelines for Roman Catholic politicians that underlined the church's opposition to abortion, euthanasia and same-sex marriage, urging them not to promote laws that favor those practices. A6

Japan Emperor Shows Frailty
Late last month, the Imperial Household Agency told the nation that the emperor, Akihito, had prostate cancer. In Japan, the imperial family lives such a closely guarded existence that the act represents a remarkable transformation. A6

NATIONAL A14-24

White House Allows Limits On Emergency Coverage
The Bush administration has ruled that managed care organizations can restrict coverage of emergency services for poor people on Medicaid. The policy appears to roll back established standards. A1

With doctors across the country protesting the cost of malpractice insurance, President Bush outlined his plan for strict limits on lawsuits to curb the jury awards he blames for skyrocketing premiums. A24

Brief in Race Case
The Bush administration submitted a brief asking the Supreme Court to declare unconstitutional the undergraduate and law school admissions programs of the University of Michigan. But it did not ask the justices to overturn the 1978 landmark ruling that allowed race to be used as a "plus factor." A1

Added Threat to Western Water
The Bush administration may further reduce water from the Colorado River going to farmers in Southern California by contending that the water is being wasted. A17

Iraqi Computer Attacks Feared
A recent rise in electronic attacks against government and military computer networks in the United States may be the work of pro-Iraqi hackers, according to the F.B.I. A12

Court Blocks Mexican Trucks
An appeals court in San Francisco blocked President Bush's plans to open American highways to Mexican trucks, ruling that the administration could not open the roads until it conducted a study of how the trucks would affect the environment. A14

Democrats Lose Budget Battle
Senate Republicans, seeking to push through a $390 billion appropriations bill , beat back attempts by Democrats to add $5 billion for domestic security and $6 billion for education. A23

Church Seeks Therapy Records
Victims of clergy sexual abuse and their advocates complained that lawyers for the Archdiocese of Boston had begun to depose therapists who are treating the victims. A18

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Mayor's Approval Rating Drops Sharply, Poll Shows
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's approval rating dropped sharply in recent months as he moved to address the city's looming fiscal crisis, according to a New York Times poll that found that for the first time since Mr. Bloomberg took office more than half of New Yorkers now disapprove of his handling of the job. A1

No Police Layoffs, for Now
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said that he did not expect to lay off police officers in the current round of budget cuts, but held open the possibility of future layoffs if the police union does not agree to money-saving changes. B1

Three Designs for Site Emerge
Three vastly different designs for the rebuilding of the World Trade Center, one emphasizing tall towers, another an excavated memorial site and a third a large public garden, appear to be receiving the greatest support in public discussions about the future of the site. B1

Turncoat's Testimony Barred
A federal judge dealt prosecutors a major blow in their case against Peter Gotti by barring the testimony of a Mafia turncoat who had been prepared to testify that Mr. Gotti was now the head of the Gambino crime family once led by his brother John. B2

Neediest Cases B6

WEEKEND E1-40; 41-54

ESCAPES F1-16

OBITUARIES A25

SPORTS D1-8

All-Star Game Might Count
Baseball's club owners acted on their conviction that linking the outcome of the All-Star Game to home-field advantage in the World Series would rejuvenate the All-Star Game. D5

BUSINESS DAY C1-20

Random House Ousts President
In a move that startled the literary world, Ann Godoff was forced out as president of the Random House Trade Group when the parent company merged her division with Ballantine Publishing Group. A1

New Chairman at Time Warner
AOL Time Warner named its chief executive, Richard D. Parsons, to be chairman. He now stands alone at the head of the world's largest media company. A1

Microsoft to Pay Dividend
Microsoft will pay a dividend for the first time. The 16 cents-a-share annual payout amounts to little, but indicates the maturing corporate culture and psychology at Microsoft. C1

Bank President to Retire
William J. McDonough, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the second-most important person in the Federal Reserve System, said he would retire in July. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business C13

EDITORIAL A26-27

Editorials: The malpractice insurance crisis; restoring peace to Ivory Coast; Congress's messy leftovers; in New York taxis, must-see TV.

Columns: Nicholas D. Kristof, Paul Krugman.

Crossword E52
TV Listings E39
Public Lives B2
Weather A22

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); INSPECTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICS (88%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (86%); RELIGION (86%); FAMILY (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (76%); APPROVALS (76%); ARMED FORCES (76%); COMPUTER CRIME (75%); SUPREME COURTS (74%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); DAMAGES (71%); VERDICTS (70%); TERRORISM (70%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (67%); LAWYERS (67%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (66%); JURY TRIALS (66%); MEDICAID (66%); LITIGATION (65%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); MARRIAGE (64%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (64%); ABORTION (64%); PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY INSURANCE (60%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (60%); LAW SCHOOLS (60%); POLLS & SURVEYS (56%); PROSTATE DISEASE (51%); PROSTATE CANCER (50%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (57%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (67%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ISRAEL (92%); JAPAN (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2003 



540 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: New Leader In Korea Emphasizes ForeignTies 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, Friday, Jan. 17 

 BODY:
President-elect Roh Moo Hyun of South Korea today hailed the "pivotal" role of foreign investment in building "the hub economy of Northeast Asia," in a speech intended to ease fears abroad about anti-Americanism in his country, which is Asia's third-largest economy.
 "The importance of American and E. U. investment in Korea cannot be emphasized too much, as it occupies 60 percent of all foreign investment in the republic," Mr. Roh, a lawyer, told several hundred business leaders gathered under the banners of the American and European chambers of commerce of Korea. 
 He noted that foreign companies produce 10 percent of the country's gross national income and that foreign investors own 36 percent of the shares traded on the Korean stock market. 
The speech to foreign investors came two days after Mr. Roh visited the American military headquarters here and talked of "rock-solid relations between South Korea and the U. S."
Last month, Mr. Roh narrowly defeated a conservative candidate in an election dominated by street protests against the military alliance between South Korea and the United States.
Reviving foreign investment is expected to be a priority for Mr. Roh, who will take office on Feb. 25. Last year, new foreign investment declined 19 percent, to $9.1 billion, its fourth decline since peaking in 1999 at $15.5 billion. Analysts said investment had slowed because of competition from China and fewer merger and acquisition projects.
Investment from the United States accounted for half of last year's foreign investment, rising 15.7 percent, to $4.5 billion.
South Korea's economy is expected to grow about 5 percent this year, down from an estimated 6.2 percent in 2002.
As part of his push for growth, Mr. Roh is expected to continue efforts to become more reliant on domestic demand than on exports. But domestic growth is expected to slacken; about 1 in 10 workers are behind on their credit card debts. In December, department store sales were off 17.3 percent from a year earlier.
Looking to the future, Mr. Roh spun a vision of Korea as a regional hub "between the two giant economies of China and Japan," noting that "700 million people live within a radius of 1,200 kilometers from Seoul." 
To make this hub, Mr. Roh called for integrating South Korea with China and Russia through the construction of railroads and gas lines.
To end South Korea's isolation at the end of the peninsula, he said: "We have to induce Pyongyang to reform and open up. Neither war nor collapse helps the peninsula."
Mr. Roh also said dialogue was the best way to defuse the North's drive to make nuclear weapons.
"When peace settles down in Northeast Asia, the United States stands to benefit a lot," he said in an interview. Referring to a policy of "carrots and sticks" with the North, he said: "When we bring out the stick, we run the risk of escalating the situation, even to war, and this would make people more nervous and that would destabilize the economy."
China, with its low-cost labor force, may pose a challenge for Mr. Roh, but it has also become a significant trading partner. In the last five years, Korean imports of Chinese electronic and home appliances have tripled, while Chinese imports of toys and clothes have increased fivefold, according to the Korean International Trade Association.
A recent government survey of trading companies also found that China was the most popular choice for a free trade agreement, ahead of Japan and the United States.
South Korea signed a free trade pact with Chile in October, its first, and is exploring free trade deals with Singapore and Mexico.
A former labor negotiator in a country notorious for strikes, he said that "labor-management problems are what foreign investors doing business in Korea are concerned about most." 
Recalling strikes he mediated at Daewoo, Hyundai and Samsung, he called for "dialogue and compromise" to forge "a cooperative labor-management culture."
Despite labor concerns, he inherits Northern Asia's lowest unemployment rate, 2.8 percent, and he is expected to push labor-friendly projects, like a five-day workweek and better conditions for foreign workers.
He also promised more deregulation, more privatization, the adoption of class-action suits in cases of stock price manipulation and accounting dishonesty, and "devices to help enhance the fairness of the market and corporate transparency."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Roh Moo Hyun, the president-elect of South Korea, and William Overlin, the head of the American Chamber of Commerce there. (Reuters)(pg. C19) Chart: "Growing Tiger "South Korea is seeking more foreign investment. This year's growth is expected to be about 5 percent. ECONOMIC GROWTHGraph tracks the change in gross domestic product from 1997-2001. INFLATIONGraph tracks the change in consumer price index from 1997-2001. BALANCE OF TRADEGraph tracks the balance of trade from 1997-2001. (Source: Reuters)(pg. C19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENT (94%); POLITICS (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); MERGERS (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (69%); SECURITIES TRADING (69%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (68%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%); CONSERVATISM (67%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (67%); DEPARTMENT STORES (64%); RETAILERS (61%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (50%); PERSONAL DEBT (50%) FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); NORTHERN ASIA (98%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); ASIA (94%); CHINA (93%); JAPAN (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2003 



541 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 164 words

HEADLINE: The Growing Clamor Over Iraq 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "The Iraq Dossier" (editorial, Jan. 10): Having been to the Middle East last week, I would like to share what I found to be the majority view. 
From prime minister to taxi driver, it is unanimous that this war would not be about weapons of mass destruction, but about oil. 
 Let's negotiate with Baghdad a fair price for oil over the next 50 years. I believe that Iraq would guarantee such sales to ensure capital for rebuilding its shattered economy. 
At the same time, America must begin to reduce dependency on Middle East oil. Weaning can be started by serious investments in renewable sources of energy and greater efficiency in consumption.
A trade dialogue could be win-win for all concerned -- Iraqis who face the terror of war, and Americans who are being asked to sacrifice young lives for cheap gas.

DENIS J. HALLIDAY
New York, Jan. 11, 2003

The writer, a former United Nations assistant secretary general, headed the United Nations' oil-for-food program in Iraq.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (57%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (56%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%) IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2003 



542 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1645 words

HEADLINE: BUSH AND AFFIRMATIVE ACTION; 
Excerpts From Administration Briefs on Michigan Affirmative Action

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from two briefs filed to the Supreme Court by the Justice Department yesterday in two Michigan affirmative action cases, Graz and Hamacher v. Bollinger and Grutter v. Bollinger:

Graz and Hamacher v. Bollinger
 This case and Grutter v. Bollinger demonstrate the pernicious consequences that result when public institutions deviate from this court's precedents by ignoring race-neutral alternatives and employing race-based policies that amount to racial quotas. As these cases demonstrate, to the extent such institutions adopt such race-based policies, they have two basic options, both of which are impermissible under this court's precedents. 
 First, they can employ racial quotas or set asides directly. That is the course the university chose in its 1995-1998 admissions policies, which set aside a target number of seats in each entering class for preferred minorities and shielded those minorities from competition with the rest of the applicant pool. That is the kind of two-track admissions system the court condemned in Bakke. That is also the approach the Law School has taken in the Grutter case with its policy of enrolling a "critical mass" of preferred minority students. 
Second, institutions can meet such quotas indirectly by providing preferred minorities a "bonus" based solely on their race. By selecting the appropriate "bonus," a university can admit a predetermined level of minority applicants without expressly adopting an overt quota. That is the course the university has chosen in its current admissions policy. But whether the school adopts an actual quota or simply awards a race-based bonus consistent with such a quota, its admissions policy is inconsistent with this court's precedents.
For the basic reasons outlined in the United States's amicus brief in Grutter v. Bollinger, the court should reverse the decision of the district court upholding the university's current race- and ethnic-based undergraduate admissions policy. That policy is plainly unconstitutional under this court's precedents. The university has failed to employ race-neutral alternatives that have proven effective in meeting the important and laudable goals of educational openness, accessibility and diversity in other states, and has instead resorted to impermissible racial quotas or their equivalent.
The district court correctly concluded that the university's 1995-1998 admissions policies were not narrowly tailored because they " 'protected' or 'reserved' seats for under-represented minority applicants," "used racially different grids and action codes based solely upon an applicant's race," placed preferred minorities on a separate track that effectively shielded them from competition with the rest of the applicant pool, and "systematically excluded . . . nonminority applicants from participating in the admissions process based solely on account of their race." Thus, there is no doubt that the 1995-1998 admissions policies involved a two-track admissions system and "operated as the functional equivalent of a quota."
The district court erred, however, in holding that the university's 1999 and 2000 admissions policy, which remains in place today, satisfies this court's narrow tailoring requirements. In particular, the district court erroneously concluded that the university lacked race-neutral alternatives to achieve its goal of educational diversity. The experiences of Texas, Florida, and California, and their success in maintaining truly diverse student bodies under race-neutral admissions standards, proves to the contrary. Because race-neutral alternatives remain available, the university's race-based policy is unconstitutional.
Moreover, the university's current policy also violates this court's precedents forbidding dual-track admissions programs and racial quotas. The university automatically awards all preferred minorities, regardless of their background, academic performance, or life experiences, 20 points to their "selection index" score -- or roughly the equivalent of one full grade point (on a 4.0 scale) based solely on their race.
It also provides special individualized review to preferred minority applicants not available to other applicants based solely on their race. Its predominant emphasis on race renders it functionally indistinguishable from the rigid quota system it employed between 1995-1998. Indeed, the university itself has conceded that in changing from its 1995-1998 admissions policies to its current policy, it "developed the selection index" to "change only the mechanics, not the substance, of how race and ethnicity were considered." 
And under its current admissions policy, just as under its prior policies, the university's "consideration of race . . . has the effect of admitting virtually every qualified under-represented minority applicant," while denying admission to nonpreferred applicants with the same or higher index scores based solely on their race. 
Other factors this court has looked to in determining whether a program is narrowly tailored confirm that the university's policy is unconstitutional. Accordingly, however its objectives are defined, the university's race-based admissions policy violates the Equal Protection Clause.

Grutter v. Bollinger
Ensuring that public institutions, especially educational institutions, are open and accessible to a broad and diverse array of individuals, including individuals of all races and ethnicities, is an important and entirely legitimate government objective. Measures that ensure diversity, accessibility and opportunity are important components of government's responsibility to its citizens.
Nothing in the Constitution prevents public universities from achieving these laudable goals because there are a variety of race-neutral alternatives available to achieve the important goals of openness, educational diversity and ensuring that all students of all races have meaningful access to institutions of higher learning. For example, universities may adopt admissions policies that seek to promote experiential, geographical, political or economic diversity; modify or discard facially neutral admissions criteria that tend to skew admissions results in a way that denies minorities meaningful access to public institutions; and open educational institutions to the best students from throughout the state or nation.
These are race-neutral policies that have led to racially diverse student bodies. Texas, which has operated without race-based admissions policies since they were invalidated by the Fifth Circuit in 1996, provides a useful example: by attacking the problems of openness and educational diversity directly and focusing on attracting the top graduating students from throughout the state, the Texas program has enhanced opportunity and promoted educational diversity by any measure. Florida and California have adopted similar race-neutral policies with similar results.
In light of these race-neutral alternatives, respondents cannot justify the express consideration of race in their admissions policy. The core commitment of the Equal Protection Clause and this court's precedents make clear that the government may not resort to race-based policies unless necessary. It may not employ race-based means without considering race-neutral alternatives and employing them if they would prove efficacious.
Not only does the Equal Protection Clause require the government to consider and employ efficacious race-neutral alternatives, but it also demands that any use of race be otherwise carefully calibrated and narrowly tailored. Efforts to use quotas to achieve predetermined levels of racial participation are the very antithesis of such narrow tailoring. However, respondents' admissions policy uses disguised quotas to ensure that each entering class includes a predetermined "critical mass" of certain racial minorities.
This court has repeatedly condemned quotas as unconstitutional, and respondents cannot escape the reach of those cases by pursuing a purportedly flexible, slightly amorphous "critical mass" in lieu of the kind of rigid numerical quotas struck down by this court in Bakke. In practice, respondents' pursuit of a "critical mass" operates no differently than more rigid quotas. Any variations in results from year to year owes more to respondents' inability to predict acceptance rates and total admissions with unfailing accuracy than to any inherent flexibility in the quotas.
Respondent's race-based admission policy also runs afoul of other factors that this court has identified as revealing a critical lack of narrow tailoring. For example, the law school's policy contains no limit on the scope or duration of its racial preferences and the law school's approach to admissions would sanction race-based admissions standards indefinitely. Unlike remedial programs, which by their nature seek to remedy past wrongs and move beyond race-based preference, respondents' pursuit of a critical mass of selected minority students would justify such a policy in perpetuity.
Likewise, in part because it operates much like a rigid, numerical quota, respondents' policy imposes unfair and unnecessary burdens on innocent third parties. Accordingly, however its objectives are defined, the Law School's race-based admissions policy fails the narrow tailoring requirement of this court's strict scrutiny analysis.
In the end, this case requires this court to break no new ground to conclude that respondents' race-based admissions policy is unconstitutional. This court has long recognized that the Equal Protection Clause outlaws quotas under any circumstances and forbids the government from employing race-based policies when race-neutral alternatives are available. Those two cardinal principles of equal protection each suffices to invalidate respondents' race-based policy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (97%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); LAWYERS (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); LAW SCHOOLS (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; BLACKS; MINORITIES (US); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION; DISCRIMINATION; ADMISSIONS STANDARDS; QUOTAS; SUITS AND LITIGATION 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (90%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (59%) JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN; SUPREME COURT (US) 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2003 



543 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: Vatican Cautions Faithful On Laws Against Doctrine 

BYLINE:  By FRANK BRUNI 

DATELINE: ROME, Jan. 16 

 BODY:
The Vatican issued guidelines for Roman Catholic politicians today that underlined the church's opposition to abortion, euthanasia and same-sex marriage and told Catholics not to promote laws that favor those practices.
 While the church positions are not new, the guidelines seek to remind Catholics of what the Vatican cast as their duty at a time when legislation in many countries has moved in directions displeasing to church officials here. 
 "Those who are directly involved in lawmaking bodies have a grave and clear obligation to oppose any law that attacks human life," the guidelines say in an 18-page booklet written by the Vatican Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith. "For them, as for every Catholic, it is impossible to promote such laws or to vote for them." 
Those instructions come in a passage of the document that refers explicitly to abortion and euthanasia but that also seems to be rendered broadly enough to encompass issues like human cloning and research using embryonic stem cells.
The guidelines, translated by the Vatican into six languages including English, say, "Laws must defend the basic right to life from conception to natural death."
"In the same way," they add, "it is necessary to recall the duty to respect and protect the rights of the human embryo."
Vatican officials said that the guidelines had not been prepared in reaction to specific events, but that one reason to issue them now was the political debate over certain scientific and medical advances.
"Although we don't mention cloning or stem-cell research, in general these developments will pose challenges for Catholics," the Rev. Augustine Di Noia, the under secretary for the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, said in an interview today.
The document in which the guidelines appear, titled "Doctrinal Note on Some Questions Regarding the Participation of Catholics in Political Life," was approved by Pope John Paul II and signed by Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger, the head of the congregation.
Several Catholic experts and politicians expressed doubts that it would have a significant influence on political debate, saying most Catholics are already well aware of church teaching.
R. Scott Appleby, a professor of Catholic and religious history at the University of Notre Dame in the United States, said that among American Catholics, there was no longer a coherent voting bloc.
"Catholics who attempt to follow both the church's teachings on pro-life issues as well as the church's teachings on economic justice are politically homeless," Dr. Appleby said, because the Republican Party has supported the former and the Democratic Party the latter.
He also said the scandal of child sexual abuse by American priests had undermined the credibility of some bishops, so "American Catholics are at a low point in terms of their openness to exhortations from bishops or the pope on political or moral issues."
In Italy, a predominantly Catholic country where abortion has long been legal, several political experts said most lawmakers felt respectful of -- but not confined by -- church teaching.
"It's good advice," said Dario Franceschini, a center-left member of Parliament who is Catholic, referring to the new Vatican document. "But it would be a mistake to look at it as an obligation."
Father Di Noia said the guidelines could have an impact in part because they assert that the church was not trying to impose religious viewpoints but to articulate moral principles about human life on which people of many faiths could agree.
He also said the guidelines would "make people reflect, because of the moral stature of the pope himself."
The guidelines, intended for Catholics worldwide, do not threaten Catholics who disregard them with any kind of punishment.
They were released with relatively little fanfare, and without any guarantee that most Catholic politicians would even see them. Vatican officials said they were distributing them to bishops' conferences in many countries and to bishops themselves, who would then decide how to promulgate them.
In a statement praising release of the guidelines, Bishop Wilton D. Gregory, the president of the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, said, "The values brought by Christians to the political process must not be muted or silenced by any intolerant secularism." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (94%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (93%); POLITICS (90%); GAYS & LESBIANS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); ABORTION (90%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); BIOETHICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); CLONING (88%); MARRIAGE (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); HUMAN CLONING (75%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (73%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (73%); SEX OFFENSES (73%); SEX SCANDALS (73%); APPROVALS (71%); HUMAN SUBJECTS (69%); INTERVIEWS (68%); STEM CELL RESEARCH (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (64%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (64%); CHILD ABUSE (50%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ABORTION; DEATH AND DYING; HOMOSEXUALITY; MARRIAGES; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH 

PERSON: POPE BENEDICT XVI (79%) JOHN PAUL II (POPE); BRUNI, FRANK 

GEOGRAPHIC: ROME, ITALY (58%) HOLY SEE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ITALY (58%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2003 



544 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Off the Wagon 

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN; E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Picture a recovering alcoholic falling off the wagon. First he says he can handle a few drinks. Then, when his inebriation can't be denied, he insists it's only a temporary lapse. But eventually he turns mean. "What's so great about being sober?" he growls, reaching for another bottle. 
 As a drunk is to alcohol, the Bush administration is to budget deficits. 
 During the 2000 campaign George W. Bush often pledged to maintain fiscal responsibility. Right up to the passage of the 2001 tax cut his people said they could cut taxes, pay for new programs like prescription drug coverage, and still pay off most of the federal government's debt.
As soon as the bill passed, those rosy budget projections fell apart. Then came Sept. 11. "Lucky me, I hit the trifecta," declared Mr. Bush, claiming -- falsely -- to have said during the campaign that his budget promises didn't apply in the event of recession, war or national emergency. But until this week officials insisted the deficit was temporary. 
Now the budget director, Mitch Daniels, has admitted the obvious: The federal government faces the prospect of large deficits as far as the eye can see. And sure enough, the drunk has turned mean. As the administration reaches for another bottle -- another long-term tax cut for the affluent -- its officials sullenly denounce the "fixation" on budget deficits, dismissing it as nonsensical "Rubinomics." (So much, by the way, for the war on terror as an excuse for deficits. "What did you do in the war, daddy?" asks Ronald Brownstein in The Los Angeles Times. "I got a big tax cut, and passed the bill on to you.")
Economics aside, the administration's ever-changing rationale for tax cuts says a lot about its character. If the Bush team never cared about deficits, Mr. Bush's promises of fiscal responsibility were dishonest. On the other hand, if administration officials didn't decide that deficits are O.K. until that belief became convenient, that suggests that they're tough talkers who make excuses when confronted with real problems. That's a scary thought; is this the kind of administration that would, say, call North Korea names and talk about pre-emptive war, but back down and offer aid when the country actually threatens to restart its nuclear program? Nah, couldn't happen.
The administration's top economist certainly changed his mind about deficits very late in the game. Glenn Hubbard, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, recently denied that deficits raise interest rates and depress private investments. Yet Mr. Hubbard is also the author of an economics textbook; as Berkeley's J. Bradford DeLong points out on his influential Web site, the 2002 edition of that textbook explains how, yes, deficits raise interest rates and depress private investment. 
There's a reason Mr. Hubbard said what he did in his textbook. When the government sells bonds it competes with private borrowers. By the usual rules of economics, this competition should, other things equal, drive interest rates higher and investment lower. There are exceptions to economic rules, but someone who suddenly discovers such an exception at the precise moment his political masters need a cover story isn't credible.
Will this alcoholic eventually go back on the wagon? Not for a while; he has too many enablers. The Congressional Budget Office will soon start using "dynamic scoring" to assess proposed tax cuts -- that is, it will build in the supply-side assumption that tax cuts raise the economy's growth rate, and therefore generate indirect revenue gains that offset the direct revenue losses. In the past, budget officials have opposed this practice, because it's so easy to slide from objective analysis into wishful thinking. With Republicans controlling both the White House and Congress, does anyone doubt that future C.B.O. analyses will take a very favorable view of big tax cuts for rich people? 
It's O.K. to run a deficit during a recession, as long as the deficit is clearly temporary. But both the numbers and the administration's search for excuses tell us that there's nothing temporary about the red ink. On the contrary, we'll probably be on a deficit bender until the baby boomers retire -- and then it will get much worse. 
Trust me: we're going to miss Rubinomics. Maybe not today, and maybe not tomorrow, but soon, and for the rest of our lives. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); WAR ON TERROR (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); BUDGET FORECASTS (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (68%); TERRORISM (68%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (55%); INTEREST RATES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2003 



545 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1578 words

HEADLINE: PUBLIC APPROVAL OF BLOOMBERG JOB TAKES SHARP DROP 

BYLINE:  By JANNY SCOTT and MARJORIE CONNELLY 

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's job approval rating dropped sharply in recent months as he moved to address the city's looming fiscal crisis, according to a New York Times Poll that found that for the first time since Mr. Bloomberg took office more than half of New Yorkers now disapprove of his handling of the job.
 Beyond their assessment of his job performance, the percentage of New Yorkers with a generally unfavorable impression of Mr. Bloomberg has leaped to 30 percent from 13 percent last June. That may be a problem that any mayor grappling with bad economic times would face. But follow-up interviews with people surveyed indicated the unfavorable impression might also be a product of Mr. Bloomberg's personal style and his wealth. 
 "It's his standoffish attitude about everything," said Dorothy Arena, a retired homeowner in Richmondtown, Staten Island, who voted for Mr. Bloomberg. "The city is in a crisis, yes. But there's no feeling coming from him as to how things have to be imposed on the public, especially the working public. He's in a different financial category than the rest of us. He cannot know what it is for us who are struggling." 
According to the poll, 53 percent of New Yorkers disapprove of Mr. Bloomberg's handling of his job -- up from 41 percent in October and 26 percent in June. His approval rating dropped to 31 percent, from 47 percent.
Seventeen percent of those who disapproved of his job performance cited his handling of the budget. Sixteen percent cited taxes and 25 percent said they generally thought he was doing a bad job and they just did not like him. 
While most of the people polled recognized the city's budget problems as serious, and while many credited the administration with progress toward solving them, three out of five also said Mr. Bloomberg's service cuts and tax increases had gone too far. Only one in four described them as about right.
In particular, they said they wanted the Police and Fire Departments spared. They seem likely to get that wish: The Fire Department, though it may consolidate some companies, is adding recruits, and yesterday Mr. Bloomberg said he does not plan to lay off any police officers. Page B1. 
Most of the people polled said the police were doing an excellent or good job. For the first time in the decade since The Times began asking the question, a majority of black New Yorkers gave positive ratings to the performance of the police.
"From being out there on the street, I see a difference today," said Casey Spencer, a recording artist and songwriter who lives in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, and is black. "The feeling that people have is different. There's no anger anymore, there's no controversy about police brutality."
While blacks and whites were far more likely to agree in their opinions about Mr. Bloomberg's job performance and likability than they had been about Rudolph W. Giuliani when he was mayor, opinions diverged along income lines. People making less than $75,000 a year were much more likely to disapprove of Mr. Bloomberg's performance than people making more.
The telephone poll, which involved 1,003 adults throughout the city and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3 percentage points, was conducted Jan. 11 to 15. Most of the interviews took place before Mr. Bloomberg's announcement on Wednesday of his plan to centralize the school system.
The dive in Mr. Bloomberg's popularity comes as the city faces a $3 billion projected shortfall for the 2004 fiscal year. Over the past year, the Bloomberg administration has asked city agencies to cut costs between 20 and 35 percent and has imposed the largest property tax increase in the city's history.
"We think of these sorts of poll numbers as really referendums on the economy," Edward Skyler, the mayor's press secretary, said yesterday. "Unlike conventional politicians, Mayor Bloomberg has to face the city's problems head-on and made the tough decisions, doing what was right and leaving the politics out of it."
Those who said they did not approve of Mr. Bloomberg's job performance because they did not like him gave a wide range of often nebulous reasons. Those include his less-than-mellifluous speaking style, what some described as failure to be personable, and the sense that he was doing "too many bad things at the same time."
In a measure of likability, as opposed to their view of his job performance, only 26 percent said they had a favorable impression of Mr. Bloomberg, down from 39 percent in June. Forty-three percent said they were undecided.
Even confidence in Mr. Bloomberg's leadership abilities declined. The percentage of New Yorkers who believe he has strong leadership qualities dropped to 54 percent from 70 percent in October 2001. Half of all people surveyed said they lacked confidence in his ability to handle a serious crisis.
"I don't think he understands money problems for other people," said Alyssa Cameron, 60, a retired social worker from Springfield Gardens in Queens, who said she was unhappy with Mr. Bloomberg. "He's just: 'Raise this! Spend this! Tax that!' and people are really just making their coffee and their rent."
But Tony Stevenson, 34, an unemployed telecommunications worker from Jamaica, Queens, who approved of Mr. Bloomberg's performance, said: "We need a person, unlike a regular politician, who understands money and is willing to make the sacrifices that are needed. He's trying to do it. Unfortunately, a lot of people are going to wind up without jobs, but that's the way it is in the business world."
Mr. Bloomberg's drop in popularity is remarkable but not without precedent.
The percentage of New Yorkers who approved of the performance of Edward I. Koch, mayor in the 1980's, was generally over 50 percent, and dropped to 33 percent only after 11 years in office and a major corruption scandal. David N. Dinkins's approval rating was generally in the 40's but plunged to 29 percent in November 1991 in the midst of a fiscal crisis. Mr. Giuliani's approval rating was in the 50's and 60's for much of his first seven years in office but hit 32 percent in April 2000 in response to his attempt to discredit Patrick M. Dorismond, an unarmed man who had been shot by an undercover police officer.
As for the city itself, 84 percent of New Yorkers continue to have a favorable impression of New York. While two out of three people rated its economic condition as bad, most said the quality of life had not changed over the last year and that the city was no dirtier. A third of those polled said they had seen more homeless people in recent months; 16 percent said drug dealing had increased.
Three quarters of parents of public school students said they were dissatisfied with the public schools, though one quarter credited the Bloomberg administration with making some progress. Though crime rates have continued to fall, the percentage of people who disapprove of Mr. Bloomberg's handling of crime rose to 34 percent from 20 percent last June.
Similarly, although Mr. Bloomberg recently announced a $3 billion plan to create tens of thousands of housing units, reversing a decade-long trend at City Hall, a third of the New Yorkers polled said the administration had made "no progress at all" in creating affordable housing. Only 20 percent said he had made at least some progress.
As for the city's recovery from the terrorist attacks, most New Yorkers polled said the administration has made progress in helping the city recover. But 54 percent said the city is not adequately prepared to deal with another. In follow-up interviews, people suggested everything from distribution of gas masks and radiation suits to emergency-response drills in workplaces and schools.
"I haven't heard anything about what New York City has been doing," said Carol Shookhoff, 56, a freelance writer in Manhattan Valley. "The fact that I haven't heard anything makes me think that they don't have a plan."
She added: "I'd like to hear more about emergency exit plans. I'd like to hear if they have any plans for biochemical attacks."

How the Poll Was Conducted
The New York Times Poll is based on telephone interviews conducted Jan. 11-15 in all parts of New York City with 1,003 adults. Interviews were conducted in either English or Spanish.
The sample of telephone exchanges called was selected by a computer from a complete list of city exchanges. The exchanges were chosen so as to assure that each area in the city was represented in proportion to its population. For each exchange, the telephone numbers were formed by random digits, permitting access to both listed and unlisted numbers. Within each household one adult was designated by a random procedure to be the respondent for the survey.
The results have been weighted to take into account household size and number of telephone lines in the residence, and to adjust for variations in the sample relating to race, Hispanic origin, sex, age and education.
In theory, in 19 cases out of 20 the results based on such samples will differ by no more than 3 percentage points in either direction from what would have been obtained by seeking out all adult New York City residents.
For smaller subgroups the potential sampling error is larger. 
In addition to sampling error, the practical difficulties of conducting any survey of public opinion may introduce other sources of error into the poll. Differences in the wording and order of questions, for instance, can lead to somewhat varying results.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Approval numbers are lower for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, shown announcing appointments yesterday in the Department of Education. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)(pg. B4) Chart Do you approve or disapprove of the way Michael R. Bloomberg is handling his job as mayor? June '02APPROVE: 48%DISAPPROVE: 26% Aug. '02APPROVE: 47%DISAPPROVE: 31% Oct. '02APPROVE: 47%DISAPPROVE: 41% Jan. '03APPROVE: 31%DISAPPROVE: 53% (Source: The New York Times Poll)(pg. A1) Chart: "New Yorkers View of Their City . . . " Is your image of New York City a good one or a bad one? Jan. '03GOOD: 84%BAD: 11NO OPINION: 5 June '02GOOD: 86BAD: 9NO OPINION: 5 How would you rate the condition of the New York City economy these days? Jan. '03GOOD: 30BAD: 66NO OPINION: 3 June '02GOOD: 50BAD: 46NO OPINION: 4 . . . and Their Mayor Do you approve or disapprove of the way Mayor Bloomberg is handling his job?APPROVE: 31DISAPPROVE: 53NOT OPINION: 16 What is your opinion of Michael Bloomberg?FAVORABLE: 26NOT FAVORABLE: 30UNDECIDED/NO OPINION: 44 How much progress do you think the Bloomberg administration has made in . . . . . . helping New York recover from the terrorist attacks? A LOT: 15SOME: 43NOT MUCH: 19NONE AT ALL: 14NO OPINION: 9 . . . balancing the city's budget? A LOT: 6SOME: 44NOT MUCH: 19NONE AT ALL: 19NO OPINION: 12 . . . keeping New Yorkers safe from crime? A LOT: 5SOME: 41NOT MUCH: 29NONE AT ALL: 18NO OPINION: 7 . . . creating affordable housing? A LOT: 4SOME: 16NOT MUCH: 26NONE AT ALL: 37NO OPINION: 16 . making public schools in your neighborhood better? A LOT: 3SOME: 26NOT MUCH: 25NONE AT ALL: 28NO OPINION: 18 Based on citywide telephone surveys conducted by The New York Times and CBS News June 4-9, 2002, with 940 adults, and by The New York Times Jan. 11-15, 2003, with 1,003 adults. (pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); APPROVALS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (79%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (76%); TAX INCREASES (72%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (64%); TAX LAW (64%); POLITICS (60%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PUBLIC OPINION; POLICE; BLACKS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; MAYORS 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (96%) SCOTT, JANNY; CONNELLY, MARJORIE; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2003 



546 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 512 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Parsons Named Chairman As AOL Tries to Move On
AOL Time Warner named its chief executive, Richard D. Parsons, to succeed Stephen M. Case as chairman, completing the removal of the last executive from AOL in the company's upper management as it seeks to soothe the animosities lingering from America Online's acquisition of Time Warner two years ago.
 For Mr. Parsons, the move completes the surprising consolidation of power in the last two years since the companies merged. Named co-chief operating officer at the time, he was largely pushed aside during the merger negotations and crucial decisions afterward. Now he faces the same tough audience that forced out the former chief executive, Gerald Levin, and Mr. Case. Page A1. 

Profits Triple at General Motors
General Motors reported that it nearly tripled its profits last year and beat Wall Street's expectations in the fourth quarter, bringing employee bonuses back to the company. G.M. was helped by its automotive operations in North America, with cost-cutting and strong sales offsetting the effects of a prolonged price war. For the year, G.M. posted net earnings of $1.7 billion, on revenue of $186.8 billion. C5.

Bush Shifts Policy on Managed Care
The Bush administration, in a reversal, has ruled that managed care organizations can restrict coverage of emergency services for poor people on Medicaid. A1.

The centerpiece of the president's plan to curb the cost of medical malpractice insurance is limits on lawsuits to reduce the jury awards blamed for skyrocketing premiums. A24.

Faltering German Economy Worsens
The German economy, the largest in Europe, grew 0.2 percent last year -- its worst performance in nearly a decade and last among major European economies. C13.

Sales and Profits Up at EBay
The online auction company eBay posted sharply higher sales and profits in the fourth quarter of last year. C4.

Merrill Alters Slogan and Emphasis
In an ad campaign, Merrill Lynch is introducing a new slogan, "Total Merrill" to accompany a push to manage all of its investors' financial needs. Advertising. C6.

Utilities Pushed for Emissions Data
A group of shareholders have begun a campaign to compel large electric utilities to publish information about liabilities they might face because of their emission of gases. C6.

Bank Pays $21.6 Million Fine
The Justice Department said that Banco Popular de Puerto Rico would pay $21.6 million in penalties after being accused of laundering millions in drug money. C6.

Korea Tries to Calm Investors
President-elect Roh Hyun-Moon, left, of South Korea hailed the role of foreign investment in building "the hub economy of Northeast Asia," in a speech intended to ease fears of anti-Americanism. "The importance of American and E.U. investment in Korea cannot be emphasized too much as it occupies 60 percent of all foreign investment," he said. C13.

Crude Oil Prices Hit Two-Year-High
Oil prices rose to two-year highs, closing at $33.66 a barrel and building on a weeklong surge after an OPEC decision to raise output failed to assuage fears of a war in Iraq. C8.

GRAPHIC: Photo Graph tracks General Motors' share price since last Thursday. Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 8,697.87 down 25.31Nasdaq composite -- 1,423.75 down 15.0510-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.09% up 0.03The euro -- $1.0617 up 0.0070The dollar -- 117.83 yen down 0.27 Graph: "TODAY"Balance of TradeNovember figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: -$36.4 billion Graph tracks the balance of trade from May-Oct. 2002. Industrial ProductionDecember figures due at 9:15 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +0.2% Graph tracks the percentage change in industrial production from June-Nov. 2002.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (91%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (87%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (86%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (85%); SALES FIGURES (77%); DAMAGES (77%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); MERGERS (76%); LITIGATION (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (74%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); FINES & PENALTIES (71%); MEDICAID (71%); VERDICTS (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); AUCTIONS (67%); PRICE CUTTING (67%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (66%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (65%); JURY TRIALS (64%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (64%); EMISSIONS (60%); MONEY LAUNDERING (60%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (60%); PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY INSURANCE (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: AOL INC (94%); BANCO POPULAR DE PUERTO RICO (62%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (94%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (94%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (94%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%)

PERSON: RICHARD D PARSONS (90%); STEVE CASE (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (90%); ASIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2003 



547 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1099 words

HEADLINE: In a Surprise, Microsoft Says It Will Pay Dividends 

BYLINE:  By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
Declaring its most threatening legal problems over and its business strong, Microsoft surprised Wall Street yesterday by announcing it would begin paying a dividend.
 The step is significant mostly as an indication of the maturing corporate culture and psychology at Microsoft. But it does not seem to be a concession by the company's longtime leaders -- Bill Gates, the chairman and co-founder, and Steven A. Ballmer, the chief executive -- that Microsoft, the prototypical high-technology growth company, is slowing down. 
 The company also announced that it would split its stock 2 for 1. Financially, the annual dividend of 16 cents a share, before the split, amounts to corporate pocket change. Microsoft's two largest shareholders, Mr. Gates and Mr. Ballmer, will receive yearly dividends of $97.9 million and $37.6 million, respectively, based on their current holdings. The annual dividend payout will cost Microsoft about $856 million a year. 
Today, Microsoft sits on a cash pile totaling $43.4 billion, and its business generates cash at the rate of $1 billion a month.
"This is a surprise, but it mostly reflects the economics of the business," said Charles di Bona, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein. "It is not a sign that this is the end of growth for Microsoft. It is a recognition that this company is throwing off more cash than anyone has ever seen."
Still, Microsoft had long resisted calls that it use some of its ample cash to pay a dividend, saying that shareholders were better served by having the management reinvest in new growth opportunities. But in the last few years, complaints from some institutional shareholders became louder as Microsoft's cash pile continued to grow and some of the management team's investments in cable TV and telecommunications companies proved to be big losers.
In an interview, John G. Connors, Microsoft's chief financial officer, said that the company's board had reviewed the dividend issue repeatedly in recent years. A major obstacle, Mr. Connors explained, was the uncertainty created by the government's antitrust suit against Microsoft that began in 1998. 
Last November, the biggest hurdle was removed when a federal judge approved the Bush administration's settlement with Microsoft, which did not significantly alter the company's structure or strategy. Last week, Microsoft agreed to a $1.1 billion settlement in class-action antitrust suits brought by the residents in California, the largest of the class-action cases against Microsoft involving accusations it used its monopoly power to overcharge consumers.
There are other cases still pending, including an antitrust investigation by the European Commission and private suits by competitors including Sun Microsystems and AOL Time Warner. The European Commission could fine Microsoft up to 10 percent of its revenues, or more than $3 billion, and force the company to share technical information with competitors.
"But after the settlement in the United States case, none of the remaining legal cases look like they will have a strategic impact on Microsoft's business," said Richard G. Sherlund, an analyst at Goldman, Sachs & Company.
That seems to be the view at Microsoft as well. "As we moved forward on or resolved several of our major legal issues, this seemed the appropriate time to do this, to begin paying a dividend," Mr. Connors of Microsoft said.
And he bridled at any suggestion that the dividend decision meant Microsoft was shifting to a slow-growth track. "Look at the results," Mr. Connors said. "This is still a growth company."
Microsoft reported that its revenues grew to $8.54 billion in its fiscal second quarter, ended in December, up 10 percent from the year-earlier quarter. That was slightly below the analysts' consensus estimate of $8.59 billion in revenue, but profits exceeded Wall Street's expectations. Microsoft's net income was $2.55 billion, or 47 cents a share. Excluding one-time charges to help pay for class-action settlements and writing down investments in companies, Microsoft earned 53 cents a share. The Wall Street estimate was for 46 cents a share from continuing operations.
Its desktop Windows operating system business was about flat compared with the year-earlier quarter. But the period a year earlier benefited from including the introduction of its Windows XP product.
Sales of software used to run corporate networks and databases -- so-called server software -- rose 12 percent, as Microsoft continued to gain market share in the corporate computing market. Its huge productivity software segment, led by Microsoft Office, grew 8 percent, to $2.29 billion. Advertising on its MSN online sites increased 40 percent. And sales of its Xbox video game consoles were somewhat lower than the company projected, which actually helped Microsoft's earnings since the company loses an estimated $75 to $100 on each console sold.
Microsoft executives offered a cautious outlook for the current quarter, saying it would probably report revenue of $7.7 billion to $7.8 billion and earnings of 47 cents or 48 cents a share, about in line with analysts' expectations.
Microsoft has weathered the slump in personal computer sales that began in late 2000 and lasted into the first half of last year. It kept growing partly by moving beyond the desktop market and into more lucrative server software. Microsoft also managed to collect increased revenues in the PC markets by selling more expensive professional versions of Windows and prodding corporate customers to agree to license regular upgrades of its Office productivity programs.
Microsoft executives yesterday called the general PC market "still pretty soft." But a report yesterday by IDC, a research firm, suggested that a gradual recovery was under way. Worldwide PC shipments rose 4.9 percent in the fourth quarter of 2002, and shipments in the United States rose 6.6 percent in the quarter, helped by solid consumer sales in the holiday season.
The current growth rates are meager compared with the high-growth days of the late 1990's, when gains were more than 20 percent annually, but the fourth-quarter numbers appeared to be an encouraging sign.
Hewlett-Packard, which has a large consumer PC business, nudged ahead of Dell Computer to regain the lead in worldwide market share, according to the IDC figures. To Microsoft, whose Windows operating system runs more than 90 percent of all PC's sold, it is the industrywide sales that matter.
"Microsoft has bets down all the possible squares," said Roger Kay, an analyst for IDC. "If anybody does well, Microsoft does well." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DIVIDENDS (91%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (87%); CLASS ACTIONS (86%); SUITS & CLAIMS (86%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); CORPORATE CULTURE (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); STOCK SPLITS (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (67%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%); LITIGATION (65%); INVESTIGATIONS (63%); APPROVALS (61%); JUDGES (60%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); AOL INC (60%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP 

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); AOL (NYSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (60%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (60%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (50%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (50%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (50%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: BILL GATES (88%); STEVEN A BALLMER (79%) LOHR, STEVE; GATES, BILL; BALLMER, STEVEN A 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) EUROPE (91%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2003 



548 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 852 words

HEADLINE: Venezuela's President Reasserts Hard Line Against Strikers 

BYLINE:  By TIM GOLDEN 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Jan. 16 

 BODY:
Brushing aside proposals to end the seven-week-old strike that has crippled his country's economy, President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela said tonight that he was fully confident he would vanquish the opponents demanding his resignation.
 "I don't have the slightest doubt of our triumph," Mr. Chavez said in an interview. "We are winning this battle and we are going to win it!" 
 One day after the announcement of a new mediation effort by the United States and five other nations, Mr. Chavez also raised doubts about that initiative. He said Venezuela would insist on the participation of many other countries, naming Cuba, Russia, France, China and Trinidad and Tobago, among others.
Mr. Chavez's comments marked an abrupt end to recent signs that his government might be softening its stance toward the opposition groups that declared a national strike on Dec. 2 in an effort to force him from office.
The strike has brought much of Venezuela's industry to a standstill and plunged the country deeper into recession, causing shortages of food and fuel. Venezuela's oil production, the mainstay of the economy, has fallen by more than 75 percent, according to many estimates.
World oil prices, which have also been under pressure by developments in Iraq, rose today to their highest levels since December 2000, closing at $33.98 for a barrel of United States light crude.
On Wednesday, some moderate opposition leaders reported that during a meeting they held with Mr. Chavez in Caracas last weekend, he appeared open to a proposal for a constitutional amendment to reduce the presidential term to four years from six -- a change that could conceivably lead to new elections later this year.
At a news conference today after he met with the United Nations secretary general, Kofi Annan, Mr. Chavez described the proposal as "very interesting" and said he was continuing to study it.
In the interview, however, he was less accommodating.
"The solution to terrorist, subversive acts by an anti-democratic opposition cannot be elections," he said, referring to the supporters of the strike.
While the Venezuelan strike has badly shaken him, it has also created serious hardship for many laborers, professionals and middle-class businessmen, prompting the opposition to consider easing the campaign in some areas. Mr. Chavez said his supporters were slowly but steadily regaining control of important areas of the economy.
Mr. Chavez indicated that he could envision only one scenario under which he might leave office early: if his opponents were to gather the 2.4 million signatures required to call a referendum on his continued rule.
He said that the possibility of such a referendum was "just around the corner." The call for such a vote could be registered after Mr. Chavez reaches the midway point of his six-year term on Aug. 19.
But opposition leaders have called the idea a ruse that would not lead to new elections before sometime in 2004, and tonight they described Mr. Chavez's latest remarks as proof of his intransigence. 
"There is no political will in the government for finding a solution to this conflict," said Timoteo Zambrano, an opposition representative in intermittent talks that have been facilitated by Cesar Gaviria, the secretary general of the Organization of American States. "Chavez does not care about negotiations. To him they are irrelevant," he said. 
Mr. Zambrano said the opposition would to press ahead to organize a nonbinding referendum on Mr. Chavez's presidency on Feb. 2. However, the country's Supreme Court has not yet ruled on the legitimacy of that referendum, and Mr. Chavez said a legitimate vote could not be organized that quickly.
Mr. Gaviria has also been the driving force behind the formation of a group of six countries to try to mediate the conflict between Mr. Chavez's government and the coalition of business, labor and civic groups that have led the 46-day strike.
The group, called the Friends of Venezuela, was unveiled on Wednesday in Quito, where Mr. Chavez and other Latin American leaders attended the inauguration of the new Ecuadorean president, Lucio Gutierrez. Along with the United States, it includes Brazil, Mexico, Spain, Portugal and Chile.
Mr. Chavez said tonight that he welcomed the formation of such a group. But he called the six countries announced in Ecuador as "the pre-configuration of a nucleus of what could become" a viable mediation group. Such a group would also have to include other countries from Latin America, Africa, Europe and Asia, he said. 
A State Department official responded tonight that the United States and other countries involved in the initiative believed that the group had already been formed.
"As far as we are concerned, this was put together as the result of a lot of discussions in the region, as well as with Spain and Portugal," a State Department official said.
Mr. Chavez also raised questions about his willingness to compromise in the context of any eventual mediation, saying "a good group" of mediators, he said, would be one that "took away relevance" from the hard-line opposition groups calling for his ouster.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Hugo Chavez faced reporters at a news conference yesterday after meeting with the United Nations secretary general, Kofi Annan. (Nicole Bengiveno/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STRIKES (90%); REFERENDUMS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (75%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (71%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%) ELECTIONS; REFERENDUMS; STRIKES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ARBITRATION, CONCILIATION AND MEDIATION; LABOR 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (92%) CHAVEZ, HUGO (PRES); GOLDEN, TIM 

GEOGRAPHIC: VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%); CUBA (79%); IRAQ (79%); FRANCE (79%); TRINIDAD & TOBAGO (79%) VENEZUELA

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2003 



549 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1648 words

HEADLINE: Bush Enters Fray Over Malpractice 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 16 

 BODY:
With doctors across the country protesting the cost of malpractice insurance, President Bush is making a renewed push for strict limits on the jury awards he blames for skyrocketing premiums.
 Insurers have indeed been paying more in recent years to cover lawsuits and malpractice settlements. 
 But many experts cite other factors, including poor investment returns and the insurers' own business practices, for making significant contributions to the premium increases. Even representatives of the insurance industry blame factors in addition to jury verdicts.
And figures collected by the federal government show that court judgments in malpractice cases have not risen nearly as fast as some advocates of new limits have asserted. In fact, the average size of judgments against doctors and other health care workers dropped in the first nine months of 2002, according to the government numbers. 
In a speech in Scranton, Pa., today, Mr. Bush said that "frivolous lawsuits" were the source of the problem. "We're a litigious society," Mr. Bush said. "Everybody is suing, it seems like." 
Mr. Bush's plan, which he unveiled last summer, is expected to sail through the House, where Republicans have a firm grip. But a fight is expected in the Senate, despite the fact that the new majority leader, Dr. Bill Frist, will lead a coalition of backers, including a lobbying alliance financed by the American Medical Association and the insurance industry. 
Opponents are well fortified, too, with backing from the powerful trial lawyers' lobby. Among them are a number of Democratic presidential hopefuls, including Senator John Edwards, Democrat of North Carolina, a former trial lawyer. Last year, a milder measure failed in the Senate, 57 to 42. 
The White House and Congressional leaders remain focused on actions that would limit what judges and juries could award to injured patients and the fees paid to their lawyers, while proposals to address other factors fueling the rise in premiums have gained little traction.
Lawmakers could do more to reduce premiums by improving the structure of the insurance marketplace, said Frank A. Sloan, an economics professor at Duke University who specializes in health policy and management. Medical malpractice "is the most cyclical health policy there is," Professor Sloan said, adding, "There are periods of time when premiums stop going up, and then nobody's interested, then again we get a crisis and everybody says juries are terrible."
Rising premiums are squeezing doctors around the country at the same time health insurers and government plans like Medicare pressure them to limit the cost of treatment, leading some doctors to stop delivering babies or to quit the profession altogether.
Premiums are rising fastest in specialties like internal medicine, general surgery and obstetrics and gynecology, which have each had average increases nationally of 30 percent to 40 percent over the last two years, says the newsletter Medical Liability Monitor, which tracks the malpractice insurance industry. In Miami, some obstetricians now pay more than $200,000 a year for malpractice insurance, compared with a national average of $56,546.
Mr. Bush's plan tracks closely a bill that passed the House last year, which would set the maximum damage award for "pain and suffering" at $250,000 and reduce lawyers' fees.
The Bush plan is largely modeled on a 1975 California law, which backers say has kept that state's medical malpractice premiums below the national average. According to industry data, total premiums in California nearly tripled in the first dozen years after the law was enacted before stabilizing in the late 1980's. 
Insurers say the law curbed premiums once legal challenges to it were exhausted in the mid-1980's, while consumer groups say premiums did not moderate until California passed strict insurance regulations in 1988. 
Nationally, there is no question that insurer payouts to cover malpractice settlements and verdicts have been rising.
The average malpractice judgment against doctors and other health professionals a decade ago was $404,646, according to inflation-adjusted figures provided by the National Practitioner Data Bank, which is operated by the Department of Health and Human Services. By 2001, the average had risen to $593,647. 
But the average judgment declined in the first nine months of last year, dropping to $426,247, according to the databank. 
Combined, the total annual amount of malpractice settlements and judgments rose to $5.05 billion in 2001 
from $3.66 billion a decade ago, adjusted for inflation. In the first nine months of last year -- the most recent data available -- total payments were $3.53 billion.
Some advocates of new limits have argued that the rate of increase has been sharper. For example, a Health and Human Services Department report last summer that is often cited by Congressional supporters and other advocates of malpractice overhaul asserted that "the number of megaverdicts is increasing rapidly," adding, "The average award rose 76 percent from 1996-1999."
But according to the National Practitioner Data Bank the average malpractice judgment against doctors and other health care professionals rose 8.5 percent from 1996 to 1999, or 2.1 percent if adjusted for inflation. Insurers are required to report malpractice payments to the databank. 
Officials at the Department of Health and Human Services based their number on data from the insurance industry, according to the report's footnotes. An agency spokesman, Bill Pierce, said the statement about a "76 percent" increase reflected only doctors who had seen the largest premium increases -- something the report did not mention. 
Industry business practices, as much as jury awards, have brought on insurance cost spikes, many experts say. In the 1980's, insurers increased premiums to offset what they thought would be a staggering increase in claims, and they set aside deep reserves to cover costs they expected to pay in coming years. But claims never rose to the levels insurers had predicted. When that became clear, the companies changed course and treated the reserves as profits, luring new insurers to the market and bringing on a price war. 
The steep drop in bond yields and the stock market has also fueled the crisis. All insurers invest premiums in bonds and stocks, but this is especially true of medical malpractice insurers, which are able to invest premiums for much longer than other insurers, before claims come due.
In 2001, according to A. M. Best, the insurance-rating agency, malpractice insurers reported 19 cents in investment income for every $1 in premiums. During the previous nine years, they had averaged more than 30 cents per $1 in premium income.
While insurers enjoyed the good times of the 1990's, their rates barely budged. According to the Physician Insurers Association of America, a trade group, total malpractice premiums rose just 7.5 percent from 1994 to 2000, to $6.38 billion.
Lawrence E. Smarr, the president of the association, said that for much of the 1990's, past profits carried as reserves, as well as high investment income, enabled insurers to keep premiums low. But by 2001, Mr. Smarr said, higher average malpractice claims, lower interest rates and exhausted reserves led the companies in his association to report losses of 10 cents for every $1 collected in premiums.
The current situation has been made even worse by the departure of large insurers from the malpractice market, most notably the St. Paul Companies, leaving the remaining insurers to swallow a bigger piece of the market even as many would prefer to be writing fewer policies. 
Insurers are battling consumer advocates and trial lawyers over whether malpractice premiums will actually drop if the Bush plan is enacted.
Mr. Smarr cites a report from the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office that malpractice premiums could be 30 percent lower under the plan, if factors including reduced investment income, the need to replenish depleted reserves and the higher cost of having other insurers take on some of their potential liabilities, called reinsurance, do not diminish those gains.
"If you look at the states that have caps, you don't see the explosion in rates," said Representative James C. Greenwood, the Pennsylvania Republican who is sponsoring the House bill. 
But in a letter to Mr. Bush on Wednesday, Mr. Edwards and three other Democratic senators, Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont and Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, called for tougher regulation of malpractice insurers, saying business practices were the main cause of the crisis. "These proposed changes in the law would deprive seriously injured patients of fair compensation," they wrote.
Some lawmakers and consumer advocates have offered proposals to curtail the industry's exemptions from federal antitrust law or create a national reinsurance company to help shoulder underwriting risks.
One amendment offered by Democrats actually mirrors legislation enacted in Texas while Mr. Bush was governor, requiring insurers to lower their rates to account for savings created by "tort reforms" passed by state lawmakers in 1995. In the presidential campaign, Mr. Bush proudly cited the benefits of the Texas rate provision, but the White House has not said if it would support a similar provision in his federal proposal.
The American Medical Association has started a campaign in support of the Bush plan, while a group of hospitals has hired the concern founded by Haley Barbour, the prominent Republican lobbyist, to push for the plan.
Advocates of the proposal plan to pressure senators from states with the biggest increases in malpractice premiums, said Representative Greenwood, who added that backers would focus efforts on 15 to 20 swing votes. Still, he said, "I would describe it as an uphill battle."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "AT ISSUE -- The Costs of Malpractice"About $5 billion was paid in settlements or court judgments in medical malpractice claims in 2001, the most recent year for which full data is available. In the first 9 months of 2002, the average court judgment fell to $426,247, from $593,647 in 2001. PAYMENTS IN MEDICAL MALPRACTICE CASES Adjusted for inflation AMOUNT OF PAYMENTS Graph tracks total, settlements and judgments from 1991 to 2001. AVERAGE PAYMENTS Graph tracks judgments and settlements from 1991 through first nine months of 2002. (Source: National Practitioner Data Bank, Health Resources and Services Administration, Department of Health and Human Services)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (92%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY INSURANCE (90%); VERDICTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (90%); DAMAGES (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); LOBBYING (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LAWYERS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MEDICARE (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (74%); JUDGES (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: HEALTH RESOURCES & SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (59%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN EDWARDS (58%); DONNA F EDWARDS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SCRANTON, PA, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2003 



550 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: BOLDFACE NAMES 

BYLINE:  By Joyce Wadler 

 BODY:
Of Course, It Might Bomb
 RICHARD GERE and a few of the other stars of "Chicago" were promoting their movie on the "CHARLIE ROSE" show on Tuesday, when Mr. Gere, if you can believe it, turned the subject to politics. 
 Then he told Mr. Rose that "every time I say something about Kissinger," Mr. Rose edited it out. Next thing you know, with QUEEN LATIFAH and RENEE ZELLWEGER bearing witness, Mr. Gere pushed Mr. Rose into inviting himself and Henry Kissinger on the show. 
"I would love to sit down with Henry Kissinger and really talk about the situation in China," Mr. Gere said. "We'll keep it at that -- China and Tibet."
Mr. Rose, who said he doubted that he had cut every one of Mr. Gere's references to Mr. Kissinger, promised to invite Mr. Kissinger to join Mr. Gere on a show. Then -- and could a talk show host be more gracious? -- he also asked Mr. Gere if he would prefer it be "just the two of you" or whether Mr. Gere would like other guests. 
"We could have a representative of the Dalai Lama," Mr. Gere said, "and we could have a representative of China as well. That would be great." 
Will it really happen? Or was it one of those sorts of things we've all said at one time or another to get the conversation off Tibet? 
Mr. Rose, reportedly on his way to the World Economic Forum in Davos, was unavailable. But one of his producers, JONATHAN NORMAN, said that they did indeed plan to invite Mr. Kissinger on the show, although they didn't know "when or if it would take place." 
A stealth call to Mr. Kissinger's office, inspired by his own trips to China on behalf of President Richard Nixon, brought no more information. 
"Richard Gere?" said an assistant, who apparently does not watch Charlie Rose. Later, she called back to say that Mr. Kissinger, traveling in Asia, had only one thing to say about appearing on "Charlie Rose": "He hasn't asked me yet."

It'll Happen After Gere Goes On With Kissinger
On Tuesday evening, the History Channel, having already established itself as a force about town with a $1 million donation to New York City's schools, gave a party at the American Museum of Natural History to celebrate its four-hour program on Theodore Roosevelt, which will be broadcast next week. 
Among the guests: the writer CAROL HIGGINS CLARK, Police Commissioner RAY KELLY, two Roosevelt descendants, MARK A. AMES and JOHN ROOSEVELT, and BERNADETTE CASTRO, who heads the New York State Office of Parks. 
Also attending was HENRY STERN, former New York City parks commissioner, who appears to miss the old gig: His nameplate bore his parks nickname, Starquest. 
Mr. Ames, like Mr. Gere, knows how to grab an opportunity -- much more subtly, perhaps, but then Mr. Gere didn't exactly raise the bar.
Another guest asked if the Roosevelt family had been "smart enough, like the Vanderbilts were with Biltmore House," to reserve a few weeks a year for themselves at Sagamore Hill, the Roosevelt house in Oyster Bay that is now a national park. Mr. Ames said ruefully they had not.
"I'll bet I could arrange it," Ms. Castro said. "I know some people at the National Park Service. Even if they won't close it for a week, they surely would for an afternoon."

There's Hanging Out, Then There's Hanging Out
Our sometime neighbor on 43rd Street, CRISS ANGEL, a stunt man and magician who a while back hung by fish hooks in the window of the World Wrestling Entertainment complex, called us yesterday to tell us about his latest stunt: 
On Wednesday, after hanging upside down from a crane 100 feet in the air in freezing temperatures over the Miller Brewing plant in Wisconsin, he freed himself from a straitjacket in two minutes and 26 seconds. 
This, Mr. Angel said, broke the 80-year-old record held by Harry Houdini. Mr. Angel said he used "a regulation straitjacket" like those that hospitals once used. 
He added that he had prepared for the cold weather stunt by spending a lot of time in restaurant refrigerators near his home on Long Island. He would not say which restaurants. They wouldn't want the public to know, he said, because of regulations. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (84%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); POLICE FORCES (63%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (63%); US PRESIDENTS (62%); STATE PARKS (62%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (60%) MOTION PICTURES; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; MAGIC AND MAGICIANS; STUNTS AND STUNTMEN 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (59%) HISTORY CHANNEL; AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (NYC) 

PERSON: CHARLIE ROSE (91%); RICHARD NIXON (79%); DALAI LAMA (57%) WADLER, JOYCE; GERE, RICHARD; ROSE, CHARLIE; KISSINGER, HENRY A (DR); ROOSEVELT, THEODORE (1858-1919); ANGEL, CRISS; HOUDINI, HARRY (1874-1926) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (92%); XIZANG, CHINA (88%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); TIBET (92%); ASIA (71%); SWITZERLAND (54%) CHINA; TIBET

TITLE: CHICAGO (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2003 



551 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Head of New York Fed Says He'll Retire 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 16 

 BODY:
William J. McDonough, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the second most important person in the Federal Reserve System, after the chairman, said today that he would retire in July.
 The announcement caught many people within the financial industry by surprise, so there had been little speculation before today about possible successors. 
 One name to surface immediately was that of Peter R. Fisher, a senior Treasury official who ran the New York Fed's open-market operations before joining the Bush administration.
The president of the New York Fed plays the central operational role for the Federal Reserve System because the New York bank is responsible for the open-market trading operations that carry out the monetary policy decisions reached in Washington. 
Mr. McDonough, 69, has been president of the New York Fed since mid-1993 and has had one of the longest tenures of any president at that bank.
A courteous and even courtly banker, Mr. McDonough played a critical role in keeping the financial system afloat after the Sept. 11 attacks devastated much of the Wall Street financial center.
But he may be remembered even more for his controversial role in averting the collapse in 1998 of Long-Term Capital Management, the huge hedge fund that ran up billions of dollars in debt it could not repay.
Afraid that a collapse of Long-Term Capital might lead to a broader financial panic, Mr. McDonough corralled many of the company's biggest creditors -- most of them major banks and investment banks -- and persuaded them to rescue the fund by injecting $4 billion in fresh money.
Many critics complained that the New York Fed's intervention had set an unwelcome precedent that would encourage other troubled institutions to look for official help in the future. But supporters said Mr. McDonough had helped avoid what could have been a serious setback to the financial system, and they noted that he had done it without using any public money.
"There are already people who look kindly and those who look less than kindly on that," said Alan S. Blinder, a former Fed governor who is now a professor of economics at Princeton. "My feeling now is more or less what it was then, that he took the lesser of two risks."
Mr. McDonough has been an important ally of Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, and Mr. Greenspan has relied on him heavily. Under Mr. Greenspan, Mr. McDonough has been the Fed's chief negotiator in international talks in Basel, Switzerland, on how to modernize the way banks manage and account for their risks.
"I will greatly miss Bill McDonough's counsel and advice," Mr. Greenspan said in a written statement today. "After a decade of exemplary service to the Federal Reserve System, his retirement will leave a pronounced void."
The New York Fed is unique among the 12 district banks that make up the Federal Reserve System. Because it is situated in the nation's financial center, the president of the New York Fed is a permanent member and vice chairman of the Federal Open Market Committee, which makes decisions about interest rates.
Beyond conducting open-market operations that carry out monetary policy, the New York Fed also conducts large amounts of foreign exchange dealings and manages much of the Treasury's debt.
For years, the New York Fed was considered the true center of power for the entire system. That importance waned after the arrival of Paul A. Volcker, a powerful Fed chairman who took office in the 1979, and even more after the arrival of Mr. Greenspan in 1987.
But the New York Fed's importance remains enormous. It helps massage relations with the financial community, providing reassurance and guidance in times of crisis and serving as a channel of communication from financial markets to policy makers in Washington.
"It's the second most important job in the system," said Allan H. Meltzer, a professor of economics at Carnegie Mellon University and the author of a new history of the Federal Reserve, referring to the presidency of the New York Fed. "He is the head of the bank that does all the open-market operations, that does the foreign exchange dealings and that does a lot of the management of Treasury debt operations. It is an administrative role very different from that of the other district banks."
Mr. McDonough's successor will be recommended by the board members of the New York Fed, who represent a cross section of people from banking and business as well as public institutions.
Peter G. Peterson, an investment banker who is chairman of the bank's board, said today that he would organize a search committee. The New York Fed's board will then make its own recommendation for its top choice for a new president and submit it to the Federal Reserve's board of governors in Washington.
The board of governors can veto the recommendation, but Mr. Meltzer said that it usually followed the district bank's proposal.

GRAPHIC: Photo: William J. McDonough, president of the New York Fed, which is crucial in carrying out monetary policy. (Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); MONETARY POLICY (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (66%); HEDGE FUNDS (65%) BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (93%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (93%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (93%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (93%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (79%) ANDREWS, EDMUND L; MCDONOUGH, WILLIAM J 

GEOGRAPHIC: BASEL, SWITZERLAND (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2003 



552 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: The Law And The River 

BYLINE:  By Antonio Rossmann; Antonio Rossmann, who teaches land use and water law at the University of California at Berkeley, is special counsel to Imperial County.

DATELINE: BERKELEY, Calif. 

 BODY:
On New Year's Day, Californians woke up to a new reality as painful as any hangover. The secretary of the interior cut the delivery of Colorado River water to Southern California by nearly one-fourth of what urban areas there consume in a year.
 The secretary, Gale A. Norton, said her action was forced by the Law of the River -- that venerable collection of laws and agreements between the Interior Department and the districts that use Colorado River water. She says she had no other choice because the districts could not agree by a Dec. 31 deadline on how to cut back on the water they drew. She singled out for blame the Imperial County Irrigation District for refusing to let some of its agricultural water go to San Diego. 
 In reality, the deadline was a distraction. What's going unnoticed in the furor is the Interior Department's own failure to protect the environment and its indifference to the fate of endangered wildlife in the region. If Ms. Norton will not change course, her actions call for a New Law of the River.
The Dec. 31 deadline Ms. Norton invoked is not dictated by the Law of the River, as she claims. It was inherited from her predecessor, Bruce Babbitt, and she was free not to impose it. In 2000 Mr. Babbitt established that deadline, expecting that the Imperial-to-San Diego transfer would prove environmentally acceptable. But he was wrong. Recent California State Water Board hearings revealed that the transfer would instead produce terrible consequences: every acre-foot of water transferred to San Diego would shrink the Salton Sea, an inland body of water into which Imperial's agricultural runoff drains. Before the construction of the Hoover Dam, floods from the Colorado naturally filled the sea; since then it has been sustained by Imperial Valley runoff. 
At year-end, officials at Imperial could not agree to the transfer because it would have meant choosing one of two equally unacceptable alternatives: letting productive farmland lie fallow to sustain the sea or destroying one of the nation's largest avian habitats and creating a regional air-quality hazard from the particles that would be emitted if the shoreline of the Salton Sea receded.
Over the protests of Imperial County, Ms. Norton insisted that Mr. Babbitt's artificial deadline be met. She also seized part of Imperial's allocation of river water to punish the district for not agreeing to the transfer. When the district challenged that seizure in federal court, her department responded two days ago by threatening further cutbacks in water allocated to Imperial.
The Interior Department has taken California's water districts to task for broken deadlines and failed responsibilities, yet it is guilty of those very sins. It has failed by two years to meet a real deadline: the one Congress set for a Salton Sea restoration plan. The department is also charged by Congress to enforce the Endangered Species Act, but it has ignored the impact of its actions on those species inhabiting the Salton Sea. 
Forty years ago, a handful of Supreme Court justices all but predicted that the Interior Department would fabricate the crisis now facing California. In its 1963 Arizona v. California decision, the court found that in authorizing the Hoover Dam, Congress had delegated to the secretary of the interior authority to apportion the river among Arizona, Nevada and California. 
The majority gave the secretary virtually unlimited discretion to distribute surplus in times of plenty and to cut deliveries in times of drought. Three justices dissented, warning against "a single appointed federal official vested with absolute control, unrestrained by adequate standards, over the fate of a substantial segment of the life and economy of three states." Ms. Norton's punishment of California painfully vindicates the dissenters' apprehension.
The Supreme Court fashioned the old Law of the River to meet the needs of mid-20th century America. The justices now need to use federal mandates to refashion a contemporary law, one that respects community will and ecological stability along the Colorado as much as proprietary consumption. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RIVERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); WATER RIGHTS (89%); LAKES (89%); WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (88%); WATER POLLUTION (77%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (77%); AGRICULTURE (74%); AGRICULTURAL POLLUTION (74%); IRRIGATION (69%); WILDLIFE (67%); FLOODS & FLOODING (63%) WATER; ANIMALS; ENDANGERED AND EXTINCT SPECIES; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

ORGANIZATION: INTERIOR DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: ROSSMANN, ANTONIO; NORTON, GALE (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) CALIFORNIA; IMPERIAL VALLEY (CALIF); COLORADO RIVER; SALTON SEA (CALIF); UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2003 



553 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 475 words

PERSON: Carel Sternberg 

HEADLINE: Charles Sternberg, 91; Led Refugee Aid Group 

BYLINE:  By PAUL LEWIS 

 BODY:
Charles Sternberg, a refugee from Nazi persecution in Czechoslovakia and France who went on to head the International Rescue Committee, the largest private American organization helping international refugees, died on Thursday in Forest Hills, Queens. He was 91.
 From 1965 to 1985, Mr. Sternberg, who was widely known as Carel, was executive director of the International Rescue Committee, a New York-based organization descended from the International Relief Association, which was originally set up in 1933 by Albert Einstein to assist refugees from Nazi Germany. 
 In 1944, the International Relief Association merged with a similar organization, the Emergency Rescue Committee, to form the International Rescue Committee.
In his 20 years with the committee, Mr. Sternberg presided over considerable growth in its operations. Its budget increased to $22.1 million in 1985 from $1.2 million in 1965. Last year the organization raised $157 million for refugee assistance.
Under Mr. Sternberg, the group continued to provide humanitarian assistance to the steady flow of refugees from the Soviet bloc countries but also found its services increasingly in demand in other parts of the world.
It assisted almost a million Cubans who fled after the Cuban revolution. It also helped hundreds of thousands of people displaced in Southeast Asia by the conflicts in Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia. In 1980 it was called on to help Pakistan cope with an influx of refugees from Afghanistan after the Soviet invasion and also began a relief program in Sudan for political refugees and famine victims from Ethiopia.
Mr. Sternberg also started programs to aid refugees from Chile, Argentina, Haiti, Uganda and Angola.
He drew contributions from individuals, corporations and foundations and increasingly from governments and international organizations like the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. 
Born Carel Sternberg on Nov. 25, 1911, in Prostejov, Moravia, which was then part of the Austrian empire, he studied law at Charles University in Prague before working for 20th Century Fox there. In 1938 Mr. Sternberg fled to France just before the Nazi takeover. After Paris fell, he bicycled south to Marseille, in Vichy-controlled France, where he spent nine months helping others escape on behalf of the International Relief Association. He fled to the United States himself in 1942.
After joining the United States Army he worked for the rest of the war in the Czech-language section of its Office of European Economic Research. In 1946, he joined the newly created I.R.C., working first in Germany and then in New York.
He is survived by his wife, the former Irma Kadmon, who also worked for the rescue committee; a sister, Ella Rosenheck of Bayside, Queens; a niece, Michelle Eisner of Hollis Hills, Queens; and a nephew, Doron Rosenheck of Plainview, N.Y.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Charles Sternberg in 1983. (The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFUGEES (97%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (91%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); WORLD WAR II (78%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); BUDGETS (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); FAMINE (73%); ARMIES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (64%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL RESCUE COMMITTEE (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (64%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (64%)

JERRY LEWIS (79%) STERNBERG, CHARLES; LEWIS, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (78%); PARIS, FRANCE (58%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (90%); HAITI (79%); VIET NAM (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); EUROPE (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); SUDAN (79%); UGANDA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); ASIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); GERMANY (72%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (69%); AUSTRIA (53%)

CATEGORY: Non-Profit Organizations 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2003 



554 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1705 words

HEADLINE: War Uncertainty Weighs on Economy 

BYLINE:  ByDANIEL ALTMAN 

 BODY:
As Washington decides whether to invade Iraq, uncertainty about a war is already weighing on the economy.
 While consumers have not been overly discouraged by higher energy costs or the risk of another terrorist attack, business leaders are clearly hesitant to make new investments until the smoke clears. 
 Before going ahead with a big new project, asks Robert J. Barbera, chief economist of ITG/Hoenig, an investment firm, "wouldn't you wait a quarter?"
In the calculations of many analysts, he said, an invasion of Iraq is "90 percent likely to occur, and 80 percent likely to occur in the next 90 days." Those probabilities may have risen with the discovery of empty chemical warheads in Iraq on Thursday, which led some investors to dump stocks in favor of government bonds, and dollars in favor of euros. 
The budgetary costs of any war and future reconstruction are unknown. Even if war with Iraq never comes, though, the economy will still have received some stimulus from the upswing in military and domestic security spending since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks. But that has not been enough to overcome the drag on investment, which began to sag as long ago as late 2000, after the technology bubble burst.
Adding to the uncertainty that is discouraging big companies from starting to invest again, Mr. Barbera said, are the huge differences between the best- and worst-case outlooks in the event ofwar. An invasion could be quick, surgical and successful, clearing the way for a surge of investment on delayed projects. Or it could be long, messy and fraught with retaliations by terrorists.
"Geopolitical risks, such as the threat of war with Iraq, tensions over North Korea and terrorism, have added to the list of business concerns," said Anthony M. Santomero, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, in a speech on Tuesday. "These factors continue to leave businesses reluctant to invest."
Moreover, businesses can afford to take a wait-and-see attitude right now, Mr. Barbera added, because the economy is not exactly bursting with profitable opportunities. "You're not feeling like you're giving up something in growth by postponing investment," he said.
A more tangible drag on business is the relatively high price of oil, another consequence of uncertainty about the prospect of war. Oil prices are already up, with crude running above $30 a barrel. Unrest in Venezuela, a leading supplier to the United States, has not helped. Higher prices for oil and its useful byproducts are already pressuring industries from pharmaceuticals to trucking.
"I don't think there's going to be much more than what we're already paying in the market price," said Samuel K. Skinner, chief executive of USFreightways. "We're already feeling it with the threat of war."
USFreightways can pass some extra costs along to customers through fuel surcharges, Mr. Skinner said, but the company may have to protect itself further by hedging against potential increases in the price of oil. "We're not hedging right now, though hedging is something we traditionally would look at," he said. "In retrospect, maybe we wish we had."
Analysts and executives alike expect the price of crude oil to stay high until the United States and its allies have a war well in hand.
"It is unlikely we would face major shortages of physical product as a result of any war," said Steve Turner, an oil analyst at Commerzbank in London, but "a short-term price spike in the coming three months is possible."
OPEC, the international oil cartel, has increased its production by about 1.5 million barrels a day to counter Venezuela's stalled exports. Yet the group is unlikely to try to stave off a war-induced jump in the price of oil, Mr. Turner said.
The removal of Saddam Hussein, on the other hand, offers a balancing factor -- greater access by the world market to Iraq's vast oil reserves, which could bring the price down over time. The range of possible outcomes for oil prices has rarely been wider, except perhaps during the last conflict in the Persian Gulf.
When Iraq occupied Kuwait in 1990, ending shipments from that country, oil prices shot up to $35 a barrel from $17 four months earlier. As the United States massed troops in Saudi Arabia, the price began to fall.
Almost as soon as the invasion of Iraq began, the price slipped to $20 as it became clear the United States and its allies would win a quick victory. Talk of street-to-street fighting has led to worries that this conflict could take longer, though.
"The first thing we would worry about is the valuation of raw materials," said Ray Anderson, director of investor relations at DuPont, which uses tons of materials derived from crude oil in its manufacturing of plastics and chemicals. Buying financial hedges against high prices for oil byproducts is not easy. "They're just not very deep, liquid markets," he added. "We are largely, almost essentially unhedged in buying key oil-derived materials."
Some big users of oil-derived fuels have hedges built into their business. Bill Zollars, chief executive of the Yellow Corporation, said that virtually all of his trucking business was insulated from rising fuel costs by surcharges, which raise trucking fees automatically when fuel prices rises above certain thresholds. But he worries that his business might suffer indirectly if economic activity slows over all. And hedging itself adds to the cost of doing business.
By waging war in Iraq, the Bush administration could be taking a gamble with consumers' confidence in the economy. Ken Goldstein, an economist at the Conference Board, said that depending on its outcome, the war could either embolden consumers or, in the worst case, send them reeling.
"If the military action itself goes without a hitch," he said, "there would be a boost in terms of overall confidence. But countering that is the idea that we are no more going to bring Saddam out of Iraq than we brought bin Laden out of Afghanistan."
And Mr. Goldstein, like some others analysts, worries that any successful retaliation by terrorists in the United States could cause consumers to pull back.
"The potential to drop confidence like a stone is probably not from the bombing or fighting on the ground in Iraq, but more from the unintended consequences," Mr. Goldstein said. That concern was not present in the last gulf war, in which existing concerns about the domestic economy -- not the side effects of the war -- came to dominate consumers' mood.
Corporate executives are also worried about those unintended consequences. In a survey by TEC International, a chief executives' trade group, 41 percent of 1,142 responding members said their top concern was another major terrorist attack in the United States. More than two-thirds said a war in Iraq would have a negative impact on their business.
In the event of retaliation by terrorists, the United States could also be harmed indirectly through its allies. "There are reported to have been a lot of al Qaeda sympathizers in Saudi Arabia," Mr. Turner said, "who might feel moved to act against the royal family were Iraq to be attacked."
Alternatively, Mr. Turner said, Iraq might fight a "less clean war" on its own by attacking oil supplies elsewhere in the Middle East. That strategy could wreak havoc in the United States. If oil prices rise sharply, Mr. Goldstein conjectured, a double-dip into recession could be unavoidable.
If a war were to end quickly and easily, however, the situation could be the reverse. "You breathe a sigh of relief, and you get an upturn in capital spending," Mr. Barbera said. 
Some companies do not have to wait until then. They are feeling the traditional wartime lift, even as head winds from Iraq threaten to unsettle the economy as a whole. Producers of systems that update or speed up older weapons, as well as makers of newer robotic or unmanned systems, are already filling orders from the Pentagon. But Iraq-oriented business may be the exception rather than the rule.
These days, "America fights come-as-you-are wars, because it takes so long to manufacture high-tech equipment," said James Fetig, a retired Army colonel who has worked for major military contractors. "Missiles and those kinds of things are usually in inventory by the time these things start." With shorter wars, he added, most business arrives afterward, when the Pentagon needs to buy replacement munitions.
At least a few direct suppliers have been operating at wartime levels since the terrorist attacks, however.
"There's been a constant buildup since 9/11," said Lee K. Aaron, a vice president at Alpha Industries, which makes jackets for all four services. "In many cases, our capacity has been full." 
The Defense Department usually builds flexibility into its contracts with suppliers, so it may demand additional equipment at a moment's notice. Wolverine World Wide, which makes combat boots and other footwear, has contracts with the department that stretch over several years.
The company produces "a certain minimum, and they tell us using a purchase order whether they're going to need more," said Tom Mundt, Wolverine's vice president for strategy and communications.
Mr. Mundt said his company was operating at normal rates. Most reservists who might be called up to serve in Iraq, he explained, already have most of their equipment. The Defense Logistics Agency will make some immediate purchases, though, in the event of war.
"Initially, the big concern is going to be with rations and water," said Jack L. Hooper, a spokesman for the agency. "Fuel is going to be a constant consideration. However fast they want to prosecute an air and-or ground operation is going to depend on how quickly and efficiently the supply trains can keep up with the combatants."
Even after the fighting ends, forces in Iraq would continue to demand resources, as do those in Afghanistan, Guantanamo Bay and the Philippines. Through Dec. 11, the agency had processed 719,278 orders for $6 billion worth of nonweapons material.
Indeed, one thing could still drag down consumers' confidence even after a brief and successful war: "The slow, dawning realization," Mr. Goldstein said, "that the real work -- in Bosnia, in Afghanistan and now in Iraq -- is afterward."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Mobil Oil gasoline tanker at a storage area in Mount Prospect, Ill. The relatively high price of oil is a consequence of uncertainty about the prospect of war. Unrest in Venezuela, a leading supplier, has not helped. (Tim Boyle/Getty Images)(pg. C14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IRAQ WAR (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); BONDS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (64%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CAPITAL INVESTMENT; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (65%); YRC REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (65%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (65%); NAICS484110 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LOCAL (50%); SIC4212 LOCAL TRUCKING WITHOUT STORAGE (50%)

PERSON: ALTMAN, DANIEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2003 



555 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: Production Falls and Trade Deficit Rises 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 17 

 BODY:
The United States trade deficit swelled in November, industrial production dropped in December and consumer confidence fell this month, according to reports issued today that prompted some economists to cut fourth-quarter growth estimates.
 The trade deficit widened to a record $40.1 billion in November as imports surged after a resumption of business at West Coast ports, according to a Commerce Department report. 
 The wider trade gap in goods and services came after a revised $35.2 billion shortfall in October and reflected a record inflow of holiday and other consumer merchandise, the Commerce Department said. Imports had declined in October, when ports in California, Oregon and Washington closed early in the month after shippers locked out union dockworkers in a labor dispute. 
By mid-November, most inbound ships had unloaded their cargo, leading to a rebound in imports. The deficit may stay wide in coming months as stronger economic growth in the United States increases demand for foreign-made goods. 
Imports rose in November to $123.3 billion from $117.5 billion, the largest monthly increase since July 1984. The surge reflected stronger demand for automobiles, computers, toys, clothing and television sets. Exports rose 1.1 percent, to $83.2 billion in November from $82.3 billion in the previous month.
Economists had expected a deficit of $36.4 billion compared with the previously reported $35.1 billion gap in October.
Another report, from the Federal Reserve, showed that production at factories, mines and utilities fell 0.2 percent last month. The drop was led by a 4.7 percent decline in automobile and parts production in December.
Industrial production fell 0.6 percent for all of 2002 after a 3.5 percent decline in 2001. It was the first time production fell in back-to-back years since the Ford administration in 1974-1975.
In a third report, on consumer confidence, the University of Michigan's preliminary sentiment index fell to 83.7 in January from 86.7, instead of rising to 87 as forecast. 
The drop in the Michigan sentiment index to 83.7 trailed even the lowest forecast of 84 in a survey of 50 economists. The decline was entirely because of a drop in the university's preliminary expectations index, based on optimism about the next one to five years, to 75.2 from 80.8 last month.
The university's preliminary current conditions index, which reflects Americans' perception of their financial situation and whether it is a good time to buy big-ticket items, rose to 96.9 from 96 in December.
Consumers, whose spending generates two-thirds of the economy, and production by manufacturers, who account for a seventh, are considered crucial to sustaining a recovery. The shortfall in trade, another element of gross domestic product, prompted economists including David Rosenberg of Merrill Lynch and Maury Harris of UBS Warburg to pare fourth-quarter growth estimates to an annual rate of less than 1 percent.
"We estimate that G.D.P. is running at a weak 0.8 percent" instead of the previously forecast 1.3 percent, Mr. Rosenberg wrote after the reports. "We have revised down our forecasts for net exports, inventories and capital equipment spending." 
John Ryding, chief market economist at Bear, Stearns in New York, said fourth-quarter growth may be "closer to 1 percent than 2 percent."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Balance of Trade"The deficit is the excess of imports over exports for goods and services. Amounts are rounded, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. November 2002Balance: -$40.10Imports: 123.29Exports: 83.19 Graph tracks imports and exports from June 2001 to November 2002. Graph tracks deficit, highlighting 12-month moving average, from June 2001 to November 2002. (Source: Commerce Department) Chart: "Industrial Production"Index of total industrial production, 1992 = 100, seasonally adjusted. Monthly ChangeDec.: -0.2%Nov.: +0.1Oct.: -0.5 Graph tracks production from July 2001 to December 2002. (Source: Federal Reserve Board) Chart: "Capacity Utilization"Total output as a percentage of capacity, seasonally adjusted. Operating RatesDec.: 75.4%Nov.: 75.6Oct.: 75.6 Graph tracks output from July 2001 to December 2002. (Source: Federal Reserve Board)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); IMPORT TRADE (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TRADE DISPUTES (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (76%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (74%); LOCKOUTS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (64%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRODUCTION; CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); UBS INVESTMENT BANK (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (59%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (50%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); WEST USA (92%); OREGON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2003 



556 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
A Weekly Loss on Wall St. Is the First of the New Year

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Wall Street slid to its first weekly loss in 2003 yesterday, as sluggish outlooks from Microsoft and I.B.M. fed investor pessimism about the economy and sent stocks lower. 
 The Nasdaq had its biggest loss in more than five weeks, while the three main gauges all fell to their lowest levels since Dec. 31. 
 "The news today coming from two key bellwethers is taking away some of the recent enthusiasm," said Steven Goldman of Weeden & Company. 
The Dow Jones industrial average declined 111.13 points, or 1.3 percent, to close at 8,586.74, for a three-day loss of nearly 256 points. 
The broader market also finished sharply lower. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 47.56 points, or 3.3 percent, to 1,376.19, the largest decline since Dec. 9, when it fell 55 points. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 12.82, or 1.4 percent, to 901.78. 
For the week, the three gauges snapped a two-week winning streak, with the Dow losing 2.3 percent, the Nasdaq declining 4.9 percent, and the S.& P. 500 falling 2.8 percent. 
I.B.M. fell $4.75, to $81.30, after the company reported a drop in fourth-quarter profits that nonetheless beat analysts' estimates. But it also issued a cautious outlook for 2003. 
Microsoft dropped $3.89, to $51.46, after the company said it would pay its first dividend and reported profits that slightly beat Wall Street's expectations. The company also announced plans for a two-for-one stock split, but said it did not see signs of improving demand. 
"The trend so far is that most of the companies are beating expectations for the fourth quarter, but are talking rather pessimistically for the rest of the year," said Stephen Massocca, president of Pacific Growth Equities. 
Analysts attributed the retreat largely to premature optimism about earnings and President Bush's proposal to cut taxes by $674 billion over 10 years, a plan that may turn out to be quite different if it is passed by Congress. 
"Earlier in the year, we had a rally based on the feeling that companies will come in better than expected," Mr. Massocca said. "That did happen, but the problem is that it may not continue." 
The mixed earnings news as well as concerns about a war with Iraq have left many investors uncertain, leading to cautious and choppy trading. "Until we start the war," Mr. Goldman said, "the market will probably be in this limiting capped market, and hopefully once we get a clearer picture of the recovery's strength, stock prices should be poised to move higher afterward."
Disappointing economic reports also weighed on stocks. The University of Michigan's report on consumer sentiment for January fell to 83.7 from 86.7 in December. The Federal Reserve reported that industrial production unexpectedly dipped by 0.2 percent in December, and the trade deficit grew to a record $40.1 billion in November. 
General Electric lost 15 cents, to $24.88, after reporting reduced earnings in line with analysts' estimates. 
AOL Time Warner fell 49 cents, to $14.81, after its board selected Richard D. Parsons to be its chairman, succeeding Stephen M. Case, who announced last week that he was stepping down. 
Advanced Micro Devices slid $1.17, to $6.03, after the company, which makes chips, had a fourth-quarter loss that missed expectations. 
In the bond market, the price of the 10-year Treasury note rose 18/32, to 99 28/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.02 percent from 4.09 percent on Wednesday. The price of the 30-year Treasury bond increased 24/32, to 106 27/32. The bond's yield fell to 4.92 percent, from 4.97 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); BONDS (91%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (87%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); TRENDS (77%); STOCK SPLITS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (67%); TAX LAW (61%); INTEREST RATES (59%) STOCKS AND BONDS; INTEREST RATES; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (58%); WEEDEN & CO LP (57%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2003 



557 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 341 words

HEADLINE: A Million-Dollar Dream for the Neediest 

 BODY:
"If I had a million dollars" is a musing usually followed by a wish list of luxuries, like a house, car, vacations and jewels. But a million dollars can go further than that. A million dollars could provide nearly 400,000 meals for poor children or hungry elderly people. A million dollars could save 800 families from being evicted for one month, feed them and provide job training for their breadwinners. 
 In the hands of agencies that help New York's neediest, a million dollars could buy warm coats for 55,000 kids who outgrew last year's coat as the coldest spell of the season arrived. A million dollars could provide 2,500 medical and dental exams or send 3,000 disadvantaged young people to camp in the summer, keeping them off the streets and exposing them to a healthy environment and a world of possibilities. 
 As The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund approaches the end of its 90th campaign this month, donations have fallen behind those of last year, by $1 million. Many have given generously, and every cent is being put to use by the seven nonprofit agencies that participate in the fund. But for each of these organizations, the gap between resources and need is greater this season than in many years. The rate of unemployment in the city is 8 percent, among the worst in the nation, with many families still suffering the effects of the attack of Sept. 11. Those who have used up all their unemployment insurance benefits and other assistance face destitution without a helping hand. Their wish list is for food, shelter, warm clothes and a job.
It takes not a million dollars in one lump, but many caring people giving a little for those who need assistance. You can help with a contribution to the Neediest Cases Fund. Donations are being accepted online at www.nytimes.com/neediest or at CharityWave.com. Checks may be made payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund and sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245. Or you may donate by telephone at (212) 556-5851 (ext. 7). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CHILD POVERTY (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (57%) NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND; EDITORIALS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2003 



558 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: HOMELAND SECURITY; 
Senate Panel Quickly Backs Ridge for New Antiterror Post

BYLINE:  By PHILIP SHENON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 17 

 BODY:
A Senate committee today unanimously approved the nomination of Tom Ridge to be the nation's first secretary of homeland security, although some lawmakers expressed skepticism about Mr. Ridge's assertion that the nation was "far safer" than it was before the terror attacks on Sept. 11, 2001.
 The voice vote by the panel, the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee, sent the nomination to the Senate floor, where confirmation is expected next week, in time for Mr. Ridge to be in place as secretary when the huge new department formally goes into business on Friday. 
 Mr. Ridge received enthusiastic, bipartisan praise during the confirmation hearing, even as some senators questioned the accuracy of his repeated statement that the counterterrorism efforts of the Bush administration, in cooperation with Congress, had left the nation better able to deal with threats from Al Qaeda and other terrorist groups.
"We have worked together successfully during this past year, and I say America is a safer place today than it was on Sept. 10, 2001," Mr. Ridge testified. "Together, we have taken steps to protect America."
Senator Joseph I. Lieberman of Connecticut, the ranking Democrat on the committee, said that "almost every independent assessment I have come across says that in almost every way, America is as vulnerable today as we were on Sept. 11."
The committee's chairwoman, Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, noted that an expert panel led by two retired senators had recently found that the United States was dangerously unprepared to deal with a catastrophic terrorist attack.
Mr. Ridge, a close friend of President Bush who stepped down as Pennsylvania's governor after the Sept. 11 attacks to take the job of White House domestic security adviser, stood by his statement that the nation was better organized to pre-empt a terrorist strike.
"We have taken steps to protect America -- from pushing our maritime borders farther from shore and professionalizing airport screening to developing vaccination plans and tightening our borders," Mr. Ridge said. "There is complete agreement between the president and the Congress about our responsibility as public servants to work together to ensure the success of this new department."
Mr. Ridge was quick to add that "in spite of everything we have done, we are only at the beginning of what will be a long struggle to protect this country from terrorism."
"We face a hate-filled, remorseless enemy that takes many forms, hides in many places, and doesn't distinguish between innocent civilians and military combatants," he said. "Terrorism directly threatens the foundation of our nation, our people, our freedom, our economic prosperity."
Mr. Ridge faced only polite, mostly friendly questioning from members of the Senate panel, and his confirmation hearing took less than five hours, allowing a same-day vote by the committee.
"I believe Governor Ridge is exactly the right person for the job," Senator Collins said. "His background, temperament and experience make him ideally qualified."
Mr. Ridge faces a monumental logistical challenge in organizing the new department, which will draw together 22 federal agencies and nearly 170,000 employees, the largest reorganization of the federal government since the creation of the Defense Department after World War II.
In assuming broad responsibility for domestic security, Mr. Ridge said he was not looking to take powers away from other agencies involved in counterterrorism, including the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Central Intelligence Agency, which have both been harshly criticized for intelligence failures that may have allowed the Sept. 11 hijackers to go undetected.
Mr. Ridge rejected any suggestion that the Department of Homeland Security would eventually replace or rival the F.B.I. as the nation's lead domestic counterterrorism agency.
He said that the department's intelligence analysts would have "narrowly defined" responsibilities, and that the F.B.I. would retain "primacy" in domestic counterterrorism.
"There's no need for a new domestic intelligence agency or counterterrorism agency," Mr. Ridge said. "That's the role the president has assigned to the F.B.I."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tom Ridge being sworn in yesterday before the Senate Governmental Affairs Committee. The panel unanimously sent his nomination to be the first secretary of homeland security to the Senate floor. (Doug Mills/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); NATIONAL SECURITY (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); TESTIMONY (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HIJACKING (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); AL-QAEDA (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); AIRLINES (61%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (94%); AL-QAEDA (56%) HOMELAND SECURITY DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: JOE LIEBERMAN (58%); SUSAN COLLINS (58%) SHENON, PHILIP; RIDGE, TOM (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2003 



559 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 39 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 EURO GAINS. The dollar fell against the euro as lower consumer confidence, a wider trade deficit and a drop in stocks fueled fears that the economy will slow. In New York, the euro settled at $1.0666, up from $1.0617 on Thursday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks euro to the dollar, since July 2001. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Associated Press). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (87%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (87%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (85%) CURRENCY 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) EUROPEAN UNION 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2003 



560 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: Top Strategist Is Leaving Morgan Stanley After 30 Years 

BYLINE:  By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
Barton Biggs, for nearly three decades the leading investment strategist at Morgan Stanley, said yesterday that he would retire from the firm and start a hedge fund.
 Mr. Biggs, 70, joined Morgan Stanley as a managing director in 1973. He was its first research director and established Morgan Stanley Investment Management in 1975. His current title is chief global strategist. 
 Mr. Biggs was not always right about the market, but he had a wide following for his wit and insights as well as his value-oriented approach to investing. He was cautious, if not outright bearish, during much of the run-up in stock prices in the late 1990's but turned bullish last year before the market hit bottom in early October.
The new hedge fund firm, Traxis Partners, will be formed by Mr. Biggs with Cyril Moulle-Berteaux, 33, a managing director of Morgan Stanley Asset Management, and Madhav Dhar, 41, who was in charge of its emerging markets investments before he left the firm in 1999. Mr. Biggs will remain a consultant to Morgan Stanley.
The venture, announced by Morgan Stanley, will be Mr. Biggs's second foray into running a hedge fund. Before he joined Morgan Stanley, his fund, Fairfield Partners, lost money in the early 1970's by selling short a number of highflying growth stocks, then known as the Nifty 50. They were overvalued, but the move was too early.
"As a child, yours truly was involved with the late 1960's-early 1970's hedge fund mania," Mr. Biggs wrote in a report to Morgan Stanley clients in June 2001. "No one wants to hear how that escapade ended for the hedge funds."
In that report, Mr. Biggs wrote: "The hedge fund mania that now grips the U.S. and Europe is rapidly assuming all the classic characteristics of a bubble. I know it's happening, but I don't know how it will end or how much damage it will do. I don't think it's anywhere near as big or as deadly as the tech bubble, but it could rattle some cages in the financial world."
His complaint then focused on hedge funds that were engaging in only some strategies, among them those involving convertible securities and long-short strategies, which involve buying and selling roughly equal amounts of stocks. There have since been problems in those areas, and hundreds of hedge funds have gone out of business.
Morgan Stanley said yesterday that Mr. Biggs was attending a conference in Florida; he could not be reached for comment.
Mr. Dhar, in an interview, said the new fund would invest in stocks, bonds and currencies worldwide. "There are not too many horses drinking from the trough in that area, as there are in some others," he said. "That is not a sufficient thing for success, but it is a necessary one."
Asked about the current investment climate, Mr. Dhar said: "We all feel the worst is behind us, but it is not necessarily clear sailing. Equities in general are a reasonable place to be. We think the dollar is going to be weak. We think emerging markets, broadly speaking, are looking very attractive. Economic reform is steadily under way from Brazil to Thailand to Indonesia."
He said he thought the time for investing in Japan was near, pointing to one newspaper headline that said what happened in Japan was irrelevant. He said that showed the extent of negative sentiment. "The opposite of love is not hate," he said. "It is indifference." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (93%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (90%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); BONDS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; HEDGE FUNDS 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (91%); MORGAN STANLEY ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: MORGAN STANLEY; TRAXIS PARTNERS 

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%) SIC6289 OTHER SECURITIES & COMMODITIES SERVICES; 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD; BIGGS, BARTON M 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2003 



561 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Sports Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 964 words

PERSON: William Thomas Cloney 

HEADLINE: Will Cloney, 91, Dies; Put Boston Marathon on the Map 

BYLINE:  By FRANK LITSKY 

 BODY:
Will Cloney, a former sportswriter and journalism professor who transformed the Boston Marathon from an all-amateur rite of spring to a world-class prize-money production and lost his job as race director doing it, died Thursday in a hospital in Weymouth, Mass. He was 91 and lived in Duxbury, Mass.
 In Dorchester, Mass., where Mr. Cloney was born and raised, he played high school football, baseball and hockey ("all very poorly," he said), but he never ran a race of any kind. Still, as a master organizer, he was the race director from 1946 to 1982 of the Boston Marathon, the world's most famous footrace. From 1947 until its demise in 1982, he was also the director of the Boston Athletic Association's annual indoor track meet and its accompanying high school meet. For the three events, he drew a total salary of $1,500 a year. 
 The Boston Marathon was first run in 1897 and takes place on Patriots Day, the third Monday in April, a Massachusetts holiday commemorating the British attacks at Lexington and Concord that touched off the American Revolution. The race covers 26 miles 385 yards from suburban Hopkinton to the Back Bay section of Boston.
In Mr. Cloney's early years with the marathon, only a few hundred men competed. A few were international stars, mostly from Finland and Japan and subsidized by expatriates. Most were colorful back-of-the-pack characters with names like Bricklayer Bill, Milkman Joe Smith and Cigars Connors.
In those days, there was no prize money and no expense money. In the 1950's, it cost less than $2,500 to put on the marathon. One year the total bill was $1,326.
"That's all changed," Mr. Cloney told The New York Times in 2000. "I'm proud that Boston has evolved into a world-class event. It used to be more parochial, more local. We kept going on a shoestring. Nobody got anything, including the athletes. I have very mixed emotions about it now. But we were the forerunner of all the top marathons in the world now, so that's good."
As the 1980's began, the Boston race was in trouble. The elite amateurs who competed for a trophy and a laurel wreath were now professionals who could earn significant prize and appearance money in other marathons. As the sportswriter Tom Derderian wrote:
"Of all the vicissitudes the Boston Marathon has survived since 1897, including two world wars, two lesser wars and a major economic depression, it was the 1980's, peace and money that nearly killed it."
In 1981, track and field's international federation opened the doors for today's professionalism by authorizing trust funds. Mr. Cloney, facing the economic realities, urged the Boston Athletic Association, which owned the marathon, to offer cash prizes. But the tradition-bound association, as a last bastion of pure amateurism, held firm.
Mr. Cloney, fearing the race would die, made a deal with the Boston lawyer Marshall Medoff that gave him exclusive rights to sign commercial sponsors for the race. The marathon would get a fixed amount of money ($400,000 the first year), and Mr. Medoff would keep the rest.
Although sponsorship money did come in, the Boston Athletic Association directors sued Mr. Medoff, and his contract was ruled illegal. Meanwhile, despite all his work over the years to keep the marathon afloat, Mr. Cloney was eased out of his job.
Eventually, everything he fought for became reality. The race got a full-time paid director. The best runners received expense money and a chance to win prize money, and some would earn more than $100,000 a year from this race alone. John Hancock Financial Services became the major sponsor. The annual budget reached $5 million. Despite rigid qualifying standards, the race attracted 10,000 starters each year.
As Geoff Smith of England, who won in 1984 and 1985, said when prize money was first offered in 1986: "The money is the greatest thing that's ever happened to Boston. It makes the marathon part of the 20th century again. Otherwise, Boston would have become a nonevent with no name runners."
While Mr. Cloney agreed, he was never fully comfortable with prize money. In a 1994 interview with the sportswriter and marathon runner Hal Higdon, he said: "It's very difficult for me to adjust to the fact that the first 15 or 20 finishers have been hand-picked and paid appearance money and huge prizes. It's a business to those people, and thousands of other people run just for the sake of running the Boston Marathon and getting a certificate like a college degree. Just getting it is an honor for them. But if you are going to have a world-class race, you have to have world-class runners, so how do you draw the line?"
William Thomas Cloney was born Oct. 29, 1911, and earned a degree from Harvard in 1933. While attending graduate school there, he taught at a private school, coached football and hockey there and worked as a sportswriter for The Boston Herald. With all that, he could not stay awake in graduate school, so he dropped out after a year and a half.
He spent 26 years, starting as a college freshman, as a sportswriter for The Herald and The Boston Post; 20 years as vice president of Keystone Custodial Funds, an investment company; 17 years as a journalism professor at Northeastern University; 18 years as president of the Boston Athletic Association; 4 years in the Army during World War II; and 2 years as president of the Boston Rotary Club.
He married Arline Lynch in 1937. He is survived by his wife; two daughters, Mia Benjes of Marshfield, Mass., and Kathleen Dodge of Omaha, Neb.; nine grandchildren; and 13 great-grandchildren.
At 88, Mr. Cloney was still a sportswriter at heart.
"I still watch games on TV every night," he said. "I write the story in my head, and the next day I read the paper to see what the guy covering the game did with the story."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Will Cloney in 1981. (United Press International) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); MARATHONS (91%); TRACK & FIELD (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (76%); BASEBALL (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); RUNNING (58%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; RUNNING; MARATHON RUNNING; BOSTON MARATHON 

CLONEY, WILL; LITSKY, FRANK 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (99%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

CATEGORY: Sports 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2003 



562 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: 9/11 Program Finally Gets Flood of Requests for Help 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH P. FRIED 

 BODY:
A flood of last-minute requests to the biggest program aiding small businesses and nonprofit groups in Lower Manhattan in the wake of the World Trade Center attack has pushed the amount of aid approved to more than the $481 million allotted for the program, according to the state agency that runs the program. Beyond that, 1,700 applications remain to be processed. 
 Officials of the World Trade Center Business Recovery Grant Program say they have approved more than 13,000 applications for $492 million. Michael Marr, a spokesman for the agency, the Empire State Development Corporation, added that most of the 1,700 applications still pending flooded in on the last days before the program's filing deadline on Dec. 31. 
 Although the grants have surpassed the allotment, whatever amount is ultimately needed will be provided, Empire State's chief operating officer, Kevin Corbett, said yesterday. Among the options being considered, he said, is reallocating money from other Sept. 11 relief programs the agency administers.
A review of the grant program's records indicates that the largest beneficiary so far is one of the most powerful unions representing public employees in the city, District Council 37 of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees. It qualifies for the program as a nonprofit organization and its offices at 125 Barclay Street are near the northern edge of the trade center site. 
The union and three of its affiliated funds received a total of $1,196,000, while the maximum for an organization at a single Lower Manhattan site is $300,000. The state agency said that the union and each affiliated fund qualified as a separate organization and thus each of the four entities was entitled to compensation for losses up to $300,000. 
Mr. Marr said that the union and the affiliates -- its education fund, its benefits fund trust and its health and security plan -- were treated as separate entities because the four organizations "had their own separate employer identification numbers and separate tax return filings." 
Mr. Corbett said that the nearly $1.2 million in total grants were legal under the program regulations. 
Ralph Pepe, real estate manager of District Council 37, said that the funds also had separate trustees and separate payrolls. 
He said the losses that the union and the funds suffered were severe and included wages they continued to pay employees in the weeks after the attack, despite many employees not being able to work because they lacked workplaces. 
The union and funds eventually occupied temporary quarters on West 24th Street, where they spent five months before moving back to 125 Barclay Street, which the union owns. 
Other losses, Mr. Pepe said, included real estate taxes and expenses related to the building while it was unoccupied. He said all the losses claimed would not be reimbursed by insurance, which is in line with the recovery grant program's regulations. 
Under the program, businesses with fewer than 500 employees on sites from 14th Street to the Battery are eligible for compensation for economic losses stemming from the terrorist attack. The maximum compensation depends on location within the eligible area, with the highest grants of $300,000 for businesses that had been in the World Trade Center and on blocks close to the site. 
Other maximums range from $150,000 down to $50,000, depending on distance from the site. The maximum rises to $500,00 for businesses and organizations with more than one Lower Manhattan site. Reduced revenues caused by closings or business declines attributable to the attack may also be claimed and are usually the major source of the losses claimed by businesses.
While the $492 million approved for 13,000 businesses averages almost $38,000 each, most grants are much smaller and are not enough given the actual losses, advocates for the area's small businesses say. In November, the development corporation reported that half the grants were for less than $13,300.
The agency said it had been doing its best to "distribute a finite amount of resources equitably." And many recipients have praised the program and said that their grants had been vital in helping them through the toughest times. 
Critics have also charged that for much of the last year the agency had not done enough to reach out to those needing the money, but Mr. Marr said this week that this was belied by the number of applications ultimately received. 
Alan J. Gerson, a city councilman from Lower Manhattan who has been a critic of the agency, said yesterday that it deserved credit for its progress in distributing grants, but that other problems with the program remained. 
These include, he said, its failure to provide for higher payments to businesses that were in the trade center and "lost everything." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); TRENDS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); HIJACKING (77%); EXECUTIVES (73%); TERRORISM (72%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (72%); COUNTIES (71%); CITY LIFE (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (70%); EDUCATION FUNDING (67%); TAX LAW (66%); PROPERTY TAX (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) TERRORISM; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (71%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE COUNTY & MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES (55%) WORLD TRADE CENTER BUSINESS RECOVERY GRANT PROGRAM 

PERSON: FRIED, JOSEPH P; CORBETT, KEVIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2003 



563 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: G.E. Meets Its Reduced Forecast And Sees Mixed Times in 2003 

BYLINE:  By ALEX BERENSON 

 BODY:
General Electric said yesterday that its profit for the fourth quarter had matched the reduced forecast it made in November and it reaffirmed its profit outlook for the first quarter and all of 2003.
 But G.E., one of the world's biggest manufacturing and financial services companies, said that it saw little evidence of a strong economic recovery. In a conference call with investors, its executives said that G.E. continued to have problems raising its prices because of overcapacity in many of its markets. 
 In 2002, G.E. earned $14.1 billion, or $1.41 a share, on sales of $131.7 billion, up from $125.9 billion in 2001. Excluding a one-time noncash charge of 10 cents a share for good will write-down, it made $15.1 billion, or $1.51 a share, compared with $1.37 a share in 2001, G.E. said. The company forecast $1.51 a share in November. 
While the company's results included an array of one-time gains and charges, the overall picture was mixed. Five of the 12 major business divisions showed profit gains, five showed declines, and two were basically flat. G.E.'s results were also helped by a lower tax rate and a $514 million one-time profit from trading its stake in Cablevision for the Bravo cable network.
The company's results were broadly in line with expectations, analysts said. G.E. shares closed at $24.88, down 15 cents, or 0.6 percent, on a day when the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 1.4 percent.
From its peak of about $60 a share in August 2000, G.E. has fallen 60 percent, as its profit growth has slowed and some analysts have questioned the quality of earnings at its GE Capital financial services division. A slump in the electricity industry has also slowed orders for G.E.'s power turbines, one of its most profitable products.
General Electric's size, at 310,000 employees, and diversity make it an important economic barometer. It is a leading maker of electric turbines, jet engines, medical imaging equipment and appliances, and it owns NBC. Its GE Capital unit is the fourth-largest financial services company in the United States.
In 2003, General Electric expects to have a profit of $1.55 to $1.70 a share, compared with $1.51 last year, which excluded the 10-cent noncash write-off of good will. But the 2002 figure does include a 14-cent charge related to losses at General Electric's insurance unit. Excluding that charge, G.E. would have posted a profit of $1.65 a share in 2002, as much as 10 cents a share more than the profit it is forecasting for 2003.
In the first quarter of 2003, G.E. expects earnings to decline 5 percent to 10 percent from the profit of $3.5 billion, or 35 cents a share, that it reported in the year-earlier period. That estimate is unchanged from its November forecast.
On a conference call yesterday morning, General Electric executives said consumer demand in the United States has slowed, with G.E.'s appliance and lighting business flat in the fourth quarter. Europe appears slightly stronger than Asia, they said.
Over all, many industries have too much production capacity, and price competition remains fierce, forcing G.E. to lower the prices of many of its products, Jeffrey R. Immelt, the company's chairman, said. Last year, G.E. cut its prices an average of 1.4 percent, said Keith Sherin, its chief financial officer.
General Electric said its profits continued to be hurt by high oil prices, which are increasing the cost of the raw materials it uses in its plastics division. The company said that it thought the potential for war in Iraq and other supply disruptions had increased the price of oil $8 to $10 a barrel, to their current price of nearly $34 a barrel.
"The real pressure right now is coming from raw material inflation," Mr. Sherin said. "Raw materials are pretty much out of sync with the economy."
In November, General Electric said that it would take a $2.5 billion pretax charge because of unexpectedly large losses in its insurance unit. That charge would reduce net income $1.4 billion, or 14 cents a share, the company said at the time. It predicted earnings for all of 2002, after the charge, of $14.1 billion, or $1.41 a share.
Yesterday, the company said that it had met that forecast. Its fourth-quarter earnings were $3.1 billion, or 31 cents a share, after the charge, or $4.5 billion excluding the charge, the company said. In the year-earlier quarter, the company had net income of $3.9 billion.
In the fourth quarter, the company's strongest units included its commercial finance division, which had a profit of $855 million, up 30 percent from the previous year; NBC, which had a profit of $470 million, up 14 percent; and its industrial products unit, which had a profit of $298 million, up 15 percent. 
In addition to insurance, its weakest units included its power turbine division and its plastics division.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Overcapacity is a problem in many industries, Jeffrey R. Immelt of G.E. says. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times) Chart: "Business Barometer"No longer able to maintain the steadily rising earnings momentum it enjoyed in the 1990's, General Electric has lost favor among investors as the economy has soured. G.E.'S QUARTERLY EARNINGS PER SHARE Graph tracks share price, plotted weekly, from 2001 through 2003. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (74%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); CONFERENCE CALLS (56%); DIAGNOSTIC IMAGING (50%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (87%)

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO 

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (87%); GEC (LSE) (87%); GE (SWX) (87%); GE (NYSE) (87%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (87%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (87%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (87%) SIC3621 MOTORS & GENERATORS; 

PERSON: JEFFREY IMMELT (59%) BERENSON, ALEX 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2003 



564 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1895 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; 
Banana Workers Get Day in Court

BYLINE:  By DAVID GONZALEZ with SAMUEL LOEWENBERG 

DATELINE: CHINANDEGA, Nicaragua 

 BODY:
Manuel Guido Montoya never had the children he once hoped would ease his workload and bring home a few extra dollars. Years ago, he tried to start a family, he said, but the woman left him once she realized he was sterile.
 Like scores of men and women in this banana-growing region -- and thousands of field workers throughout Central America, the Caribbean, Africa and the Philippines -- Mr. Guido blames dibromochloropropane, or DBCP, for his medical problems. The pesticide was banned in much of the United States in 1977 when it was found to cause sterility, but continued to be used for years in the banana plantations that supply American supermarkets. 
 For two decades, the workers say, their efforts to win compensation for the damage done by DBCP -- including sterility, cancer, and birth defects in children -- have been frustrated by the legal tactics of American chemical and fruit companies. But now they are getting their day in court. 
A ruling by a federal judge in New Orleans has opened the way for a lawsuit brought by 3,000 Central American banana workers seeking millions in damages, the first time one of these cases would be tried in the United States. The United States Supreme Court will hear arguments Wednesday on whether or not to allow other DBCP lawsuits to be tried in state courts. 
And over the objections of the Bush administration, which has pressed the Nicaraguan government on behalf of the corporate defendants, courts here have begun awarding hundreds of millions of dollars in damages to banana workers.
The companies facing lawsuits are giants of the chemical and fruit industries: Shell Oil, Dow Chemical and Occidental Chemical; Dole Food, Del Monte Fresh Produce and Chiquita Brands International.
Earlier cases resulted in two major settlements. Starting in 1997, all of the companies except Dole settled with 26,000 former banana workers in Central America, Africa and the Philippines for $41 million. After lawyer fees were deducted, the workers received an average of $1,500 each. A 1992 settlement in Costa Rica netted $20 million for 1,000 workers.
But tens of thousands of other workers still have suits pending in courts in Central America, the Philippines and the United States. "Our fight is over whether we get to tell our story," said Scott Hendler, who represents more than 3,000 plaintiffs seeking trials in Louisiana and Hawaii.
The companies insist, in statements and regulatory filings, that they have no further responsibility after settling claims years ago. They say that many of the thousands of workers who are now suing were never even exposed to the chemical, and that it has not been proved to cause the cancers, birth defects or organ damage now attributed to it.
Shell said that its products were never sold in Nicaragua; in any event, it added, DBCP was always labeled with appropriate safety precautions. Dow disputes its liability and notes that its product had warning labels -- but says the companies that used it did not always communicate proper warnings to their employees. Dole says that DBCP's safety was tested by the manufacturers. 
The companies have consistently argued that the cases should be heard in the country where the purported injuries occurred -- a tactic that for years effectively put the litigation in limbo.
"Courts in foreign countries are not up to the task of handling these kinds of cases," said Alejandro Garro, a professor of Latin American law at Columbia University who has testified on behalf of the banana workers. "These countries have 19th- century legal structures and have no system in place to deal with extremely technical class-action cases involving thousands of workers."
But that obstacle has crumbled in Nicaragua. Pressed by labor unions, the government in 2000 passed a law for DBCP victims that requires corporate defendants to put up a bond of $100,000 a case within three months of being served. In all, the law has led to the filing of over 400 cases seeking more than $9.6 billion in damages on behalf of 7,000 plaintiffs.
Last month, after a trial in which the companies refused to take part, a Managua court ordered Shell, Dole and Dow to pay $489.4 million to 450 workers. Lawyers for the plaintiffs say they will try to get American courts to enforce the judgment.
The companies say they will not pay. Shell issued a statement arguing that Nicaragua's courts has no jurisdiction over Shell because its headquarters are in the United States and it has no employees in Nicaragua. Dow said that the Nicaraguan law "offends virtually every notion Americans have of fair play and substantial justice," adding that the company will seek to have the Nicaraguan cases retried in the United States. Dole said that the court never obtained jurisdiction over it and that the law violated the Nicaraguan Constitution.
Both Dow and Dole say in their fall 2002 quarterly reports that they do not expect the DBCP lawsuits to have a material impact on their financial condition. Dole did note in a conference call with analysts last November that it had increased its legal reserves by more than $10 million because of the lawsuits.
Shell and Occidental developed the pesticide in the 1940's. Tests on rats showed that it caused testicular atrophy and other damage, but company scientists persuaded the Department of Agriculture in 1961 that DBCP was safe for humans, according to company documents obtained by plaintiffs' lawyers.
But in 1977, the Environmental Protection Agency suspended use of DBCP in most of the United States after a third of the workers at Occidental's manufacturing plant in Lathrop, Calif., were found to be sterile. The E.P.A. made the ban permanent in 1979, finding that the pesticide caused sterility in humans and an increased risk of cancer and genetic damage.
The lawsuits here and in the United States charge that the chemical companies shipped DBCP abroad and the growers used it despite knowing about its harmful effects even before the ban. Some of the lawsuits charge that it was used as late as 1985.
In Nicaragua, Mr. Guido, 47, and others said they used DBCP throughout the 1970's without gloves, masks or protective suits, while the fruit companies told them nothing about the potential hazards.
"Walking through the plantations, we breathed in the vapors," Mr. Guido said, recalling times when he and co-workers were drenched in the chemical. "I'd get headaches, a bloody nose, stomachaches. You put up with a lot of pain." 
Scores of his neighbors are childless, like him, or have children born ill or with birth defects -- stigmas in a society where large families are not only expected but also necessary for economic survival.
Lawyers in the Louisiana case have screened dozens of Costa Rican banana workers in preparation for trial. For several days in November a procession of middle-aged men shuffled through the community center in Guapiles, a commercial hub nestled among plantations and national parks, where they provided detailed medical and work histories.
Like Mr. Guido and his neighbors in Nicaragua, Costa Rican workers said in interviews that they were never told that DBCP was harmful, adding that any warning labels on the chemical drums were useless, since they do not read English.
Dow supplied the pesticide to Standard Fruit, Dole's predecessor in the Costa Rican banana fields, after it was initially banned by the E.P.A., but insisted on being indemnified against damages, according to Scot Wheeler, a Dow spokesman. The agreement between the companies listed numerous safety and health precautions.
In interviews and court filings, lawyers for the Costa Rican workers said that the fruit company ignored some of the safety requirements or provided inadequate protective gear. At the time, they added, local authorities did not have the ability to assess potential dangers from pesticides and were reluctant to challenge the growers, who were -- and remain -- a powerful economic force providing thousands of much-needed jobs.
After years of demanding that all the DBCP lawsuits be heard in the Third World, the companies may be coming to regret their wish. They are attacking Nicaragua's DBCP victim's law on every front.
Dole, Dow and Shell have hired former Clinton and Reagan administration officials to enlist the Bush administration's aid in pressing Nicaragua to repeal the law. Similar laws in Ecuador and Guatemala, they noted, were recently declared unconstitutional.
The administration, agreeing that the Nicaraguan law unfairly aims at a few companies decades after the fact, has taken up the cause. Secretary of State Colin L. Powell is said to have raised the issue with Nicaragua's foreign minister, although a department spokesman would say only that the United States has raised the issue "at the highest levels."
Oliver Garza, who was the United States ambassador in Managua until September, conveyed his reservations to the Nicaraguan foreign ministry last March, the State Department said. Otto Reich, the State Department official who was in charge of Western Hemisphere affairs, also raised the issue during a visit to Nicaragua in September, according to diplomats from both countries.
"The State Department said, 'You have some large American companies that have an interest in this; it is in your interest to find a solution,' " said Carlos Ulvert, the Nicaraguan ambassador to the United States.
Although Nicaragua says it wants to support the workers, thousands of them marched five days from Chinandega to Managua in November to press the government to make good on its promise by providing financial or medical help.
Nicaraguan officials expect more American pressure to repeal the law during the current Central American free trade talks. Dow, Shell and Dole have repeatedly told senior Nicaraguan officials that the law hurts the foreign investment climate in the country, among the most impoverished in the hemisphere. 
The companies "implied that they would do everything short of declaring war," a senior Nicaraguan official said. "These companies come with a lot of stick and very little carrot. I am perfectly aware of the two-by-four they hold over our heads."
Ambassador Ulvert said his government favored an out-of-court settlement of the DBCP suits, but that any compromise needed to provide fair compensation to the workers. Dole, Shell and Dow declined to comment further on the talks, although Dole filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission say the company is discussing a settlement with 2,000 Honduran workers.
Even today, the best-paid Central American banana workers earn about $7,000 a year, with many earning half that. Many of those who claim they were injured by DBCP still work on other farms or get by doing odd jobs.
But money is not their foremost concern. Mario Zumbado, a Costa Rican who worked in Dole's Rio Frio fields in the 1970's and who may be a witness in the Louisiana case, said his life had been ruined by his years in the fields. He barely remembers the $20,000 he was awarded in the 1992 decision. Each of his five wives left him, he said, when they realized his sterility was irreversible.
"My destiny is up to God," said Mr. Zumbado, who is 53 and now works as a barber. "It may be to be continued, to be abandoned. That is the life you have when you are alone, with no children. Staying that way is not easy, without soul, life or heart."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Plantation workers in Nicaragua marched in November, demanding compensation for health problems they say were caused by a pesticide. Manuel Guido Montoya, above, said he and other workers who applied the pesticide were not told of the potential hazards. (Mario Lopez for The New York Times); (Associated Press)(pg. C1); Laborers in Nicaragua carried a symbolic coffin in November calling attention to problems caused by insecticides at plantations. American courts have awarded hundreds of millions of dollars to banana workers. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. C3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANANA & PLANTAIN PRODUCTION (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); PESTICIDES (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (90%); CHEMICALS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); DAMAGES (88%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (88%); CHEMICALS MFG (88%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (77%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); CARCINOGENS (75%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (73%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (72%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (71%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (68%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); JUDGES (67%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (56%) BANANAS; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES; PESTICIDES; SUITS AND LITIGATION; LABOR; INDUSTRIAL AND OCCUPATIONAL HAZARDS; DIBROMOCHLORPROPANE (DBCP) (PESTICIDE) 

COMPANY: DOLE FOOD CO INC (70%); FRESH DEL MONTE PRODUCE INC (65%); DOW CHEMICAL CO (56%); CHIQUITA BRANDS INTERNATIONAL INC (53%); SHELL OIL CO (53%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%) SHELL OIL CO; DOW CHEMICAL CO; OCCIDENTAL CHEMICAL CORP; DOLE FOOD CO; DEL MONTE FOODS CO; CHIQUITA BRANDS INTERNATIONAL INC 

TICKER: DOLE (NYSE) (70%); FDP (NYSE) (65%); DOW (SWX) (56%); DOW (NYSE) (56%); DOW (LSE) (56%); 4850 (TSE) (56%); CQB (NYSE) (53%); RDSA (LSE) (50%); RDSA (AMS) (50%); RDS.B (NYSE) (50%); RDS.A (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC0179 FRUITS & TREE NUTS, NEC (70%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (65%); NAICS111339 OTHER NONCITRUS FRUIT FARMING (65%); NAICS111219 OTHER VEGETABLE (EXCEPT POTATO) & MELON FARMING (65%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (65%); SIC0161 VEGETABLES & MELONS (65%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (53%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (53%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (50%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (50%)

PERSON: GONZALEZ, DAVID; LOEWENBERG, SAMUEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); NICARAGUA (94%); PHILIPPINES (94%); CENTRAL AMERICA (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (91%); COSTA RICA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%) LATIN AMERICA

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2003 



565 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: Beliefs; 
On the agenda in Davos: rebuilding trust in institutions, religion not least among them.

BYLINE:  By Peter Steinfels 

 BODY:
When more than 2,100 people -- business executives, government officials, social activists, academics, religious leaders and others -- gather at the World Economic Forum's annual meeting in Davos, Switzerland, next week, the decline of trust will be a major theme.
 The decline of trust will also be a fact on the ground, as the phrase goes -- and in the air. The meeting will be guarded by thousands of soldiers and private security agents. Cars and trains will be stopped and checked for potential troublemakers. Over the Swiss village and ski resort, army helicopters will be patrolling a no-flight zone, where the military is prepared to shoot down unauthorized aircraft not responding to warnings. 
 As part of the meeting's umbrella theme of "building trust," a panel on "restoring trust in religion" will examine the effect of religion's use for political purposes and recent scandals involving religious leaders.
The panelists will include the Most Rev. George Carey, formerly archbishop of Canterbury; Karen Armstrong, author of books on Islam and other world religions; Zaki Badawi, president of the Muslim College in London; and Arthur Schneier, senior rabbi at the Park East Synagogue in Manhattan and the founder and president of the Appeal of Conscience Foundation, an interfaith organization promoting religious freedom and tolerance.
Douglas Miller, the president of Environics International, a Canadian concern coordinating public opinion surveys for the World Economic Forum, said that in recent years, trust in religious institutions and religious and spiritual leaders had declined "by statistically significant margins" in more than two of every three nations surveyed. 
These include predominantly Muslim nations like Indonesia, predominantly Christian ones like Argentina, nations split between faiths like Nigeria and South Korea, and less religious countries like Canada. Only in Turkey did pollsters find that trust in religion had actually increased. 
The decline has been especially steep in the United States -- largely, it seems, because of the sex scandals of the Roman Catholic Church. According to a Gallup poll released last June, those Americans who still express "a great deal" of confidence in religious institutions has dropped to 45 percent, a 30-year low, from 60 percent in 2001.
On the other hand, religious institutions and spiritual leaders have not done badly compared with many other institutions, in which trust "has fallen to critical proportions," according to the World Economic Forum's analysis of its surveys.
The most disturbing findings of the organization's polling in 47 countries on six continents are the low levels of trust in parliaments or other legislative bodies that claim to be democratic.
That may be easily understood in Latin American or Middle Eastern nations where such assemblies have been more of a democratic facade than a deeply implanted reality. But even in North American and European Union nations, fewer than a majority of respondents expressed "some" or "a lot" of trust that their elected legislatures were operating in society's best interests.
Asked whether their country was "governed by the will of the people," two-thirds of the 36,000-person sample surveyed worldwide said no. In only 4 of the 47 countries did a majority say yes.
The institution generally enjoying the most trust? The armed forces. The next three most trusted institutions were nongovernmental organizations like human rights, environmental and other social advocacy groups; the educational systems; and the United Nations.
Religious institutions came next, ranked fifth among 17 major institutions. The news media and labor unions were 10th and 11th. Large national and multinational companies and the International Monetary Fund stood just above elected legislatures at the very bottom of the ranking.
Another poll, conducted for the World Economic Forum in 15 countries, showed that most leaders garnered even less trust than the institutions they lead.
Religion's record in building trust is obviously mixed. Historically, trust in one's own faith was correlated with distrust of others. Then, too, religion has often warned against placing trust in anything earthly. "Put not your trust in princes, nor in any mortal," warns Psalm 146. A familiar, homelier sentiment goes: "In God we trust. All others pay cash."
Rabbi Schneier counters with the point that Judaism includes a prayer for civic authorities in its worship, as do many other faiths. He is heading to Davos with the message that trust in all religious institutions and leaders is inextricably tied to their commitment to pluralism.
Religion has, of course, always had a lot to say about trustworthiness, how to define it, how to foster it and, for that matter, how to destroy it. Will there really be a chance for much of that to be said in Davos, however?
Rabbi Schneier maintains that the attention given religion at the World Economic Forum is growing significantly. Still, type in "religion" in the search menu that the forum provides for finding sessions related to a specific topic, and four are listed -- among well over 200 sessions at the meeting. Type in "security," and 19 sessions pop up. For "technology," the number is 17.
The forum's Web site also indicates that 37 of the 2,150-plus participants will be religious leaders, compared with 239 "public figures," 172 "academic experts" and 264 "press and media representatives."
Oddly enough, the greatest obstacle for religious leaders at a meeting like this may not be that no one wants to hear a sermon but that so many others want to give one. If reports from last year's meeting are accurate, not only religious leaders but also politicians and entertainers were far readier with sermons than with convincing arguments.
With everything on the agenda in Davos, from war in the Middle East to the rising opposition to globalization, religion's contribution to building trust may require a few strong arguments. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (99%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (78%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (78%); TRENDS (77%); ARMED FORCES (71%); HELICOPTERS (70%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (70%); SCANDALS (68%); EUROPEAN UNION (68%); WRITERS (67%); SEX SCANDALS (67%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (93%) WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM 

PERSON: STEINFELS, PETER 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%) GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (92%); NEW YORK, USA (70%) SWITZERLAND (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (92%); NIGERIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); TURKEY (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (73%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2003 



566 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 3; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL; 
Decline in Market Leads to Fewer Arbitration Cases

BYLINE:  By MURRAY CHASS 

 BODY:
The owners' off-season signing strategy was vividly on display yesterday. Only 35 players exchanged figures with their clubs for salary arbitration, demonstrating the high number of arbitration-eligible players who had already agreed to 2003 salaries.
 Because they signed before exchanging figures, most of the players most likely accepted salaries more in line with what their clubs wanted to pay. They signed early after witnessing the decline in the market for free agents, figuring they better get what they could while they could still get it. 
 The number of players who exchanged figures, the lowest in at least 15 years, was fewer than half the 72 who could have. Twenty players, including one who exchanged figures, agreed to new contracts yesterday. Twenty-two other players had signed in the previous two days.
Among the players who signed yesterday were Torii Hunter, the Minnesota Twins center fielder, who agreed to a four-year, $32 million contract; Danny Graves, a Cincinnati reliever turned starter, who said yes to three years and $17.25 million; and Kevin Millwood, the pitcher Atlanta traded to Philadelphia for economic reasons, who agreed to $9.9 million for one year.
Millwood's salary confirmed the Braves' belief that he could get as much as $10 million in arbitration, a risk they did not want to take because Greg Maddux, who was a free agent, accepted their offer of salary arbitration, and they did not want to have to pay Maddux and Millwood.
Maddux, one of the 35 players who exchanged figures, submitted $16 million to the Braves' $13.5 million. The spread of $2.5 million was the largest of the sets of numbers that were exchanged. Maddux is coming off a contract -- five years for $57.5 million -- that averaged $11.5 million a year. 
One of the best pitchers of the past 15 years, Maddux did not establish an arbitration record with his number. Derek Jeter continues to have the highest salary sought by a player, $18.5 million in 2001. Jeter and the Yankees did not make it to a hearing. They negotiated a 10-year, $189 million contract instead.
Most of the players who filed will also negotiate contracts before their hearings. Those who do not will go before three-person arbitration panels in the first three weeks of next month.
Shannon Stewart, a Toronto outfielder, submitted the highest number after Maddux's, $7.5 million to the Blue Jays' $5.5 million. He was followed by Javier Vazquez, $7.15 million to Montreal's $6 million; Carlos Beltran, $6.95 million to Kansas City's $6 million; and Freddy Garcia, $6,875,000 to Seattle's $5.9 million.
The most interesting signing of the day was Hunter's $32 million contract because with it, the Twins continued to demonstrate that they want to keep their best players. In the last two and a half years they have signed two of their pitchers to uncharacteristic Twins contracts, Brad Radke, $36 million for four years, and Joe May, $20 million for four years.
"Center fielders that hit for power are hard to come by," General Manager Terry Ryan said in Minneapolis. "He is one that can do that."
Hunter last season hit a career-high 29 home runs and drove in a career-high 94 runs. The year before he hit 27 home runs and knocked in 92 runs.
Among players who signed one-year contracts before exchanging numbers were Derek Lee of Florida ($4.25 million), Trot Nixon of Boston ($4 million), Roy Halladay of Toronto ($3,825,000), Adrian Beltre of Los Angeles and J. D. Drew of St. Louis ($3.7 million each). Randy Winn, whom Tampa Bay sent to Seattle as compensation for Manager Lou Piniella, also signed for one year, for $3.3 million. The Devil Rays are happy not to have to pay that salary.
The Mets had only one player on the list. Scott Strickland, whom the Mets acquired from the Expos last season, submitted $1,175,000 to the Mets' $875,000. The reliever had a $355,000 salary and a 6-9 record in 69 games last season.
The Yankees have no one in arbitration. They traded their lone eligible player, Orlando Hernandez, to the Expos this week. The pitcher, supplanted on the Yankees' staff by a fellow Cuban, Jose Contreras, is seeking $4.5 million to the Expos' $4 million.
The Expos will pay only $300,000 for whatever amount Hernandez receives. Under terms of the three-way trade in which Bartolo Colon went from Montreal to the Chicago White Sox, the White Sox will pay the rest after receiving $2 million from the Yankees.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Greg Maddux asked for a salary of $16 million, and Atlanta submitted a bid of $13.5 million. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (90%); BASEBALL (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (90%); ATHLETES (72%) BASEBALL; ARBITRATION, CONCILIATION AND MEDIATION 

ORGANIZATION: MINNESOTA TWINS (56%); ATLANTA BRAVES (55%)

PERSON: DEREK JETER (50%) CHASS, MURRAY 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (70%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (56%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (51%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (70%); MINNESOTA, USA (56%); ONTARIO, CANADA (51%) UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (51%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2003 



567 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: SUNY Trustees Vote to Raise In-State Tuition By 41 Percent 

BYLINE:  By KAREN W. ARENSON 

 BODY:
State University of New York trustees recommended yesterday raising undergraduate tuition for residents by 41 percent -- or $1,400 -- the largest increase in SUNY history. The increase would push annual tuition at SUNY's four-year campuses to $4,800 next year from $3,400, and to nearly $5,700 on average, if required campus fees were included.
 With the proposal, SUNY joins a flood of public universities across the nation that have been scrambling to cover rising costs, declining state aid and drops in endowment income and other revenues by raising tuition. Many of the increases have been as much as 20 percent or 30 percent; few have been as high as SUNY's proposed increase. 
 More unusual still have been the midyear tuition increases and surcharges announced by a number of leading public university systems, including the University of California and California State University, as state finances deteriorate.
"This is an unprecedented period in public university pricing," said David W. Breneman, dean of the Curry School of Education at the University of Virginia.
Although Gov. George E. Pataki and the State Legislature must weigh in on the tuition decision, many Albany budget experts expect an increase close to what the board recommended. SUNY has not had a tuition increase since 1995, when it raised tuition and enrollment dropped 5 percent over two years.
In the past, tuition increases at SUNY -- the largest state university in the country -- have tended to move closely with those at the City University of New York, so budget experts say students there can probably expect an increase, too. At CUNY, in-state tuition for undergraduates in bachelor's degree programs is currently $3,200 a year.
Dr. Breneman said there was a brief period in the 90's when public university tuition was stable and financial aid for the lowest-income students made some gains. But now, he said, federal and state budgets are under so much stress that such gains are unlikely, the tuition increases notwithstanding.
"We're heading towards a potential train wreck," he said.
SUNY's chancellor, Robert L. King, said yesterday that higher tuition was needed to meet operating costs and maintain academic quality. He said SUNY was also aggressively seeking to cut expenses, and that he had directed campus presidents to redouble efforts to inform students about scholarships, loans and work-study opportunities.
"We have been able to hold tuition down for seven years," he said. "But given what the university's needs are and what is the reality facing the state, we are not going to be able to do that any longer."
Only two SUNY trustees -- George H. Pape Jr., president of SUNY's Student Assembly, and Candace de Russy -- voted against the budget and tuition resolution, saying that it would push SUNY beyond the reach of many students. The vote was 10 to 2 on the resolution, which called for a relatively flat operating budget of $1.9 billion.
"Such an increase will have the grave consequence of preventing some -- perhaps many -- needy students from attending SUNY," Dr. de Russy said, referring to the tuition proposal.
Mr. Pape, a senior at the University at Buffalo, expressed concern that SUNY was moving away from its mission. "How are we going to fulfill our obligation of access if we are willing to increase our tuition so dramatically?" he asked.
The impact on students of a tuition increase depends on what happens to financial aid. Under New York's Tuition Assistance Plan, known as TAP, the neediest students are eligible for grants equal to the total cost of tuition at SUNY or CUNY, and up to $5,000 toward tuition at a private college or university in the state.
Mr. Pataki briefly reduced TAP to 90 percent of tuition at public universities, but it has since been fully restored. The Legislature rebuffed other proposals by the governor to cut TAP awards and use the difference as an award for students who graduate in a timely fashion.
Governor Pataki will not present his budget until Jan. 29, and SUNY did not say how much it expects state funding to decline or what it expects to happen to TAP. Typically, the university does not determine tuition until it knows how much money it can expect from the state.
Kevin C. Quinn, a spokesman for the State Division of the Budget, said Mr. Pataki was committed to ensuring access to a first-class education, and that he had held the line on tuition for seven years. "There is no question that New York faces major fiscal challenges due to the attacks of 9/11 and the national recession," Mr. Quinn said. "While it is premature to speculate about what the governor will present in his budget plan, we will review the proposal that SUNY put forth today."
Chancellor King said that more than half of SUNY's four-year undergraduates receive TAP, and that 60 percent of those would effectively see no increase. But many students, including part-time ones, come from out of state, or have family incomes above the TAP cutoff. "Obviously some people are going to have to pay, and the burden will fall on those who have the most ability to pay," Mr. King said.
SUNY raised tuition for 23 of its community colleges earlier this year, but by much smaller amounts.
CUNY submitted a budget plan in November that requested a 7 percent increase in its operating budget and that made no mention of any tuition increase. The budget was predicated on CUNY's raising revenues from a variety of sources -- including donations -- and on savings from management efficiencies.
Some Democratic assemblymen have pledged to fight the SUNY tuition increase. "This is a tax increase on the working families of New York," said a spokeswoman for Speaker Sheldon Silver.
Republican State Senate leaders said they wanted to see the governor's budget before passing judgment. "Then we need to place the tuition that hasn't been increased in seven years in the context of the greater budget deliberations," said Senator Kenneth LaValle, chairman of the Higher Education Committee. He said he hoped to find ways to reform the tuition-setting process, through indexing or other means.
Some students said a $1,400 tuition increase could hurt their ability to stay in college.
"I work two jobs in the summer and one during the school year already," said Angelia Clarke, 20, a junior at SUNY Geneseo. "I receive TAP, and I have scholarships. I have tried to get more money, but there is none out there. It's hard to imagine coming up with that kind of money. I may have to quit school." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TUITION FEES (98%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (93%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); STUDENT LOANS (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); HOLDING COMPANIES (59%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TUITION; FINANCES 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (55%) STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK 

INDUSTRY:  SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES; 

PERSON: ARENSON, KAREN W 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2003 



568 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1379 words

HEADLINE: Does Class Count in Today's Land of Opportunity? 

BYLINE:  By FELICIA R. LEE 

 BODY:
As the maid Marisa Ventura in the new film "Maid in Manhattan," Jennifer Lopez uses charm and hard work to vault the growing chasms between the rich, the poor and the getting-by (managing to snag the cute, rich guy along the way). 
 Popular culture has always embraced the notion of America as a nation of porous class lines. But as one of the most prosperous 20-year periods in American history ends, the question of just how important class has become has gained a new immediacy. Critics accuse President Bush of skewing his $64 billion, 10-year economic plan to help the rich, while he counters that opponents are engaging in un-American "class warfare." 
 Sociologists, of course, have argued for decades about how to define "social class." Yet even the latest research has produced contradictory conclusions. 
When it comes to class, is income all that matters? Is your college alma mater important? Or knowing how to use a fingerbowl? And where does race fit in? 
"There is a big academic debate on social class as opposed to income," said David B. Grusky, director of the Center for the Study of Inequality at Cornell and a professor of sociology. "There are sociologists who argue that social class is in decline in regard to lifestyle, consumption factors and politics as coherent, meaningful groups."
Searching for answers, Professor Grusky and Kim Weeden, an assistant professor of sociology at Cornell, turned to 30 years of data collected by the federal government and the National Opinion Research Center, affiliated with the University of Chicago. Together, the two surveys contained information on a representative group of about 760,000 Americans, from their political attitudes to their reading and television habits. 
The professors concluded that lumping people into big groups like the "working" or "middle" class on the basis of their incomes ultimately had little to do with what they bought, what they watched or whom they voted for. Rather, cultural and political similarities are more likely to be found among people who are in the same profession or do the same type of work, reinforced first by educational training and then by work experiences.
Sociologists, for instance, are mostly politically liberal while economists are mostly conservative, they said.
Even big occupation groupings can hide differences, Professor Grusky said. Consider an issue like abortion. Among service workers, bartenders tended to support legalized abortion while cooks and cleaners tended to oppose it.
"Classes are as weak as they ever were," Professor Grusky said. "There is nothing shared in the big classes. Social scientists were always off the mark in talking about these big classes." 
Paul W. Kingston, a professor of sociology at the University of Virginia and the author of "The Classless Society: Studies in Social Inequality" (Stanford University Press, 2000), agrees. He says that people who share a common economic position "do not significantly share distinct, life-defining experiences." And he further argues that economic inequality alone does not imply the existence of classes.
"The empirical issue is how would you recognize a class when you saw one," Professor Kingston said in an interview. "Does a blue-collar worker have a certain outlook, background, cultural disposition? The general impression is, there was a greater class structure 50 years ago. There is a lot of generational class mobility."
Professor Kingston says his research shows that habits in voting and tastes in music, television and recreation fail to correlate significantly with income. Class in the old-fashioned sense is arbitrary, he declares.
"Lots of people play golf, lots of people play tennis," he said, referring to two sports once seen as the province of the affluent. "Very few people go to the opera, and very few people discuss modern art. There are few of these things that speak to class." 
The public's readiness to swallow Ms. Lopez's glamorous ascent from maid to mogul is just a small indicator of how deeply ingrained the idea of social mobility is in America. Charges of class warfare often fail to resonate because many people believe they have the chance to occupy the rich end of the income scale -- despite the ever-widening income gap.
Robert Perrucci, a sociologist at Purdue University, explains this attitude by saying, "People accept inequality if they think there is opportunity." But he, like a number of other sociologists, maintains that class counts for more now than ever. 
"Paul Kingston views class in cultural terms," Professor Perrucci said. "I look at it in economic terms. As a sociologist, I am concerned about the volatility of a society where 80 percent of the people are frozen out of possibilities. No one is saying we all have to be equal."
The average annual salary in America, expressed in 1998 dollars, went from $32,522 in 1970 to $35,864 in 1999. In the same period, according to Fortune magazine, the average real annual compensation of the top 100 C.E.O.'s went from $1.3 million -- 40 times the pay of an average worker -- to $37.5 million, or over 1,000 times the average worker's pay.
Professor Perrucci, along with Earl Wysong, at Indiana University of Kokomo and David W. Wright at Wichita State University, compared the incomes and occupations of 2,749 fathers and sons from the 1970's to the late 1990's. Their conclusion? That class mobility has decreased.
From the upper to the lower levels, the researchers found that sons retained the same levels of income and occupational prestige as their fathers. At the upper level, affluent sons gained prestigious positions -- like doctors and lawyers -- even more frequently than their fathers did 30 years ago. 
"What has happened in the last 25 years is that a large segment of American society has become more vulnerable," said Professor Perrucci, who is co-author of "The New Class Society: Goodbye American Dream?" (Rowman & Littlefield, 2002) with Professor Wysong. "Twenty years ago, going to college was enough. Now, it has to be an elite school. The American dream is being sorely tested."
The new reality, he said, is a society in which one-fifth of Americans are privileged, with job security, high wages and strong skills. The other 80 percent belong to a "new working class," he said, that despite great variability within the group lacks the same security and high wages. 
Professor Perrucci and his colleagues proposed four measures to determine where one lands on the class scale. They are: social capital (whom you know); credential capital (like where you received your degree); income or consumption capital; and investment capital (stocks and bonds). The last category is the one most affected by Mr. Bush's new economic program and tax laws. 
Minorities, Professor Perrucci added, are far more likely than whites, especially white males, to lack elite educational credentials and social capital.
Although the black middle class roughly doubled in the last 20 years, about 30 percent of blacks (compared with 8 percent of whites) are poor by government standards. Numerous studies also show that continued discrimination in housing and jobs stymies black economic mobility, as does the perception that minorities have different values and behavior from whites.
Erik Olin Wright, a sociology professor at the University of Wisconsin in Madison, argues that race is one of the factors that mute the expression of class conflict.
"To say there's no class is to imply that the workers at Enron and the owners at Enron have no built-in conflict, no different outcomes," said Professor Wright, who is also the author of "Class Counts: Comparative Studies in Class Analysis" (Cambridge University Press, 1997). 
But it is "simple-minded," he said, to argue, as some sociologists have done, that the absence of open hostilities means there are no real social classes with similar interests. 
Race divisions, for example, could discourage people from similar classes to come together and push for better health care or schools, Professor Wright said. Or people may be too "demoralized and resigned," he added, to organize movements that pit working people against rich people. 
"It may be the triumph of one class," he said, "one class that is so hegemonic that people feel defeated."

GRAPHIC: Photos: In every era, some Americans work on their knees and some don't. (Culver Pictures)(pg. B9); However economists and sociologists define class, the rich and the poor are still very much there. (Left, Bill Cunningham/The New York Times; right, Gordon M. Grant)(pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIOLOGY (91%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); MARKET RESEARCH (88%); TRENDS (78%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); POLITICS (75%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (73%); HISTORY (72%); ABORTION (60%) SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RESEARCH; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (83%) CORNELL UNIVERSITY; UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO; NATIONAL OPINION RESEARCH CENTER (UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO) 

PERSON: JENNIFER LOPEZ (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%) LEE, FELICIA R 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (96%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2003 



569 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1450 words

HEADLINE: Joe Millionaire for President 

BYLINE:  By FRANK RICH; E-mail: frankrich@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Watching that noble doctor Bill Frist make his TV rounds last weekend -- I know he's a saint because he keeps telling us so -- I began to think I was going under general anesthesia. Here's a guy who dispenses bromides and palliatives for every troublesome topic, dishing out the spin so smoothly that you have to question your own grasp on reality. A spoonful of sugar makes the medicine go down? Dr. Frist, as he insists that we call him, gives us the whole bowl. "He's perfected that earnest, focused look that people want when they go to the doctor," one of his former medical colleagues told me this week. "It's as if you are the only person in the world." 
 It's a sham, of course, because the client who always comes first is Senator Frist's role model and patron in compassionate conservatism, George W. Bush. And so the good doctor congratulates himself for his good work on "H.I.V./AIDS in Africa," an admirable record indeed were it not for the unmentioned footnote that he knocked down his own Senate legislation earmarking $500 million for that cause by 60 percent after the White House jerked his chain. He promises to open up Medicare to private health plans without mentioning that much of his own fortune (in a blind trust, of course) derived from the for-profit Hospital Corporation of America (HCA), the medical giant founded by his father and brother. 
 Dr. Frist further suggests that that little Trent Lott nastiness is behind us now because Republicans are going to have "a dialogue on race . . . in a more visible, a more open way." The dialogue, we later learn, consists of (1) highly visible photo ops for Dr. Frist with black conservatives; (2) a spirited defense of the judicial nominee Charles Pickering's strenuous effort to reduce the sentence of a convicted cross-burning hoodlum; and (3) the White House intervention in the Supreme Court case challenging the University of Michigan's affirmative action program. (Will the administration also weigh in on the affirmative action programs for alumni children that have given every Bush family applicant a leg up at Yale?)
The doctor is very good at this game, but not yet nearly so sophisticated as the master. The White House has the bait-and-switch routine down to a science. As The Associated Press reported on Wednesday, Ari Fleischer just happened to announce that Mr. Bush would increase aid to Africa just before declaring the president's intention to intervene in the Michigan case -- much as he had announced at the height of the Lott embarrassment that the president was looking forward to a trip to Africa. (That safari was quietly "rescheduled" to no fixed date when Mr. Lott stepped down three days later.) The Africa card is the Republicans' answer to the Democrats' race card, and once it had been played, the stage was set for Mr. Bush's "statement on affirmative action." 
That statement contained so many sound bites lauding "diversity" -- the word turned up as many as three times in a single breath -- that the casual channel surfer might think the president was joining the Rainbow Coalition. Or forget that he presides over a party whose Congressional majority contains not a single black member, even in the House, where "diversity" could easily have been put into action, affirmative or otherwise, by recruiting a minority candidate for one of the many safe Republican districts. 
The Bush rhetorical technique -- of implying one thing while doing quite another -- was first honed to perfection in the speech handing down the great stem-cell "compromise" of summer 2001. In his new and mostly worshipful memoir about Mr. Bush, "The Right Man," his former speechwriter David Frum describes the president's sleight-of-hand technique from the inside: "Because Bush summarized all points of view so sympathetically, he was able to win the support of his viewers for his own not at all middle-of-the-road position." What the speech did, in other words, was persuade inattentive listeners that the president was so sympathetic to scientific research and the ill that he couldn't possibly be throwing roadblocks in the way of potential cures for cancer, juvenile diabetes and Alzheimer's (as in fact he was). 
It was only a few weeks after the stem-cell speech that 9/11 was upon us. Although that cataclysmic event is said to have changed George W. Bush as much as it supposedly changed so much else, it has not altered his brazen style. If anything, the midterm election has emboldened the White House to use fictional rhetoric to paper over harsher reality in almost every policy area it can.
Mr. Bush rolls out an economic plan that he says will help address joblessness, now at an eight-year high and growing, when in fact it's mainly a payday for those who collect dividend checks. Promising to speed the cleanup of corporate corruption, he accepts the resignation of Harvey Pitt, but two months-plus later Mr. Pitt is still on the job, working his will as the S.E.C. does some of its most crucial "reform" rule-making. Mr. Bush thumps as a hallmark of his education vision the No Child Left Behind Act, but his tight budget will leave states struggling to fulfill its alleged goals. Even Marvin Olasky, the Bush sycophant who wrote the book that inspired compassionate conservatism, said last month that while he awards the president an "A" for "setting the message" he gives him an "F" for his legislative follow-through. 
But Mr. Olasky may not be the only one who is waking up to the ruse. The drop in Mr. Bush's poll numbers this week reminds us that anesthesia, no matter how well administered, eventually wears off. Affirmative action, judicial nominations, Enron and the rest are passionate issues for some, but war is a wake-up call for all. As the president keeps stamping his foot about Saddam Hussein, there is a dawning sensation that America is being held hostage by the administration idee fixe that is Iraq. It's a sword of Damocles hanging over our foreign policy, economy and national security alike. 
The White House wants us to believe, as Dr. Frist reassured us last weekend, that North Korea is "an entirely, entirely different situation" from Iraq. Yes it is, not least because North Korea does not produce oil. But the two situations are now inseparable. Kim Jong Il may be crazy but he's not stupid. He bet the bank that Mr. Bush, for all his promises not to respond to nuclear blackmail, would do exactly that to avoid a distraction from Iraq. And so he called the president's bluff and will soon get his ransom. Mr. Bush's retreat all but invites other rogues to push us around, or worse, in this interregnum of vulnerability that his verbal bluster and tactical blundering has created. 
Iraq's hammerlock on the economy is just as tight. We increasingly realize that no matter what Mr. Bush's tax-cutting plan, or any Democratic alternative, the economic issue du jour is not so much class warfare as warfare, period. No one believes the economy is going to expand as long as war clouds dampen the business environment. If the war drags on for months, recession could well follow. 
Nor does anyone know what vanquishing Saddam and then governing Iraq will cost in either dollars or lives. Lawrence Lindsey, the chief White House economic adviser, was fired after he put the bill at $100 billion to $200 billion. But William Nordhaus, the Yale economist, puts the Lindsey estimate at the low end, with the high end being $1.6 trillion over a decade. Whatever the number, the cost of the war isn't being factored at all into the budget proposal the White House will send to Congress, according to USA Today. Yet even with that huge sum unaccounted for, the tax cuts and deficits are already so out of control that budgetary allotments for homeland security are being cut back. As for the American troops to be thrown at Saddam, remember those leaked Pentagon war plans from last summer that capped the total at 250,000? This week ABC's John McWethy reported that the number had escalated to 350,000 before the battle is even joined.
Mr. Bush's rhetoric says we can have it all -- lower taxes, better schools, a war or two or three, civil defense -- without pain. But the numbers don't add up, and when the expanded war becomes a reality, we'll see a bottom line that not even the smoothest politician's bedside manner can obscure. 
While we wait, an anxious nation whiles away the time with "Joe Millionaire," a "reality" TV show in which a sweet-talking con man charms a bevy of credulous women into believing he will give them a fairy-tale ending. And why not? It's a perfect reflection of the reality of this moment, right down to its predictable, all too inevitable, denouement. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (88%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); AIDS & HIV (71%); POLITICS (71%); MEDICARE (70%); HOSPITALS (69%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (66%); SENTENCING (66%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (64%); RACE & RACISM (63%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (61%); SUPREME COURTS (61%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; TELEVISION; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US) 

COMPANY: HCA HOLDINGS INC (54%); HOSPITAL CORP OF AMERICA (54%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US) 

TICKER: HCA (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS622110 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (54%); NAICS621493 FREESTANDING AMBULATORY SURGICAL & EMERGENCY CENTERS (54%); SIC8062 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (54%); SIC8011 OFFICES & CLINICS OF DOCTORS OF MEDICINE (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); FRANK RICH (59%); TRENT LOTT (57%) RICH, FRANK; FRIST, BILL (SEN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); FRIST, BILL (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); AFRICA (92%) UNITED STATES

TITLE: JOE MILLIONAIRE (TV PROGRAM) 

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2003 



570 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: Republicans Fight Off More Amendments to Spending Bill 

BYLINE:  By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 17 

 BODY:
For the second day in a row, Senate Republicans stuck together today to sweep aside Democratic efforts to add more money for domestic security and education to a $390 billion appropriations bill. But a final vote on the measure, which is left over from last year, was delayed yet again, until next week.
 Even as they were losing on the Senate floor, Democrats relished the opportunity to put Republicans on record as opposing spending for initiatives that served as the centerpiece of Republican efforts to reclaim control of the Senate in the November elections. 
 "I actually think we are doing a great job," said Senator Jon Corzine of New Jersey, chairman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee. He added, "We are going to have the opportunity to see people vote on issues and see how people feel about not putting money into protecting the homeland, in a way that a lot of lip service was given to." 
Republicans, who have vowed to adhere closely to President Bush's spending limits, countered with what they call the Democrat Spend-o-meter, a chart that shows the 10-year cost of the Democratic amendments, with figures lined up next to the names of the senators who introduced them. 
"We're concerned about fiscal responsibility," said Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania, the third-ranking Republican, who plans to show the chart on the Senate floor next week.
As was the case on Thursday, when the overall spending measure first came up for debate, today's votes fell primarily along party lines. By a vote of 52 to 46, Republicans defeated an amendment, sponsored by Robert C. Byrd, Democrat of West Virginia, that would have restored $11 billion in cuts to proposed spending for hundreds of agencies and programs like welfare, food safety inspectors and the F.B.I.
Two Democrats, Zell Miller of Georgia and Ben Nelson of Nebraska, joined with 50 Republicans. Senator Chuck Hagel, Republican of Nebraska, was absent. The same two senators also voted against another Democratic amendment, this one sponsored by Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa, that would have given $500 million to local police departments.
Democrats did, however, extract two concessions. Late Thursday night, by a voice vote, the Senate adopted an amendment to increase spending on Amtrak, the national railroad, which is running out of cash. The result will be an extra $438 million for the railroad. In a memorandum to employees, Amtrak's president, David Gunn, expressed his relief today.
"Had this amendment not passed," Mr. Gunn wrote, "we would really have been in the soup."
Also by a voice vote, the Senate agreed to set aside $150 million for port security improvements. The money, sought by Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, would go toward researching and developing advanced devices that could detect nuclear bombs in cargo containers on ships and trucks headed for American ports and border crossings.
Mr. Schumer said he dropped plans to introduce the measure as an amendment after Senator Ted Stevens, the Alaska Republican who is chairman of the Appropriations Committee, promised to write a provision into the bill instructing that existing money be set aside for the initiative.
"This $150 million is probably better spent protecting our security than anything else in that bill," Mr. Schumer said.
The bill, actually 11 bills rolled into one, is left over from last year, when Congress did not pass a spending measure. President Bush has asked Congress to impose a limit of $385.9 billion on discretionary spending for 2003, and the Republican measure under consideration exceeds that request by more than $4 billion. 
In a policy statement issued today, the White House applauded the efforts of Congress to put its appropriations business to rest. But the letter also said the bill contains "a few significant problems" that would have to be resolved before the president would sign it.
For example, the statement said, the measure reduces spending for the State Department by $300 million and fails to include language permitting $200 million in economic aid to Pakistan. The White House also complained that the bill lacked a provision barring the use of federal money for abortions, language that has been standard in appropriations bills in recent years.
The statement said Mr. Bush "strongly opposes amendments to add new extraneous spending to the package," citing specifically the amendments offered by Senator Byrd.
Democrats promise to keep those amendments coming when debate on the bill resumes next week. They intend to try to increase financing for drought relief to farmers, school programs for children with disabilities and aid to low-income people to help pay their heating bills. That irritates Republicans, who say they are determined to pass a spending measure before Jan. 28, when President Bush makes his State of the Union address.
"This is a stalling pattern," said Senator Stevens. 
The tenor of the day was perhaps best summed up by Mr. Stevens's tie, which featured the comic book character The Incredible Hulk.
"I wear this tie," Mr. Stevens said, "when I know I'm going to get into a terrible fight."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Ted Stevens of Alaska wore an Incredible Hulk tie yesterday. (Doug Mills The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPROPRIATIONS (91%); LEGISLATION (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (84%); ELECTIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); HARBOR & PORT SECURITY (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (70%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (65%); FOOD SAFETY (62%); POLICE FORCES (60%); TERRORISM (60%); FOOD INSPECTION (50%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TERRORISM; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (51%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC SENATORIAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (51%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (51%)

PERSON: CHUCK HAGEL (79%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); TED STEVENS (58%); JON CORZINE (58%); ROBERT BYRD (58%); RICK SANTORUM (58%); TOM HARKIN (58%); BEN NELSON (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%); CHRISTIE HEFNER (54%) STOLBERG, SHERYL GAY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEBRASKA, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2003 



571 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1016 words

HEADLINE: Funds Aid Ex-Workers of Enron and WorldCom 

BYLINE:  By STEPHANIE STROM 

 BODY:
Rebekah Rushing considered herself blessed. She received two job offers the day after she was laid off from Enron in December 2001, while thousands of other ex-employees were having trouble finding work.
 So she started a charity, the Enron Ex-Employee Relief Fund Account, to help her former colleagues, depositing $90 in an account at the Humble Community Bank in Humble, Tex., and creating a Web site she hoped would attract small donations. "I was expecting, you know, checks for $10 or $25," Ms. Rushing said. 
 But a month later, the fund had almost $69,000, thanks to a $68,857 donation from Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York.
"It caught me completely off guard," Ms. Rushing said. "I checked the account on the morning of Jan. 17, and it had $106 in it. That afternoon, it had $68,000 and change."
Her fund and one like it created by former WorldCom employees have benefited mightily from politicians seeking to deflect fallout by handing over campaign contributions from the two companies, whose names are now synonymous with corporate greed, cooked books and scandal.
About 80 percent of the $466,000 the Enron fund has collected came from politicians or their political action committees. Those sources account for 90 percent of the $192,000 given to the WorldCom fund, the Ex-WorldCom Employee Assistance Fund.
Ms. Rushing said she did nothing to solicit contributions from politicians to the Enron fund.
But the WorldCom fund has courted them, publishing a list of who has contributed -- 48 lawmakers and political organizations -- and has not -- 156 lawmakers and groups. Kate Lee, one of five former WorldCom employees who founded the fund, said they felt they had to. "We're not proud," Ms. Lee said.
"Thousands of people suffered at the hands of WorldCom executives," said Kori Bernards, a spokeswoman for Representative Richard A. Gephardt, Democrat of Missouri, who gave the fund $3,000 WorldCom had donated to his 2002 campaign. "It seemed only right to help them out with the money that their company gave to Gephardt's campaign."
Last January, Senator Kay Bailey Hutchinson, Republican of Texas, gave another fund for former Enron employees, one set up at the Greater Houston Community Foundation, $100,000 that Enron had given her.
Some politicians have been reluctant to publicize their donations -- several did not return calls requesting comment -- apparently preferring to limit their association with the companies. For example, Mr. Schumer, who is generally known to enjoy the limelight, did not announce his contribution to the Enron fund.
"When I read about all the people who were losing their jobs, I wanted to help," he said. "This was the one charity aimed at helping Enron employees directly."
The most recent big contribution to the Enron fund came from the Justice Department, which last month handed over $79,468 it collected as part of a plea agreement with a former finance executive for the company, Lawrence M. Lawyer. 
When WorldCom and Enron filed for bankruptcy, their severance programs were suspended pending bankruptcy court approval, leaving thousands of the employees they had laid off unable to make ends meet. 
Karen Howard, who was laid off from her job as an administrative assistant at WorldCom last summer, was shocked when she learned that she might not receive any severance.
"I was the most naive person on earth," Ms. Howard said. "I was just sitting here, not paying my bills because I thought my severance would be coming through any day."
It did not, and a month behind on her utility, insurance and car payments, and with a husband in need of a liver transplant, Ms. Howard turned to the WorldCom fund. 
Not only did the fund pay her bills, but it also had a used refrigerator on hand -- and Ms. Howard's refrigerator had broken down.
"We were at the point where we were debating whether we could put a cooler outside with milk," she said. "Without the assistance of the fund, we really would have been in very, very bad shape."
Both funds gather contributions through their World Wide Web sites (eerfa.com for the Enron fund and exworldcom5100.com/fund/index.php for the Worldcom fund). 
The assistance the funds provide is similar to what the Red Cross or Salvation Army give after a disaster: short-term and just enough to tide victims over until insurance, unemployment benefits, severance or a new job comes through. "It helps people make ends meet until they can help themselves," Ms. Lee said. 
The money goes out almost as soon as it comes in. The Worldcom fund had just $15,000 as of Wednesday, and Ms. Lee expected that to be down to $5,000 by Monday. The Enron fund reported on Thursday that it had $84,000 on hand.
The WorldCom fund gives any former employee who was laid off a onetime benefit of as much as $1,500 to cover mortgage payments, rent, electric bills and other necessary expenses. Beneficiaries forward their bills, and the fund pays them, which helps prevent impropriety.
Dwight F. Burlingame, a professor at the Center on Philanthropy at Indiana University, called the funds a twist on an old concept.
"In the 19th century, workers banded together to create burial societies that evolved into mutual aid societies," he said. "Employers simply weren't providing any benefits, so the workers banded together to get them, and what's happening with these new funds is very similar."
The WorldCom fund has helped 138 families and averted four evictions and two threatened disconnections of electrical service, Ms. Lee said.
The fund went further to help Margo Mayberry. Since being laid off in June, Ms. Mayberry filed for personal bankruptcy, sold a rental property she owned and handed another over to the bank. She makes ends meet on $1,200 a month in unemployment insurance -- $1,000 of which goes to medical insurance -- and the $90 a day she gets when working as a substitute teacher in Columbus, Ohio.
The WorldCom fund also gave Ms. Mayberry $1,500 to cover eye surgery, and in October, it helped her make her house payment.
"If it wasn't for Kate and that fund, a lot of us would be out on the street," Ms. Mayberry said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: "We're not proud," said Kate Lee of politicians' donations to the Ex-WorldCom Employee Assistance Fund. (Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times); Rebekah Rushing, who founded a fund for ex-employees of Enron, was surprised by some of the contributors. (Brett Coomer for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (88%); FUNDRAISING (78%); CHARITIES (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); FOUNDATIONS (77%); PHILANTHROPY (77%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (77%); WORKPLACE PROGRAMS (77%); SCANDALS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); ELECTIONS (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); COMMUNITY BANKS (71%); ETHICS (66%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%) FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; PHILANTHROPY; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; ELECTIONS; FINANCES; ETHICS; BANKRUPTCIES; POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (90%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: ENRON CORP; WORLDCOM INC 

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (90%); VZ (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (90%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%) SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS EX. RADIO; SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES; 

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (54%) STROM, STEPHANIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2003 



572 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 480 words

HEADLINE: THREATS AND RESPONSES: COMMERCE; 
Iraq Awards Oil Contract To Company From Russia

BYLINE:  By SABRINA TAVERNISE 

 BODY:
Iraq tried to mend relations with Russia yesterday by awarding a new oil contract to a Russian company and promising several more in what analysts called a last-ditch effort to gain allies as the Bush administration prepares for military action there. 
 Hussin al-Hadithi, an under secretary at the Iraqi Oil Ministry, signed the contract yesterday in Baghdad with the Russian company Stroitransgaz for an oil field in western Iraq. The Iraqi government also set aside two other small fields for Russian companies, and began talks on a third. Russian officials, including Ivan Matlashov, the first deputy energy minister, attended the signing. 
 The contracts appeared to be a peace offering by Iraq, which angered Russian officials last month by scrapping a giant oil contract with the Russian oil firm Lukoil. The cancellation amounted to a snubbing of Russia, one of the few countries that has publicly supported Iraq.
But the contracts signed yesterday were small and awarded to relatively obscure Russian companies, and analysts said they would not be influential among Russian foreign policy makers.
In addition, Lukoil's contract, by far the largest of any Russian company in Iraq, did not appear to have been reinstated during the talks. Lukoil said in a statement yesterday that it had revived the contract, but Mr. Hadithi said Iraq not yet chosen a company to develop the field. Reuters quoted Mr. Matlashov as saying, "the door is still open for Lukoil." 
"Iraq is trying to recover maybe a little bit of what they lost with Russia last month," said Paul Collison, energy analyst at Brunswick UBS Warburg, an investment bank in Moscow. 
Russian officials have insisted on guarantees that their business contracts in Iraq not be repudiated after any American-led war against President Saddam Hussein. But the Bush administration contends it cannot give guarantees, and dismisses Russian claims of exclusivity.
As the United States steps up preparations for military action, Russia has tried to play a dual role, maintaining relations and laying claim to new business with Iraq, while at the same time backing international calls for increased scrutiny of Mr. Hussein's weapons programs. 
"This stuff is games," Mr. Collison said, referring to the contracts signed yesterday. "I don't think people are taking it very seriously."
In private, Russian companies refer to a kind of contractual musical chairs, grabbing whatever is available now on the off chance they will be allowed to keep it later. Even Lukoil's contract has never been counted as an asset in the company's balance sheet because economic sanctions imposed by the United Nations in 1991 bar its development.
"Why would you fight for a license from a regime that appears all but set for a collapse," said Stephen Dashevsky, senior oil analyst at the Russian investment bank Aton. "How much is that license worth?" 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONTRACT AWARDS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (76%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (64%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (60%); TERRORISM (59%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: OAO LUKOIL (84%); UBS INVESTMENT BANK (54%)

ORGANIZATION: STROITRANSGAZ (RUSSIAN CO); LUKOIL 

TICKER: LKOH (RTS) (84%); LKOD (LSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (84%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%) SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS; 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (79%) TAVERNISE, SABRINA; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (89%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%) IRAQ; RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2003 



573 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-6

U.N. Weapons Inspectors Plan to Seek More Time
The United States was sharply at odds with United Nations weapons inspectors who, saying their goal is to avoid a war with Iraq, intend to ask the Security Council for more time to complete their investigation of the arsenal of Saddam Hussein. A1

Differing Signals From Turkey
The Turkish prime minister, Abdullah Gul, said he had embarked on a major diplomatic effort to head off an American-led war with Iraq. At the same time, a Western diplomat said that Turkish leaders had agreed in principle to allow American forces to use the country as a base to launch military strikes against Iraq. A1

Revealing German Documents
Newly obtained documents reveal that Germany's domestic intelligence service was tracking prominent members of the Hamburg terrorist cell that planned and executed the aircraft hijackings three years before the Sept. 11 attacks. The documents appear to contradict claims by German authorities that they knew little about the cell before the attacks. A10

Hussein Warns United States
President Saddam Hussein called on Iraqis to rise up and defend the nation against a new American-led attack and promised that the country's enemies would face "suicide" at the gates of the capital. A7

Crackdown in Venezuela
Venezuela's national guard seized warehouses full of beer, soft drinks and bottled water, which had been closed since the start of a seven-week strike that has crippled business and industry and caused food shortages. A6

2 Gunmen Kill Israeli Settler
Two Palestinian gunmen attacked an isolated Jewish settlement near Hebron killing one Israeli and wounding three others. One of the attackers was killed and the other escaped. A3

'Ghost Ship' in Australia
The entire crew of the High Aim No. 6, a fishing boat that was found drifting, has disappeared and caused a baffling mystery for Australian authorities and locals. A3

NATIONAL A11-14,18

Senate Panel Backs Ridge For Domestic Security Job
A Senate committee unanimously approved the nomination of Tom Ridge to be the nation's first secretary of homeland security. Confirmation is expected next week, in time for Mr. Ridge to be in place when the new department goes into business. A9

Seven Navy warships left for a six-month deployment in the Persian Gulf, carrying 7,000 marines and 3,000 sailors who will join the 85,000 troops already stationed in the region. A9

Vaccination Plan Will Proceed
The government's smallpox vaccination program will proceed as planned, federal health officials said, despite concerns raised by an expert advisory group and by unions representing health care workers. A10

Unusual Hearing in Sniper Case
Prosecutors disclosed much more of their case against Lee Malvo, the 17-year-old charged in the sniper shootings, than is normal in preliminary hearings. They were able to persuade a juvenile court that Mr. Malvo should be tried as an adult. A11

Oil Exploration in Alaska
The Bush administration proposed opening up part of the nation's largest remaining block of unprotected public land to oil and gas development. The proposal affects nearly nine million acres of the Alaska North Slope. A11

Court Takes On Redistricting
The Supreme Court accepted a politically charged redistricting case from Georgia that could help determine the future of districts with overwhelming black majorities. A12

The Politics of a Holiday
Democrats celebrated Martin Luther King's birthday by attacking the Bush administration on civil rights issues, including opposing affirmative action in higher education. A14

Church Inquiry Under Way
A review board of Roman Catholic laypeople appointed by the nation's bishops to investigate the sexual abuse scandal in the church has begun the first of 100 interviews it plans to conduct to measure the crisis. A12

Beliefs A14

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

After Years of Litigation, Breakthrough on Homeless
New York City and lawyers representing the homeless said they had agreed to create an independent panel with broad powers to develop a long-range shelter policy, an extraordinary first step toward ending a 20-year-old lawsuit over the rights of homeless families. A1

3 Yale Students Die in Crash
Three Yale students were killed and six others were injured -- two of them critically -- in a chain-reaction crash, as their sport utility vehicle collided with a jacknifed tractor-trailer, the authorities said. B1

Connecticut Layoffs Continue
About 1,200 Connecticut state employees were laid off, the latest sign of Gov. John G. Rowland's efforts to close the state's $650 million budget shortfall. B1

Neediest Cases B2

EDUCATION

SUNY Likely to Raise Tuition
The State University of New York trustees recommended raising undergraduate tuition for state residents by 41 percent, or $1,400, the largest increase in SUNY history. B1

SPORTS D1-7

Olympic Committee Rift Widens
Three members of the United States Olympic Committee's ethics committee resigned, evidence of a widening rift within the organization over conflict of interest charges against its chief executive, Lloyd Ward. Two other officials have stepped down. A1

ARTS & IDEAS B7-24

R&B Artist Returns to Stage
R. Kelly, who was arrested last June on 21 counts of child pornography, inspired passionate applause in a concert at the Continental Airlines Arena, one of his first public appearances since the arrest. B7

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Airline Alliance Is Approved
The government approved a marketing partnership, called a code-sharing alliance, among three airlines -- Delta, Northwest and Continental -- but only on strict conditions to limit anticompetitive behavior. C1

GE Profit Matches Forecast
General Electric said its profits for the fourth quarter matched the reduced forecast made in November. GE executives saw little evidence of a strong recovery but reaffirmed their profit outlook for 2003. C1

Investigating Interpublic
The Interpublic Group of Companies, the advertising conglomerate, was notified that an informal inquiry into its finances by the Securities and Exchange Commission was upgraded to a formal investigation. C2

War Fears Weigh on Economy
Uncertainty over how much a war with Iraq and possible reconstruction could cost has led many businesses to delay investing in new projects until the smoke clears. C1

Business Digest C1

OBITUARIES A15

EDITORIAL A16-17

Editorials: The anti-quota smoke screen; getting the courts out of the shelters; Senator Lugar's moment; a million-dollar dream for the neediest.

Column: Frank Rich.

Bridge B16
TV Listings B24
Crossword B20
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TERRORISM (88%); ARMED FORCES (88%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); MILITARY VESSELS (74%); NAVAL VESSELS (74%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (73%); HIJACKING (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); STRIKES (69%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (69%); MARINE VESSELS (68%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (68%); VACCINES (67%); APPROVALS (67%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (65%); SOFT DRINKS (65%); BOTTLED WATER (64%); JEWS & JUDAISM (64%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (63%); VACCINATION & IMMUNIZATION (63%); SMALLPOX (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); ABDULLAH GUL (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAMBURG, GERMANY (79%) INDIAN OCEAN (77%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); TURKEY (94%); GERMANY (93%); ISRAEL (92%); AUSTRALIA (92%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); GULF STATES (58%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2003 



574 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: Despite Major Achievements, Bloomberg Gets Scant Credit 

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER STEINHAUER 

 BODY:
When the economy goes south, so, generally speaking, do the sitting mayor's poll numbers. So it is in some ways unsurprising that a poll conducted by The New York Times this week found that 53 percent of New Yorkers disapprove of how Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is handling his job.
 Mr. Bloomberg, who is overseeing one of the worst fiscal crises in the city's recent history, raised property taxes 18.5 percent, and has made numerous cuts to the city's budget. 
 But what is startling is how little credit New Yorkers give Mr. Bloomberg for what even his strongest critics concede is an impressive docket of accomplishments during his first year in office. And many of the 1,000 New Yorkers polled seemed wholly unfamiliar with much of Mr. Bloomberg's agenda; 38 percent of those polled said they had not heard or read much about Mr. Bloomberg's plans to balance the city budget, the topic the mayor speaks about the most.
The problem is not that Mr. Bloomberg has no agenda or policies, said several political experts and former city officials; it is that he has failed to sell them to the city's eight million residents, and that he lacks that intrinsic connection that New Yorkers, for better or worse, crave to have with the man who leads them.
"He is not getting credit for being innovative in any way, shape or form," said Hank Sheinkopf, a Democratic political consultant, "even though in his first year, he has come up with more innovative, interesting, policy-oriented ideas than anyone has come up with in who knows how long.
"The only way to connect with people is to get out in the street," Mr. Sheinkopf continued. "People don't see him on television every night. He doesn't write op-ed pieces. He doesn't do town hall meetings. And if the average person in Maspeth doesn't have any feeling for who he is, it doesn't matter what he does because they won't feel it is his."
Most striking was the disconnection between how the poll respondents viewed the Police Department and Mr. Bloomberg's role in its successes. Asked to rate the Police Department, 23 percent called it "excellent" and 46 described it as "good," the highest ratings in nearly 10 years. And for the first time in the decade since The Times began asking the question, a majority of black New Yorkers gave positive ratings to the performance of the police. 
But 29 percent of the respondents said that the Bloomberg administration had not made much progress in keeping New Yorkers safe from crime, even though crime has dropped in many categories to historical lows on his watch; Mr. Bloomberg has also pushed his Police Department to curb racial profiling. 
Further, of those polled, a third of the New Yorkers said the administration had made "no progress at all" in creating affordable housing. Yet Mr. Bloomberg is the only mayor since Edward I. Koch to give a major policy speech calling for thousands of units of new housing and committing public funds to their construction.
For his part, Mr. Bloomberg and his closest aides profess to care little about polls. "No. 1, you can't worry about the polls -- you've got to do what you think is right," Mr. Bloomberg said yesterday on his weekly radio show. He added: "Maybe people don't like me. I don't know. All I've got to do is try and do what is right." Mr. Bloomberg's aides also say that in the end, his policy record will speak for itself.
But recent history shows that when mayors fail to put a strong imprint on their policies, they do not always win the credit for their successes. Former Mayor David N. Dinkins, for instance, started the Safe Streets, Safe City program to increase the number of police officers on the street, but his successor, Rudolph W. Giuliani, has gotten all the credit for falling crime rates in the last decade.
And some critics charged that Mr. Bloomberg has alienated his conservative voting base with a combination of social and economic policies that those voters find unpalatable, and then failing to reach out to them.
"He forgot his base," said one former city official. "He was handed certain voters by Giuliani, especially on Staten Island and Queens. So then he raised their taxes, told them they can't go to a bar and have a cigarette and then he told them their kids are fat," the official said, referring to a Bloomberg administration initiative aimed at childhood obesity. "For a great businessman, he doesn't know his customer."
Just as President Bush flies around the country to sell his policy ideas, several people suggested that Mr. Bloomberg would be well-served by getting out a few more weekends a month to neighborhood churches, block parties and restaurants, holding high-profile events outside of Manhattan and going to town hall meetings in the evenings, just to let local residents vent.
William T. Cunningham, the mayor's communications director, rejected the idea that Mr. Bloomberg does not venture out enough. "It is not unusual to see the mayor around the city," Mr. Cunningham said. "He goes to churches. He has gone to weddings in Williamsburg. He does all the stuff. He is in the subways every day. It is impossible to be mayor of New York City and not come into contact with people."
The mayor does not appear to be yearning to stoke his image or to change the way he goes about his job. However, he will go to the Bronx today to swear in a state senator, his first public event on a Saturday in weeks.
Also clearly hampering Mr. Bloomberg is his personal wealth. It seems that the money that helped get him elected also bought him yards of resentment from many city residents. One poll respondent, a retired homeowner in Staten Island, noted, "He's in a different financial category than the rest of us. He cannot know what it is for us who are struggling."
On that issue, too, it seems he has few regrets.
"It doesn't mean I can't do a good job," Mr. Bloomberg said on the radio show, about his wealth, which exceeds almost all other New Yorkers'. 'I'm supposed to do what's right for everybody and I think we are." 
The money, he said, was made honestly. "It's supposed to be the great American dream, and then they tar you with it.
"Would I rather have it then not have it?" he said of the money. As to being referred to as a billionaire, he said wryly: "I'd rather you didn't use it, but I'd rather be it than not."
Mr. Koch said that Mr. Bloomberg's distance has helped him achieve many of his goals, by keeping his decisions free of politics and polls. And he does not expect Mr. Bloomberg's resonance with voters to change. 
"You can't be what you're not," Mr. Koch said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); CITIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POLICE FORCES (89%); MAYORS (89%); CRIME RATES (89%); CITY LIFE (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (71%); POLITICS (71%); BUDGET CUTS (70%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); RACIAL PROFILING (65%); RACE & RACISM (60%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PUBLIC OPINION; NEW YORK TIMES/CBS NEWS POLL; TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; POLICE; HOUSING; MAYORS 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%) STEINHAUER, JENNIFER; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2003 



575 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1163 words

HEADLINE: New York Reaches Deal to End 20-Year Legal Fight on Homeless 

BYLINE:  By LESLIE KAUFMAN 

 BODY:
New York City and lawyers representing the homeless said they took an extraordinary first step yesterday toward ending a 20-year-old lawsuit over the rights of homeless families. In the deal, they agreed to create an independent panel with broad powers to help the city shape its long-range policy for such families.
 For the last two decades, almost every aspect of the city's approach to handling homeless families has been contested in court -- from how quickly the families must be placed in shelters to the availability of baby bottle warmers in the office where they first enter the system. 
 The disputes have led to millions of dollars in fines for the city, and created a situation in which a state judge has dictated many of the particulars of city policy. 
In announcing the agreement yesterday, both the city and the Legal Aid Society, which has taken the lead in representing the homeless in court, said they were trying to break that cycle. Under the plan, a three-member panel was approved by both sides to mediate disputes between the parties for the next two years and, more importantly, review the policies toward homeless families. 
The panel's members had been quietly involved in negotiations between the two sides in an undefined capacity since last Thanksgiving.
The creation of the panel is only a first step. At the end of two years, the panel is charged with making recommendations for resolving all litigation.
The lawyers for both sides, however, would be free to reject those recommendations, and, in the interim, the extensive court orders remain in effect.
The panel would have no role in the shelter system for single adults, which is the product of separate litigation, and the agreement would not affect the standing court order that requires the city to provide shelter for the homeless.
The surprise announcement came as the city and Legal Aid lawyers appeared in court to settle a less sweeping but related issue: whether homeless families in shelters who refuse one appropriate apartment could be evicted.
On that matter, the two sides agreed that the families could be moved to a suitable apartment of the city's choice.
If the family refused to sign a lease for the proffered apartment, it would never be allowed back in a city shelter but would retain the option of living in an apartment of the city's choice.
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and his homeless commissioner, Linda I. Gibbs, had made it clear from the start of his administration that ending this litigation, which they argued had stripped the city of its legitimate authority to make policy, was a top priority.
Although yesterday's agreement stopped far short of their dream scenario, both were nonetheless visibly elated.
The mayor, who took the unusual step of appearing in court himself yesterday, later called the agreement momentous and said it would "free the city from the shackles" of court orders.
Ms. Gibbs expressed her clear belief that the final outcome of the panel would be the nullification of previous court orders. "It is the understanding of all parties that it is an appropriate goal that the agency should be managed without the ongoing roll of the judiciary," she said.
But Steven Banks, a Legal Aid lawyer who has been lead counsel representing the homeless families, called talk of eventually ending on-going court orders "highly speculative at this point."
As part of the deal, the Legal Aid Society agreed to withdraw all pending motions in front of the court and to refrain from bringing future motions for two years. The plaintiffs could seek panel help in challenging Department of Homeless Services policy "only under extreme circumstances involving a major problem," according to the language of the agreement.
In the case that either side did not like a decision reached by the panel over a disagreement, it would have to show the court that the panel had acted in a way that was "arbitrary and capricious."
Still, there was plenty for the advocates for the homeless to celebrate. For starters, they gave up none of the court victories they have achieved and added a layer of review of department policy that they could directly influence through the selection of panel members and through continuing consultations.
Daniel Greenberg, president of the Legal Aid Society, said the deal gave advocates a way to make a positive contribution to planning city policy instead of limiting the advocacy group to a reactive and combative role. He said the deal recognized "we have an expertise that can be useful to fashion the best remedies." 
Mr. Greenberg added, "We are pleased to be a resource in collaboration with government."
Both sides acknowledged that the agreement could not mend overnight a deep gulf of mistrust that has grown between them.
The real test of the settlement will likely come only when the city experiences a crisis like it did last summer, when record numbers of families applied for shelter and hundreds ended up spending the night on the floor of the city's Emergency Assistance Unit in the Bronx in violation of court order.
Last night, Mr. Banks said that if everyone followed the agreement, that would not happen again. But if it did? Mr. Banks sighed and said, "I would start by talking to the panel, but I am an optimist."
The fact that Mr. Banks, a fierce opponent of city homeless policy for more than two decades, can describe himself as optimistic about collaboration speaks to the immense transformation that has taken place in recent weeks.
Those involved in the negotiations say many factors suddenly aligned to make this deal possible. For starters, there was a homeless services commissioner, Ms. Gibbs, with experience settling litigation. She was at the Administration for Children's Services when it settled its own class action lawsuit in 1996.
Then there was a new mayor who was clearly more sympathetic to the plight of homeless families than his famously combative predecessor. The weak economy and a sour public mood may have influenced advocates for the homeless to settle while they were still winning in court, but the advocates deny that.
The final piece of the puzzle was the replacement of the position of special master, who had limited authority to settle disputes, with the new panel, which is made up of three well-respected public policy activists and academics. Just after Thanksgiving, the three had stepped in quietly to help with negotiations related to whether clients could be evicted from shelter and found themselves delving into the more core dispute.
The members of the panel are John D. Feerick, a former dean of Fordham Law School; Daniel Kronenfeld, the former executive director of the Henry Street Settlement, which runs a family shelter among other services; and Gail B. Nayowith, the executive director of Citizens' Committee for Children of New York, who sits on an independent panel that similarly advises the city Administration for Children's Services and has strong personal ties with Ms. Gibbs.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Justice Freedman in 2002.; Homeless families sleep on the floor of the city's Emergency Assistance Unit office in the Bronx in 1997. (Julia Fishkin/Legal Aid Society); Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announcing an agreement on homeless litigation. Also at the news conference were Steven Banks, left, a Legal Aid Society lawyer, and Daniel Greenberg, its president. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(pg. B4) Chart: "CHRONOLOGY: A Fight for Permanent Housing"1983 -- Legal Aid Society files class-action suit against city in state Supreme Court on behalf of 13 homeless plaintiffs. The suit states that the homeless have a right to permanent housing under the state Constitution. 1985 -- Justice Helen E. Freedman invokes a new state regulation requiring that homeless families be provided shelter immediately. The city appeals. 1986 -- Justice Freedman rules that the city cannot keep families overnight in the Emergency Assistance Unit, where homeless families go to apply for shelter. 1987 -- State Court of Appeals rules that lower courts have the right to issue standards for shelter for homeless families, allowing Justice Freedman to continue playing a major role in the city's policies. 1991 -- Justice Freedman holds the city in contempt of court for failing to move children with families out of the Emergency Assistance Unit fast enough. 1996 -- After holding the city in contempt yet again over its homelessness policies, Justice Freedman threatens to force it to open another Emergency Assistance Unit if overnight stays do not end. 2002 -- With homelessness on the rise again, the Bloomberg administration tries to avoid overcrowding at the Emergency Assistance Unit by placing families in a former jail in the Bronx. City also moves to eject families that repeatedly reject apartments that meet government standards. The Legal Aid Society files suit to block the policy. YESTERDAY -- City reaches a settlement with the Legal Aid Society to end all litigation and create an independent panel to monitor homeless issues. The agreement allows the city to eject families that engage in misconduct or refuse to accept government-approved housing, and calls for creating client conduct standards for the first time at city shelters. It also leaves in place the court order requiring the city to shelter the homeless. (pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (93%); HOMELESSNESS (92%); LITIGATION (91%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (89%); LEGAL AID (89%); LAWYERS (89%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); EVICTION (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); CRIMINAL FINES (76%); FINES & PENALTIES (76%); JUDGES (73%); ANIMAL WELFARE (70%); APPROVALS (69%) HOMELESS PERSONS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; FAMILIES AND FAMILY LIFE; FINES (PENALTIES); ARBITRATION, CONCILIATION AND MEDIATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; HOUSING; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

ORGANIZATION: LEGAL AID SOCIETY (NEW YORK) (94%) LEGAL AID SOCIETY 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%) KAUFMAN, LESLIE; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR); GIBBS, LINDA I (COMR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2003 



576 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 3095 words

HEADLINE: Memo to the Democrats: Quit Being Losers! 

BYLINE:  By Tucker Carlson; Tucker Carlson is the co-host of "Crossfire" on CNN.

 BODY:
This fall, for the second time in a row, the Democratic Party lost an election it should have won. Democrats offered no rationale for why they should be running the country and no vision for how they would run it. The party got the drubbing it deserved. I enjoyed watching.
 But at the same time, I found the Democrats' distress faintly unsettling. One-party government makes me nervous. It's too efficient. There isn't enough gridlock. Worst of all, the arguments tend to be boring. Like drunks and children, ineffectual political parties make for frustrating debate partners. Even if you're wrong, you still beat them. Every country deserves at least two functioning parties. 
 With that in mind, I have some ideas for how Democrats can help their party be taken seriously again. Why should Democrats listen to advice from someone who represents the right on a television talk show? Partly because there are lessons worth learning from the many years Republicans spent as the minority party and partly because, why not? Nothing else seems to be working. 
For Democrats to win back Congress and the White House in 2004, they must: a) arrange for the current president to mess up horribly, preferably by losing a war or driving the economy into stagflation, and b) pick a national political leader with the stature, political skill and clarity of vision to take advantage of the opportunity. None of this will be easy. More than anything, it will require luck, the most underrated factor in politics. That may take awhile. 
In the meantime, Democrats should forget about running on economic issues alone. In the months before the midterm elections, the entire Democratic strategy seemed to consist of criticizing Bush's economic policy by insulting Harvey Pitt, the former chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission. Not only was this a lame argument; it was bad politics. Did any voter really believe that the health of the economy hangs on staff changes at the S.E.C.? Did the average person even know who Harvey Pitt was? 
In general, Democrats have spent relatively little time over the past two years telling voters why Bush's policies are bad for the country. They've attacked Bush the man quite a bit, but when was the last time you heard an elected Democrat explain precisely, with numbers, not slogans, how the Bush tax cuts have damaged the economy? Do you know anything about the Democratic economic stimulus plan? Is there one? And what exactly do the Democrats think about fighting terrorism and the coming war with Iraq? They need to figure it out quickly.
Democrats won't start winning elections until they convince the public that they're capable of responding vigorously to threats from abroad. At this point voters are skeptical. A USA Today/CNN/Gallup poll taken the week of the midterms showed Republicans beating Democrats by 30 points on the question Which party is "tough enough on terrorism"? Numbers like these mean political death, but so far Democrats haven't even tried to overcome them. "If we try and make defense, foreign policy, the overriding issue," Representative Martin Frost of Texas told fellow Democrats in the fall, "we will lose, because the country is with the president on that issue."
In other words, nod when Bush talks about Iraq, then change the subject to taxes. The hope is that 2004 will be a replay of 1992, when the Democrats were able to neutralize the president's foreign policy success with attacks on his economic stewardship. But 2004 won't be 1992. Of course, if there's a recession, the Democrats should blame Bush for it and exploit it for all it's worth. But around the next election, American forces, and America itself, will still be at risk. Recession or not, war is likely to be the overriding issue. The Democratic Party needs something to say about it. 
Ideally, Democrats would campaign on fresh, new, daring ideas about America's role in the world. In real life, fresh, new, daring ideas are rare. Even when you find them, it takes years to refine a crackpot theory into a workable policy. Democrats would be better off stealing Bush's positions, then making them stronger -- becoming more Bush than Bush. 
There's nothing embarrassing about this. Appropriating the rhetoric of your enemies is among the oldest traditions in politics. Bill Clinton used Republican language and symbols to transform his party's image from soft on crime to ferociously pro-law enforcement. As a candidate, Clinton executed a brain-damaged criminal. As president, he promised more cops, signed a crime bill and in general talked like John Walsh. 
These days almost all Democrats are law-and-order Democrats. Relatively few with national aspirations even oppose capital punishment. One of the few who does is Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts (though since Sept. 11, Kerry has said he would make an exception for terrorists). Last year, I asked Kerry about it. Yes, I oppose the death penalty, he said. On the other hand, "I have killed people in war -- personally." Kerry may be liberal, but he'd like you to know that he's a Schwarzenegger liberal.
The Democratic Party needs to establish this same sort of tougher-than-thou credibility on foreign policy. The problem is that "Democrats are really freaked out by anti-Americanism," says Peter Beinart, editor of The New Republic. "They're a little like Canadians in that they have difficulty going to sleep at night knowing that people hate them." Fighting terrorism requires exerting American power. Exerting power makes people hate you. Hence the Democrats' bind. Beinart recommends "a Sister Souljah moment with the U.N.," a high-profile news event that Democrats can use to show they really don't care what France thinks. 
That might help. So would amping up the rhetoric in the war on terrorism. Democrats cringed when Bush used cowboy language to describe the fight against Al Qaeda. They'd be smart to come out with their own, bloodthirstier version: "I won't rest until Osama bin Laden's head is resting -- on a stake." Try that as a slogan. Out-gunsling Bush.
Kerry, my pick for the most promising of the Democratic candidates, has been moving in this direction. The fighting in Afghanistan was just cooling off when Kerry declared the operation in Tora Bora a disaster. Kerry turned out to be right, but what was interesting was his diagnosis: not enough force. The Pentagon, he said, should have used American soldiers, rather than local militia, to chase Al Qaeda into the mountains. The mission failed because the military was too timid, too afraid to risk American lives. When was the last time you heard a Democrat say that?
When it comes to guarding America, Democrats should prove they're more vigilant than the president. They can do it in obvious ways -- more money for port security -- and in not so obvious ones, like tightening border controls, an issue on which Bush, who has pledged to increase immigration, is vulnerable. Democrats can't hope to take a tougher position on Iraq than the president has. But they can outflank him on the rest of the Middle East. In a debate over foreign policy, Democrats have one advantage over Bush: they can sound as bellicose as they like without actually having to conduct diplomacy. They should remind voters that Hamas and Hezbollah still exist, still hate America and still pose an arguably greater threat to the United States than Saddam Hussein does. They should take a harder line on Syria, Iran, Pakistan and Saudi Arabia, all of which have received a temporary pass while America's attention has been focused on Iraq. The next time the Bush administration allows North Korean missiles to pass unmolested to their destination in Yemen, Dick Gephardt should stage a protest in front of the Pentagon. 
From there he should head to the steps of the Department of Energy, to unveil his party's plan to develop alternative energy sources. Cynics will expect the usual dopey "No Nukes, Go Solar" slogans of the 70's. Gephardt should surprise them by framing the issue from the right, as a matter of urgent national security: energy independence as a weapon in the war against terrorism. He ought to make open-minded noises about nuclear power, just to prove he's serious. In the months after Sept. 11, Gephardt called for another Manhattan Project to develop new energy sources, like hydrogen fuel cells. He hasn't said much about it since. He should.
And he should hurry. It can't be long before the president comes out with his own plan to develop alternatives to fossil fuels. Imagine it: an oilman pledges to wean America from oil. It's brilliant. Bush will do it. He isn't stupid. Which is something else Democrats ought to remember. 
Democrats have a lot of planning to do. The great thing about being in the minority is that you have the time to think deeply about how government should be run. Ideas become important when you're out of power, mostly because they're all you have. 
Just ask the Republicans. The G.O.P. lost control of Congress during the Great Depression and didn't regain it for any length of time until the Clinton administration. At its nadir, during the 75th Congress, the Republican Party held just 105 seats in the entire legislative branch, 89 in the House and 16 in the Senate. For 60 years, Republicans had some free time on their hands. They used it to decide what they believed. Between Barry Goldwater's defeat and Ronald Reagan's victory, the Republican Party arrived at a kind of ideological clarity. Republicans decided they were against Communism and for smaller government. Reagan's 1980 campaign ads were some of the least confusing ever made: strong defense, lower taxes. Lower taxes, strong defense. You couldn't miss the message, and voters didn't.
A pair of bullet points do not make a governing agenda, of course. But then, a lot of the time those who govern don't make the governing agenda. This is the problem with wielding political power in Washington: the job is so demanding and complicated and immediate that the big picture gets tiny. Ideas get lost. "The urgent overwhelms the important," in the words of Ed Feulner, longtime president of the Heritage Foundation. 
The aim of the Heritage Foundation and other conservative think tanks is to help Republicans keep track of the important details. In 1980, Feulner and others at Heritage produced a blueprint to help Reagan run the executive branch, a 3,000-page book called "Mandate for Leadership." No one claims that Reagan read the whole thing, but someone in the White House apparently did. Among the 2,000 recommendations in "Mandate for Leadership" was advice on handling labor disputes with air-traffic controllers. Heritage's position was, Don't tolerate strikes.
Over the past 20 years, virtually every big Republican idea and many small ones -- school choice, welfare reform, enterprise zones, Social Security privatization -- have originated in think tanks, rather than on Capitol Hill. Think tanks have sponsored some of the most important conservative books and published some of the best conservative magazines. 
By the time the Republicans took over Congress in 1994, there were scores of conservative think tanks ready to help them govern. One of these was the Project for the Republican Future, a tiny operation run by William Kristol, Dan Quayle's former chief of staff. In January 1994, Kristol decided to derail the Clinton health care plan. He and his staff issued a position paper titled "How to Oppose the Health Plan -- and Why." Aimed at Republicans on the Hill, the paper contended that any compromise with the president on health care would be bad for American medicine and bad for the G.O.P. Kristol argued that Republicans should stonewall Clinton while presenting their own less severe alternatives for reform. Kristol's memo gave Republicans heart. They resisted the Clinton health plan, HillaryCare failed and by the election it was Democrats who were suffering. 
Democrats often complain that conservatives benefit from a privately financed parallel political establishment. They're right. And they should build their own. 
And while they're at it, they ought to rediscover their sense of humor. Liberals used to be funny. They edited magazines like National Lampoon. They had a claim on cool. Then something happened. They became sour and earnest and neurotic about secondhand smoke. The Democratic Party became the that's-not-funny-young-man party, the party of no fun. National Lampoon folded. At least one of its editors became a conservative and started writing for The American Spectator.
If you began reading The American Spectator in the mid-90's, you probably remember it for obsessive, slightly kooky (sometimes very kooky) investigative journalism that wasn't all that interesting unless you hated Bill Clinton for a living. But before Clinton, believe it or not, it was a very funny magazine. In the summer of 1989, The Spectator published an article titled "A Call for a New McCarthyism," by P.J. O'Rourke, late of National Lampoon. O'Rourke opened by conceding that the liberals were absolutely right, that the Reagan years had in fact been a replay of the darkest days of the 1950's. "Indeed," he wrote, "we are experiencing anew many of the pleasures and benefits of that excellent decade: a salubrious prudery, a sensible avariciousness, a healthy dose of social conformity, a much-needed narrowing of minds and a return to common-sense American political troglodytism." According to O'Rourke, the only thing missing from the 80's was a good old-fashioned witch hunt. So he started one: "The fun part of McCarthyism is, as it always was, making out the enemies list." O'Rourke's list included "fuzzy-minded one-worlders, pasty-faced peace creeps and bleeding-heart bed-wetters" like Sting and Susan Sarandon and Amy Carter.
O'Rourke wrote the article for the same reason the Fox News Channel calls itself "fair and balanced" -- to drive liberals crazy. It worked. Years later, when the essay was expanded into a book, an outraged reviewer at Library Journal huffed that O'Rourke was trying to revive "the ghosts of Joe McCarthy and Richard Nixon." Bait taken.
It's both the job and the privilege of the minority party to gleefully torment its more powerful opponents. Democrats seem to have forgotten this. Ever read The American Prospect? The closest thing to humor in a recent issue is an account of how the media were mean and unfair to Al Gore during the last election. It's a serious article. The comedy is purely unintentional. 
For politicians, humor is freedom. Late last year, Al Gore finally seemed to learn this. But it was too late. Hours after his winning appearance on "Saturday Night Live," he retired from politics. For most of his career, Gore suffered from the opposite problem: he was a terrible straight man. He never seemed to be telling the truth, even when he may have been. He came off as a dissembler, and this as much as anything doomed his 2000 presidential bid. 
Democrats have forgotten how much the public loves straightforward language. Voters love it even more than accurate language. I first became convinced of this in the spring of 1999, when I went to Austin, Tex., to profile George W. Bush. The day I arrived, Bush held a news conference to explain his views on the war in Kosovo. He proceeded to mangle almost every word. Bush referred to "Mylo-sovack" (commonly known as Milosevic), then talked at some length about the "Kosovanians" and our allies "the Grecians." I was shocked. This may work in Texas, I thought, but the rest of the country won't tolerate this level of inarticulateness in a presidential candidate.
As it turned out, the rest of the country didn't care. If anything, voters interpreted Bush's dyslexia as candor. At least he's not slick was the idea. After a decade of Clinton-Gore, that's how desperate the public was for an honest candidate.
Will the Democrats get one in 2004? To find out, I called Howard Dean, the former longtime governor of Vermont and newly announced candidate for the White House. Parties are often revived by insurgents from within them -- Reagan, Gingrich -- and Dean is nothing if not an insurgent. Plus, I'd heard that he's a straight-shooter.
He is. While other candidates divulge their positions on uncomfortable social issues almost parenthetically, Dean leads with his. He is for needle exchanges, unrestricted abortion and civil unions between homosexuals, and he's happy to tell you about it. Most politicians squirm at the mention of partial-birth abortion. Not Dean. "Partial-birth abortion is a manufactured issue," he says. "It's expletive . Partial-birth abortion essentially doesn't exist." And even if it does, "it isn't any of Congress's business."
Dean isn't surprised by the Trent Lott scandal. The Republican Party is fundamentally hostile to blacks and Hispanics, he says, riddled as it is with "institutional racism." It's also full of liars. "I find the Republican Party pretty bankrupt intellectually," Dean says, adding that he doesn't read anything written by conservatives. Nothing? "No." Are there any conservatives who are intellectually honest? "I don't think so. I can't think of any." He sounds cheery as he says this.
Dean's tone has changed a few hours later when he calls back and leaves this message: "Tucker, this is Howard Dean. I was talking to some staff folks after I got off the phone with you, and they were worried about my term 'institutional racism.' Probably that might have been not the right word to use. I was a little nervous now that the word 'racist' was such a charged word that it might have been better if I talked about 'intolerance' and 'divisiveness.' If you could give me a call back, that would be great."
Damn. The consultants. They've gotten to him already. Dean hasn't even had a chance to say anything truly outrageous, and already the campaign professionals, sworn enemies of colorful language, are telling him to tone it down, advising him to dilute his essential Howard Dean-ness. Fire them, I thought. Send them back to Washington before it's too late.
Of course, in a deeper sense, it's already too late. Dean, like the other Democrats running for president in 2004, is unlikely to become president, consultants or not. Which is all the more reason to run an honest campaign. Relax. Say what you think. Tell an off-color joke now and then. Have a good time. No one wants to watch a suffering candidate. Voters will like you if you like what you're doing. You probably won't win the election. You might as well enjoy running. 

GRAPHIC: Drawings (John Kascht) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); IRAQ WAR (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (68%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (68%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (68%); TAX LAW (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); TERRORISM (65%) PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2004; ELECTIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ELECTION ISSUES; TERRORISM; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

PERSON: CARLSON, TUCKER; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2003 



577 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 4; Magazine Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 7978 words

HEADLINE: The Makeover 

BYLINE:  By Scott Anderson; Scott Anderson is a frequent contributor to the magazine. His last cover article was about an Israeli commando unit on the West Bank.

 BODY:
Wearing a gold robe and matching cap, Muammar el-Qaddafi -- "the Leader," as he is universally referred to in Libya -- paces a well-worn strip of land beside his tent. He stares down at the bare earth as he walks, stopping occasionally to gaze up into the surrounding trees. His is the preoccupied walk of a philosopher thinking deep thoughts, or of an actor memorizing his lines. 
 An aide separates from the small pack of functionaries and bodyguards who have approached and hurries to Qaddafi's side. He clasps Qaddafi's elbow in an oddly collegial way and whispers in his ear. The Leader abruptly turns then, as if taking notice of his visitors for the first time. 
 He is an imposing man, about six feet tall with a still-athletic build, and though his mouth is fixed in a tentative half-smile, there is something wary in his manner. His eyes are hidden behind brown-tinted sunglasses. 
"Welcome, thank you for coming," he says in English as we shake hands, making it sound as if this was all his idea. His smile broadens, and he places his right hand over his heart, a traditional Arab gesture of friendship and greeting. "Welcome." 
A white plastic table and three plastic patio chairs have been arranged in the shade of a nearby tree, and we sit there together with his interpreter while the rest of the entourage retreats to a discreet distance. As Qaddafi settles in, a retainer quietly comes forward to hand him a homemade fly whisk, several sprigs of rosemary held together by a crumpled sheet of aluminum foil. Beneath his gold robe, the Leader wears dark socks and ostrich-skin slippers. 
It has been 33 years since Muammar el-Qaddafi came to power in Libya -- and for nearly as long the West has been trying to write his epitaph. In the mid-80's, he was Public Enemy No. 1 in the eyes of the American government, "the mad dog of the Middle East" in Ronald Reagan's famous phrase. The financier of an eclectic array of guerrilla groups around the globe, he was also responsible, according to Western intelligence, for many of that era's deadliest terrorist attacks, including, most notoriously, the 1988 bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland, that killed 270. 
Yet, today, Qaddafi seems intent on putting his checkered past behind him. Now, rather than calling for "armed struggle" against Western imperialism, he has re-established diplomatic and economic ties throughout Europe. Rather than trying to destabilize his Arab neighbors, he wants to create a pan-African confederation modeled along the lines of the European Union. He has even done an about-face with regard to Israel. The man who once called for pushing the "Zionists" into the sea now advocates the forming of one nation where Jews and Palestinians would live together in peace.
"It is no longer acceptable or reasonable to say that the Jews should be thrown into the sea," he explains. "Even if you could do it, it's not acceptable. The solution is to join the two -- Israelis and Palestinians -- into one state, because once a state like this is established, then the interests of both sides are fulfilled." He pauses, gives a slight shrug. "They can call it Israetine." 
There is also the hint that this new spirit of moderation has carried over into Qaddafi's personal life. Supposedly freed from the daily demands of governance -- he continues only as the nation's spiritual leader, he says, with no official powers -- he is able to indulge in life's simpler pleasures.
"I have time now for horseback riding," he says. "I've always liked horses. Also, I enjoy hunting sometimes, and I do quite a lot of reading. Also, going on the Internet. I have a Web site."
But certainly the most significant changes have been the overtures Qaddafi has made toward the United States. He was among the first Arab leaders to denounce the Sept. 11 attacks, and he lent tacit approval to the American-led invasion of Afghanistan. To the astonishment of other Arab leaders, he reportedly shared his intelligence files on Al Qaeda with the United States to aid in the hunt for its international operatives.
"It is strange," he muses, with an enigmatic smile, "as far as Libya is concerned, that we find ourselves today in one trench fighting one common enemy with America." 
Just what is going on here? Has the Leader of the Revolution truly turned a new leaf? Or is he merely playing for new advantage in his longstanding campaign against the West? Is Qaddafi one of the Middle East's most astute and visionary thinkers -- as many throughout the developing world believe -- or is he simply an actor declaiming lines he believes his audience wants to hear? 
Qaddafi's official residence in Tripoli lies in the innermost ring of the Bab el-Azziziya Barracks in the southern suburbs. Other residences exist for the famously peripatetic Leader in other parts of Libya, but it is here that he normally conducts his business when in Tripoli.
The barracks is virtually a city unto itself, a sprawling warren of walls and fortified bunkers and multistory buildings, and in its alleyways young children -- presumably the offspring of billeted officers -- play soccer and ride bikes. At the heart of the compound, past three rings of checkpoints manned by black-bereted commandos and plainclothes security men, is Qaddafi's inner sanctum, a roughly circular plot of land of some 10 acres girdled by watchtowers and an eight-foot concrete wall. 
It is a surprisingly modest complex, bordering on the ratty, dominated by a round, dome-shaped building that resembles nothing as much as one of those awkward visitors' centers built in American national parks during the 60's. Off to one corner is Qaddafi's Bedouin tent, a sprawling, low-slung affair, with an RV parked alongside. Upon this humble tableau, the Leader has added a few embellishments. Eight camels wander about the unkempt grounds, while just outside the tent three oversize birdhouses accommodate a flock of homing pigeons. 
A few hundred yards away is another curious sight: a three-story building with much of its facade shorn off, dangling ceiling tiles and electrical wires visible through its gaping holes. At one time, this was Qaddafi's official residence in Bab el-Azziziya. On the morning of April 15, 1986, however, American warplanes destroyed the building in retaliation for a bombing in Berlin that had been linked to Libyan agents; the attack took the life of Qaddafi's adopted 15-month-old daughter and very nearly killed the Leader himself. Ever since, the ruins have been preserved as a kind of monument to American perfidy -- with the implicit suggestion that Qaddafi, too, has been the victim of terrorism -- and are a favored backdrop for his infrequent media appearances. 
Sitting with Qaddafi is an odd experience. He still possesses enough of the androgynous good looks and theatrical flair from his heyday in the 70's and 80's to make him instantly recognizable. From certain angles, he bears an eerie resemblance to that other aging former bad-boy celebrity, Mick Jagger. 
Yet there is a kind of studied languor about Qaddafi that, initially, seems quite at odds with his firebrand reputation. As he sat at the table outside his tent, he spoke in a soft whisper, barely above a mumble, and his gestures were noticeably slow and deliberate. Was this an indication of the manic-depressive diagnosis his enemies have long sought to place on him or proof of his mystic, otherworldly aura -- or, for that matter, a bit of role-playing designed to produce that aura? In repose, he tilts his chin up at such an unnatural angle that it invites comparisons to his nation's greatest archvillain, Benito Mussolini. Another sign of his ethereal, off-in-the-clouds ways or, as some suggest, an attempt by a vain man to mask the wrinkles on his 60-year-old neck? And just what's with the hat and fancy dress? Supporting evidence to those rumors that he's gay? But how to reconcile those rumors with others that have him down as a world-class womanizer, the Jack Kennedy of the Sahara, or with the official line that lists him as a doting husband and father to his seven children? 
But the longer one spends in Qaddafi's company, the more certain clues peek through. Behind the partial camouflage of his sunglasses and despite the aloof tilt of his head, he keeps intent watch over whoever is before him. As he grows more comfortable in a conversation, his voice takes on timbre and his gestures become more animated, and he will even occasionally indulge in a bit of self-deprecating wit. What emerges is the portrait of an extremely guarded and deliberate man, one who reveals of himself only what he wants to. 
In fact, this has always been a hallmark of his personality. In the wake of the 1969 junior-officers coup that brought him to power, Qaddafi, then a mere 27-year-old lieutenant in the signal corps, waited for more than a week before publicly announcing himself as its leader. And it was subsequently disclosed that this had been no spur-of-the-moment power grab but rather a conspiracy more than a decade in the making, dating all the way back to the day a teenage Qaddafi picked up a copy of the Egyptian President Gamal Nasser's revolutionary treatise "Philosophy of the Revolution" and began planning his own Nasserite revolt with like-minded schoolmates. However much this tale, with its curious blend of zeal and caution, has been officially embroidered, it is obviously the way Qaddafi wishes to be viewed: implacable, a careful schemer, a man who likes to keep others in the dark for as long as possible. 
"My very first impression of him was that he was extraordinarily intelligent," recalls David Mack, a junior American diplomat in Libya at the time of the 1969 coup and now the vice president of the Middle East Institute in Washington. "He clearly had this very strong charismatic hold over the other junior officers, and he spoke in this high, literary Arabic form that was very unusual among Libyans. But there was also something quite strange about him. He possessed a near-total recall from one meeting to the next, but at the same time he seemed to have a hard time keeping his attention focused. In the middle of meetings, you'd feel him just kind of drift off, and it was very difficult to tell what it meant." 
One trait that Qaddafi shares with Saddam Hussein of Iraq is reclusiveness -- in a nation of about five million people, it seems few Libyans have ever actually seen the Leader in person -- so I carefully watched the interactions between him and his immediate retinue, the small handful of men who deal with him on a daily basis. In photographs taken of Saddam Hussein's inner circle, his aides appear pale and frozen-smiled, a collection of dead-men-walking awaiting the next purge. Among those around Qaddafi, by contrast, there was an excited air that veered toward the giddy, as if they were in the presence of some A-list celebrity and still couldn't quite believe their good luck. 
It would be hard to imagine any nation that has undergone a more radical transformation than Libya has under Qaddafi. As late as the 1950's, it ranked as one of the poorest nations on earth -- and one of the most thoroughly dominated by foreigners. Whatever wealth did exist lay largely in the hands of some 110,000 Italian "settlers," while a pliant, Western-installed king had made the nation home to a profusion of foreign military bases, including Wheelus Field, the biggest American air base outside the United States. Even the exploitation of vast oil deposits in the eastern desert only accelerated Libya's vassal status, with huge tracts of the country going under lease to Western oil companies. For a young Arab nationalist like Qaddafi, the son of a Bedouin shepherd and the first member of his family to attend secondary school, the way forward was clear: revolution. 
"We couldn't even consider Libya an independent country at that time," he recalled, referring to his fellow conspirators in the 1969 coup. "We felt it was our duty to liberate the country from the foreigners." 
With broad popular support, Colonel Qaddafi and his Revolutionary Command Council shut down the foreign bases and ordered the Italian settlers from the country; in grisly payback for Mussolini's savage colonial war of the 1920's, in which an estimated quarter of the Libyan population died, they ordered the graves of Italian soldiers dug up and their bodies hauled away. When the foreign oil companies balked at Libyan demands for a greater share of profits, the military junta simply began nationalizing the oil fields. 
At the same time, Qaddafi set out to propel his country into the 20th century. Bankrolled by a flood of oil money, schools and clinics and public housing complexes were built in the most remote reaches of the nation, sparking a sweeping social transformation that vastly enhanced the average Libyan's standard of living. In deference to the conservative Muslim clerics who still held great sway, alcohol and Western music were banned, but at the same time, Qaddafi brought about the emancipation of women; today, many urban women in Libya have dispensed with even the minimal Muslim head scarf and, according to Libyan authorities, women compose slightly more than half of all university students. 
In a land riven by fierce clan loyalties and regional factionalism, such massive social upheaval naturally sparked resistance, and Qaddafi made it clear he wasn't interested in any free-ranging debate. Real and imagined "enemies of the people" were imprisoned and occasionally executed, while a vast network of secret policemen and informers kept watch for "reactionaries," a category broad enough to include Muslim fundamentalists, covetous fellow army officers and members of the Westernized business class. As intrigues and coup attempts multiplied, Qaddafi developed a pattern of constantly transferring military and government officials from post to post and endlessly redrawing administrative boundaries -- inflicting a certain chaos on the country but also ensuring that no one had the means to build a power base that might challenge his. 
To all this, the American government was initially sanguine. Under the Nixon administration, the United States was primarily interested in Qaddafi's strong anti-Communist stance -- and, of course, Libya's light, low-sulfur crude -- so what the colonel chose to do in his spare time was considered his business. According to published reports, the American ambassador in Tripoli went so far as to betray a group of coup-plotting officers in the Libyan Army in 1971, first professing support for their plan and then handing their names over to Qaddafi.
But then Qaddafi's ambitions began to spill over Libya's borders. Taking up the mantle of pan-Arab leader, Qaddafi zealously pursued the dream of forming a United Arab Republic with a host of other Middle Eastern and African countries, and if his oil largess didn't sufficiently turn other leaders to his way of thinking, the colonel appeared ready to try for regime change. Throughout the region in the 70's came persistent accusations of internal meddling by Libyan agents, including the financing of guerrilla groups and assassination squads. By the end of that decade, Libya had fought wars with Egypt and Chad and had been accused of fomenting revolt in Tunisia.
What truly drew American ire, however, was Qaddafi's leadership role in the devastating 1973 Arab oil embargo and his calls for the annihilation of the state of Israel. In the wake of the 1973 Arab-Israeli war, Libya became a safe haven for a variety of violent Palestinian guerrilla groups, notably Abu Nidal's Fatah Revolutionary Council, which used the country as a base for brazen attacks against targets in Western Europe. At the same time, Qaddafi was tilting Libya into the Warsaw Pact camp, buying billions of dollars of sophisticated Soviet weaponry and inviting in Soviet advisers, while giving support to a host of armed "liberation movements" around the world, including leftist guerrillas in Angola and Mozambique, the I.R.A. in Northern Ireland, the Basque group ETA in Spain and the Moro Islamic Liberation Front in the Philippines. By the end of the 70's, training camps situated in the Libyan desert were home to a virtual model United Nations of malcontents -- reportedly including Japanese Red Army "soldiers" next to Yemeni socialists next to members of West Germany's Baader-Meinhof Gang -- while Libyan agents waged an assassination campaign against Libyan dissidents in the United States and Europe. And through it all was the smiling countenance of Muammar el-Qaddafi in his sunglasses and outlandish costumes, hobnobbing with Idi Amin, playing gracious host in Tripoli to visitors seemingly handpicked off Interpol's most-wanted list. 
"I think he was enjoying himself immensely," says Mansour El-Kikhia, a Libyan emigre who teaches international relations at the University of Texas in San Antonio and who has long been one of Qaddafi's staunchest critics. "Think of it. You have $10 billion a year at your disposal to do with what you want. Every word you utter is God-given. Twenty-four hours a day, you see your face plastered everywhere. It's the ultimate power trip, and after a while the only way to satisfy it is to keep getting more." 
By the 80's, however, Qaddafi had drawn the enmity of a powerful new adversary in President Ronald Reagan. While diplomatic relations with Libya had been scaled back under President Carter, Reagan severed them completely and then set out to lure Qaddafi into a confrontation by testing Libyan territorial claims off the country's Mediterranean coast. When Qaddafi took the bait, American planes shot down two Libyan fighters. Before the end of his first year in office, Reagan ordered all Americans remaining in Libya -- some 1,500, mostly oil workers -- to leave or face legal action, and in 1982 he placed a blanket embargo on Libyan oil. 
At first, this seemed only to goad Qaddafi to further adventurism against the West. During an anti-Qaddafi demonstration in London in 1984, shots fired from inside the Libyan Embassy killed a British policewoman. The next year, Palestinian terrorists hijacked the Achille Lauro, an Italian cruise ship, killing one elderly American. The mastermind was later given a hero's welcome in Tripoli, and the United States charged Libya with involvement in the operation. On April 5, 1986, came the bombing of La Belle disco in West Berlin in which a Turkish woman and two American serviceman were killed, an attack that the C.I.A. quickly concluded was the handiwork of Libyan agents and that precipitated the American bombing that destroyed Qaddafi's home in the Bab el-Azziziya Barracks. 
Thereafter, Libya became noticeably quieter, although not -- as American and British investigators would conclude -- reformed. On the night of Dec. 21, 1988, Pan Am Flight 103 was blown apart over the Scottish village of Lockerbie, killing all 259 on board and another 11 on the ground. After a massive three-year criminal investigation, two Libyan intelligence agents were charged as the principal conspirators. When Libya refused to hand the men over for trial in Scotland, the United States and Great Britain led a successful campaign in the United Nations for international sanctions. Although the U.N. sanctions were not nearly as sweeping as those already in place by the United States -- the U.N. imposed a travel ban and an embargo against oil-industry spare parts and technology -- they had the effect of virtually isolating Libya from the rest of the world. And just like that, with a speed and thoroughness that few had imagined, Qaddafi and his rogue state seemed to fairly fall off the map. 
But just what caused Libya to suddenly go quiet? The answer, it seems, might provide lessons on how to handle other regimes that the United States finds troublesome, like those of Iraq and North Korea, and might suggest solutions far less messy than military invasion. Unfortunately, among Libyan experts, no single answer emerges. 
"I think it was probably a combination of factors," says Mary-Jane Deeb, an Arab specialist at the Library of Congress. "Certainly, the U.N. sanctions were a big factor, in that Libya was now a true pariah state. Qaddafi could no longer play the David versus Goliath game, because the whole world was against him. At the same time, world oil prices had dropped significantly, so he simply didn't have the kind of money to throw around like before, and the sanctions compounded this by making everything much more expensive in Libya. Also, Qaddafi has just gotten older. He is no longer the young firebrand he once was, and if not wiser, he has certainly grown more sedate. I think for a long time he has yearned to be seen as a kind of elder statesmen in the region, and that can't happen when you've been essentially quarantined."
A darker view is taken by El-Kikhia, the Libyan exile at the University of Texas. "Qaddafi is a master of illusion," he argues, "and he learned very early on who to antagonize and who not to. After Lockerbie, it was not fashionable to overtly support terrorism. His novelty had worn off in Europe; all his neighbors were fed up with him and happy to see him put in a box -- they certainly weren't going to help him break the sanctions -- so now he has to reinvent himself once again. So he becomes a changed man, a man of peace, a defender of human rights." El-Kikhia gives a bitter little laugh. "I always believed that lying was a learned trait, but with Qaddafi I believe it is genetic." 
Perhaps the only person who could provide a truly authoritative explanation for Libya's shift is Qaddafi himself, but on this point, he preferred to deal in abstractions. "The history of mankind is not fixed," he offered, "and it does not go at one pace. Sometimes it moves at a steady pace, and sometimes it is very fast. It is very flexible all the time. The past stage was the era of nationalism -- of the identity of one nation -- and now, suddenly, that has changed. It is the era of globalization, and there are many new factors which are mapping out the world."
In the heart of Tripoli lies Green Square, a massive expanse of asphalt illuminated late into the night by powerful floodlights. In the evenings, flower sellers line the curb to offer their wares, and half a dozen photographers -- each with his own brightly-painted ornamental carriage and sad-looking baby gazelle -- patiently await customers. Despite these small touches of life, the overall sensation is of standing in an emptying stadium parking lot. 
On one side of Green Square is the old Ottoman citadel, now a very fine archaeological museum, and immediately behind it lies the old medina, a vast labyrinth of alleys and small shops that still retain some of the exoticness of old North Africa. On the wall leading into the medina are two enormous banners, one depicting a map of Africa with Libya outlined in a golden light and the other showing a stern-faced Qaddafi looming sphinxlike over a desert scene. 
While such personality-cult icons are a common feature of many Arab and African nations, those in Libya are fundamentally different. Rather than merely extolling the virtues or eternal wisdom of the leader, nearly all the Qaddafi icons carry a broader exhortation to the Libyan people, with the Leader's unsmiling visage serving as a kind of visual punctuation to the message. Today, most of these exhortations have to do either with the fabulous benefits that have derived from the Great Man-Made River Project, a colossal water-collection scheme under way in the Libyan desert, or those to come from Qaddafi's newest passion, the creation of the African Union. 
"Libya goes forward in union with Africa," Qaddafi reminds Libyans from a billboard on the road in from the Tripoli airport. The front of the new 20-dinar note carries a group portrait of Qaddafi and some 40 other African leaders, while the back carries a detailed map of the Great Man-Made River Project pipelines. The overall effect is to render Qaddafi not as glorious idol but rather as indefatigable teacher.
It is, in fact, this very aspect of Qaddafi's rule that can induce a rather profound sense of disjuncture in the visitor, for there is very little about the Libyan people to indicate a natural fit with either his steely determination or his grand ambitions. Most Libyans tend to be a decidedly relaxed and easygoing bunch, well attuned to the Mediterranean ethos that mandates spending great stretches of time sitting in cafes. They seem to have difficulty recalling that the West in general and the United States in particular are their historical foes; Libyans of all ages readily approach foreigners on the street and are delighted when they happen to stumble upon an American. 
Despite their easy friendliness, there is an opaqueness -- or perhaps it is just exhaustion -- surrounding most Libyans. Over the past 33 years, they have seen their standard of living soar and then plummet and just now, with the suspension of the U.N. sanctions in 1999, start to creep back up again. They have had to grapple with countless generations of exhorting billboards, only to see those exhortations suddenly change: denunciations of Communism followed by expressions of friendship and solidarity with the Soviet Union; the government of neighboring Egypt as friend, enemy, friend, enemy and now friend again. Not surprisingly, it makes it hard to gauge what Libyans truly feel about their leader. During the many casual chats I had on the streets of Tripoli, I probed for at least a vague range of opinion on Qaddafi, but the universal response I received was one of admiration, a hint of national pride. 
"Herodotus wrote that all new ideas come out of the desert," a young computer technician named Ali cheerily declared outside an Internet cafe in Tripoli. "With the Leader, we can see that this is really true." 
This could, of course, be attributed to conditioning; given the pervasive informant apparatus in Libya, people may have learned to keep their thoughts on Qaddafi to themselves. At the same time, Libya is not North Korea, either in terms of its security apparatus or its isolation. A great many Libyans have traveled and lived abroad. Customers crowd the Internet cafes, and an even greater number have access to satellite television and CNN. 
"I think you would find that all Libyans like the Leader very much," Ali said when I pressed him on the topic. "Both because we live better than our neighbors and because he has raised our standing in the world. Because of him, all the world knows about Libya." 
Ali raised some valid points. Despite the deprivations imposed in the 90's by the sanctions, Libya still has one of the highest per-capita incomes in Africa and a far more equitable distribution of that income than most nations, including the United States. As for media exposure, how much ink has Morocco, a country with six times the population, garnered over the past 30 years? 
This point was touched on by an Italian businessman, speaking on condition of anonymity, who has worked and traveled extensively in Libya over the past 20 years. "Qaddafi has made this place famous," he explained. "I've never met a Libyan who thought he was perfect -- they're quite aware of some of the stupid things he's gotten them involved in -- but I think most have a deep affection for him for the way he has stood up to the West. You can't forget that Libya before was a totally forgotten, beaten-down nation, and he changed that."
This fact was demonstrated anew when the Italian prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, came to Tripoli. The relationship between Libya and Italy has always been a paradoxical one, with Libyan fondness for its closest European neighbor complicated by a seething resentment for the horrific violence inflicted on them by Italian soldiers during the colonial conquest. Qaddafi has repeatedly demanded reparations for Italy's colonial misdeeds. Although the Italians have not yet agreed to make any payments, they are increasingly anxious over veiled Libyan threats to limit oil shipments. While Berlusconi's one-day visit was billed as a courtesy call, certainly one pressing item on his agenda was to mollify Qaddafi on the reparations question, and it was largely in hopes of a breakthrough that some 40 Italian journalists flew into Tripoli with the prime minister. They were in for a very frustrating day. 
As Berlusconi was whisked off to Qaddafi's headquarters in Bab el-Azziziya, the attendant journalists followed aboard a government-supplied bus. Once past the barracks' three checkpoint perimeters, they were permitted into the inner compound, there to catch only a brief and very distant glimpse of the two leaders -- Qaddafi, resplendent in a purple robe, towering over the diminutive Berlusconi -- strolling along a path. After about an hour of this, the journalists were herded up and bused over to the Al Kabir Hotel, where they spent the long afternoon milling about the lobby, collecting whatever stray bits of news or rumor were afforded them. It was only when the bus suddenly reappeared around 8 p.m. to return them to Bab el-Azziziya that their spirits lifted. 
During the ride, some journalists speculated that they were on their way to a photo-op session with the two leaders, while the more optimistic suspected a joint statement announcing that the reparations dispute had been resolved. As it turned out, everyone was wrong. Once admitted to the inner compound, the journalists were led across the grounds to the three-story ruins of Qaddafi's old home. Across its shattered facade, floodlights illuminated an enormous banner touting something called the Miss Net World beauty contest, with its hopeful slogan: "Beauty Will Save the World." Within the building's front hall stood the 22 beauty contestants -- along with the two Lebanese-Ukrainian brothers who were the pageant's promoters -- posing for photographs amid the detritus of shrapnel and shattered furniture. Rather than being off somewhere hammering out a deal with Berlusconi, Qaddafi had apparently spent much of the evening chatting with the beauty contestants in his Bedouin tent. 
"It was really great," exclaimed Tecca Zendik, a statuesque 19-year-old from Southern California who represented the United States in the pageant. "He was very nice and really humble. They had put out this special chair for him, but instead he sat in this ordinary plastic chair like everyone else."
"And the tent was really amazing," added Miss United Kingdom, Lucy Layton. "It had these beautiful carpets and these silk tapestries on the walls. It was like something out of 'Arabian Nights."' 
It appeared there had also been a bit of drama in the tent. When Qaddafi began a critique of American policy toward his country, including the 1986 air attack that killed his infant daughter, Tecca grew emotional and began to cry. Taking notice, Qaddafi moved her to the seat beside him and comfortingly patted her hand as he continued his talk.
"He wants me to come back again tomorrow night," Tecca said, looking as if she might start crying again. "I mean, this is all kind of overwhelming. I've never been out of the States before, and here I am meeting Qaddafi."
At some point, a rumor circulated among the bewildered journalists that Berlusconi, having failed to settle the reparations issue, had already left for Rome. 
Over the next several days, the Tecca-Leader friendship blossommed: she was invited back to Bab el-Azziziya; he autographed a copy of his famous "Green Book" for her. While it was pretty obvious to everyone that Qaddafi was doing this for political reasons -- since the United States doesn't have official diplomatic relations with Libya, having Tecca in town was something of a coup -- it began fueling resentment within the small and, until now, close Miss Net World community, with some contestants fearing the fix was in for a Tecca victory. (That conspiracy theory was later dispelled: the crown went to Miss United Kingdom.) 
As all of this went on, I tried to imagine what ordinary Libyans might make of it. Weird? Maybe. Embarrassing? Perhaps. But recalling my conversation with Ali, the young computer technician, I suspected there must also have been something kind of thrilling about it. Along with the dark, sad places Qaddafi has taken them, it must be kind of cool to have a leader who would send a visiting head of state away empty-handed while a 19-year-old girl from Southern California got two meetings and an autographed book. 
During our conversation outside the Bab el-Azziziya tent, one of the Leader's aides approached with a tray of drinks: Arabic coffees, lemonades and sodas. Qaddafi waited for his guest to be served and then took a glass of plain water, which he didn't touch. Periodically during the interview, he brushed lazily at the air with his homemade fly whisk. A light breeze carried the odor of sheep dung from a nearby scattering -- which was puzzling, for in three visits to Bab el-Azziziya I never saw a sheep. 
Any suggestion that Qaddafi is, in fact, insane would seem to be discounted simply by his longevity in office. Further doubt was raised by the very careful way he recounted his past, freely acknowledging those murky episodes that are now common knowledge and "forgiven," while gliding away from those that might still cause him trouble. For example, when I asked about his longstanding support of the I.R.A. -- British intelligence says that tens of millions of dollars worth of Libyan-supplied weapons flowed to the guerrilla group in the 70's and 80's -- he deftly converted the question into an illustration of how he is actually a man of peace.
"The ultimate objective of supporting an armed struggle," he said, "is to bring a problem to a conclusion, a peaceful solution. So when I saw that the British and Irish were talking to each other, that there was a chance to solve this problem by peaceful means, then there was no longer justification to keep giving support for armed action." 
On more sensitive matters, Qaddafi made use of a handy protective shield: he holds no official position in the Libyan government; Libya is ruled by "the masses"; he can't be expected to know everything that goes on. 
He also pointed out the elasticity of labels like "terrorism," arguing that he himself was its target in the 1986 American airstrike on Tripoli. It was on this particular topic that Qaddafi came as close to a tirade as at any time that I spent with him. 
"For a superpower like America to elect somebody like Reagan, somebody who would do something like that?" He waved a hand in the direction of his ruined former home. "To kill a girl that was only 1 1/2 as she was asleep in her bed? I mean, for America to choose a president like this, a man who is not stable in his mind, it seems a lack of discipline in choosing who will be president. I don't know of any other society that, because somebody is, let's say, a good boxer, beloved by young people, he would be chosen president. O.K., he's a good boxer, say hello to him, applaud him, but don't make him president of the country. And it's not just me saying this. So many people are frightened by this, they put their hand on their heart because of what might happen in the future." 
To this glitch in the American political system, the Leader offered a novel solution. 
"It would be better for America to eliminate the elections and the president and all that," he said. "They should have people's congresses, people's committees, a jamahiriya" -- or "state of the masses," the organ that officially governs Libya -- "in America. This way, the American people would have the power, and if that happened, I'm sure they wouldn't be crazy, that they'd be good people." 
Given Qaddafi's deadpan manner, it was hard to tell whether he was being serious -- but then, that has always been difficult with the Leader. After the 1997 Paris car crash that killed Princess Diana and Dodi al-Fayed, for example, Qaddafi charged that they had actually been murdered by British intelligence agents, and he demanded those agents be extradited to Libya to stand trial. Although this item ran in British and American newspapers as new proof of Qaddafi's lunacy, it is far more likely that he was engaging in a rather complicated joke, drawing a parallel to the two Libyan intelligence agents that Great Britain wanted extradited to stand trial for the Lockerbie bombing. Likewise, his suggestion to me that once the Israelis and Palestinians got it together and formed the state of Israetine, they could join the Arab League.
"They can take our place," he said with a shrug and a soft chuckle, "because we're leaving." 
Where Libya is leaving to -- and on this point, too, Qaddafi could become quite expansive -- is the African Union. 
The Leader described his new focus on Africa as a logical step of political and economic evolution: the moving out from the epoch of nationalism into that of regional integration. But Qaddafi clearly has more personal motives. He well remembers that it was his African neighbors to the south, rather than his Arab brethren, who came to Libya's aid during the hard days of the U.N. embargo. And after three decades of offering himself up as a pan-Arab leader only to be constantly rebuffed, perhaps he'll have better luck as a pan-African one; in the months before the inaugural African Union meeting in Durban, South Africa, he made a rather naked attempt to wrest the leadership away from President Thabo Mbeki of South Africa.
The problem is, his people don't really seem to get it. Separated from black Africa by the vastness of the Sahara, most Libyans regard themselves as Libyan first, then as Arab, then as Mediterranean; being African rarely makes the list. It's something even Qaddafi's most steadfast loyalists have difficulty with. Shortly after delivering a party-line argument for why Libyans wholly embrace their African heritage and future, an Information Ministry official made an offhand slip when describing the mosquitoes that dwell in the central desert. "They're huge," he said, "but they don't carry disease, like in Africa." 
Among the Tripoli cognoscenti -- or the cynical -- there is a quiet conviction that Qaddafi's pan-African passion, too, will eventually slide away, especially as the effects of the lifting of the U.N. sanctions fully filter through the economy and Libyans re-establish their traditional links across the Mediterranean. What would truly bury it, many suggest, is the day that the United States and Libya finally end their long standoff and normalize relations. 
The very first roadblock toward that day, however, can be summed up in one word: Lockerbie. 
At its mention, Qaddafi released a dispirited sigh. 
"You see," he muttered, "this Lockerbie issue, it's an old issue, from the past. We should have found a solution to it once and for all a long time ago. It doesn't benefit any of us to keep chewing the cud over Lockerbie, talking about it all the time." 
In Qaddafi's view, the matter should have been settled once Libya handed over the two Libyans indicted in the case, something it finally did in 1999 (one was ultimately convicted by a court in the Netherlands; the other, acquitted). But while this brought a suspension of the U.N. sanctions, it didn't affect the parallel American measures. 
That is because handing over the suspects was only one of four new conditions the American government tacked onto its pre-existing Libya sanctions after Lockerbie. Another was for Libya to make financial restitution to the victims' families (a process it is now apparently near finalizing; the proposed settlement is for $10 million per victim, for a total $2.7 billion), and another was that it officially acknowledge responsibility for the bombing. This last condition has now emerged as the major sticking point, for the Libyans maintain that the charge simply isn't true. For its part, the American government is adamant that such an acknowledgment is nonnegotiable.
"We have made it absolutely clear to the Libyans that all four of these conditions have to be fulfilled before we can begin to address any other bilateral issues," a State Department official involved in Libya policy says, speaking on condition of anonymity. "There's no bargaining, no Northwest Passage around this, as far as we're concerned."
In Washington, there is a small but growing movement to gradually restore relations with Libya -- certainly the oil companies would love to get back to business -- and an increasing impatience with what some view as intransigence on the administration's part. The mea culpa provision in the Lockerbie conditions is a case in point. 
"I don't think there's any question that Libya and Qaddafi have fundamentally changed over the past decade," says Milton Viorst, a journalist and Arab scholar, "and it's largely come about due to some very smart and successful policies the American government carried out. The problem is that we now seem incapable of capitalizing on that success." If the Libyans settle the Lockerbie reparations issue, Viorst continued, "that in itself should be seen as an acknowledgment of responsibility. It's unreasonable to expect them to get naked in public on this." 
That sentiment is echoed by David Mack of the Middle East Institute: "I think we now have a great opportunity to make Libya an example in that part of the world of the very doctrine Bush has talked about. Let's turn it from a country that once sponsored terrorism and show the real benefits to be derived from renouncing that and standing with us." 
This rehabilitation process is already nearly completed in Europe. In 1999, Libya settled claims brought by France over the 1989 bombing of a UTA commercial plane over Niger that killed 170, an attack that was linked to Libyan agents but that, by the terms of the $33 million settlement, required no overt admission of guilt. Libya has negotiated a settlement with Britain over the case of Yvonne Fletcher, the policewoman killed during the Libyan Embassy demonstration in 1984, a move that led to resumption of full diplomatic relations between the two nations. Italy and Libya have developed an entire network of economic and cultural ties. 
No doubt economics is one impetus behind these moves by the Europeans. Oil isn't getting any more plentiful in the world, Libya is sitting on a lot of what's left and so oil-poor Europe has a strong incentive to make nice. 
There is a deeper issue at work as well. Perhaps because of their geographical proximity to Libya and the rest of the Arab world, Europeans have come to view Muammar el-Qaddafi as a man who has long waged battle against the danger now facing everyone else: Muslim extremism. As far back as the 70's, he regarded the Muslim Brotherhood, then a nascent fundamentalist movement, as a menace and rooted its members from the country. In 1986, he reportedly closed down 48 Muslim institutions around Libya, charging that they were fronts for extremists; in 2000, he made similar accusations when he unleashed his secret police against opposition figures at the university in Benghazi, killing several and imprisoning dozens more. The fundamentalists have never been particularly fond of Qaddafi, either; by most estimates, they have been responsible for a sizable portion of the many assassination attempts made on him over the years. As a result, it is not just Qaddafi who talks of Libya being in "one trench" with the West in the campaign against fundamentalist terrorism, but many Europeans, too.
"The world has become a very dangerous place," a European diplomat in Tripoli says, "and when you look at Qaddafi today, I think you have to remember that old adage, that the enemy of your enemy is your friend. Unfortunately, the Americans are very slow to think this way." 
Maybe so. Then again, maybe all those who would urge a new spirit of American rapprochement toward Libya are rather missing the true focus of the debate. As the Bush administration has made increasingly clear, it has a number of other issues to take up with the Libyans even after any settlement on Lockerbie.
"Certainly, one enormous concern of ours," the State Department official says, "is their involvement in developing weapons of mass destruction. Beyond that, we also have major concerns about their human rights record."
In May, in a landmark speech titled "Beyond the Axis of Evil," Under Secretary of State John R. Bolton expanded the list of American enemies to include Libya, calling it a "rogue state" that is seeking to acquire nuclear weapons, an accusation the Libyans heatedly deny. Over the past six months, C.I.A. analysts have repeatedly suggested that Libya is pursuing the development of biological and chemical weapons. And despite administration acknowledgment that Libya has largely severed its ties to terrorist groups, its "residual contacts" with some of those groups led to its inclusion on the State Department's 2002 list of nations that sponsor terrorism. If all of this is reminiscent of the campaign against Saddam Hussein, it may not be coincidental.
"I think Qaddafi has very good reasons to be nervous," says a political analyst who often takes part in policy discussions on Libya at the State Department. "The administration's attention right now is almost totally focused on Iraq, but after that, Libya is either No. 2 or No. 3 on the list of nations the hard-liners want to go after." The analyst recalls a meeting on Libya he recently attended at the State Department. "The topic turned to the issue of Lockerbie, and the seniormost official in the room said, 'Well, let's hope Qaddafi deals with it while there's still time.' There was no ambiguity in what he meant, but just in case someone didn't get it, he said it twice." 
To the analyst, who has spent much of his career studying Libya, what he is now most struck by is Qaddafi's suddenly straitened circumstances. "I'm just not sure that he has that much to offer the United States," the analyst says. "O.K., he's anti-fundamentalist, but so are a lot of other Arab countries, and the primary target of any Libyan fundamentalists who are still around is not the United States but Qaddafi himself. Oil? The U.S. has gotten along quite nicely without Libyan oil for 20 years. Against that, you have this enormous litany of things he has done in the past that the U.S. may just never be in the mood to forgive." 
Traces of this appraisal are echoed by the State Department official. While refusing to speculate on any future American action against Libya, he allows that Qaddafi faces a daunting task in ever fully mending fences with the United States. "He has a lot of strikes against him. He's made a number of positive steps in recent years, but there's still a tremendous amount that he needs to do."
Then again, Qaddafi has seen himself as a marked man since virtually the day he took power, and yet somehow he has managed to survive 33 years of internal intrigue, assassination attempts and radically shifting geopolitical alliances. He has also already outlasted six American presidents, and if he is at all nervous about outlasting this one, it appears tempered by a certain wily confidence.
Sitting outside his tent in Bab el-Azziziya, Qaddafi even felt comfortable enough to cast his own small element of doubt over his long, slow journey toward rehabilitation in the eyes of the world. When I asked how he would like to be remembered, he started with a platitudinous answer: "I would hope that people would feel that I haven't been selfish, that I have even forsaken myself in order to please and to help others. I do hope people would say that." But then Qaddafi stopped and gave a low chuckle. "And I do hope that I have actually been like this in reality." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Qaddafi in his residential compound in Tripoli.; The Libyans put on a show for the visiting Italian prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi. Qaddafi has turned the results of a 1986 American bombing attack into a monument to Western treachery. (Paolo Pellegrin/Magnum for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (84%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (67%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (65%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (65%); HIJACKING (65%); AIRLINES (64%); BOMBINGS (64%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (61%); AL-QAEDA (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (60%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (60%); EUROPEAN UNION (60%) BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; EUROPE-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-LIBYA; LIBYA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (63%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%) EUROPEAN UNION; PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS INC; UNITED NATIONS; AL QAEDA (TERRORIST GROUP); STATE DEPARTMENT 

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (63%)

PERSON: SILVIO BERLUSCONI (59%) ANDERSON, SCOTT; QADDAFI, MUAMMAR EL- (COL); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (89%); TRIPOLI, LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (58%) NEW YORK, USA (89%) LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (96%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ITALY (79%) LIBYA; EUROPE; AFRICA; NEW YORK CITY; LOCKERBIE (SCOTLAND)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2003 



578 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 76 words

HEADLINE: Questions for Frank Gehry 

 BODY:
 I congratulate Deborah Solomon on her interview with Frank Gehry (Jan. 5). I have read thick tomes that gave me less insight into an individual's character than her brief interview did. Forty thousand dollars! Has it occurred to Gehry that because of the economic fallout of Sept. 11, the agency might not have been able to afford more than $40,000? The high moral ground would have been to refuse the money and submit a proposal gratis.

Art Wilson
Memphis

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIJACKING (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); TERRORISM (83%) TERRORISM; MONUMENTS AND MEMORIALS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

PERSON: GEHRY, FRANK 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2003 



579 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 5; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 337 words

HEADLINE: LOOKING AHEAD/ARCHITECTURE; 
From Ground Zero To Gehry's Disney

BYLINE:  By HERBERT MUSCHAMP 

 BODY:
 ROLAND BETTS -- From ancient Egypt to corporate America, great art and architecture are the only decent forms of propaganda the status quo has ever come up with. That is why many New Yorkers are looking to Roland Betts as the pivotal figure in determining the future of Ground Zero. A board member of the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation and a co-owner of Chelsea Piers, Mr. Betts was a Yale classmate of George W. Bush. Until Mr. Betts persuaded the development agency to try architecture for a change, city and state officials were taking the low road. That risky instinct paid off with new designs of historical importance. My instinct is to believe that he will deliver on the high level of expectations his agency has raised. 

DILLER AND SCOFIDIO -- On March 1, the Whitney Museum of American Art will open a retrospective of work by Elizabeth Diller and Ricardo Scofidio. This New York office, which has consistently defined itself as an alternative to conventional practice, has become as influential as Rem Koolhaas in contemporary architecture. The show will retrace their steps from the margins to their profession's creative heart.

HUMANIST -- The Italians invented modern architecture, and Gae Aulenti, the Milanese architect, is one of the greatest proponents of humanism today. Aulenti's most prominent works -- chiefly museums -- are remodeled historic structures. Because of this, her contribution has not received its full due. In time, her restriction to interior architecture will be recognized as a distinctive strength. Aulenti's latest project, San Francisco's Asian Art Museum, will open on March 20.

CONCERT HALL -- Walt Disney, the great poet of enchantment, is recalled by Frank Gehry's design for the new concert hall that bears Disney's name. A breakthrough design for Gehry, the concert hall also established the critical importance of contemporary architecture to the evolving identity of cities. The new home for the Los Angeles Philharmonic is to open on Oct. 23.
 HERBERT MUSCHAMP

GRAPHIC: Photo: The west face of the Disney Concert Hall. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (74%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (73%) ARCHITECTURE 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (58%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (58%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (58%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (58%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (55%) MUSCHAMP, HERBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2003 



580 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1785 words

HEADLINE: THEATER; 
Broadway Comes to Moscow, and Takes on the Risks

BYLINE:  By JASON ZINOMAN; Jason Zinoman is the theater editor of Time Out New York.

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
IT sounded like a great idea. Importing an American musical to a Moscow hungry for Western culture and maybe rich enough to pay top ticket prices.
 The show was "42nd Street," the 1980 musical based on the 1933 movie classic about a chorus girl who triumphs when she replaces the ailing star. One of the producers, Boris Krasnov, 41, insisted on an American cast singing in English. 
 "Look," he said in English last fall in his office backstage at the Palace of Youth, a vast auditorium on the outskirts of Moscow, "Russians know ballet, Germans know cars and Americans know musical comedy." 
No need to import designers: Mr. Krasnov, a well-known designer in Russia, would make the sets and costumes himself. Last May, he contacted Nicholas Howey and Randy Buck of Troika Entertainment, a production company based in Gaithersburg, Md., that sends non-Equity versions of Broadway shows on national tour. The three men met in New York.
Intrigued, Mr. Howey and Mr. Buck visited Moscow in June. While there, Mr. Buck saw something else that encouraged him: wealth.
"This town is taking off," he said in October, during another visit. Speaking at his hotel, across the street from Red Square, Mr. Buck said: "There are Mercedes all over the place. Jags, S.U.V.'s. Someone is going to break into this market, and we're hoping it's us."
The three men shook hands on July 10. The Troika producers were responsible for casting and the show's license. Besides the sets and costumes, Mr. Krasnov said, he also came up with financing for the $6 million musical, one-third of it out of his own pocket.
"42nd Street" was cast in New York by the end of July and rehearsals began in August. But "42nd Street" in English didn't travel so well in Russia. The reviews were mixed, and while the box office started strong, it tapered off. The show closed on Dec. 31, after running for 11 weeks.
If "42nd Street" was a flop, another import, a Russian-language production of "Chicago" ($5.5 million), has been anything but. Opening just two weeks before "42nd Street," "Chicago" was met by enthusiastic reviews and packed houses. The tawdry, cynical story about criminals with razzle-dazzle seemed as much about mobbed-up Moscow as it does about gangster-era Chicago. According to the show's producers, it is still selling well, consistently filling 90 percent to 95 percent of its theater's seats.
These shows represent the risky yet enticing prospect of introducing blockbuster American musicals to the land of Stanislavski and Meyerhold. But the results have been so different that no one can really say whether it has been a good idea or not.
Compared with imported movies and television shows, foreign stage musicals have taken much longer to arrive in post-Soviet Russia. "Who Wants to Be a Millionaire" and "The Osbournes" are popular, and Hollywood movies receive wide release, but the high price tags of most musicals make producing them here financially perilous. And it is still not clear whether there are enough wealthy theatergoers to go around.
Nevertheless, there are signs of a growing musical-theater scene -- and an expanding class of Russian consumers. In the last few years, a new crop of foreign musicals has arrived in Moscow, including the current French production of "Notre Dame de Paris," based on the Victor Hugo novel known in English as "The Hunchback of Notre Dame," and "Metro," a Polish musical (which had a brief run on Broadway in 1996) that closed last spring. There are also a number of smaller-scale Russian musicals, including the long-running rock opera "Junon and Avos" (seen in 1990 at City Center in New York), as well as reworked versions of "Hair" and "Jesus Christ Superstar."
The most popular musical may have been "Nord-Ost" ("Northeast" in German), a romantic Russian epic based on a popular Soviet-era novel, "Two Captains" by Veniamin Kaverin. An Andrew Lloyd Webber-style spectacle of special effects that spans Russian history, it was the first musical in Russia to run for a year on a daily schedule.
These shows encouraged the arrival of "Chicago" and "42nd Street," which opened with huge expectations. Here were American and Russian producers presenting big-budget musicals every night -- a schedule typical for Broadway but not for Russian theater, which has a repertory tradition.
Only weeks after the American musicals opened, Chechen guerrillas seized another Moscow theater, where the audience was watching "Nord-Ost." More than 750 people were taken hostage. By the time the surviving guerrillas had been captured, more than 100 hostages had died from the effects of the gas used to subdue the attackers. The crisis brought theatergoing to a brief halt in Moscow, and some producers wondered if it would dampen the eagerness to pay the ticket prices that the two American musicals were charging -- up to 3,000 rubles, or $100. ("Nord-Ost" is expected to reopen on Feb. 8 for the first performance since the attacks.)
The stakes were high, especially for Mr. Krasnov and his rival, a Russian producer of "Chicago," Philip Kirkorov.
Mr. Kirkorov, 35, who also stars in the musical (he plays the slick lawyer, Billy Flynn), is one of the most famous men in Russia, a pop singer often compared to Ricky Martin and Michael Jackson and best known for his outlandish Vegas-style stage shows, which he likes to call "consumerism for the senses."
Mr. Kirkorov is producing "Chicago" with his wife, Alla Pugacheva, a fellow pop music star, and the veteran Broadway producers Fran and Barry Weissler, who are the producers of "Chicago" at the Shubert Theater on Broadway.
Last fall, Mr. Kirkorov was sitting at a desk backstage at the Estrada Theater, where "Chicago" is playing, a renovated house across the Moscow River from the Kremlin. Wearing a bright blue silk shirt with baroque gold letters that read "Armani," Mr. Kirkorov allowed that his childhood hero had been Engelbert Humperdinck. Then he adopted a serious pose. "People are sick and tired of rock stars," he said dramatically, speaking in Russian through a translator. "There is a vacuum for new entertainments, and that's why there is such excitement for 'Chicago.' "
The audience's reaction that night seemed to bear him out: they appeared to be transfixed by the sinuous movements of the performers -- all from the worlds of ballet, classical dance and pop music. The cast had rehearsed more than three months with a Broadway team to master Bob Fosse's choreography. 
" 'Chicago' is a universal, timeless piece of theater that is understood on all levels and in all languages," said Mr. Weissler, who has produced the show in 255 cities around the world (the figure includes several national and international tours). "We go everywhere and we've done it so many times that it's like a formula."
By contrast, the formula for "42nd Street" never quite worked. " '42nd Street' is a musical about nostalgia for the old days of American theater," said Pavel Rudney, the theater editor of Vash Dosug, an arts magazine. "But our audience has no memories of this. And a musical that has no Russian language and no Russian themes is doomed to fail."
There were some problems with the physical production, which appeared to be the product of artistic compromises. For example, slides that were supposed to summon up New York in the 1930's included, alongside signs for Vogue and Bazaar, a huge red advertisement for the Marriott Moscow Grand Hotel.
Mr. Buck and Mr. Krasnov blamed the "Nord-Ost" hostage crisis for the show's early demise. The week after the siege ended, "42nd Street" sold only 450 seats, falling far short of the 14,000 its producers expected. Security was increased at the theater (as it was at the Estrada), but in the next month there were four bomb threats, all false alarms. The North American cast grew uneasy and five actors gave notice.
If the attack on "Nord-Ost" doomed "42nd Street," why didn't "Chicago" fold also? This question upsets Mr. Krasnov, who was in New York last week, seeking partners to remount "42nd Street."
" 'Chicago' had no bomb threats," he said, sitting very still in the lobby of a hotel in the Broadway theater district. "Also, when there are money problems, Russian producers can just tell Russian actors, 'Could you hold off on payments?' I didn't have that opportunity."
Mr. Krasnov said he hoped to reopen "42nd Street" in March and, failing that, he wanted to produce another blockbuster ("The Phantom of the Opera" or "Cats") next fall.
Mr. Buck, of Troika, declared he was willing to listen to any new ideas, but said he thought he would handle things differently next time. "We would take a more active role in the production," Mr. Buck said. "There are elements of the physical production where we could have helped them."
While Mr. Krasnov and Mr. Buck remain positive about the future of producing big-budget musicals in Moscow, common wisdom agrees that its long-term success depends on the country's economy.
For his part, Mr. Kirkorov of "Chicago" conceded that Russia has a long way to go. "Right now, there is no middle class," he said. "We have rich and very poor. We sell out the $10 seats and the $100."
If that situation continues, "Chicago" may have trouble filling houses for two years, which is the length of time that Igor Gourevitch, a Russian producer who turned down "Chicago" before Mr. Kirkorov signed on, estimated that it would be necessary to make a profit. "I'm pessimistic," Mr. Gourevitch said. "There aren't enough tourists in Moscow, and musicals need tourists to be profitable."
That hasn't stopped producers from trying, though. There are several new shows in the pipeline, including versions of "Jekyl & Hyde" and "Victor/Victoria" (to be co-produced by and to star Mr. Kirkorov).
Once-skeptical Western producers, like Cameron Mackintosh in London, have started to take a second look at Russia. Mr. Mackintosh turned down an offer to take a production of "Les Miserables" to Russia several years ago because, he said, the market was too volatile. Now he is in talks with several producers to bring "Les Miz" to Russia. He is also working with a Russian producer to bring "The Witches of Eastwick" to Moscow next month.
"In the last few years, Russians have been getting expertise and proving that there's an audience" for musicals, Mr. Mackintosh said by telephone from London.
From those who would see the closing of "42nd Street" as a cautionary tale, Mr. Krasnov asked for patience. "Perhaps we bit off more than we could chew," he said, sounding chastened for only a moment. "But remember, we have almost no tradition of musicals. We have no unions. And then 'Nord-Ost' chased away the tourists. Russia is an emerging market and we are only just beginning."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Philip Kirkorov, center, as Billy Flynn in the musical "Chicago" in Moscow. A pop star known for his Vegas-style flamboyance, he is also one of the show's producers. (Zina Orlova); The opening night of "Chicago" at the Estrada Theater in Moscow in October. (Associated Press); Boris Krasnov, a producer of "42nd Street" in Moscow, which ran for 11 weeks. (Oleg Korolyev); Shonn Wiley in the Moscow production of "42nd Street." (Vlad Burykin) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER REVIEWS (91%); MUSICAL THEATER (89%); TICKET SALES (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (77%); FILM (77%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (77%); THEATER (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (71%) THEATER; THEATER; THEATER 

PERSON: ZINOMAN, JASON 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%) MARYLAND, USA (71%); NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%) RUSSIA; MOSCOW (RUSSIA)

TITLE: 42D STREET (PLAY); CHICAGO (PLAY) 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2003 



581 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2234 words

HEADLINE: ART/ARCHITECTURE; 
Doing Their Own Thing, Making Art Together

BYLINE:  By HOLLAND COTTER 

 BODY:
TO many Americans, the world feels more threatened and threatening today than at any time since the 1960's. Terrorism, nuclear proliferation, the prospect of war on Iraq and ever tightening security measures at home have sent a hum of tension through daily life.
 In the 1960's, comparable tension, excruciatingly amplified, produced a big response: the spread of a counterculture, one that began with political protest movements and became an alternative way of life. Among other things, it delivered a sustained, collective "no" to certain values (imperialism, moralism, technological destruction), and a collective "yes" to others: peace, liberation, a return-to-childhood innocence. 
 The collective itself, as a social unit, was an important element in the 60's utopian equation. Whatever form the concept took -- the commune, the band, the cult -- its implications of shared resources, dynamic interchange and egos put on hold made it a model for change. 
Even the art world, built on a foundation of hierarchies and exclusions, produced its own versions. Activist groups like the Artworkers Coalition and the Black Emergency Cultural Coalition made concerted attempts to pry open institutional doors and let in a multicultural world. Simultaneously, nonmilitant movements like the Dada-inspired Fluxus produced an ephemeral, give-away, anyone-can-do-it art that amounted to a kind of passive resistance to the existing market economy. Both approaches -- one forceful, one gentle -- changed the way art was thought about, and the way it looked.
The collective impulse has never died out in American art; and now it is surfacing again, for the most part outside New York. In cities like Milwaukee, Providence, R. I., St. Louis and Philadelphia, as well as several in Canada, an old countercultural model, often much changed, is being revived, in some cases by artists barely out of their teens.
Many of the new art collectives are virtual: they reside on the Internet, that intrinsically collective medium. They are fluid in size, and members may not even know the identity of other members. The kinds of art they produce vary widely, but when it is political it tends to be actively so. To much of the art world, these collectives barely exist. Their work is difficult to market; it's available to everyone free; traditional criteria of judgment, the kind that make critics so comfortable with, say, painting, don't apply.
Other, even newer collectives, while computer-savvy, are studio-based and are starting to gain attention. They are housed in apartments, storefronts, art schools and minivans. Their members -- who often support themselves with day jobs as designers, programmers, teachers or temps -- are identified by a group name, like rock bands. And their art is often a multitasking mix of painting, sculpture, printmaking, design, digital art, video, zine production and musical performances.
In general, the collaborative arrangements are superrelaxed. A few groups, like Temporary Services in Chicago, have a Fluxus-like conceptual agenda: an aesthetic of sharing sites, ideas and objects with outsiders that extends the collaboration beyond the group itself. Others, like Slanguage in Los Angeles, have established self-sustaining, artist-run workshops and exhibition spaces. Still other groups are formed, at least initially, as more or less closed social circles of friends getting together with friends and brothers and sisters, to make art, a description that fits, for example, the Royal Art Lodge from Winnipeg, Manitoba, whose work is on view at the Drawing Center in SoHo. 
Most of these young artists (many in their 20's) would probably not identify themselves as political, never mind use the word counterculture, with its uncool, mind-settish, even institutional ring. They just do what they do. But what they do, or rather the way they do it, outside the centralized, market-determining power structures of the mainstream art world, could turn out to have political consequences for the way art develops. 
Forcefield, a collective founded in 1997 in Providence, where it is part of the art-school and music scene, has already made a splash in New York with a fantastic appearance in last year's Whitney Biennial. For the occasion, the group assembled dozens of Op Art-patterned knit costumes -- form-fitting, face-concealing, topped by bright vinyl wigs -- of the kind they wear in their maniacally edited films, which are like tribal rites crossed with fashion shows. They supplemented the installation with a deafening noise-band soundtrack and a pulsating abstract video piece, both of which they produced.
The results, hilarious and slightly scary, brought all kinds of associations to mind: Rudi Gernreich, Sesame Street, Jack Smith, cheesy sci-fi, 60's psychedelia and church rummage sales. This was a zany art made out of seriously worked things and materials, as became evident when a selection of Forcefield material was exhibited at Daniel Reich, a gallery that operates out of a Chelsea studio apartment and has been instrumental in introducing collectives to New York.
Forcefield's vividly low-tech approach to art-making has inspired other, newer East Coast collectives. The members of one, called Paper Rad, individually make photocopied cartoon zines, combining a grade-school doodle style with wise-cracking New Age quest narratives. They also combine their styles in animated Web-based Gumby music videos that are like tripped-out children's television. 
Another group, Dearraindrop, has four artists, the youngest of whom is 18. Erudite about history, they acknowledge the influence of past collectives like Chicago's Hairy Who from the 1960's and Destroy All Monsters from the 1970's. At the same time, they prefer a casual just-friends designation for themselves. Their collaborations -- which include exquisite collages of cartoons, product labels and texts -- are often executed long distance: one member is in high school in Virginia; others live in Providence. Their group name is as recycled as their materials. Two of the artists discovered it written on a scrap of paper as they were foraging through neighborhood trash while on LSD. 
Dearraindrop's idiot-savant-type aesthetic becomes even more complex in the work of Milhaus, a Milwaukee collective that claims the modernist Bauhaus merging of function and art as one of its ideals. The group is largely the creation of Scott and Tyson Reeder, painters, designers and brothers who, like the artist Jim Drain of Forcefield, also have solo careers. Both brothers lived for a while in Los Angeles, but found the formalized, competitive atmosphere of the art scene dispiriting and returned to Milwaukee. 
There, with a filmmaker, they produced a smart, slacker Web television show (www.zerotv.com) and turned their attention in nondigital directions. For a show in Chicago, they built bunk beds and lived in the gallery, turning it into a video theater one night, a dance club the next. For the opening, they held an all-night drawing party and invited gallerygoers. For the closing, they turned the bunk beds into a raft and floated down the Chicago River, like Generation-whatever Huck Finns.
The self-scheduled workshop, as raucous as a band rehearsal or as sedate as a quilting bee, is the basic form of several collectives. The members of the Royal Art Lodge meet in weekly, collaborative drawing sessions. Slanguage, begun last summer by Mario Ybarra Jr. and Juan Capistran, M.F.A. graduates from the University of California at Irvine, uses half of its space in Wilmington, a working-class city near Los Angeles, for experimenting with media and ideas, the other half for public performances and exhibitions, which may also be works in progress.
Such exhibition spaces, which have neither academic nor commercial support, are becoming ever more important. Not only do they offer places for types of work uncongenial to an increasingly conservative art establishment; they also provide a forum for the work of students being churned out of art schools every year in numbers the commercial gallery system cannot begin to absorb. 
Slanguage is by no means alone in its thinking. In Philadelphia, an older, larger and by now semiprofessionalized collective called Space 1026 has renovated an old downtown jewelry store to include not only studios, a computer lab and a skate ramp, but also a street-level gallery and an artist-run shop. Similarly, a Manhattan group called Alife runs a store at 178 Ludlow Street, on the Lower East Side, to promote and sell work by young artists, using a corporate paradigm of exchange and distribution. (An installation of Alife products is on view at Deitch Projects in SoHo through Feb. 15.)
Some collectives blend art and lifestyle in more personal ways. The 13 members of Flux Factory, which recently showed at the Queens Museum, live together in a loft in Long Island City, in Queens. The members of Instant Coffee in Toronto use much of their collective energy to organize large-scale artistic and social events that bring artists, writers and musicians together in combinations rarely encountered elsewhere. 
Instant Coffee functions on a principle of service-work -- generosity as an art medium -- an ethic that is also an aesthetic. So, in a more focused way, does Temporary Services. Members of both groups collaborate with other artists, organize projects that insert ephemeral work into public spaces or bring otherwise invisible art into public view. 
For one project, Temporary Services helped place artists' books surreptitiously in public library collections. For another, they used existing curbside newspaper vending machines to distribute art objects. As part of a group show this spring at the Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art, in North Adams, Mass., they will present drawings by a federal prisoner named Angelo of ingenious mechanical devices created by his fellow inmates.
The group's play with conventional ideas of aesthetic value is shared, to some degree, by Beige, a young collective that takes obsolete computer technology as its medium. It is probably best known for its hacked versions of dumpster-salvaged Nintendo games, which they broke open and manipulated to create new images. As Beige Records, they have released a 12-inch vinyl disk of sound samples of video games from the 1980's. 
In its geek-positive way, the Beige artists deliver subversive messages. They undercut the notion of technological progress and demonstrate ways in which popular forms and aesthetics can be taken out of the control of the corporate game industry. And they hint at the power inherent even in cheap technology and low-level expertise, which are by now ubiquitous and are sufficient to infiltrate a database or make a bomb.
As if to confirm a crypto-activist agenda, Beige recently collaborated on a DVD with the Radical Software Group, an Internet-based collective that is stretching the definitions of art, politics and collectivity itself. Consisting of an ever-changing group of international programmers and artists, the group claims that its main goal is not to make art but to provide software for artists. But one of their programs, titled Carnivore, which turns individual computers into F.B.I-style data surveillance tools, is conceptually sharp, visually compelling and completely attuned to the political moment. 
As innovative as it is, Radical Software Group belongs to a whole alternative universe of activist artists' collectives that exists partly or entirely in the public realm called cyberspace. Other groups include RTMark, Critical Art Ensemble, Ultra-Red, Reclaim the Streets, Electronic Disturbance Theater (also called Electronic Civil Disobedience), Institute for Applied Autonomy and the Center for Land Use Interpretation. The list is long and varied and will surely continue grow in direct proportion to increased government monitoring of the Internet.
Such Net-centric collectives are electronic descendants of earlier American groups that cohered and dissolved from the 1960's through the 1990's: PAD/D (Political Art Documentation and Distribution), Colab, Group Material, Guerrilla Girls, REPOhistory, Act Up and General Idea, which originated in Canada, to name but a few. The full history of this phenomenon has yet to be written, though a few art historians -- Alan Moore, Gregory Sholette and Blake Stimson -- have books in the works.
And what about American art now? It exists in a world where much indeed has changed, not just since Sept. 11, 2001, but since the end of the cold war. It is a dangerous place, in need of radical change. Not that a return to the 60's is the answer. Forget retro. Yes, it's reassuring and it sells, but contemporary culture -- including a lot of New York art at the moment -- is about what's reassuring and what sells, and it feels parochial, small, out of touch. 
Thus a counterculture. I have no idea what it will, or does, or should look like. An eye-popping hacktivist Web site that carries transformative information across the globe? A collective of young artists having fun making books that only they and their friends will see? Or something totally other. But if contemporary art, marginal and minute as its influence is, doesn't get it together to offer new models for a future some of us still hope to have, chances are at this point nobody will, and that's more than a shame.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Forcefield's "Meta Radeo" (2002): a knitted shroud and artificial hair over a mannequin. (Jason Frank Rothenberg/Daniel Reich Gallery); The Royal Art Lodge's "Untitled" (1997). (William Eakin); Beige's "Super Mario Clouds 2002." (Cory Arcangel/Beige)(pg. 1); The home page, top, of the Web site www.zerotv.com, created by Milhaus, a Milwaukee collective. Above, a collaged painting by the collaborative group Dearraindrop was shown in the "Cloud City" exhibition in Boston last June. (Madeleen Herreshoff); (Eric Lezotte); A 2002 storefront-window painting in California by Mario Ybarra Jr. and Ricardo Espinoza of Slanguage. (Mario Ybarra Jr.)(pg. 36) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IRAQ WAR (90%); TERRORISM (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); POP & ROCK (73%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (73%); SCULPTURE (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%); PAINTING (72%); POLITICS (71%); MUSIC (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (67%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (62%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (60%) ART; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

PERSON: COTTER, HOLLAND 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (68%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%); CANADA (69%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2003 



582 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 5; Travel Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: PRACTICAL TRAVELER; 
Europe Slowly, On a Barge

BYLINE:  By MARTHA STEVENSON OLSON; MARTHA STEVENSON OLSON is a freelance writer.

 BODY:
IN these often dismal times, I've taken comfort in a fantasy of slowed-down civility: cruising through centuries-old locks and waterways, past peaceful fields and villages, bicycling to a bakery for fresh bread or buying dewy produce from the lock-keeper's wife. In my daydream I can't decide whether the boat will be a hotel barge, with meals, service and day trips included, or a rented boat piloted by me and my husband, with our two children as crew.
 Once busy avenues of commerce, the canals and waterways that interlace Europe, punctuated by locks, docks and towpaths, date from Roman times into the last century, when railways and roads took over as conduits of goods. Now those waterways play host to scores of recreational craft, including refurbished barges and modern cruisers. 
 For the adventurous sort who likes being in control and wants to keep costs to a minimum, a self-hire boat may be the right choice, requiring more work but also offering more freedom. Those who prefer being pampered, and can afford it, may opt for a cruise. Boats range from small craft with up to eight guests, to floating hotels accommodating up to 120. Barges have become increasingly popular with groups, like families on a reunion, or travelers on an incentive trip offered as an award by their companies. Once aboard, passengers need to make few decisions other than which wine to drink or whether to take the next day's excursion.
 There are several agencies in the United States that can ease passage into both kinds of trip with advice and information. One is Le Boat, 45 Whitney Road, Suite C5, Mahwah, N.J. 07430; (800) 992-0291; www .leboat.com. Its owner, Debbie Petermann, will provide brochures ranging from do-it-yourself narrowboats in the British countryside to luxury cruises that include Jacuzzi baths, hot-air balloon rides and golf. On the West Coast, John Kroontje and Roger Van Dyken operate a company called Barging in Europe, 115 Front Street, Lynden, Wash. 98264; (360) 354-6727, www.barging ineurope.com, which arranges luxury barge trips, self-drive boats, or "hosted charters" (with a skipper as host, beginning at $3,900 a week). 
 The barge season lasts primarily from March to November, with the peak months in late spring and early fall, according to Ms. Petermann. Because of the slowed American economy, she said, prices have stayed pretty much the same as last year's. Self-catered barges have a steady market of European renters, she added, and so are not as dependent on dollars.

Escorted Cruises
 Here are some of the companies offering escorted barge cruises: In England and Wales, a classic route is along the upper Thames, from London to beyond Oxford. European Waterways books two boats along the route, one of them the 1907 Dutch Klipper Actief, which holds up to 11 passengers and a crew of 4. Other luxury cruises in the British Isles, France and Germany include one through Scotland's Caledonian Canal, two along the Shannon River in Ireland, and one through the Berlin canals and Mecklenburg lake region of Germany. European Waterways, 35 Wharf Road, Wraysbury, Staines, Middlesex, TW19 5JQ, England; (800) 394-8630, fax (44-1784) 483 072; www.gobarging.com.
 France pioneered and remains a leader in luxury barge trips; the food is a big attraction. Popular excursions are along the Seine and through the upper Loire and Burgundy region, with other possibilities through many other regions. Continental Waterways specializes in French barge and river cruises; as an example, a six-night cruise through Burgundy aboard its 24-passenger Escargot begins at $1,790 a person during the main summer season. Continental Waterways, 53 East 34th Street, New York, N.Y. 10016; (800) 546-4777; www.continentalwaterways.com. 
 In the Netherlands, where canal barging is a way of life, 4Winds Specialty Tours offers 15 itineraries, including a 10-night cruise through flower fields in peak season ($1,395, based on double occupancy). A trip in Belgium focuses on breweries and beer tasting (seven nights, $805, double occupancy). Most routes offer cyclists a chance to pedal up to 35 miles a day on bikes provided. The company also rents barges for groups, with a minimum crew of 2. 4Winds Specialty Tours, 4500 Victoria Court, West Richland, Wash. 99353; (509) 967-3448; www .4windstours.com.

Doing It Yourself
Self-hire boats are rented out by large and small companies, families and individuals along seemingly every navigable waterway in Europe, usually by the week. Companies usually provide information about routes, restaurants, places of interest and useful telephone numbers, as well as training on how to handle the boat and a temporary boat license, if necessary. Bedding and galley equipment is usually supplied, along with refrigerator, gas stove, heat and a plug-in for cell phones (bring your own). Bikes can often be rented.
 The smallest boats start at about $1,500 a week in peak summer months, with larger boats sleeping up to 12 people costing $4,000 a week or more. One of the larger rental agencies, Crown Blue Line, has self-hire boats in the Netherlands, Germany, Ireland, Scotland and Italy (for the area around Venice); Crown Blue Line, Annapolis Landing Marina, 980 Awald Road, Suite 302, Annapolis, Md. 21403; (888) 355-9491; www.crownblueline.com.
 Connoisseur, in its 50th year of operation, is a self-hire company with several offices in Europe. It has boats in France, Belgium, Germany, Italy, Scotland, England and Ireland (it recently joined forces with Emerald Star, a specialist in boat rentals along the Shannon River in Ireland, as well as with Houseboat Holidays in Italia, with routes around Venice). Connoisseur's boats are for sale new or used. Connoisseur Wroxham, Norwich, Norfolk NR12 8RX, England; (44-1603) 782 472; fax (44-1603) 783 089; www.connoisseurafloat.com.
 Locaboat Holidays tries to reduce environmental impact with old-fashioned bargelike lines, quiet-running engines, solar panels, and waste-water holding and recycling. Bookings are available throughout France, and in the Netherlands, Germany and Ireland. Locaboat Holidays, Boite Postal 150, 89303 Joigny Cedex, France; (33-3) 86.91.72.72, fax (33-3) 86.62.42.41; www.locaboat.com.
 France Passion Plaisance has many departure points in France and also offers routes inland around Venice, and in Spain and Portugal. Boite Postal 63, 71160 Digoin, France (33-3) 85.53.76.70, fax (33-3) 85.53.75. 71, www.france-passion-plaisance.fr. H2olidays S.A.R.L., Port de Plaisance, 21170, St.- Jean de Losne, France, (33-3) 80.29.13.81, fax (33-3) 80.29.04.67, has many links on its Web site, www.barginginfrance.com.
 In Britain, the choice of waterways increases markedly with self-hire boats called narrowboats. Routes include the Severn and Avon Rivers and canals through the Midlands, Norfolk and northern Wales. A major renter is Black Prince Narrowboat Holidays, Stoke Prior, Bromsgrove, Worcestershire B60 4LA (44-1527) 575 115; fax (44-1527) 575 116; www.black-prince.com.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Leslie Lammle) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CANALS & WATERWAYS (90%); MARINE VESSELS (89%); CRUISES (89%); BAKERIES (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (76%); CHILDREN (75%); FAMILY (75%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (53%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); ENGLAND (79%); WALES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2003 



583 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT; 
Mideast Haven Prepares For Tourists, Not War

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH B. TREASTER

DATELINE: DUBAI, United Arab Emirates 

 BODY:
IT is early evening in the vast marble and glass lobby cafe of the new Emirates Towers Hotel here and it is hard to find an empty couch or armchair. Guests from Europe and the nearby Gulf states and an American or two are sipping tea and chilled wine. In the more modest Towers Rotana Hotel farther along Sheik Zayed Road, a crowd of foreign businessmen and women -- many of them British construction supervisors -- gathers at the long bar.
 While the drumbeat of war in Iraq -- just up the Persian Gulf -- seems to be ever more insistent, this desert city of spectacular modern architecture goes right on playing its self-appointed role as safe haven in a troubled region, a place where business and pleasure persistently trump politics. 
 "People aren't walking around here talking about war," said Rashid Taqui, the editor of a new magazine here, Architecture+. "It seems very distant. We're very developed here. We feel protected."
 Indeed, tourism officials say occupancy in the major hotels is running close to 100 percent and bookings for early 2003 are strong.
 War -- if it comes -- will surely hurt tourism and trade in Dubai, the commercial center of the United Arab Emirates, a slice of desert just across the Persian Gulf from Iran and a short flight north from Yemen, the ancestral home of Osama Bin Laden. But Dubai and the other emirates have made neutrality pay off in the past.
 "We end up supplying both sides," Mohammed al-Fahim, chairman of Makarem General Trading and Real Estate, told the Middle East Economic Digest recently.
 So far, Dubai, with its alluring white beaches and steel-and-glass towers, has more than held its own as travel worldwide has declined. Despite a severe dip following the Sept. 11 attacks, Dubai, a major air hub between Asia and Europe, ended 2001 with a 6.5 percent increase in visitors, to 3.6 million. For 2002, tourism officials are estimating a 10 percent rise, to more than four million. They are aiming for 15 million in 2010, as oil reserves diminish. 
 Malaysia Airlines flies nonstop, about 13 hours, between Newark and Dubai three times a week, and Emirates Airlines is considering nonstop service from New York this year. (Through March, Malaysia is offering a round-trip economy ticket for $499, down from about $750.) 
 American visitors have been gradually increasing over the last decade, government officials say, but they are far outnumbered by Europeans, Asians and people from neighboring countries who say that particularly since the Sept. 11 attacks, they find Dubai more hospitable than the United States and Europe. The government estimates that more than 80,000 Americans visited Dubai last year, compared with nearly 1 million people from nearby countries, more than 800,000 from Europe -- where Dubai is campaigning hard for more business -- and more than 660,000 from Asia.
 Dubai has lots of fine restaurants -- featuring food from Iran and India, Italy and France -- glittering malls with designer fashions, ancient souks with gold jewelry, and opportunities to explore the desert. The atmosphere is more liberal than in much of the Arab world; hotel clubs are set up for drinking and dancing, and women are not required to be covered. Prices are similar to those in London and New York.
 Dozens of business conferences and other events are planned this year, beginning with Dubai's annual monthlong Shopping Festival, which was to open last Wednesday. This nonstop bazaar celebrates the city's duty-free status with carpets, jewels and sleek fashions from 50 countries at discounted prices. 
 In February, Jennifer Capriati and the Williams sisters are expected for the Dubai Tennis Championship. In March, Tiger Woods plans to play in the Dubai Desert Classic; the Dubai World Cup, a horse racing event with a $6 million purse, is March 29.
 The event of the year is to be the September meeting of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, an annual gathering of 25,000 bankers and business executives held in a different country each year. To handle the crowd, Dubai will be opening several big new hotels, including the 200-room Ibis and the 400-room Novotel as part of a sprawling new convention center. A 675-room Grand Hyatt and the 300-room Shangri-La are expected to open this spring. 
 Noting that Dubai was running out of beach front, the emirates' ruling family decided to build two huge islands in the shape of palm trees. Over the next several years, hotels, villas and marinas are to be built along the 72 miles of beaches they will create, many on the arching "fronds." 
 The first of the islands is rising in sight of the beach-front Burj Al Arab hotel, the celebrated 1,053-foot Teflon, stainless-steel and glass confection built in 1999 in the shape of a billowing spinnaker. The hotel has all two-story suites with crystal chandeliers and gold-plated toilet fixtures, and the best go for $7,500 a night. But some units are available in packages for about $500 a night.
 Adjacent to it is Wild Wadi, a 12-acre water park where youngsters in little blue and white rafts shoot past craggy images from Arabian folklore. 
 "Dubai is trying to develop hotels and other structures that are, let's say, attention getting," said Peter R. Voll, a travel consultant in Redwood City, Calif., who takes university and museum groups to the Middle East. "They're a little sensational, if not bizarre. But this is a signal that something historic is going on in this part of the world."

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Dubai, the Burj Al Arab is being joined by other hotels. (Joseph B. Treaster) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); AIRLINES (87%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (78%); IRAQ WAR (77%); REAL ESTATE (72%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (72%); TRAVEL TICKETS (72%); TERRORISM (69%); DESERTS (69%); BEACHES (67%); LOBBYING (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: MALAYSIA AIRLINE SYSTEM BDH (63%); EMIRATES GROUP (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (97%); INDIAN OCEAN (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (98%); EUROPE (95%); GULF STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); MALAYSIA (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2003 



584 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: ART REVIEWS; 
An Overstuffed Bear of an Exhibition

BYLINE:  By Helen A. Harrison

 BODY:
'The World of Theodore Roosevelt'
Nassau County Museum of Art, One Museum Drive, Roslyn Harbor, (516) 484-9337. Through Feb. 16.
 Theodore Roosevelt was a pampered city boy who became a rugged outdoorsman, a warrior who won the Nobel Peace Prize, and a big game hunter who championed wildlife conservation, among other seemingly contradictory roles. As he once remarked, "I have enjoyed as much of life as any nine men I know." 
 This exhibition -- which includes paintings, sculpture, drawings, prints, furniture, political cartoons, photographs, documents, clothing and assorted memorabilia -- ranges far and wide in trying to encompass Roosevelt's outsized personality, as well as his social, political, economic and domestic milieu. The curators could not decide whether to focus on the man or to examine his times, so they did both. In an unintentional case of art mirroring life, they came up with a display that serves as a metaphor for Roosevelt himself: enough material for nine exhibitions, stuffed into one.
Chronological organization brings some order to the presentation, but the cumulative effect overwhelms. The viewer is constantly seesawed between Roosevelt's public and private personas and shuttled among his various worlds, among them Sagamore Hill, his beloved retreat in Oyster Bay.
Many of the art works, extensively interpreted in wall labels, illustrate his career, including his stint as New York City's police commissioner, his military service in the Spanish-American War and his two terms as President. Others depict the places he frequented and the people he met, whether in the gilded corridors of power or around a campfire in the wilderness. Some of his personal possessions, reflecting his own taste and the aesthetics of the period, are also on display. 
Roosevelt was apparently such a dominant figure, that when he was in the room, everything else took second place. That's what happens in these galleries. 

'Sammy Dent: Organic Abstraction'
Port Washington Public Library, One Library Drive, Port Washington, (516) 883-4400. Through Jan. 30.
Ms. Dent's large, vibrant canvases carry on the tradition of Abstract Expressionism, with its reliance on spontaneous gesture and its avoidance of representational imagery. The paintings recall those of Helen Frankenthaler, who, like Ms. Dent, contrasts translucent areas of stained pigment with thick calligraphic strokes and linear elements to create forms that float in pictorial space.
Although Ms. Dent describes her aim as achieving a balance between the figurative and the abstract, references to specific subject matter are minimized to the point of dissolution. Her primary subject is color itself, which may or may not coalesce into recognizable objects.
Sometimes the titles offer likely interpretations, as in "Egg," with its suggestion of an embryonic cell dividing within an encircling white enclosure, or in "Life's a Peach," with its fruit-like shape, or in "Jealousy II," in which an aggressive green blob spews its bile at an equally explosive red-orange antagonist.
But more often the titles seem to indicate a place, time or state of mind rather than a subject. "Bangkok," for example, might be an amalgam of impressions created by multicolored cloth banners tossed by a breeze, perhaps something the British-born artist glimpsed during her travels. In "Buddha's Birthday," a floating mass of pink, red and orange, trailing purple tendrils tipped with orange and turquoise, conjures the advent of a brilliant jellyfish rather than the birth of an Asian philosopher.
Whether their titles explain or obscure their meanings, Ms. Dent's paintings can be enjoyed without the benefit of such intimations. Their appeal lies in their gestural verve and the artist's love of chromatic interplay, resulting in imagery that alludes to nature while seldom picturing it.

'Winter Selections'
Alpan Gallery, 2 West Carver Street, Huntington, (631) 423-4433. Through Feb. 15.
Many of the artists in this group show share Ms. Dent's interest in painterly abstraction, but with different results. Several use color both as imagery in its own right and as a concealing device.
Eleanor Schimmel's untitled encaustic paintings -- one luminously pearly, the other a glowing red over equally intense blue -- use thick crusts of pigment to create multilayered surfaces into which she carves linear swirls and circles. In Anne Raymond's "Now," the canvas seems to emit a shimmering cloud of warmth that envelops cooler undertones.
Sylvia Harnick's "Re/Bounded Memories" allows the viewer to peek beneath the surface by peeling away successive layers of paint, the way a weathered wall documents its own history. Frank Wimberley blocks access to an imaginary vista beyond the picture plane in "Tarred Skylight, Interior View," which cleverly confounds the notion of a painting as a window on the outside world.
Carla Beyers creates a three-dimensional surface by building up a pattern of shadowy strokes embedded in what appears to be layered acrylic polymer; the effect is like the aftermath of a pillow fight in the dark. In "Black Thorn" and "Red Ryder," David Geiser wraps references to plant life in blankets of translucent color that refer to the earth, water and sun that nurture the spiky growths.
Two of the artists make imaginative use of recycled materials. Janet Nolan's "Twister No. 9" is a construction of old umbrella frames, stripped of their fabric and crunched together as if by the force of a powerful wind. Their sad carcasses are revitalized by wrappings of colorful, cloth-covered wire, which transform them from useless relics into a whimsical, Judy Pfaff-inspired sculpture.
Used tea bags provide Gulsen Calik with an unlikely but effective basis for a visual diary, drawn on the bags themselves, which are arranged on the wall like pages from a travel sketchbook. The result, "Voyage to Cai," is a mosaic of ink and watercolor vignettes chronicling encounters on a journey of discovery that is more spiritual than actual.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Janet Nolan's "Twister No. 9," far left, is on view at the Alpan Gallery in Huntington; "Return of the Conquerors" (1899), left, is part of the Teddy Roosevelt show at the Nassau County Museum of Art; and Sammy Dent's "Bangkok" is on display at the Port Washington Public Library. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (89%); AWARDS & PRIZES (89%); PAINTING (89%); SCULPTURE (78%); NOBEL PRIZES (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); SPORT HUNTING (77%); WILDLIFE (76%); LIBRARIES (61%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2003 



585 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: The View/From Stratford; 
Aiming to Ground a Plan To Expand a Runway

BYLINE:  By RICHARD WEIZEL

 BODY:
FOR almost 30 years, officials at Igor I. Sikorsky Memorial Airport in Stratford have wanted to make runway safety improvements that would have involved expanding the airport. The issue became particularly heated in 1994 after a crash on a foggy April night resulted in the deaths of eight people aboard a chartered flight from Atlantic City.
 While the crash was deemed largely the fault of the pilot, the National Transportation Safety Board ruled that the flawed runway design left little room for pilot error and had contributed to the deaths aboard the chartered Piper Navajo Chieftain plane. 
 For years, there had been talks about obtaining more land for runway improvements. But residents, a local environmental group and the town feared that any runway changes would result in a larger, nosier airport that would, among other things, hurt the town's plans for economic development on a mile-long stretch of Main Street. 
Last month, the old debate was revived after the Federal Aviation Administration announced a proposal to obtain a portion of Main Street near the runway through eminent domain.
"While the F.A.A. has hinted in the past that it might pursue the avenue of condemnation, to make this announcement without warning and further exploration of compromise solutions is indeed disturbing," Mike Feeney, the town manager, said last month.
"Furthermore, for the F.A.A. to disguise these expansion actions as safety improvements while ignoring the many safety concerns raised by Stratford with respect to added emergency response times and the unsafe configuration of Main Street appears disingenuous."
Residents have long opposed expanding the runway, which is bound on one end by Long Island Sound and on the other side by the highway, where the plane rammed into a steel fence that shields passing cars from the blast of planes taking off.
In 1994, the safety board recommended moving Main Street, a two-lane state highway, away from the airport to allow room for a safety zone beyond one runway to protect planes that overrun a crash fence, and installing new landing lights for the runway.
None of the proposals moved forward, despite repeated efforts by the city of Bridgeport, which owns the airport.
Then, when all commercial flights at the airport came to an end in 1999 after US Airways became the last commercial airliner to pull out, residents and town leaders saw that as a sign that Sikorsky would remain a small airport for private and charter flights.
The recent talk of rerouting Main Street has outraged some residents and town officials.
F.A.A. officials insist, however, that eminent domain will be used only as a last resort. Officials for the F.A.A. and the airport, which was built in 1928, contend that runway improvements are long overdue.
"There has been a history of crashes associated with a particular runway at that airport and our plans would include an approach lighting system and expanded safety areas beyond the existing runway," said Gail Lattrell, an F.A.A. airport planner who is based in Burlington, Mass.
Kurt Sendlein, the superintendent of operations for Sikorsky, said the runway safety improvements were vital to preventing accidents.
"In 1994 there was a crash that killed eight people, and while the accident was caused by pilot error, death resulted from the plane hitting the blast fence at the end of the runway," Mr. Sendlein said. "If the fence had not been there the people would have survived."
Airport officials said they had wanted to make changes to the runway even before the accident, including having 1,000 feet of grass at each end of the runway, compared with the current 150 feet on one end and 15 feet on the end that includes the blast fence.
Two corporate jets and 80 small private airplanes currently fly out of Sikorsky, Mr. Sendlein said, compared with more than 30-based corporate jets and 220 small private airplanes at Tweed Airport in New Haven.
"By putting in these safety areas you won't suddenly have big jets flying in here; that's not going to happen," Mr. Sendlein said. "The only thing we're trying for now are safety improvements."
Town officials and residents are skeptical, however.
"It's very upsetting that the F.A.A. is even considering taking the property through eminent domain to carry out a reconfiguration plan that we believe would jeopardize motorists' safety," said Jennifer Hillgen, the Republican Town Council minority leader, who represents the district that includes the airport. "The relocation plans include extremely sharp curves and would sacrifice the safety of thousands of people on the ground."
Ms. Lattrell, the F.A.A. planner, said: "We will attempt to negotiate for as long as we can, but at some point if continued negotiations are not fruitful and it is determined these plans need to move forward, we would have to consider other options such as eminent domain."
As for the state Department of Transportation, Arthur Gruhn, the chief engineer, said: "We have taken a position against the relocation of the road. We have concerns with the geometric re-alignment of the road that are in the plans, as well as with the local community's opposition."
Mr. Gruhn said if the F.A.A. carried out its plan to proceed with eminent domain, the department "would not be willing to accept the relocated road into the state highway system. It would become a road that the federal government would be responsible for."
At a meeting last month on the reconfiguration of Main Street, the F.A.A. told town officials that new studies had to be conducted before a decision was made. The study is expected to be completed in May.
"This is all just another ploy, yet another tactic they are using to get that road moved, this time through eminent domain," said Walter Rimkunas, 72, who has lived in his home on Second Avenue near the airport for more than 50 years and can see the one of the runways from his backyard.
"The F.A.A. has been doing studies for years, so I don't know why they have to do another one now."
Mr. Rimkunas is also on the board of directors of Protect Your Environment, a town group that has been fighting airport expansion for decades to protect local marshes and wildlife.
The group believes a larger airport would result in booming jets that would make living in the area intolerable.
"This is the federal government trying to take a state highway from a local municipality and use it for their own purposes, and we cannot let them do this," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: At Igor I. Sikorsky Memorial Airport, F.A.A. officials are considering using eminent domain to obtain land along Main Street to make safety improvements on a runway. Below, Jennifer Hillgen, who thinks the reconfiguration plan would jeopardize motorists' safety. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (90%); EMINENT DOMAIN (89%); CIVIL AVIATION (89%); AIRLINES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); AIRPORT RUNWAY CONSTRUCTION (89%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (89%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (78%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); FASHION SHOWS (73%); CITIES (71%); RESORTS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD (57%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (52%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (92%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (58%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2003 



586 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 5; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 238 words

HEADLINE: POSTINGS: Estimating Construction Spending in City; 
For 2003 and '04, It's 2002 Redux

 BODY:
Construction spending in New York City is expected to remain essentially the same this year and next as it was in 2002, at slightly more than $15 billion annually, according to a report by the New York Building Congress, a private coalition of contractors, subcontractors, developers, architects, engineers and skilled workers. The figure, though, is considerably higher than the $10 billion a year in the mid- to late 1990's. 
 Construction spending totaled $15.3 billion in 2002, down $600 million from the record-setting pace of 2001, according to the report, "Construction Outlook 2002-2005." Spending is estimated at $15.5 billion this year and $15.3 billion in 2004, and is estimated to rise to $17.8 billion in 2005. But Building Congress officials cautioned that the estimates, based on an analysis of capital budgets, development plans and other indicators, face considerable uncertainty because of the unsettled economy and public-sector budget gaps. "The big question regarding public and private sector work," said Marilyn Jordan Taylor, chairwoman of the group -- and chairwoman of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill -- "is the availability of financing necessary to move projects from planning to construction." 
 Spending for residential construction totaled $1.7 billion in 2002, producing 12,300 housing units. That level is expected to continue through 2005, the report said, producing about 12,000 housing units a year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (79%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (79%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (79%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%) BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); FINANCES 

COMPANY: SKIDMORE OWINGS & MERRILL LLP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK BUILDING CONGRESS (92%) NEW YORK BUILDING CONGRESS 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541310 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (55%); SIC8712 ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2003 



587 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1282 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/New Jersey; 
Office Vacancy Rates Continued to Rise in 2002

BYLINE:  By ANTOINETTE MARTIN 

 BODY:
RECENT reports about New Jersey's office market all sound pretty much the same sour note: the situation is dismal, and not getting better fast.
 Of course, the market will eventually improve, according to reports by several real estate firms, including Cushman & Wakefield, Insignia/ESG, GVA Williams, Trammell Crow, Newmark and Julien J. Studley. But given the slow pace of the general economy's recovery and the fact that commercial real estate market conditions usually lag behind by about a year, there was solid agreement that a rebound is unlikely until the end of 2003. 
 Still, the optimistic impulses of real estate people are legendary, and a few weeks into the new year, there already seems to be competition over who will be first to spot the dim beacon of recovery.
Studley's branch manager in New Jersey, Thomas V. Giannone, said in a statement on Jan. 3 that his company was seeing larger crowds at showings of vacant offices and pronounced this to be a glimmer of hope. "After an extended period of softness, tenants have begun examining available inventory," Mr. Giannone said. "While this has not yet affected statistics -- leasing volume fell again in the fourth quarter -- it is an indication that the market may have reached bottom and that it may soon begin a slow advance." 
Paul E. Giannone, managing principal of Newmark New Jersey -- and no relation to Mr. Giannone of Studley -- announced the same day that more clients had signed leases in the last month of 2002 than had done so in 11 previous months and called this is a sign that the market is "beginning to move." Newmark New Jersey, based in Woodbridge, recently negotiated a lease with the United States government for office space in the firm's hometown. Newmark was also involved last month in leasing two medical offices and a new space for a marketing company in Middlesex County; extending a sublease for a financial services firm, also in Middlesex County; extending a Princeton software company's lease agreement; and expanding the amount of space that a Bergen County law firm had leased. 
Meanwhile, at the Trammell Crow Company, the team of Bob Sklow, managing director, and Mitchell Katz, vice president, reported in the first week of the 2003 that there had been a slight increase in leasing transactions; the pair represented tenants in some transactions and owners in others. Their recent deals included Fujitsu IT Holdings' lease for office space at Continental Plaza III in Hackensack, New World Restaurant Group's sublease for space at Horizon Center in Hamilton Township to serve as headquarters for its Einstein Bros. Bagels division, and Euco Aromatics' lease of industrial space at 1026 West Elizabeth Avenue, Linden.
During 2002, according to Cushman & Wakefield's final quarterly report, the vacancy rate within north and central New Jersey's 168.6-million-square-foot office market rose "at a steady pace." At the end of the year, it was 17.1 percent in the northern part of the state and 21.7 percent in central New Jersey. For Class A space, the most desirable offices, in northern New Jersey, a market closely linked to conditions in Manhattan, the vacancy rate was 19.3 percent, Cushman said.
Christopher Kinum, a managing director at Cushman, noted, "Even the Hudson waterfront, which two years ago had virtually no available space, saw its vacancy rate nearly triple in 2002." The rate at year-end was 13.7 percent, although all but 3.9 percent was sublease space. 
The fourth quarter figures produced by other companies' research arms varied by only fractions of a point. GVA Williams's figures, for example, showed an overall vacancy rate at the end of 2002 of 16.9 percent, which the firm said was 25 percent higher than a year before. On the other hand, GVA said, the overall rate decreased a bit in the fourth quarter compared with the third quarter, when it was 17.6 percent.
FOR northern New Jersey Class A space, GVA calculated the vacancy rate at 18.9 percent at year-end, up 40 percent from a year before. 
"In order for the New Jersey real estate market to progress," Mr. Kinum said, "we must have an economy that is moving in a positive direction." In commentary attached to Cushman's year-end statistics, he said, "As we lead into 2003, no major change has occurred in our economy that suggests this trend will come quickly."
Mr. Giannone of Newmark acknowledged that quick recovery is out of the question. But he speedily pointed to a few negative trends that might be reversing themselves.
"We had negative absorption of 2.5 million square feet last year," he said, meaning that much more space was available at the end of 2002 than was available at the end of the previous year. "But in the last quarter, we had 750,000 square feet positive absorption over the previous quarter."
That still leaves a great deal of space to be absorbed before the market achieves equilibrium, Mr. Giannone said -- roughly 1.5 million square feet to get the vacancy rate down to 10 percent. "It's a start," he said.
He and others also pointed to a small spike in the number of jobs being created in New Jersey in the last quarter after many months of job shrinkage, caused by cutbacks and downsizing by companies of all sizes and types. "The commercial office market is tied so strongly to job growth," said Mr. Giannone of Newmark. "In October, there were 3,300 new jobs and in November, 7,700 new jobs. That's not dramatic, but it shows we hit bottom -- and barring bad news on the international front -- we're on a path to recover."
Studley's Mr. Giannone pointed to a halt by another negative trend as a positive sign. "In the fourth quarter reports, the amount of sublease space did not increase as a percentage of the overall space available," he said. A total of about 1.1 million square feet of leased office space was put on the market for sublease last year. In the first three quarters of the year, Mr. Giannone said, the amount of sublease space kept increasing in proportion to direct lease space. In the final quarter, proportions remained steady, with sublease space representing about 36 percent of all space on the market.
But that could quickly change again, the GVA Williams report noted. "Upward of 2 million square feet of additional sublease space is expected in 2003," it said, "which represents a 20 percent increase of the current sublet inventory in northern and central New Jersey."
Sublease space generally rents for less and is more difficult to market, brokers agree. On the other hand, the fact that many long-term leases have not yet expired and landlords still get rent even when space is vacant has helped stabilize the market, Mr. Kinum of Cushman noted. But as numerous primary leases signed during boom times a decade ago expire in the next year or two, more pressure will be put on property owners to lower rents, he predicted.
GVA WILLIAMS reported that average asking rents were $23.55 per square foot annually at the end of 2002, 37 cents higher than in the third quarter. That number may be a bit low, however, GVA's report said, because companies offering many large blocks of space on the Jersey City waterfront do not disclose asking rents for survey purposes.
Several year-end reports mentioned that growth in the pharmaceutical industry, which was so extensive in the past decade in New Jersey that the state's real estate market was able to withstand ill winds in the telecommunications and financial services industries, had slacked off. "Pharmaceutical activity," Mr. Kinum said, "has been stable, at best."
He and others discerned a glint of hope, though, in recent growth of law firms, public accounting offices and other financial services companies.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 21, 2003

 CORRECTION:
Because of a production error, the locations of two pages on Sunday -- Page 4 of the New Jersey section and Page 4 of the Real Estate section -- were reversed in some copies. The Times regrets the inconvenience to readers.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Trammel Crow's Mitchell Katz and Bob Sklow, at Hackensack office complex, report slight uptick in leasing. (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (92%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (91%); REAL ESTATE (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (91%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); PROPERTY LEASES (89%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); REAL ESTATE CONTRACTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); AROMATICS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); COUNTIES (67%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (66%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (50%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (50%); RESTAURANTS (50%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES 

COMPANY: TRAMMELL CROW CO (84%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (58%); FUJITSU LTD (52%); EINSTEIN NOAH RESTAURANT GROUP INC (51%)

TICKER: FUJ (LSE) (52%); 6702 (TSE) (52%); BAGL (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (84%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (84%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (84%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (84%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (84%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (58%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (51%)

PERSON: MARTIN, ANTOINETTE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2003 



588 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: L.I. @ WORK; 
Helping a Company to Renew and Redefine Itself

BYLINE:  By WARREN STRUGATCH

 BODY:
HARVEY ELECTRONICS, the chain of television and stereo stores, was pulling itself out of Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in 1997 when Harrison Leifer DiMarco, an advertising agency in Rockville Centre, came in to make a sales pitch. Two decades earlier, Herb Leifer, one of the agency's founders, had worked for Harvey's president, Franklin Karp, as the stores' advertising director, and he had known Mr. Karp from an even earlier job at the Stereo Warehouse chain. 
 What Mr. Leifer and a creative team from his agency were proposing was not a traditional ad campaign but a makeover of the chain's image, known in the ad trade as rebranding. 
"My thinking was at that point they really had no identity," Mr. Leifer said. "One day they presented themselves as specialists; another day they were mass merchandisers. I said, 'You can't be all things to all people.' They seemed ready to go along with that."
Mr. Karp agreed with the need for repositioning. "We've been around for 76 years, and our success has largely been as a value-added retailer," he said. "We ran into problems when, among other things, we tried to compete on price rather than service."
After spending several months conducting consumer focus groups, researching market trends and studying how other retailers had successfully reinvented themselves, the Harrison Leifer team put forward its recommendations. "Essentially, we saw there was a niche for a retailer who would cater to the middle- and high-end home theater market, selling products like plasma TV's and installing them in the customer's home," Mr. Leifer said.
The agency suggested a new slogan, "Not your ordinary electronics store," which Mr. Karp liked. (Last October, the slogan was revised again, to "Extraordinary in every way.") The agency also helped Harvey redesign the interiors of two existing stores, in Manhattan and Paramus, N.J., and five new stores, one of them in Greenvale. 
"We helped them carve the sales space into a series of small homelike environments where customers could sit down on couches and watch the systems in comfort," said Joe Benty, Harrison Leifer's vice president for brand strategy.
The agency shifted ad spending to upscale magazines from daily newspapers. The color ads emphasized comfortable living rather than prices.
The efforts apparently worked, and by 1998, the chain had completed a successful public offering. In its last fiscal year, which ended Oct. 31, Harvey said it made a profit on revenues of $41.5 million but would not release any other figures. 
Not every rebranding effort results in such a clear turnaround. Yet because of its potential to change a company's fortunes, branding has become a business buzzword. 
Beginning in the mid-90s, advertising and marketing agencies on Long Island began adding branding to their roster of services. More recently, companies like Acclaim Entertainment, the video game maker in Glen Cove, have begun hiring brand specialists.
The emphasis on branding has largely been a boon to ad agencies and has translated into increased spending on services like market research and logo development. Sometimes it has allowed agencies to offer new services like interior design and custom training. 
For decades, the makers of consumer goods have done just this sort of thing with clothes, cars, perfumes and shampoos. In recent years, the practice has spread to companies like Computer Associates, the Islandia software company, which began a global branding effort in 2001, and Farrell Fritz, the Uniondale law firm, which plans to start a rebranding campaign next month.
In some cases branding campaigns are little more than logo redesigns. In other cases they represent a major repositioning in reaction to a market shift and an awareness of customer perceptions.
"Branding is essentially a quick statement about why you should spend money," said Faith Popcorn, the president of Brain Reserve, a marketing and trend-tracking consulting concern in Manhattan. "The brand says, 'Here's what I stand for.' People are so overloaded with information that if you're not a brand, you can't get anyone's attention."
"You should be able to explain a brand in three words," said Ms. Popcorn, who has a house in Wainscott. "A paragraph is too long."
Most branding experts come out of advertising or marketing backgrounds, and in fact their methods, tools and jargon usually reflect those disciplines. What's different is the emphasis. Where traditional advertising people focus on the client's product or service, branding people focus on the client's customers -- and their perceptions.
"Branding is about connecting with the individual," said Mr. Benty, the Harrison Leifer vice president. "When the consumer decides to buy your product, instead of the other guy's, it's because you were perceived as different. It isn't just about product benefits. It's about what you stand for."
Companies that sell mainly to other companies, as opposed to consumers, are now jumping on the branding bandwagon, and their campaigns resemble consumer ads more than traditional business pitches. Once limited to specialized trade and business publications, these ads now appear on television and in print. 
A good example is Computer Associates' "Hello Tomorrow" rebranding campaign that began in January 2001.
"We used to run product ads that had lots of product screen shots, huge amounts of text and plenty of details about product functionality," said Nancy Baghat, the company's senior vice president for global marketing. "We've made a huge shift in terms of focusing on the consumer perspective. We're talking about the benefits that technology brings, rather than getting hung up on feature functionality.
"It's all about the benefits of working with Computer Associates, and positioning Computer Associates as a company whose core values are innovation, approachability and being customer-focused."
Last year, Rich D'Amico, an advertising research specialist in Northport, believed that the time was right to start his own business offering branding services to ad agencies. He said that he had found plenty of work, even in a difficult economy.
"The business-to-business companies are beginning to realize what the big consumer-goods companies have known for years," he said, "namely that it doesn't matter how they perceive their products, it's how the market perceives their products that matters. That means going out and asking customers questions like, 'What do I represent to you?' "
With its emphasis on making the most of every opportunity to deliver a company's message, branding can also open the door to unforeseen problems. "By painting your logo and tag line on every vehicle in your fleet, you get your message out to every driver on the road that day," Mr. Benty said. "Your truck becomes a brand extension. But if your truck cuts someone off or the driver gets into a big collision that ends up on TV, you better be prepared to handle the image problems."

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the Harvey Electronics store in Greenvale, Franklin Karp, left, the chain's president, with Herb Leifer, center, and Joe Benty. (Maxine Hicks for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (89%); BRANDING (89%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); PRINT ADVERTISING (78%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (78%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (78%); FOCUS GROUPS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); SALES & SELLING (77%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); PLASMA TELEVISIONS (73%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (73%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (73%); BRAND EQUITY (71%); MARKET RESEARCH (70%); TRENDS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: HARVEY ELECTRONICS INC (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (85%); NAICS238210 ELECTRICAL CONTRACTORS & OTHER WIRING INSTALLATION CONTRACTORS (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2003 



589 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1474 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Connecticut; 
Fairfield Office Park Plan Progresses

BYLINE:  By ELEANOR CHARLES 

 BODY:
FOR nearly seven years, a massive mixed-use project proposed for a 35-acre brownfield site in the Black Rock section of the town of Fairfield has been punted back and forth by three critical parties: the developers, Kurt Wittek and Arnold D. Stauber; the town; and the Connecticut Department of Transportation. The estimated cost of the project is now about $200 million. 
 Last year, town zoning regulations were amended, designating the site as a "transportation commercial park" in addition to its existing industrial zone. The new designation would allow for up to a million square feet of offices, a hotel, a day care center and health club, and a Metro-North train station. 
 The developers and three successive town administrations negotiated modifications in the plans, reducing its size, but all agreed that for the project to work the Connecticut Department of Transportation had to be convinced of the necessity for a third Fairfield train station on the site. Its northern border abuts the Metro-North tracks, and Exit 24 of Interstate 95 is within easy access. 
The state finally approved the station late last month, and a letter of intent was signed by the first selectman, Kenneth A. Flatto; the developers; and Harry Harris, chief of public transportation at the state Transportation Department.
The letter sets forth plans for a development of five clustered office buildings with a total of 750,000 square feet, each with underground parking. The plan also envisions a station house with a waiting room, a retail component and restaurant; three parking garages; a 200-room hotel; a 42,000-square-foot day care center and health club; a 1,500-car commuter parking lot; and a greenbelt walkway along Ash Creek, separating Fairfield from Bridgeport.
"It makes sense to locate an office park with immediate access to mass transit," said Mark Barnhart, Fairfield's economic development director. Without a station, the offices could not attract tenants; with a station, parking and traffic problems in Fairfield's downtown generated by two existing stations would be eased. Currently, there is a waiting list of 1,500 residents seeking commuter parking permits, in addition to the 1,900 people who already have them. In Fairfield County, only Stamford, with 2,500 daily peak-hour commuters, exceeds Fairfield, with 2,200.
Next month the agreement, which is binding only on the signatories, is to be voted on officially by the entire Boards of Selectmen, Finance, and Planning and Zoning and by the Representative Town Meeting. A series of approvals of conservation and site plan details must be obtained from various government agencies before demolition of a derelict foundry on the site can proceed. The property would then be decontaminated, and after a year of design work, construction could begin, Mr. Stauber said. 
The hotel may be the first component to be built. "The I-95 corridor is not well served with hotels," Mr. Stauber said. According to Mr. Wittek, "We have been in discussions with every major hotel company and they are interested. We would build the hotel and retail attached to the station house first, simultaneously with the town's construction of the parking lot." Office construction would not start until tenants had committed to lease at least 75,000 square feet in one 150,000-square-foot building. 
Over the years, public attention to the development has not been intense, but residents have expressed worry about possible costs to the public that have not been well defined, about losing town control of commercial development that could take 10 to 15 years and about the threat to Fairfield's quiet, upscale, country ambience.
"People don't know a lot about the town's fiscal commitment to this project," said Meg Francis, a member of the Board of Finance. "They are concerned about the possibility of the commercial development not working out and wonder what benefit accrues to the town if it does."
Mr. Flatto expects annual tax receipts generated by the project to grow to $4 million or $5 million by 2012, plus revenues from parking. "That could help pay back a good portion of bonding for new schools," he said. A comprehensive school construction program has been approved after an influx of families swelled Fairfield's population by more than 4,000, to 57,340, in 2000 to 2002. Approximately $163 million worth of bonds are to be floated for two new elementary schools, a second middle school and the reopening and renovation of a second high school, closed since 1988. 
THE prospect of higher payments for schools is causing many residents to focus on Black Rock Park, as the development is tentatively called, to help the public treasury. To begin with, 90 percent of the town's 33.1 square miles are zoned residential, and according to Paul Hiller, Fairfield's director of finance, 82.7 percent of property taxes are paid by 10,280 households, and only 9.4 percent are paid by commercial property owners. "During the past two revaluations, four and eight years ago, residential values went up by 68 percent," he said, "while commercial values went up by 37 percent. Taxes on my house went up 19 percent last July." 
Residential real estate has been pushed upward in the past decade by sales prices far above the norm for Fairfield, including a current asking price of $13 million for the home of General Electric's former chief executive, Jack Welch. Martha Stewart's house was sold in 2000 for $10 million, and other homes have sold for up to $24 million, Mr. Hiller said. Fairfield is or has been home to the chairmen of I.B.M. and Xerox and the chief executive of Lehman Brothers, as well as Mike Nichols and Diane Sawyer, the family of Leonard Bernstein and the actor Jason Robards.
In some cases the revaluations actually reduced commercial property taxes. The town's largest taxpayer, General Electric, whose corporate headquarters are in Fairfield, paid $1.5 million last year, but this year it will pay $1.3 million.
Only 1.6 million square feet of offices exist in Fairfield, said Joseph Devonshuk, the town planner, and aside from Black Rock Park there are no applications for more. The town's commercial real estate consists mainly of automobile dealerships, small office buildings and some stores on Commerce Drive; shops on Route 1; and the 10-year-old 120,000-square-foot BJ's Warehouse Club, a discount emporium at a site called Bullard Square, named for the Bullard Company foundry, which it renovated and occupies opposite the Black Rock Park site. Next to BJ's are two multiplex cinemas with 21 screens. 
Last April, the town's largest office building, 140,000 square feet, opened at 501 Kings Highway (Route 1). It is on the fringe of the business district but close to the Black Rock project. The Board of Education purchased 24,000 square feet as an office condominium, and a few tenants have taken spaces of 3,000 and 4,000 square feet. The structure's builder, Harold Fischel, said 48 percent is vacant raw space, but local brokers who have been showing it estimate the vacancy rate is much higher, around 100,000 square feet, but they say the building could benefit from its location when the new train station is built. Other attractions at the site are tenant parking for 540 cars and relatively low rents, which brokers say are around $28 a square foot per year.
Marshall Madow, a commercial broker at Coldwell Banker's Fairfield office and a longtime town resident, said: "From a resident's point of view, taxes are skyrocketing here, and Black Rock will have a great effect on taxes, but I'm bothered by the lack of obligation for the developer to build out the project. Speaking as a commercial realtor, Black Rock will be a much bigger area to play in. This is basically a bedroom community; you can't bring in a major tenant now."
UNDER the terms of the three-party letter of intent, the town would be responsible for buying 10 acres of the property from the developers, cleaning it up and building the commuter lot at a cost of $6 million. A $4 million federal grant would pay for road and traffic improvements in the area. The state would invest $25 million in building the station platforms and a four-lane bridge over the tracks to provide access to northbound trains. Black Rock Realty would finance the commercial elements, a roadway through the development and the Ash Creek greenbelt.
There are those who believe that Black Rock could come to fruition at the wrong economic time, to which David Gorbach, president of Colonial Realty in Fairfield, a residential and commercial firm, replies, "By the time Wittek gets all his permits, the market has a good chance of improving." He added: "At the moment it's just backfilling a lot of sublease space. Large users don't even look here, but now any broker worth his salt is going to put Wittek's project on his plate."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The proposed Black Rock Park on Ash Creek in Fairfield is to have a railroad station and five office buildings. (HLW International L.L.P.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (90%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (90%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); ZONING (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (89%); BROWNFIELD SITES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (88%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (88%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); APPROVALS (78%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (75%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (74%); RESTAURANTS (71%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (68%); RETAILERS (64%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; RAILROADS; STATIONS AND TERMINALS (PASSENGER) 

ORGANIZATION: METRO-NORTH COMMUTER RAILROAD 

PERSON: CHARLES, ELEANOR 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) FAIRFIELD (CONN); CONNECTICUT

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2003 



590 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: Executive Life; 
No, I Insist: You Pick Up the Check

BYLINE:  By LISA NAPOLI 

 BODY:
EVERYBODY knows that companies have cut their employees' expense accounts in this sputtering economy. But it took a lunch with four other business travelers during a trade show last fall in Los Angeles for Hal Bringman, a public relations executive, to witness close up the new tightfistedness of his fellow executives.
 At a table at the Brasserie Vert in Hollywood, Mr. Bringman, along with an employee, a venture capitalist, the chief executive of a start-up and a senior strategist at a Fortune 100 company, dined on inexpensive bowls of pasta. Then the check arrived. At less than $80, the price was a far cry from those of lavish meals Mr. Bringman had enjoyed during the dot-com boom, when he helped mold the public image of the music-sharing services MP3.com and Napster. Even so, his table companions -- one of whom had tried to steer the group to a cheaper eatery -- froze momentarily in their seats. 
 "Everyone was sort of looking at it, as if it was bathed in anthrax," said Mr. Bringman, the founder of Hal Bringman Public Relations, a boutique firm in Los Angeles. "Not too long ago, there would have a duel to pick up the tab. Instead, everyone just plunked down a 20 and hoped they got change back."
To hear some corporate executives tell it, the new stinginess cuts across the spectrum of American business. Many of those who described their employers' parsimony requested anonymity, for obvious reasons. But the anecdotes they told were revealing.
One Wall Street broker said expenses were now taken out of his gross production figures. A producer at a video production company in New York described how a client rescinded her offer to pay for dinner at an expensive restaurant once she saw the bill. The president of an e-commerce business tied to an established brick-and-mortar industry said he had eliminated the first-class flying privileges and the use of a limousine service that he had demanded in contract negotiations.
And a manager at a wireless company in Europe said that the weekly delivery of fruit baskets to the office had been eliminated and that the use of taxis for company business and of mobile phones for personal calls had been forbidden. "Everyone must fly coach," even on trips to Asia, she said. "Even a new mobile phone must be authorized by the V.P. of our unit, so no one wants to go to him for approval. It's embarrassing. Expense accounts are gone."
Corporations tighten spending whenever the economy is wobbly, of course, but this time the cutbacks have been especially conspicuous because they contrast so sharply with the excesses of the 1990's. Back then, internal controls over employees' expense accounts were sometimes considered a joke, even by the people who were supposed to enforce them, according to the chairman of an audit committee at an aluminum and plastics company.
When the executive took on the oversight responsibility five years ago as one of the company's directors, he said, "It was little more than a wonderful idea to make shareholders believe we were paying attention."
All that has changed. "If the officers are not playing ball and not counting the pennies, how can you stand in good conscience before shareholders and eliminate dividends?" he asked. "There are real questions about who's paying the bill."
Two years ago, when he became chief executive of an ailing Australian Internet company, he said, he engineered a similar shift in attitude there: he first eliminated the twice-a-week visits to the staff of a massage therapist. "The culture of the time was, 'Gosh, we're not employees, we're a team, we're a family, we'll work 24/7, we'll bring our dogs to work, our kids to work,' " he said.
That mind-set had begun to creep into the corporate mainstream when the bubble burst. Bill Margeson, president of CBL Data Recovery Technologies, a provider of computer data recovery services in Armonk, N.Y., recalled that one of the first things he and his staff would do on business trips in the free-spending days was to scout around for a good restaurant.
Now, Mr. Margeson said, the trips are shorter and decidedly focused on, well, getting work done. "We call it a blitz," he said. "People get right down to business now. The fluff has evaporated. We find it easier to survive and accomplish. I was a little tired of those steak dinners and the Chateau neuf-du-Pape. You do start to waddle if that's all you've got."
His company has eliminated first-class flying and the other trappings of what he calls the "utopia feeling" that dominated business dealings in recent years. "It was the Hilton; now it's the Motel 6," he said.
Brendan McGovern, who has worked in New York's Silicon Alley for seven years, has witnessed a similar swing back to basics. When he was controller for North America at Agency.com, an Internet consulting company that was acquired by Seneca Investments in 2001, he marveled at all the free food -- sandwiches at lunchtime and plates of "cookies sprinkled with M&M's" in the afternoon -- lavished on employees.
In contrast, at Meetup.com, the eight-month-old business in New York where he is now vice president for finance and administration, the bootstrap mentality is at full tilt. For an office move, Mr. McGovern said, the six-member staff just packed up a U-Haul.
Does he prefer the boom years to today's climate? "One was not real, and one is real," he said. "We've all been rudely awakened to the realization that P.& L. is what it is," he said, referring to profit and loss. "Your expenses have to be less than your revenues. You're going to cut the things that are easy to cut."
THAT doesn't mean, of course, that expense accounts have disappeared. Thomas Morling, who has worked in sales for 20 years and is building a consulting practice for a technology company in the New York area, still takes clients to lunch on the company dime the way he always has. But he is more cautious about how many people he invites, and about where he goes.
"The days of $2,100 dinners are history," Mr. Morling said. "It's not financially acceptable, nor socially acceptable. It's a time when people are enjoying being frugal."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Gary Hovland) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (85%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (64%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (63%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (63%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (61%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (50%) EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT 

COMPANY: CBS INTERACTIVE INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (56%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (56%)

PERSON: NAPOLI, LISA 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2003 



591 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: MONEY & MEDICINE; 
Risky Turn on Madison Avenue

BYLINE:  By MICHELLE ANDREWS; Michelle Andrews is a freelance writer in Manhattan specializing in health care. Her column on its economics appears the third Sunday of each month. E-mail: moneymeds@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
THE printed advertisement showed water gushing through an opening in a dam. "It could feel like this again," the accompanying text said. Puzzled? You probably wouldn't be if you knew where the ad appeared: in the men's restrooms of 100 or so restaurants in Minneapolis and St. Paul last year. The ads, sponsored by Medtronic, the medical device manufacturer, promoted a minimally invasive procedure that can be administered by a urologist to help relieve urinary discomfort from an enlarged prostate.
 The company, based in Minneapolis, also ran ads in the women's restrooms at the same restaurants, promoting an implantable device to relieve incontinence. These ads had an empowerment theme: "Bladder control problems shouldn't control your life. You should." 
 Talk about advertising with a target. People who suffer from incontinence or an enlarged prostate may use the restroom dozens of times a day. "We have the attention of the individual," said Scott R. Ward, president of Medtronic's diabetes and neurological division, which includes its urology business.
Medtronic isn't the only medical device manufacturer to increase its advertising to consumers, though its ad placements may be the most creative. Consumers, however, need to be cautious when it comes to ads for medical devices, a broadly defined category that covers everything from tongue depressors to pacemakers to hemodialysis machines.
Unlike drugs, which can often be discontinued with little ill effect, undoing the effects of problems with some medical devices can be difficult or sometimes impossible.
"In the last 10 years, medical device manufacturers have seen the extreme success that pharmaceutical manufacturers have had with direct-to-consumer advertising," said Charles Whelan, an industry analyst at Frost & Sullivan, a marketing consulting and training firm in San Jose, Calif. "And they said, 'We should get a piece of this, too.' "
A recent report by the General Accounting Office estimates that at least 8.5 million Americans a year request and receive specific prescriptions after seeing or hearing ads for particular drugs.
Mr. Ward said weekly inquiries from consumers to Medtronic for the two therapies tripled after the campaign, which ran from August to October. The company plans a nationwide rollout of similar ads in major metropolitan areas this year. 
Sharon Guess, 47, saw plenty of ads for Lasik eye surgery before deciding to have the procedure last March. She probably wishes she didn't. Ms. Guess, a quality-control representative for an automotive component manufacturer in Rochester, said she had done her research carefully to find a doctor who was qualified to perform the surgery. But, she said, only about a minute after beginning the procedure, the doctor stopped and said he couldn't continue. The problem: the surgical blade he was using came apart in her eye, cutting her cornea, she said. Ms. Guess said she was left with permanently blurred vision in her right eye and may need a corneal transplant. In December, she filed a $40 million lawsuit in state Supreme Court in New York against Bausch & Lomb, which manufactures the blade. 
Margaret Graham, a spokeswoman for Bausch & Lomb, based in Rochester, declined to comment on the suit, but said the type of blade in question had never before been the subject of a lawsuit.
Medical devices are different from drugs in another important way. Consumers, accustomed to the Food and Drug Administration's rigorous approval process for drugs, may assume that the same applies to medical devices. It doesn't. Only about 50 devices -- including pacemakers and heart valves -- must go through a clinical data collection process, similar to what a drug would go through to prove safety and effectiveness, before being introduced to the market.
Some 3,200 devices, or more than 98 percent of the total, go through a much more abbreviated process that usually does not require clinical trials. Devices in this group include hip implants, apnea monitors for infants, blood glucose meters for diabetics and pregnancy tests.
In these cases, the manufacturer may decide on its own that the new device is "substantially equivalent" to one already on the market and go through a simpler approval process.
What can that mean in practice?
If, for example, a product that's already on the market is safe but not very effective, "as long as you can match the product on the market, you can be just as crummy as they are, as long as you're just as safe and just as crummy," said Harold A. Pellerite, assistant to the director for the compliance office at the F.D.A.'s Center for Devices and Radiological Health. 
You can advertise your product as being just as good as the next one, too. In the absence of clinical trials data, "people don't have the information they need to evaluate whether one product is better than others," said Dr. Sidney Wolfe, director of Public Citizen's Health Research Group, based in Washington. "It's easier for companies to make extravagant claims," he added.
Perhaps Medtronic's prostate therapy does work wonders. But when I look at that ad, and I think about the prospect of being deluged with even more medical ads that I don't understand and don't know how to evaluate, I want to put my finger in the dike (or in this case, dam) and say, "No more!"

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David G. Klein) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAL DEVICES (91%); UROLOGY (90%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (90%); ELECTROMEDICAL APPARATUS MFG (90%); INCONTINENCE (90%); SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MFG (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (89%); EYE DISORDERS & INJURIES (84%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); DIRECT TO CONSUMER DRUG MARKETING (78%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (77%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (76%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (76%); PROSTATE DISEASE (76%); BUSINESS TO CONSUMER MARKETING (73%); CORNEA & RETINA DISORDERS & INJURIES (72%); MINIMALLY INVASIVE SURGERY (71%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (71%); DIALYSIS (67%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%); OPHTHALMOLOGY (66%); CONSULTING SERVICES (63%); ACCOUNTING (63%); ETHICS (60%); LASER EYE SURGERY (60%); DIABETES (52%); QUALITY CONTROL (50%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; ADVERTISING; INCONTINENCE; ETHICS; BATHROOMS AND TOILETS 

COMPANY: MEDTRONIC INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: MEDTRONIC INC 

TICKER: MDT (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (92%)

PERSON: ANDREWS, MICHELLE 

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (90%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (88%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (53%) MINNESOTA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2003 



592 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Society Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 194 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; 
Nicole Spitz, Nicholas Miller

 BODY:
Nicole Gwen Spitz and Nicholas Frederick Miller, who are special education teachers in New York public schools, were married last evening at the Lotos Club in Manhattan. Dr. Robert J. Berson, the leader of the Ethical Culture Society of Northern Westchester, officiated. 
 The bride teaches at the Adolph S. Ochs School and the bridegroom at the Greenwich Village School, both in Manhattan. 
 Mrs. Miller, 30, graduated magna cum laude from Syracuse University and received a master's degree in special education from New York University. She is the daughter of Ricki Josephberg and the stepdaughter of Al Josephberg of Lawrence, N.Y. Her stepfather, who retired as an economics and business teacher at Seaford High School in Seaford, N.Y., is the community liaison for Assemblyman Harvey Weisenberg, a Democrat of Long Beach, N.Y. 
Mr. Miller, 36, graduated from City College and received a master's degree in special education from the Bank Street College of Education. His mother, the late Dr. Edith Miller, was a neurologist in Brooklyn. His father, the late Robert Miller, was a vice president and creative director at BBDO, the advertising firm in Manhattan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); TEACHER EDUCATION (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); STEPPARENTS (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (64%) WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS 

ORGANIZATION: SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (57%)

PERSON: SPITZ, NICOLE GWEN (NICOLE GWEN MILLER); MILLER, NICHOLAS FREDERICK 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2003 



593 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: Footlights 

BYLINE:  By ROBERTA HERSHENSON; E-mail address: westarts@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Jazz for Everyone
Jazz has moved squarely into the mainstream since the Jazz Studies program at the Purchase College Conservatory of Music began in 1992 -- thanks to programs like Jazz at Lincoln Center and Ken Burns's series on public television. Even television commercials are using jazz. As Todd Coolman, director of the Purchase program, said, "Someone on Madison Avenue has decided that jazz is cool." 
 Jazz used to be passed on informally in jam sessions from mentors to talented newcomers, but learning takes place now in classrooms as well as in smoky clubs. 
 But jazz in advertising, jazz in elevators, jazz in the classroom and jazz when you're on hold on the telephone does not necessarily translate into great profits for jazz, especially in an age of unregulated and often illegal downloading of music from the Internet. Mr. Coolman regards the economic "disasters in the jazz recording industry" as the darker side of the jazz world. He says that when teachers perform they are also doing "field research" for their students on the pitfalls of the business world. "We try to bring our expertise to them," he said. 
To celebrate the program's 10th anniversary, the school is issuing a CD called "Jazz Faculty @ Purchase College 10th Anniversary Celebration." Besides Mr. Coolman, a bass player who has won a Grammy award, the players include the trumpeter Jon Faddis; Grammy winners Jim Pugh on trombone and Hal Galper on piano; and the guitarist Doug Munro, the first full-time jazz faculty member, who is credited with building up the program. 
The CD will be available in the spring for $15 at all Purchase jazz events. Information: (914) 251-5908.

Two Loves
Lawrence Del Casale does not know which he loves more: playing classical guitar or teaching music to third and fourth graders. Luckily he does not have to choose. His day job is teaching at the Woodside School in Peekskill, where he often gives mini guitar recitals for students. 
He also performs at places like Weill Recital Hall at Carnegie Hall, where he will appear with the classical guitarist Carlos Barbosa-Lima on March 14. Closer to home (he lives in Cortlandt Manor), he will give a free recital at the Katonah Public Library next Sunday at 3:30 p.m., playing music by Ernesto Cordero, Villa-Lobos, Bach and others. Information: (914) 232-3508.
Mr. Del Casale, who has recorded a CD of the music of Mr. Cordero, a Puerto Rican composer, takes his love of Spanish music and poetry to the classroom. At their spring concert, his students will sing one of the composer's pieces in Spanish.
It is called "Callate Silencio Mio," which Mr. Del Casale translates as "Quiet, I'm in such grief and pain that if you speak, I'll die." 

When Movies Go Dancing
 Tango dancing in the streets, the Daedalus and Icarus legend set in Africa and a portrait of the "Queen of the Gypsies" are all part of the "Dance on Camera" film series at the Jacob Burns Film Center in Pleasantville from Jan. 31 through Feb. 4. Comic dance, modern dance and ballet will also be included in this look at dance through the camera's lens. The series, a collaboration with the Film Society of Lincoln Center, will focus on dance from South America, Spain, Africa and the United States.
On Feb. 2, Elliot Caplan, an award-winning director/producer, will introduce and discuss "Utango," his short film about tango on the streets of Buenos Aires; a scene from the film is pictured at left. Information: (914) 747-5555.

Totem to Tooth Fairy
The Westchester Arts Council announced Friday that 42 arts organizations and 3 artists would share $58,000 in Arts Alive grants for the coming year. Arts Alive Grants, which are financed by the Decentralization Program of the New York State Council on the Arts, provide grassroots financial and technical support for emerging cultural groups and ethnically based cultural activities, according to the arts council.
Some examples of projects include "cosmic totem" sculptures that will be produced at the Mount Vernon Public Library; the premiere of an original play, "The Substitute Tooth Fairy," to be performed free at 20 public libraries by the Yorktown Community Players; the Westchester Chordsmen's annual spring concert; and a full production by the New Rochelle Opera of "The Merry Widow" by Franz Lehar. The grants range from $1,000 to $4,200. ROBERTA HERSHENSON

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); MUSIC (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (79%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (79%); FILM (79%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (79%); DANCE (79%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RECORD REVENUES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (75%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (73%); INTERNET AUDIO (73%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); ANNIVERSARIES (71%); ONLINE PIRACY (68%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (64%) MUSIC; JAZZ; DANCING; MOTION PICTURES; CULTURE 

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK AT PURCHASE; BURNS, JACOB, FILM CENTER (PLEASANTVILLE, NY); WESTCHESTER ARTS COUNCIL 

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: DEL CASALE, LAWRENCE; BARBOSA-LIMA, CARLOS; HERSHENSON, ROBERTA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2003 



594 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: STRATEGIES; 
It's O.K. toReach for Unreachable Star Managers

BYLINE:  By MARK HULBERT; Mark Hulbert is editor of The Hulbert Financial Digest, a service of CBS MarketWatch. His column on investment strategies appears every other week. E-mail: strategy@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
INVESTORS are behaving rationally when they engage in apparently pointless searches for mutual fund managers who can beat the market over the long run, according to a new study.
 That conclusion may seem puzzling when viewed next to extensive previous research showing that only a handful of portfolio managers can beat the overall stock market for extended periods. Most researchers have assumed that investors who persist in spending time and money on a quest for star managers are acting out of some sort of irrational compulsion. 
 But Jonathan B. Berk, a finance professor at the University of California at Berkeley, and Richard C. Green, a financial economist at Carnegie Mellon University, have concluded that this behavior is sensible, even if largely fruitless. They say that the market for portfolio managers is just as efficient as the stock market itself. (Their research is available online at papers.ssrn.com/sol3 /papers.cfm?abstract-id=338881). 
In developing their model of how the market for money managers operates, the professors drew together findings, previously considered unrelated, from other researchers' studies. The first is the strong correlation between past performance and the flow of money among funds. In other words, investors systematically move cash into funds that have had the best performance.
The second finding involves managers' increasing difficulty in beating the market as they have more cash to invest. That is largely attributable to the poorer prices they receive when buying and selling larger blocks of stock. A manager can buy almost any stock without affecting its price when his total portfolio is worth $10 million, but not when he is managing $10 billion.
Of course, managers who avoid that problem by expanding the number of stocks in their portfolios face another quandary: it is harder to analyze every stock on a "buy list" of several hundred stocks as carefully as every stock on a list of just 20.
Professors Berk and Green contend that these features combine to create a Catch-22. Some managers are talented enough to outperform the market if their portfolios remain small, the professors said. But when investors become aware of the managers' talents, they pour money into the portfolios, and their performance deteriorates.
Consider a basketball player whose field-goal percentage is much higher than that of his teammates. It is entirely rational for them to pass the ball to him and let him take the shots. That will cause his field goal percentage to fall, as he is double-teamed. But his teammates still have reason to keep passing to him so long as his percentage remains higher than theirs.
The analogy is not perfect, of course. But it helps us understand that declining performance by a portfolio manager who gets large inflows of cash does not necessarily mean that he's an inferior stock picker. Just as it's not irrational for the star shooter's teammates to keep passing him the ball, it is not irrational for investors to invest new money with a star manager. It does mean, though, that both strategies, over time, are likely to end in disappointment.
A few managers have been able to continue beating the market even after attracting large amounts of investors' money. Consider Bill Miller, manager of Legg Mason Value Trust. His fund has beaten the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index in the last 12 years, and its assets under management have grown tenfold. The professors nevertheless predict that his fund will eventually attract so much cash that he will be unable to continue his remarkable streak.
If the stock market and the market for portfolio managers are equally efficient, as the professors conclude, how should investors react? Put simply, their search for money managers should be much like their search for stocks. In each case, it is reasonable for investors to seek those rare opportunities that have not yet been widely discovered. But if they cannot find them, they should choose an index fund.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Chasing Performance"A mutual fund that significantly outperforms its peers in a given year can expect a large net inflow of money the next year. Graph tracks the average annual asset growth from net inflows. Broad sampling of U.S. stock mutual funds, 1971-90 Previous year's rank in its investment category (Sources: Peter Tufano Harvard Business School ; Erik R. Sirri Babson College )

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (92%); MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); BONDS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (66%); BASKETBALL (60%) STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%)

PERSON: HULBERT, MARK; BERK, JONATHAN B (PROF); GREEN, RICHARD C (ECONOMIST) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2003 



595 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: PRELUDES; 
So, Let the Rat Races Begin!

BYLINE:  By ABBY ELLIN; Abby Ellin is a Manhattan writer. Her column on starting out in the world of money appears the third Sunday of each month. E-mail: preludes@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
I HAVE developed a craving for the corporate cafeteria, the corporate desk, the water cooler and the copy machine. I want to wake up each day, deck myself in Armani and join the throngs of workers with a defined purpose, or at least have a place to go in the mornings besides Starbucks.
 I had always been antiestablishment, shunning the corporate life. I never wanted to deal with office politics or to have someone tell me when I could take a vacation and for how long, or make me show up at work the same time each day. 
 So why do I suddenly want to stop freelancing after 13 years and join the so-called corporate rat race?
It's not about money, although I'm a big fan of the steady paycheck. It's more about belonging and the desire for responsibility and community. It's also about identity.
Sure, many free agents have come up with strategies for dealing with the loneliness and isolation of working independently. In recent years, makeshift office spaces have sprung up for such workers, like the kind offered by HQ Global Workplaces of Addison, Tex.: the worker pays for a desk, phone line and computer and sits side by side with other free agents or those running fledgling businesses. There are also plenty of organized support groups, both online and off.
That works for some people, but I'm not interested in being part of a group of disembodied voices or a band of outsiders. Rather, I want to be part of something greater than myself.
Dr. Debra Condren, a business psychologist and president of the career-consulting firm HumanInvestment.com in New York, says my new attitude is more the norm. "Unless you're that rare entrepreneurial maverick person, after a while the isolation begins to wear away on you," she said. "When you're around other people you have the periodic spontaneous think-tank environment and the rapid-fire meetings across the table. Just being around other people, you get a kind of synergy that you can't get from the U.P.S. guy or doorman."
Of course, Dr. Condren said, there's no guarantee that this will happen every day, even in the proverbial 9-to-5 job. But working with others still means greater opportunities than sitting around your house waiting for the sushi delivery man. 
Some people think I'm crazy, that freelancing is where it's at. "I love it," said John Walters, a sportswriter who was laid off from Sports Illustrated in 2000. Since then, Mr. Walters, 36, says he has covered sporting events he would never have had the chance to cover, traveled and self-published a book about the University of Connecticut's 2000-01 women's basketball team. But this way of life is new to him -- he hasn't been doing it since he was 21, as I have.
Indeed, both age and time have influenced my decision, and other independent young professionals seem to be feeling the same, especially with the economy so uncertain.
Victor Marsh, 36, a freelance theater set designer in Manhattan, notes that finding freelance work can be stressful. "It's extremely difficult to keep the momentum up to look for another job; it's a full-time job in and of itself," he said. "I'm ready for a change."
Ellen Catsikeas, 35, a freelance filmmaker who often works as an assistant director on films and commercials in Greece, has never had a steady job but says she is re-evaluating her situation. "You start to feel, 'Am I too old for this?' My friends envy me; they think it's the most wonderful thing to be free. But they don't understand that I work 15- , 16-hour days sometimes. I'm not as free as they think."
Most freelancers I know work practically around the clock, which translates into blurred lines between their work and personal lives. (I'm terribly nocturnal, so I'm often at my desk while the rest of the world sleeps.) That might have been O.K. in the dot-com heyday, when people were tethered to their computers at all hours. But now I'm thinking it might be healthier to have a defined workday and work space. 
Of course, I'm still a rebel; I would take a full-time job only if it offered the right mix of flexibility, money and freedom. But an editor friend put it in perspective when he said: "Look at it as an adventure. You've had freedom, so now do something else. You can always quit."
Sometimes I wonder if I have done myself a disservice by refusing to play by conventional rules. Maybe there's something to being part of the masses, at least temporarily.
As Dr. Condren said, "Isolating oneself workwise can become a bad habit, a false comfort zone that protects you from further professional rejection. It's important to debunk the myth that isolation provides real security, and to help people see professional isolation for what it is: an excuse to avoid exposing oneself in the open market."
In some ways, the idea of making a change seems somewhat moot right now. We're still in the midst of what feels like a recession and jobs are scarce. But the wheels have started turning. I'm just not sure if this is growing up, or giving up.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Katherine Streeter) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (89%); PHOTOCOPIERS (78%); SPORTS (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (69%); BASKETBALL (68%) LABOR 

PERSON: ELLIN, ABBY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (73%); CONNECTICUT, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2003 



596 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1145 words

PERSON: Ed Fire 

HEADLINE: Private Sector; 
Stirring Words, Realist Tactics

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: EAST CLEVELAND, Ohio 

 BODY:
IT was 19 degrees and the wind was whipping off Lake Erie as Ed Fire climbed onto the back of a pickup last Tuesday to address 150 workers who were on strike against General Electric.
 "The greed of General Electric must stop," thundered Mr. Fire, president of G.E.'s largest union, as he denounced the company for increasing employee health care co-payments this month. 
 Then, in his booming baritone voice, Mr. Fire quoted the Mexican revolutionary Emiliano Zapata, telling the shivering strikers why their two-day walkout was noble. "I would rather die on my feet as a man than live on my knees as a dog," he said. "Let's show G.E. that we're not going to live on our knees." 
The workers applauded through thick gloves, and Mr. Fire responded with a huge smile. He was doing what he loves: standing up for workers and preaching that labor unions are the best way for American workers to secure and defend middle-class wages and benefits.
Mr. Fire is president of the International Union of Electronic Workers-Communications Workers of America, which represents 14,000 G.E. workers. That is a sharp drop from 45,000 in 1979, a result of automation, downsizing and operations moved abroad. The I.U.E., one of the unions hurt most by globalization, has shrunk to 100,000 members from 242,000 in 1979.
"Its power has fallen dramatically," said John Russo, director of the labor studies program at Youngstown State University in Ohio.
Mr. Fire said he pushed for last week's walkout to show G.E. that the workers are a force that cannot be trampled upon. It was the biggest recent strike over health care, the No. 1 issue of dispute in labor negotiations, and companies and unions across the land are closely watching how the G.E. dispute plays out. In calling the two-day strike, Mr. Fire had one eye on negotiations in June, when the union's three-year contract with G.E. expires.
"We see this strike as a deterrent," Mr. Fire, 66, said in an interview. "We want to show that if they plan to come at us with a club in the nationwide bargaining and if they think they're going to beat us into submission in terms of shifting other serious health costs onto the workers, they're just plain wrong."
Despite such skewering, even some G.E. officials voice respect for Mr. Fire. "He finds a way to communicate in a very folksy way to the membership," said Bill Conaty, G.E.'s senior vice president for human resources. "He can energize a crowd. He's basically a very decent, hard-working guy."
Mr. Fire was not always such an avid advocate of unions, even though his father, a blacksmith at a foundry, was financial secretary of a machinists' union local in Youngstown. Mr. Fire cared little about unions until he took a factory job at the age of 22 in Warren, Ohio, with Packard Electric, a General Motors division.
"When I was 16, I was a lot more interested in girls than in unions or the salvation of mankind," said Mr. Fire, a short, stocky man who says he works out every day. He became interested in unions only after a friend suggested that he attend a union meeting and only after he was inspired by a philosophy professor at Youngstown State, where he studied for several years.
"This professor really opened my eyes up to see we have a duty and calling beyond just making money," Mr. Fire said.
Mr. Fire was born in Lowellville, Ohio, the son of immigrants from Italy. After finishing high school, he joined the Navy at 17, serving in the Mediterranean as a radio operator until he turned 21. 
Returning to Ohio, he took the job with Packard Electric. "When you went into a factory in those days, you had to turn your brain off because the work was not challenging," he said. "I didn't feel stimulated until I got involved in union work."
In 1965, he was elected president of a 13,000-member I.U.E. local. When the union's chief negotiator with G.M. died in 1977, Mr. Fire took his place. In 1980, he became the union's district director for six states.
In 1982, when the union's president died, the board selected Bill Bywater as president and Mr. Fire as secretary-treasurer. They were elected as a team in 1984, 1988 and 1992, but in 1996 Mr. Fire challenged Mr. Bywater, then 76, for the presidency. Mr. Fire won.
"The was deterioriting," he said. "Bill was just not dealing with what we has to do to save the union."
With his union losing 6,000 workers a year, Mr. Fire wanted to link with a larger union. He arranged a merger in 2000 with the Communications Workers of America. 
Morton Bahr, the C.W.A.'s president, welcomed the partnership with Mr. Fire, saying, "Philosophically, we were on the same plane, meaning progressive in lots of areas, militant but responsible."
Mr. Fire, who has three grown children and five grandchildren, is twice divorced, acknowledging that his dedication to union matters hurt his marriages.
While Mr. Fire seems confrontational against G.E., he can take a cooperative tack. "Under him, the I.U.E. has partnered with corporations to help the union and various factories survive," said Sandra Kennedy of the Center for Labor-Management Cooperation at Wright State University in Dayton, Ohio.
As an example of such cooperation, Mr. Fire said he negotiated a contract, in which new workers earned less than old ones did, to persuade G.M. not to close a factory in Rochester. But some union critics said such two-tier agreements showed that Mr. Fire was too accommodating to management.
"A union leader has to be realistic and pragmatic," Mr. Fire said. "You have to bargain on the basis of the economic facts of life."
BUT he asserted that with G.E. turning a profit of $14 billion, or $45,000 a worker, last year, the economic facts don't justify raising health co-payments an estimated $200 to $400 a year a worker.
"How can a company say they're having a problem with higher health costs when they're enjoying record profits?" Mr. Fire said. He said G.E. forced him to take a more combative approach than did G.M., Visteon and Delphi, where his union represents thousands of workers.
"You can't take anything away from G.E.; they're an extremely well-managed company," Mr. Fire said. "In terms of their relationship with us, G.E. tolerates the union. They have never accepted us."
Mr. Conaty says G.E. is in more businesses, and often in more competitive businesses, than are the auto companies and thus needed to work harder to stay competitive.
"We get this talk about greed and profits, but there's one important fact -- our earnings went up 7 percent last year, but our health care costs went up 14 percent," Mr. Conaty said. "With healthcare, something has to give."
But Mr. Fire, who is threatening a strike in June, isn't buying that argument. "You're not going to convince G.E. to do anything on the basis of what's fair, what's simple justice," he said. "What influences this company is the persuasion of power, not the power of persuasion."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ed Fire, center, head of the International Union of Electronic Workers, with workers during a strike last week against G.E. in Cleveland. (David Maxwell for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STRIKES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); HUMAN RESOURCES (77%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (77%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (76%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (72%); HEALTH CARE (71%); GLOBALIZATION (71%) BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; STRIKES; LABOR; FRINGE BENEFITS; HEALTH INSURANCE 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO; 

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%) SIC3621 MOTORS & GENERATORS; 

GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; FIRE, ED 

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (92%) OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

CATEGORY: Labor 

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2003 



597 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
Are Small Caps a Size Too Big?

BYLINE:  By VIRGINIA MUNGER KAHN 

 BODY:
IN 2001, when small-capitalization stocks outperformed large caps, investors poured $28 billion into small-cap mutual funds. 
 The deluge caused a problem for many small-cap fund managers. As their funds swelled in size, managers found it more difficult to invest profitably in a market of relatively modest size. Many of the most popular funds closed their doors to new investors. 
 Last year, though, small-cap stocks performed almost as poorly as the overall market, and since June, investors have generally been pulling money out of the sector. Partly as a result, several of the shuttered small-cap funds have reopened. Those include Fidelity Low-Priced Stock, Buffalo Small Cap, T. Rowe Price New Horizons and Wasatch Core Growth, which has reopened only to existing shareholders.
Even so, moving money into these reopened funds may not be the best approach for investors who believe that the small-cap sector is ready for a rally, some fund analysts say.
"I would worry that if the market takes off, these funds' asset size will make them sluggish," said Philip Edwards, managing director in charge of global fund research at Standard & Poor's. 
Buffalo Small Cap has $721.6 million in assets, while Wasatch Core Growth has $1.04 billion, T. Rowe Price New Horizons has $3.36 billion, and Fidelity Low-Priced Stock has $15.54 billion. Mr. Edwards suggested that investors look for smaller funds.
Jeremy DeGroot, director of mutual fund research at Litman/Gregory Asset Management in Orinda, Calif., said: "The fundamental rule is, past performance is not predictive of future performance. You have to look at the characteristics of the fund now and base your investment decision on that."
Other analysts, including those at Morningstar, continue to recommend Fidelity Low-Priced Stock, Buffalo Small Cap and Wasatch Core Growth. "These are very impressive offerings," said Emily Hall, senior mutual fund analyst at Morningstar. "Most of these firms have shown their willingness to close funds before assets get out of control."
Ms. Hall noted that many small-cap funds closed when their assets approached $1 billion. But Fidelity Low-Priced Stock has defied the conventional wisdom about asset size by posting returns that rank among the top 8 percent of small-cap blend funds for the last one, three and five years.
While funds with large asset bases should be approached with caution, there is no science to picking the maximum asset size of a small-cap fund, Mr. Edwards said.
In many ways, the returns of the funds will depend on how well small stocks perform in general, and there is no consensus on that outlook. Historically, small caps have performed well coming out of recessions because small companies are more likely to be affected by economic cycles. In the 12 months after the eight recessions tracked by the Leuthold Group from 1954 through 1991, small-cap stocks averaged gains of 39 percent, versus 21 percent for large-cap stocks. 
JIM COLLINS, the chairman and chief executive of Insight Capital Research and Management in Walnut Creek, Calif., said he expected small-cap stocks to perform much as they did in the early 1990's, when the United States was emerging from a mild recession and faced the prospect of war in the Persian Gulf. 
From 1991 through 1993, small caps gained 115.8 percent, more than double the 54.6 percent for large caps, Mr. Collins said.
"I would suggest investors take a hard look at small caps now," he said. 
The Russell 2000 stock index, a proxy for small caps, declined by 18.6 percent for the 12 months through Thursday, compared with a 20.2 percent decline for the S.& P. 500 index.
The market has discounted small-cap stocks out of concern that the economy will tip back into a recession, said Tim Hayes, global equity strategist at Ned Davis Research in Venice, Fla. But he disagrees.
"Our work shows we are not going into a double-dip recession," he said. "Where we are in the stock market and economic cycle tends to favor small-cap stocks."
Earnings of small caps over all have not yet picked up, largely because many technology and biotechnology companies are still losing money, said Jack Laporte, president and portfolio manager at T. Rowe Price New Horizons. He said the sector would rebound when earnings improved. "I think that will happen," he said. "It has historically."
Some analysts and portfolio managers say investors should make a finer distinction by focusing on small-cap growth funds as opposed to value funds. After three years of outperformance by small-cap value stocks, Mr. Collins said, it is time for the cycle to shift back to growth. Growth and value cycles, he added, tend to reverse about every three years.
From the Nasdaq's peak in March 2000 through the third quarter of 2002, for example, the Russell 2000 Growth index fell 61.9 percent, while the Russell 2000 Value index rose 12.6 percent. The underperformance of small-cap growth stocks, compared with small-cap value stocks, has never been greater or lasted longer, Mr. Laporte said.
Mr. Edwards said that in mutual funds, "investors tend to go with what's working, but this is a great opportunity to be contrarian and get in at a good price."
He said he favored Baron Growth, which has $941 million in assets under management. "We're confident the fund's manager is cognizant of asset size and will not let it hinder performance," he said. The fund has lost 0.04 percent a year, annualized, in the three years through Thursday, placing it among the top 9 percent of small growth funds, according to Morningstar. 
He and Mr. DeGroot also recommend AXA Rosenberg U.S. Small Capitalization, which invests in growth and value stocks and has returned 3.9 percent a year, on average, during the three years through Thursday. That puts it in the top 34 percent of small blend funds. It has $133.3 million in assets under management.
Mr. DeGroot also puts Harbor Small-Cap Growth on his list. The fund lost 14.7 percent in the 12 months through Thursday, placing it in the top 17 percent of small-cap growth funds. It has $103.9 million in assets. While the fund is just two years old, he said, its manager, William A. Muggia, has a good long-term record managing institutional accounts.
Mr. Edwards said that much attention "has been focused on the funds that have reopened, but among funds that have stayed open, there are some real gems."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jack Laporte, the portfolio manager at T. Rowe Price New Horizons, which has $3.98 billion in assets, predicts that the small-cap sector will rebound when earnings improve. (Steve Ruark for The New York Times) Chart: "Reopening the Doors"Small-cap stock funds that closed within the last two years have been reopening. Historically, small-cap stocks have performed better than large caps in periods of economic expansion. FUND NAME: Fidelity Low-Priced StockASSETS* In billions: $15.54PERIOD CLOSED: May 16 to Nov. 15, 2002TOTAL RETURNS, ANNUALIZED*1 YEAR: - 2.33%5 YEAR: + 9.33 FUND NAME: T. Rowe Price New HorizonsASSETS* In billions: 3.36PERIOD CLOSED: June 18, 1996 to May 1, 2002TOTAL RETURNS, ANNUALIZED*1 YEAR: -19.86%5 YEAR: + 1.11 FUND NAME: Wasatch Core GrowthASSETS* In billions: 1.04PERIOD CLOSED: Jan. 31 to July 16, 2002+TOTAL RETURNS, ANNUALIZED*1 YEAR: -19.21%5 YEAR: +10.75 FUND NAME: Buffalo Small CapASSETS* In billions: 0.72PERIOD CLOSED: April 15 to July 16, 2002TOTAL RETURNS, ANNUALIZED*1 YEAR: -25.55%5 YEAR: n.a. *Through Jan. 16, 2003.+Closed to new shareholders on Jan. 31; extended to existing shareholders on March 28.Now open only to existing shareholders. (Source: Morningstar Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (95%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SCIENCE FUNDING (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); BONDS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); CLOSINGS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%) STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS 

COMPANY: FMR CORP (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (85%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%)

PERSON: KAHN, VIRGINIA MUNGER 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (54%) CALIFORNIA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2003 



598 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: MARKET WATCH; 
Is VerizonFlying Too High Above Its Valuation?

BYLINE:  By GRETCHEN MORGENSON 

 BODY:
WITH its alluring 4 percent dividend and aura of stability, Verizon Communications has been a stock market star in recent months. Shares in this telecommunications giant, formed two and a half years ago when GTE merged with Bell Atlantic, have jumped 40 percent since the end of September. The stock closed on Friday at $38.50.
 To which Susan Kalla, an analyst at Friedman Billings Ramsey in New York, says pshaw. Ms. Kalla, perhaps the sharpest person covering telecommunications at a brokerage firm today, says Verizon is, at best, a $28 stock. It is showing no revenue growth, almost no profit growth; in short, its business is eroding, she said. 
 Verizon is in a vise. Its local service, which provides the highest profit margins, is in decline. Meanwhile, the company's new dominance in the long-distance market, which it had battled to enter in recent years, could not come at a worse time. "It's an example of be careful what you wish for," Ms. Kalla said. "They are getting into long distance just as it is crashing and burning."
A comparison of the Baby Bells' long-distance revenue with their costs reveals the problem. While revenue comes in around 4.5 cents a minute right now, costs of billing and customer service, upgraded switching software, access charges and other expenses add up to 5.5 cents. And with six major competitors battling for market share, prices of long-distance service could fall even more.
As a result, long-distance will be a money loser for Verizon for at least two years, Ms. Kalla said. With more than 10 million customers in 47 states, Verizon passed Sprint earlier this month to become the third-largest long-distance provider.
The company's local-phone business, which generates 62 percent of its revenue and carries 40 percent margins, could fall 3 percent this year, Ms. Kalla said. The company's wireless operations, which account for one-third of its revenue, make only a minor contribution to earnings. Profit margins are falling in that business because of heavy discounting.
Verizon's D.S.L. business is not likely to add to profits, either, she said.
Looking ahead, Ms. Kalla expects weakness in the economy and rising layoffs to translate into a slowdown in volume at Verizon. The Bell companies, as a group, could lose a million business lines in 2003 because of the economy and joblessness, she estimated. The companies could also lose two million residential lines this year as consumers switch to cellphones and cut back on use of second phone lines. 
Which brings us to Verizon's valuation, which Ms. Kalla figures is rich by about 20 percent. The stock carries a price-to-earnings ratio of almost 13, double the company's long-term earnings growth rate. Measured another way, Verizon is trading at 5.7 times its estimated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. A more reasonable multiple, given Verizon's business, would be 4.5, she said.
Investors may have bid up Verizon shares recently in the hope that regulators will eliminate the requirement that Bell companies lease parts of their networks to competitors. Verizon and other Bell companies say that the leases lose them buckets of money.
But in testimony before Congress last week, Michael K. Powell, the chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, backed away from changing the rules governing local phone service.
To be sure, Verizon's 4 percent dividend is compelling. And if taxes on dividends are eliminated, it will become even more so. But if Ms. Kalla is right about its value, and she has been right about a lot in telecom land recently, the stock could yield 5.5 percent in the not-too-distant future. Might be worth the wait.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Great Expectations"Graph tracks Verizon's share price, weekly, since June 2002.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (89%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); TELEPHONE RATES (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); RESIDENTIAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (70%); BONDS (70%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (65%) STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS; FRIEDMAN BILLINGS RAMSEY GROUP 

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%) SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS EX. RADIO; 

PERSON: MORGENSON, GRETCHEN; KALLA, SUSAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2003 



599 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1970 words

HEADLINE: A Sinking Feeling At the Register 

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT 

 BODY:
ONE year ago, a 50-inch Hitachi television cost $1,400 at Circuit City. It costs $1,000 today.
 Five years ago, automakers charged $25,500 for the average new vehicle. They charge about $24,500 today. 
 A decade ago, a round trip on Delta Air Lines between New York and San Francisco cost $388 -- and it was part of a sale. Delta now sells the same advance-purchase ticket for $317. 
Most stunning is the price path of Burger King's Whopper sandwich, which cost about $1.40 some 20 years ago, when the Dow Jones industrial average hovered around 1,000 and hourly wages were about one-half their current level. This weekend, a Whopper sells for 99 cents.
Deflation, a sustained decline in prices across the economy, remains merely a threat, with overall prices still rising mildly. For some of the nation's largest industries, though, falling prices are a reality. The costs of cars, clothing, electronics, furniture, jewelry, kitchen equipment and toys -- indeed, of most manufactured goods -- have been dropping for more than a year, causing turmoil for companies and their workers. Although airlines and fast food are among the only industries in the service sector to be suffering through declines, overall service prices are rising more slowly than they were two years ago, according to figures released last week.
"More goods are chasing less money," said Arthur J. Rolnick, research director at the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, "instead of more money chasing fewer goods."
Worried about falling prices, the Fed lowered its benchmark interest rate again late last year. Officials say deflation remains unlikely but, because it is so hard to stop once it starts, they are taking preventive measures.
The lack of pricing power has been forcing executives to cut costs even as they increase production, and it has helped to make the current economic recovery a jobless one. Almost 200,000 jobs were eliminated across the country in November and December. 
The squeeze has also cost some chief executives their jobs, like Jack M. Greenberg of McDonald's, who resigned last month, shortly before the company announced its first quarterly loss since going public 38 years ago. Other companies, including airlines, automotive suppliers and, last week, FAO, the toy retailer, have filed for bankruptcy protection.
The biggest culprit is the 1990's bubble that left many industries with more goods than they could profitably sell and more capacity than they could use. But the surge of imports from low-cost countries like China, the rise in American productivity and the continuing trend toward deregulation and market-determined prices are all playing roles. 
FACED with stagnant revenue, many companies are aggravating their industries' troubles by further reducing prices to grab pieces of a shrinking pie. 
The weak economic growth of the last year has caused poultry prices, for example, to drop about 1 percent. Tyson Foods, the world's biggest seller of chicken, has responded by offering more promotions to supermarkets, said John Tyson, the chief executive. 
General Motors, the first automaker to offer zero percent financing after Sept. 11, 2001, expanded its incentives last month to match the deals offered by Ford Motor, after G.M. had cut them back in November.
"We go to zero percent, 36 months, then the guys who were griping about incentives go to 60 months," Rick Wagoner, G.M.'s chief executive, said in an interview, referring to competitors. "And guess what? They get big market share, and we don't."
Now "they're going to have to fight toe to toe," Mr. Wagoner said.
Even some products in great demand have become less expensive, as retailers use them to woo customers. Although Chicken Dance Elmo, a doll based on a "Sesame Street" character, is dancing its way off shelves, Wal-Mart and Target still cut its price to $15, from the list price of $20, said Jim Silver, the publisher of The Toy Book, which covers the industry. Other sellers followed quickly, contributing to a 30 percent decline in overall toy prices since 1996.
Across the economy, inflation is running at an annual rate of about 1 percent or 2 percent, depending on the government measure. With the economy still weak, however, economists and policy makers worry that a deflationary trap similar to Japan's is now possible, if unlikely. 
"There are some well-founded reasons to presume that deflation is more of a threat to economic growth than is inflation," Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, said recently. But, he added, "the United States is nowhere close to sliding into a pernicious deflation." 
So long as an economy's demand for goods remains much below its capacity to produce them, inflation tends to decline, and the continuing job cuts suggest that the American economy is still operating well below capacity. If low inflation turns into deflation, unemployment can spike, debts can become unmanageable and, in the most extreme cases, consumers may hold onto their money, waiting for prices to fall further. 
The Fed, by lowering interest rates and making dollars effectively less valuable, can typically cause inflation to rise -- unless banks, consumers and businesses hoard their cash. Even if Fed officials cut their benchmark rate to zero, they can still print more money to keep prices stable or rising at a slow clip, they say. "We can always prevent deflation," Mr. Rolnick said. "There are enough people in central banks around the world who think it's a bad thing that they just aren't going to let it happen."
In recent weeks, a few economists have started wondering if 2003 will be the year inflation reasserts itself. Many of the Fed's interest-rate cuts the last two years are still washing over the economy, giving people reasons to spend, while a war with Iraq could bring both a spike in government spending and a climb in oil prices. The dollar has also lost some of its value recently, and import prices will probably rise as a result.
"I don't know if we've reached the inflection point," said Peter L. Bernstein, an author and economic consultant, "but my impression is that this phase is coming to an end."
There are still worrisome trends, however, that suggest the 1990's spending binge by consumers and executives has left a bigger hangover than a typical expansion does. In most recent downturns, prices in the service sector continued to rise as fast as they had been, largely because demand for services like education, medical care and haircuts does not drop during recessions. Since late 2000, by contrast, inflation in services has fallen to 1.8 percent annually, from 3 percent -- a sign of weak demand, said Stephen Roach, the chief economist at Morgan Stanley and probably the most vocal deflation worrier.
"The good news is that policy is responding," Mr. Roach said. "The bad news is that there's no guarantee it will work."
In many industries, the issue is far more than academic. The battle against runaway inflation in the late 1970's and early 80's was won, but the victory has created its own troubles.
Encouraged by the stability and prosperity of the 90's, American companies spent billions on new factories, equipment and software, vastly increasing their ability to make products. Some service companies helped inflate the bubble, too.
Combined, McDonald's, Burger King and Wendy's opened 6,100 restaurants from 1994 to 2001, expanding by about a third, according to Technomic, a research company in Chicago. Many now compete with one another, as well as with thousands of new outlets of Starbucks, Subway and other chains that have lured customers more successfully than the burger chains.
In response, McDonald's and Burger King have waged price wars, of which the current 99-cent Whopper sale is a part. Wendy's rarely offers discounts, but its president, Thomas J. Mueller, said, "We pride ourselves on not increasing our prices." 
Manufacturers also face new competition from overseas because many foreign companies are attracted to the American market, which they consider the world's healthiest. Since 1995, in fact, the United States has accounted for almost two-thirds of global economic growth, Morgan Stanley says.
In the auto industry, Honda and Toyota began making hundreds of thousands of sport utility vehicles every year. Hyundai captured parts of the low end of the vehicle market. Volkswagen increased its sales here. 
To keep factories running and high fixed costs covered, American companies fought back by offering incentives and markdowns. Today, those discounts are equal to $3,100 a vehicle, twice the level of two years ago, according to Autodata, a research company. A family making the median income now must use about 20 weeks of pay for a new vehicle, compared with 29 weeks in 1996, according to Comerica Bank.
"The competition has basically turned the industry into an unprofitable one," said David E. Cole, president of the Center for Automotive Research, a consulting firm in Ann Arbor, Mich. "The business model is broken." 
The shakeout is beginning. Fiat, the Italian car company, is struggling to stay in business. Ford is planning to cut billions of dollars in expenses this year.
"It's not a very pretty process," Mr. Cole said. "And it's not over."
But globalization's contribution to price pressure can also come wrapped in an American company's label. Since the double-digit inflation of 25 years ago, Mexico, China and other low-wage countries have greatly increased their manufacturing bases. The strong dollar of recent years -- another reflection of the American economy's primacy, even in a slowdown -- has made imports even less expensive. 
Imports have helped prices fall 12 percent for men's pants since 1999 and 10 percent for women's suits, the Labor Department calculates. Furniture prices are down 4 percent.
Ethan Allen, a chain of 315 furniture stores, made nearly all its products in the United States in the early 1990's; now the portion has fallen to 80 percent. Some of its most expensive products, like a $3,000 bed, are made in factories in China and the Philippines that have become much more efficient in recent years, said M. Farooq Kathwari, Ethan Allen's chief executive.
"That has put a tremendous amount of pressure on prices," said Mr. Kathwari, who announced some price cuts late last year. "In the next year or couple of years, I don't see much chance of increasing prices."
Since 2000, Ethan Allen, based in Danbury, Conn., has also cut its work force about 5 percent, to 10,000, while its sales have risen slightly. It operates 17 factories, compared with 27 a decade ago.
Elsewhere, a slow unwinding of government regulation has laid the groundwork for price declines. The federal government stopped setting airline fares in 1978, for instance, but low-fare airlines have only recently established their presence in almost every region of the country. Their success has kept fares flat since 1990, and it played a crucial role in the bankruptcy filings last year by United Airlines and US Airways. 
The rise in productivity in the last decade has also helped bring down inflation. With new technology, new management techniques and an increasingly educated work force, American companies can make more goods than they did in the past while using the same amount of labor. G.M. made a profit in its most recent quarter, despite its discounts, partly by becoming more efficient.
In some previous eras of high productivity, like the late 1800's, deflation and economic growth coexisted as companies and workers split the spoils of their efficiency. The technology sector benefited from a similar virtuous cycle in the 1990's.
Today's wave of price cutting -- stemming mainly from economic weakness -- continues to bring benefits for consumers, but there is little that is virtuous about it for companies caught in its vise.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Clearance sales, 99-cent Whoppers and falling car prices are some of the signs of a growing threat of deflation. The reasons include cheaper imports, a rise in productivity and the 1990's bubble that left many companies with excess goods. (Bloomberg News); (Bloomberg News); (Associated Press)(pg. 1); Price increases have slowed for most of the service sector, but air fares have decreased. American Airlines recently advertised yet another sale.; At General Motors, the chief executive, Rick Wagoner, has had to add zero percent financing incentives to match the competition. (Associated Press)(pg. 10) Chart: "Too Tame?"For years, federal officials worked hard to fight inflation, with great success. Now, falling prices are a concern. INFLATIONGraph tracks the year-over-year change of the consumer price index, plotted monthly, from 1990-2002. DEC.: +2.4% DEFLATION AND INFLATION Personal computers and peripheralsChange in prices Dec. 01 to Dec. 02: -22.1% ButterChange in prices Dec. 01 to Dec. 02: -19.4 TelevisionsChange in prices Dec. 01 to Dec. 02: -10.6 ToysChange in prices Dec. 01 to Dec. 02: - 9.3 Telephone services, long-distance chargesChange in prices Dec. 01 to Dec. 02: - 6.0 Used cars and trucksChange in prices Dec. 01 to Dec. 02: - 5.5 Audio equipmentChange in prices Dec. 01 to Dec. 02: - 4.5 Women's underwear, nightwear, sportswear and accessoriesChange in prices Dec. 01 to Dec. 02: - 3.8 MilkChange in prices Dec. 01 to Dec. 02: - 3.7 JewelryChange in prices Dec. 01 to Dec. 02: - 3.6 Men's pants and shortsChange in prices Dec. 01 to Dec. 02: - 3.2 Pork chopsChange in prices Dec. 01 to Dec. 02: - 2.8 Airline faresChange in prices Dec. 01 to Dec. 02: - 2.4 New carsChange in prices Dec. 01 to Dec. 02: - 2.0 ElectricityChange in prices Dec. 01 to Dec. 02: - 1.9 Ship faresChange in prices Dec. 01 to Dec. 02: - 1.8 Kitchen, living, and dining room furnitureChange in prices Dec. 01 to Dec. 02: - 1.0 BreadChange in prices Dec. 01 to Dec. 02: + 1.0% Newspapers and magazinesChange in prices Dec. 01 to Dec. 02: + 2.2 All itemsChange in prices Dec. 01 to Dec. 02: + 2.4 Rent for primary residenceChange in prices Dec. 01 to Dec. 02: + 3.1 Legal servicesChange in prices Dec. 01 to Dec. 02: + 4.3 Funeral expensesChange in prices Dec. 01 to Dec. 02: + 4.3 Prescription drugs and medical suppliesChange in prices Dec. 01 to Dec. 02: + 4.5 Admission to movies, theaters and concertsChange in prices Dec. 01 to Dec. 02: + 5.0 Telephone services, local chargesChange in prices Dec. 01 to Dec. 02: + 5.3 Fresh vegetablesChange in prices Dec. 01 to Dec. 02: + 6.4 College tuition and feesChange in prices Dec. 01 to Dec. 02: + 7.0 EggsChange in prices Dec. 01 to Dec. 02: + 9.7 Outpatient hospital servicesChange in prices Dec. 01 to Dec. 02: +12.7 Gasoline, unleaded regularChange in prices Dec. 01 to Dec. 02: +25.8 Note: Prices are sometimes adjusted to reflect improvements in quality. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); DEFLATION (89%); AIRLINES (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); EMERGING MARKETS (88%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); FOOD PRICES (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (74%); PRODUCTIVITY (74%); TRENDS (74%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (73%); POULTRY (72%); RETAILERS (71%); PRICE CUTTING (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); LAYOFFS (67%); TOYS & GAMES (67%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (67%); INTEREST RATES (64%); EXECUTIVES (64%); COMPANY LOSSES (60%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (73%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF MINNEAPOLIS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF MINNEAPOLIS 

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (73%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (73%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (66%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (66%)

PERSON: RICK WAGONER (50%) LEONHARDT, DAVID; ROLNICK, ARTHUR J 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2003 



600 of 996 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH/Richard C. Pell And Donald Quigley; 
Julius Baer Global Income Fund

BYLINE:  By CAROLE GOULD 

 BODY:
UNTIL late 2000, the $45 million Julius Baer Global Income fund made money betting on the strength of the dollar against foreign currencies.
 But since the spring of 2001, the fund's co-managers, Richard C. Pell and Donald Quigley, have positioned their portfolio to profit from the dollar's decline. Dollar-denominated bonds, which accounted for 80 percent of the fund's assets in June 1999, are now 65 percent of the fund -- the lowest level since Mr. Pell began managing the fund in 1998. 
 "There's been a massive capital outflow into the U.S. over the last 10 years from Japan, Europe and the emerging markets, which had weaker economic growth than the U.S.," Mr. Quigley said from his office in Manhattan. "Now we're seeing signs that foreign investors are more reluctant to send their money here."
The fund can help investors buffer portfolios against declines in the dollar, Mr. Pell said. Most bond investors keep all their wealth in their home currency, he explained, but the dollar makes surprisingly large moves against overseas currencies in cycles of up to 5 or 10 years.
The euro has risen about 25 percent against the dollar in the last two years and is now worth $1.066. "We think that trend can continue much further," Mr. Quigley said.
The fund returned 8.9 percent a year, on average, for the three years through Thursday, ranking in the top 2 percent of all multisector bond funds, which own a mix of domestic and overseas government and corporate bonds. That group rose 4.6 percent, according to Morningstar Inc. 
The fund returned 13.1 percent in the last 12 months, compared with 6.2 percent for its group.
Mr. Pell, 48, is chief investment officer and senior vice president of Julius Baer Investment Management in New York, the fund's adviser and a unit of Julius Baer Holding of Zurich. Mr. Quigley, 37, is a vice president and head of global fixed income for the adviser.
The portfolio generally has 40 or so issues. The managers say a neutral mix, based on the fund's composite benchmark, would be 80 percent of assets in dollar-denominated bonds and 20 percent in those denominated in foreign currencies.
The fund buys investment-grade-rated corporate issues or government or agency debt. Outside the United States, the managers buy only government bonds, minimizing credit risk. Domestically, the fund owns corporate bonds, at 29 percent of the fund's total assets; mortgage-backed securities, at 12 percent; and Treasury securities, at 18 percent. In the Treasury stake, a big chunk -- 7 percent of the fund's assets -- is invested in Treasury inflation-protected securities.
"President Bush is in the same place that his father was 12 years ago, with an election in less than two years and conflict with Iraq," Mr. Pell said. "His father lost the election because of economic weakness, and he'll try to avoid the same mistake. So we expect a tax cut and massive increases in government spending that may have inflationary consequences."
In January 2002, the managers began buying German government bonds with a 5.25 percent coupon due in July 2010. They paid 102.53 euros, on average, or $91.45 at the time, for every 100 euros of face value for the bonds, which are rated AAA by Standard & Poor's; the bond closed on Friday at 108.67 euros, now worth $115.82. While the Federal Reserve has been reducing American interest rates since 2001, Mr. Quigley said, the European Central Bank has been slower to do so and has some catching up to do. He also expects the euro to strengthen further against the dollar, creating a total return of about 12 percent, annualized, in dollar terms during the next five years.
The managers bought 7.625 percent coupon bonds due in February 2005 and issued by the Vodafone Group, the British wireless telecommunications company. They paid $109.963 for each $100 in face value for the bonds, which were issued simultaneously in several global markets, including New York. The bond now trades at $110.24, and because it is denominated in dollars, there is no currency risk. It is rated A by S.& P.
Vodafone "avoided paying for foolish acquisitions during the bubble period," Mr. Quigley said, "and it's going to be able to rise above the telecom fray." The company has strong products, he added, and a strong balance sheet that let the company gain market share during rough times in the industry.
The fund also owns housing bonds from the government of Iceland. Rated AAA, the bonds have a coupon of 4.75 percent and are due in December 2022. The bonds yield about 5 percent, Mr. Quigley said, but an inflation-adjustment feature increases that to 7.65 percent. He said the yield would become even more attractive if inflation rose in Iceland in the next six months, as he expects. 
In April, they paid 134.41 Icelandic krone, or $1.43, for each 100 krone of face value. They now trade at 152.73 krone, or $1.93.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The fund managers Richard C. Pell, left, and Donald Quigley. Their global bond fund is a buffer against the dollar's decline, Mr. Pell said. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times) Chart: "Julius Baer Global Income" Category: Multisector bondNet assets: $45 millionInception: July 1992Managers: Richard C. Pell since July 1998Donald Quigley since August 2001Minimum purchase (Class A shares): $2,500 ($100 I.R.A.)Portfolio turnover: 96%3-year annualized return through Thursday (Class A shares): +8.9%Category average: +4.6% Sector breakdownMortgage-backed securities: 12%U.S. Treasury (includes TIPS): 18%U.S. corporate bonds: 29%Foreign government bonds (not in dollars): 35%Foreign government bonds (dollar-denominated): 6% Fees (Class A shares)Front-end load: NoneDeferred load: None12b-1 fee: 0.25%Expense ratio: 1.49% (Sources: Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (92%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); BONDS (90%); CORPORATE BONDS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); TRENDS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (73%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (68%); BOND FUNDS (58%); RANKINGS (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; MUTUAL FUNDS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (66%); GAM HOLDING LTD (58%); ARTIO GLOBAL MANAGEMENT LLC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BAER, JULIUS, HOLDING AG 

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (66%); GAM (SWX) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (66%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%) GOULD, CAROLE; PELL, RICHARD C; QUIGLEY, DONALD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2003 

 
