

401 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 785 words

PERSON: James G. Boswell II 

HEADLINE: James G. Boswell II, 86, Owner of Cotton Empire

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
James G. Boswell II, who inherited a huge expanse of farmland in the San Joaquin Valley of California, then quadrupled its acreage to create a cotton-growing empire, died last Friday at his home in Indian Wells, Calif. He was 86.
 He died of natural causes, according to a statement from his family. 
 It was the boll weevil's decimation of the cotton fields of Georgia that sent Mr. Boswell's uncle James Griffin Boswell, for whom he was named, across the country in 1921. Outside Corcoran, a rural town in Central California, Colonel Boswell (as the uncle preferred to be called) bought the first of what gradually became 50,000 acres. In 1952 he bequeathed his cotton fields to his nephew. 
 James Boswell II eventually expanded the family's holdings to approximately 200,000 acres, including 60,000 in the Australian outback but not including the 20,000 acres in Arizona that he sold in the late 1950s to the Del Webb Development Company. Those 20,000 acres were transformed, with Mr. Boswell as a development partner, into Sun City, one of the nation's first retirement communities. 
 ''It speaks to his incredible business sense that when his Arizona land was no longer good for growing cotton he was savvy enough to grow houses,'' Rick Wartzman, the director of the Drucker Institute at Claremont Graduate University in Claremont, Calif., said Tuesday in an interview. Mr. Wartzman, a former business editor at The Los Angeles Times, is the author, with Mark Arax, of ''The King of California: J. G. Boswell and the Making of a Secret American Empire'' (PublicAffairs, 2003).
 The J. G. Boswell Company currently owns about 150,000 acres in California and, according to Hoover's Inc., a business analysis company, is the largest producer of cotton in the United States. It supplies textile mills worldwide and has annual sales of more than $150 million.
 The company's expansion has not been without controversy. Its vast, well-tended lands and network of irrigation canals stretch across the bed of Tulare Lake, which was once the largest freshwater lake west of the Mississippi, four times the size of Lake Tahoe. Early pioneers encroached on the lake to irrigate their farms, a process that Mr. Boswell's uncle accelerated as he bought more property. 
 Four rivers feed Tulare Lake. The Boswells forcefully and successfully lobbied for the construction of dams that largely diminished the lake, draining its bed for more farmland.
 ''He re-engineered the landscape, much to the consternation of environmentalists,'' Mr. Wartzman said of the younger James Boswell. ''He was a titan with a lot of power in Sacramento and Washington. He genuinely loved the land, and yet he left an environmental record that was very mixed at best.''
 Mr. Boswell also introduced techniques that became a model for large-scale farming: lasers that ensured level fields for even water distribution; bioengineering of new and pest-resistant seeds; computerized cotton gins with a capacity to produce 400 bales a day -- enough to produce 840,000 pairs of boxer shorts, according to a 2003 article in The Los Angeles Times. 
 ''There was an antiseptic cleanliness to the whole operation,'' Mr. Wartzman said. ''He pushed the industry in terms of modernizing, from seed to field to gin.''
 Born on March 10, 1923, in Greensboro, Ga., Mr. Boswell was the son of William Boswell Sr. and Kate Hall Boswell. When he was a child, the family moved to California to join in his uncle's enterprise. 
 After serving in the Army in the Pacific during World War II, Mr. Boswell returned to Stanford University in 1946 to complete his bachelor's degree in economics. There he met Rosalind Murray; they married and had three children. She died in 2000. Mr. Boswell is survived by his second wife, the former Barbara Wallace; his son, James, who now runs the business; two daughters, Jody Hall and Lorraine Wilcox; and five grandchildren.
 Mr. Boswell was a complicated, reticent man. He saw himself as a cowboy and was proud that he had lost two fingers in a cattle-roping accident. He golfed with Arnold Palmer. He sat on the boards of General Electric, the Security Pacific Bank and the Safeway supermarket chain. He was chairman, president and chief executive of his company from 1952 until he retired in 1984. 
 Mr. Boswell did not like to talk about himself or his business.
 When Mr. Wartzman and Mr. Arax were doing research for ''The King of California,'' Mr. Boswell spurned many requests for an interview.
 ''We finally decided to appeal to his mortality,'' they wrote in the book, ''a sales pitch he cut short like this: 'You don't seem to understand. It won't bother me in the least if I die and this story is never told.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: James G. Boswell II on his some of his property in California.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT BLACK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); COTTON FARMING (92%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (91%); LAKES (89%); TEXTILES (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); SALES FIGURES (72%); INTERVIEWS (70%); LOBBYING (67%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (65%); INFRASTRUCTURE (64%); FABRIC MILLS (64%); WRITERS (64%); TEXTILE MFG (62%); TEXTILE MILLS (62%); IRRIGATION (61%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (61%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (61%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (60%); DAM & HYDROELECTRIC CONSTRUCTION (50%)

COMPANY: J G BOSWELL CO INC (82%); LOS ANGELES TIMES (66%); HOOVER'S INC (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (66%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (97%); ARIZONA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2009



402 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2009
Correction Appended 
National Edition

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; DANCE REVIEW PAUL TAYLOR; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: Madly Self-Involved In World of the Absurd

BYLINE: By ALASTAIR MACAULAY

DATELINE: HANOVER, N.H. 

 BODY:
The most beautiful dancing in the latest work by the choreographer Paul Taylor comes from the one character not playing a dancer. Called ''Now Playing,'' the new piece is about vaudeville and therefore belongs to that rich genre in which theater is about theater itself. 
 Robert Kleinendorst plays the stagehand who's the exception to the rule. Everything else is more or less absurd. Jennifer Tipton lights everything so that we know we're not watching the best-lighted dance acts in the world. Mr. Kleinendorst -- who has often proved the funniest dancer in the Taylor company -- is here, the sole person who maintains the purity of the theatrical ideal. He's even the only one who actually seems to want to dance. Everyone else shows us vaudeville that is tired or silly or coming unstuck. 
 By shuttling between performance and life offstage, it sets up ideas about different layers of truth and reality. Santo Loquasto has designed a proscenium arch, curtain and backcloth that, though suggesting an ornate architecture, are gray, shadowy and translucent: this might be a ghost theater. But Mr. Taylor -- who dedicates the piece ''to all vaudevillians, especially those who went on, no matter what'' -- handles everything lightly, comically. 
 ''Now Playing'' is not unlike the Pyramus-Thisbe scene in ''A Midsummer Night's Dream'': things go wrong. It had its premiere on Tuesday at the Moore Theater in the Hopkins Center here at Dartmouth College, which helped to commission it. In a public interview there on Wednesday with the dance scholar Suzanne Carboneau, Mr. Taylor referred to the current economic slump and remembered how escapism flourished in the popular entertainment of the Great Depression: ''I thought, 'O.K., it's time.' ''
 Amid an endearing piece, Mr. Kleinendorst is endearing in a different way. Left alone under a rehearsal light with nobody else to watch him, he dances with his broom. This isn't the kind of scene in an old backstage musical in which someone would decide this mere stagehand should become the star of the show. He merely sketches a dance that, out of his faith in dance itself, turns out to be the least tacky item we see: the one dance that feels true. 
 When he keeps turning on one leg or when he does a diagonal row of little hovering sideways jumps, he's not showing off. He's just taking us back to a sense of dynamics, phrasing, spontaneity and sincerity that are what make good dance seem good. He's dancing for pleasure. 
 Nobody else is. As a result, much of ''Now Playing'' is hilarious. Before the music (taped) begins, we hear the scratchy sound of an old gramophone needle plowing its way through a record's groove. The numbers are set to ballet music from Donizetti's operas ''Don Sebastien'' (1843) and ''L'Assedio di Calais'' (1836). I'm very fond of this music (Balanchine used some of it in ''Donizetti Variations''), but when Mr. Taylor said on Wednesday, ''Nobody would want to listen to it twice,'' I knew what he meant: it's often formulaic, seldom refined. 
 Mr. Loquasto dresses his dancers along the lines of the characters in Jerome Robbins's ''Concert'': they all wear pale blue-gray tights and keep adding individual costumes for each number. 
 Mr. Taylor gives the longest and most plaintive performance to the Dying Swan (Julie Tice), who arrives, in tutu and on point and wearing a swan coronet that proves none too stable, with three attendant mourners, and proceeds to die three times. She is, I think, on her way to a fourth death when they carry her off. 
 The audience rightly guffaws, though I think the laughter will be twice as loud when Ms. Tice learns to underplay or perhaps to suggest that this ballerina once had some class.
 Francisco Graciano and Orion Duckstein dance a tired soft-shoe number, ''Jumble,'' barefoot; its rapid assortment of different old-timer dance tricks shows at once Mr. Taylor's immense affection for this genre and his glee in lampooning it. 
 Jeffrey Smith is a tap-dancing horse. The way his taps suggest the clip-clop of a horse's feet is briefly enchanting, but there's no doubt that this horse has been doing this dance a great many times. 
 Parisa Khobdeh, who has become the company's funniest female dancer, here dances a furious Gypsy number with two male attendants. Nobody has ever banged a tambourine harder or worn her hair looser. 
 And seldom has anyone been more energetically French than Michelle Fleet and Mr. Duckstein in their Apache number. (He wears a beret and has a Gauloise clamped between his teeth.) Mr. Graciano and Michael Apuzzo (who chews gum, emphatically, then sticks it onto the scenery) do an Egyptian number that's a perfect mini-anthology of vaudeville effects, quickly alternating up and down, right and left, in opposition to each other. 
 There is a garland dance in which the garlands molt. (Only the stagehand, busy with his broom, seems to care.) Annmaria Mazzini dances a ballet waltz with Mr. Apuzzo in which she is so determinedly vivacious that she wrenches off first one sleeve of his jacket, then the other. 
 Soon afterward six more dancers enter, all the men in sleeveless jackets to match his. Eran Bugge does a little strip dance, tugging off her long white gloves with her teeth and knowing just where to wipe those gloves to please her audience most. 
 Funniest of all is a Spanish number for Ms. Mazzini, as an intensely serious matador, and Mr. Duckstein, Mr. Smith and Mr. Apuzzo as three very stupid, gossipy and camp bulls. This is like vintage Disney. Mr. Duckstein, who looks particularly delicious wearing horns, at one point notices the matador and taps a bull colleague on the shoulder, as if to say: ''You know what? Maybe this bullfighter means business.'' 
 It was good to see the piece twice; at Wednesday's performance the jokes were falling effortlessly into place. It's a very effective opener, although I think it could work equally well at any point in a program. The company then went on to dance ''Beloved Renegade'' and ''Esplanade'': beautiful and eloquent works that gave an ideal spectrum of this great choreographer's range. 

CORRECTION-DATE: April 17, 2009

 CORRECTION:
A dance review last Friday about ''Now Playing,'' choreographed by Paul Taylor, misspelled the surname of a dance scholar who conducted a public interview with Mr. Taylor about the work. She is Suzanne Carbonneau, not Carboneau.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, Annmaria Mazzini as a matador dealing with bulls at Dartmouth College. Near left, Robert Kleinendorst as a stagehand in the Paul Taylor Dance Company's ''Now Playing.''(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSEPH MEHLING/DARTMOUTH COLLEGE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCERS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); CHOREOGRAPHY (90%); DANCE (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (68%); THEATER (57%)

ORGANIZATION: DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2009



403 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1584 words

HEADLINE: Renting or Buying, Hamptons Feel Pinch

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

DATELINE: While you can contact brokers directly 

 BODY:
THE six-bedroom Hamptons home belonging to Joanne Corzine, the former wife of Gov. Jon Corzine of New Jersey, was listed for $900,000. That was not the sale price, of course, but rather the asking rent for the summer. 
 Late last month, a tenant whose identity is cloaked behind a confidentiality pact agreed to rent Ms. Corzine's place through September. ''In terms of available rentals it stood out,'' said the listing agent, Beate Moore of Sotheby's. Built in 1990, the traditional-style Sagaponack house occupies 6.6 acres and has landscaped lawns, a tennis court, a gym and 500 feet of ocean frontage. 
 Even in a recession, it seems, the Hamptons still manage to attract the kind of people who do not flinch at spending nearly $6,600 a night on rent. And multimillion-dollar homes continue to sell, especially in the more desirable areas south of Route 27.
 At the same time, however, a cloud of gloom has pervaded those thick Hamptons hedgerows. During the first quarter, the number of leases signed and the dollar volume of sales shrank to half of the levels from the similar period last year, said Rick Hoffman, the regional senior vice president for the Corcoran Group. 
 Prospective tenants who might have felt pressure to snag a house by Presidents' Day are starting their search later, figuring that rents will drop as the summer approaches, agents say. Clients who used to lease a house from Memorial Day to Labor Day are now settling for a month, or -- in a phenomenon rarely seen before in the Hamptons -- even a week or two. 
 ''In the 20 years I've been doing this, this is the weakest rental market I've seen,'' said Jan Robinson, the owner of Hampton Homes, a local brokerage. Ms. Robinson said her rental business was down by 70 percent from last year.
 Last year, a Manhattan couple, Joshua Levine, 33, and Leigh Manheim, 31 -- he works in finance, she is in fashion -- had only three rental houses to choose from in their price range of around $30,000. But on a recent Saturday, they toured 11 houses, winnowed from a list of about 30, all with four bedrooms and a pool.
 The next day Mr. Levine and Ms. Manheim, who will be sharing the rental with two other couples, heard about another house that rented for $40,000 last year and could now be had for $10,000 less. They took it. ''We got double the house we got last year,'' Mr. Levine said. The house has a living room with cathedral ceilings and access to a community tennis court.
 Owners who are willing to be flexible have a better chance of finding renters, agents say. Ms. Robinson, for example, found a tenant to rent an East Hampton house for two weeks, half the term the owner was looking for. 
 One house in Westhampton Beach that was listed for $50,000 a month for July and August was rented when the owner accepted an offer of $75,000 for both months, said Judy Carroll, an agent at the Marketplace, a family-owned brokerage based in Westhampton Beach. 
 Owners are making other concessions -- like extending the lease through the end of September, say, or agreeing to absorb landscaping costs. One house rented after the owner covered the furniture with white slipcovers, said Susan Breitenbach, an associate broker at Corcoran. Many owners ''are spoiled,'' she said. ''They are not used to having to do stuff like that.''
 Since sales have slowed, some of the high-end homes that were built on speculation and would have sold briskly in a stronger market are being furnished and marketed as rentals, Ms. Breitenbach said. 
 The slowdown in the rental market is mirrored in the sales market, where prices have dropped to 2006 levels. Preliminary first-quarter data from Corcoran shows that median prices have declined by about 20 percent over the same period last year, Mr. Hoffman said. In 2008, the median price for homes on the South Fork (including the Hamptons and Shelter Island) was $891,000, according to Corcoran.
 In the first two months of this year, 60 sales were recorded in the Hamptons, compared with 107 in the first two months of last year and 330 in the similar period in 2007, said Susan Vincennie, general manager of Long Island Profiles, a company in Brightwaters, N.Y., that publishes recorded real estate information. The median price of homes sold in January and February of this year was $675,000, compared with $840,000 in January and February 2008, and $999,000 in the 2007 period, she said.
 Inventory has increased 6 percent since the first quarter of 2008, according to Mr. Hoffman.
 Some buyers are finding bargains -- relatively speaking. A Mediterranean-style house on Cobb Road in Water Mill with five bedrooms went on the market two years ago for $7.6 million. Two weeks ago, it was sold for $5 million, said Chip Dineen, an agent at Sotheby's, which had the listing. Other houses have sparked multiple bids, including one on Toylsome Place in Southampton with 7,100 square feet that was listed for $7 million. After a series of price reductions, it recently sold for just under $5 million, he said. The winners were so eager to strike a deal that they signed a contract without waiting for a title report or inspection, Mr. Dineen said.
 Such sharp reductions suggest that ''the property owners weren't being realistic in their pricing to begin with,'' Mr. Hoffman said.
 Most transactions are occurring at much lower prices, with 70 percent of the deals under $1 million, he said. Perhaps that's because financing is harder to come by and the number of all-cash buyers is smaller than it used to be, even in the Hamptons.
 That trend is likely to make it tougher to sell houses built on speculation, especially if they are north of the highway, farther from the ocean.
 ''The days of spec development with extremely large housing is over for now,'' said Jonathan J. Miller, the chief executive of Miller Samuel, a Manhattan appraisal company that produces the Hamptons market report for Prudential Douglas Elliman. ''Financing for those properties is generally not available, and there is an oversupply and a concern that the demand is not going to be there for a while, given the changing employment structure and compensation in the financial services industry.''
 These days, bargain-hunters are often willing to be patient. David J. Raimondo, 47, of Shoreham, N.Y., has been driving up and down Dune Road along the ocean from Westhampton Beach to Southampton for several years, searching for a deeply discounted house. ''There's no rush,'' said Mr. Raimondo, a lawyer. ''I'm looking to spend between $500,000 and $1.5 million. If it's $1.5 million and it's a reduction from $2 million, that might be right for me.''
 Homes listed around $500,000 represent the lower end of the market, and many of the listings at that level have two bedrooms and only one bathroom. A cottage on Parrish Road in Southampton that is listed for $475,000 has three bedrooms and two bathrooms but the kitchen is in the basement.
 Though the owner is asking only $23,000 more than he paid for the 1,500-square-foot house, it seemed overpriced to Wendy Reynolds, 33, a seaplane pilot who transports wealthy weekend commuters to the Hamptons. ''It's smaller than some of the others,'' she said at the recent open house. 
 Jay Litvack, a shoe manufacturer who lives in Roslyn, N.Y., said he looked at more than 150 Hamptons houses over the last year. Initially, he intended to spend as much as $1.2 million, but by last year he had settled on a limit of $950,000. A year ago, a four-bedroom house in the Three Mile Harbor section of East Hampton caught his eye, but it had a price tag of $1.3 million. In October, the price dropped below $1million, and by February he was able to buy it for $825,000. 
 Like many houses that are selling in this market, it has an updated kitchen and bathrooms. ''A lot of houses need a lot of work,'' he said. ''People today don't want to do the work.''
 Mr. Litvack had no problem getting a mortgage, but 36 hours before he was scheduled to close, his lender, Wells Fargo, asked him to increase his down payment of 25 percent by another five percentage points, or $40,000. Fortunately, Mr. Litvack said, he was able to come up with the cash.
 But for other potential buyers, the lending terms may be too onerous. ''Thirty percent down is a lot for people to come up with in this marketplace,'' said Ms. Robinson of Hampton Homes.
 Still, Gary Wohl, an agent at the East Hampton office of Brown Harris Stevens, said he remained optimistic that the market would pick up. ''There's a lot of value here right now,'' he said as he showed off a 5,000-square-foot spec house on a quiet East Hampton street whose price has been reduced to $3.7 million from nearly $4 million. But people with unrealistic expectations are bound to be disappointed, Mr. Wohl added.
 ''It's never going to be a fire sale out here,'' he said.
 House Hunting on Long Island
 -- or simply wander into the numerous real estate offices on Montauk Highway -- most prospective buyers and renters head online: 
 A popular Web site that includes many listings is Hamptons Real Estate Online (www.hreo.com). Craigslist also has a section for Long Island rentals (longisland.craigslist.org/vac/), as does Vacation Rentals by Owner: (www.vrbo.com/vacation-rentals/usa/new-york/long-island/hamptons). 
 You can also check the local newspapers: The East Hampton Star (www.easthamptonstar.com), 
 The Sag Harbor Express (www.sagharborexpress.sagharborpublishing.com) and 
 The Southampton Press (www.27east.com). 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A NEW SEASON AHEAD: Sunrise near Mecox Bay 90 miles from Manhattan on Long Island's South Fork.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ASHLEY GILBERTSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D1)
 WAITING GAME: Jay Litvack held off making a deal for his house in East Hampton and saved $475,000.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ASHLEY GILBERTSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D4) MAP: Map details the Hamptons of New York state.(D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (76%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS (72%); US LABOR DAY (72%); SALES FIGURES (72%)

COMPANY: HAMPTON HOMES (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (53%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2009



404 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1403 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Trusts Youngest Deputy To Run City, or Chase a Thief

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BARBARO

 BODY:
Driving through the South Bronx last summer, Deputy Mayor Edward Skyler spotted a man illegally washing car windshields at a stoplight.
 Enraged, he called the police desk at City Hall from his cellphone (it's on speed dial), ordered that the man be arrested on the spot and requested a copy of his rap sheet, which, as it happened, was voluminous. It listed 50 prior arrests.
 Thus began a classic Skyler crusade: Over the next few months, he had two more squeegee men arrested by speed dial. He instructed aides to study their lengthy journeys through the legal system. And he helped draft a law cracking down on repeat offenders, which Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg unveiled in his State of the City address this year.
 ''Ed is literally Batman,'' said Kevin Sheekey, a fellow deputy mayor. ''But most of Gotham doesn't know how much he does as Bruce Wayne because he's so purposefully inconspicuous.'' 
 As he campaigns for a third term, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is counting on his reputation as a top-notch manager who tamed a once-unruly metropolis.
 Yet to remarkable degree, the task of managing New York City over the last four years has fallen to Mr. Skyler, a lanky 35-year-old former Ivy League fencer and ''Star Wars'' buff who once tackled a mugger who was trying to steal a cellphone in Midtown Manhattan.
 When a steam pipe exploded near Grand Central Terminal in 2007, it was Mr. Skyler who coordinated the cleanup. 
 When human remains were discovered inside a manhole at ground zero, years after the attacks of Sept. 11, it was Mr. Skyler who oversaw a painstaking search for every last shred of DNA. 
 And when accidents soared at construction sites across the city, it was Mr. Skyler who revamped the troubled Buildings Department. 
 ''He has very quietly become the guy who is running the city,'' Mr. Sheekey said. 
 A native New Yorker, he is the city's youngest deputy mayor -- but arguably the most powerful, managing the highly visible departments, like Police, Fire, Sanitation and Transportation, by which most New Yorkers measure the effectiveness of their government.
 Mr. Skyler, who entered the administration in 2002 as press secretary, with a staff of 18, now oversees 12 agencies, a work force of 95,000 and a budget of $18 billion.
 Mitchell Moss, a Bloomberg adviser who teaches urban policy at New York University, called Mr. Skyler ''the managerial guru of the city.''
 And he is not shy about exercising his power. 
 When a decades-old law rendered his top pick for buildings commissioner ineligible for the job, Mr. Skyler asked the City Council to rewrite the qualifications, saying they were obsolete. 
 ''I frankly never thought they would do it,'' said Robert D. LiMandri, who owes his job to Mr. Skyler's legislative handiwork. 
 And when a state assemblywoman, Deborah J. Glick, fought a recycling center in her district in the West Village, Mr. Skyler brazenly persuaded her colleagues to approve it anyway, defying their tradition of deferring to local lawmakers about what happens in the district.
 ''He can be very hard-nosed with elected officials,'' said John J. Doherty, the commissioner of sanitation. ''If you get in his way, there is a hell of a steamroller headed down the road.'' 
 Mr. Skyler can be equally adept at diplomacy. Tired of fighting with the city's biggest police union over contracts, he began holding secret meetings with its president at coffee shops and diners across the city. 
 ''There was plenty of yelling'' at the sessions, said Patrick Lynch, the union president. But last year, for the first time since 1994, a labor agreement between the city and the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association was reached outside of arbitration, and without nasty public wrangling. 
 ''It was Ed who got us to the table,'' Mr. Lynch said. 
 Inside City Hall, Mr. Skyler is one of the few people who openly challenges the mayor. ''He is not a 'yes' person,'' said Patricia E. Harris, the city's first deputy mayor, who hired Mr. Skyler to work at Bloomberg L.P. in 2000.
 Of course, he always falls in line: Mr. Skyler advised the mayor against seeking a smoking ban. He warned against a plan to charge a congestion pricing fee on cars traveling into Manhattan. And he opposed the concept of changing term limits so that the mayor could seek re-election, according to people familiar with the discussions. 
 In each case, after Mr. Bloomberg decided against Mr. Skyler's advice, the loyal deputy vigorously lobbied lawmakers to approve the measures he had privately opposed. 
 ''I think one of the reasons that I've gained his trust is that I've always been honest and direct,'' said Mr. Skyler, who declined to discuss his stance on those issues. 
 ''The worst feeling in this type of job,'' he added, ''is to watch a decision he makes, sit on the sidelines, watch it go south, and think that you could have changed its course if you had gotten involved.''
 Mr. Skyler reserves his fiercest attacks for those who cross the mayor. During Mr. Bloomberg's first term, the city's comptroller, William C. Thompson Jr., accused the mayor of engaging in ''borough warfare'' when he proposed cutting garbage pickup outside of Manhattan.
 Mr. Skyler, then the city's youngest press secretary, called an aide to Mr. Thompson and issued a blunt warning: if the attacks persisted, the comptroller would receive ''the Gifford treatment,'' a reference to the relentless attacks leveled against Gifford Miller, then the City Council speaker and a Bloomberg rival. 
 ''I am an advocate for the mayor's agenda,'' Mr. Skyler said. ''There are times when you do it subtly, times you do it forcefully, and everything in between.''
 Of the mayor's top aides, Mr. Skyler has made the biggest leap. 
 He joined the public relations department at Bloomberg L.P. a year before the mayor's race. A former press officer for the city parks department and the mayor's office under Rudolph W. Giuliani, he held no lofty title at the firm, but he sat just five cubicles from Mr. Bloomberg. 
 As Mr. Bloomberg flirted with a mayoral run, Mr. Skyler offered him tips on handling the press -- reminding him to smile and wave along a parade route, lest photographers catch him looking bored. Soon, the mayor asked him to become spokesman for the campaign. 
 When Mr. Bloomberg was elected, his first City Hall appointment was Mr. Skyler as press secretary. 
 In 2005, after the mayor had won re-election, Mr. Skyler asked for a heftier policy job. In a head-turning move, Mr. Bloomberg elevated him, at age 32, to deputy mayor of administration. ''There were probably people skeptical of the appointment,'' Mr. Skyler said. ''I had something to prove.''
 But within two years, the mayor handed him three more agencies and the weightier title of deputy mayor for operations. His colleagues said he had simply outworked those around him. 
 ''He is not a prodigy -- he worked at it,'' said Vivek J. Tiwary, a longtime friend who attended the Collegiate School and University of Pennsylvania with Mr. Skyler.
 His persistence at times can border on nagging, as he sends e-mail messages at all hours complaining about overflowing garbage bins, unfilled potholes and unplowed streets. 
 ''Sometimes I wonder whether I hear from him too much,'' joked Mr. Doherty, the sanitation commissioner.
 When he is not working, Mr. Skyler, who is single, enjoys hip-hop music and film, especially the ''Star Wars'' movies.
 Mr. Tiwary recalled he and Mr. Skyler attending screenings of ''Star Wars'' re-releases: ''We would be there on opening night, we never dressed up in the costumes, but we were a few notches below that.''
 Of course, in Mr. Skyler's role, there seldom seems a time when he is truly off the clock. 
 So it was perhaps fitting that, on his way to dinner last month, Mr. Skyler, dressed in suit and tie, tackled the mugger to retrieve the stolen cellphone.
 Mr. Bloomberg seems tickled by Mr. Skyler's hands-on heroics, which are more typically reserved for big-city mayors than their deputies. A former mayor of Boston, Raymond Flynn, for example, gained renown for kicking his way into a burning house and helping a handicapped man out.
 Mr. Bloomberg declined to be interviewed for this article. But speaking on a radio program shortly after Mr. Skyler's tackle, he praised the Police Department's progress in driving down crime.
 Then he mused: ''But it's also nice to know we have Skyler.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Deputy Mayor Edward Skyler manages some of the city's most visible departments, including Police, Fire and Sanitation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARRESTS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); ROBBERY (69%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (63%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2009



405 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2260 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times: April 10, 2009

 BODY:
International
 NORTH KOREA'S LEADER RE-ELECTED
 Amid Doubts of His Grip on Power
 The North Korean leader, Kim Jong-il, returned to center stage in the North's capital, Pyongyang, when the Parliament elected him to another five-year term. But the secretive government gave no clues, after months of questions about Mr. Kim's failing health and speculation about his grip on power, about a potential successor. PAGE A6 
 COMBING FOR FRAUD IN MOLDOVA
 Opposition parties in Moldova won the right to review voter lists in the contested parliamentary election that set off huge anti-Communist protests in the capital city of Chisinau. They said they would search the lists for names of people who do not exist or have died and whom they say the Communists used to pad their victory. PAGE A6 
 IRAN EXPANDS ITS NUCLEAR PROGRAM
 Iran inaugurated its first nuclear fuel manufacturing plant and said it had increased its capability to enrich uranium. The developments came a day after the United States said it would participate in talks with Iran and other nations over Tehran's nuclear program. PAGE A9 
 2 AFGHAN DRUG OFFICERS KILLED
 A suicide bomber attacked a narcotics police brigade in the heart of Afghanistan's largest poppy-growing region, killing two police officers and three civilians, and wounding 17 others. PAGE A9 
 Bill Seeks $76 Billion for Military A9 
 AN EARLY LEAD IN INDONESIAN VOTE
 Tens of millions of Indonesians went to the polls to choose a new Parliament, and early tallies indicated a victory for President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono's Democratic Party ahead of the more important presidential election in July. Election-related violence overnight led to at least five deaths in Papua, the eastern province that is home to a separatist movement. PAGE A10 
 CLAIMS CLOUD KHMER ROUGE TRIALS
 Even as the trials of five leading Khmer Rouge figures in Cambodia gain momentum with compelling testimony from the former regime's chief torturer, accusations of corruption among the tribunal staff have slowed the international financing that keeps the process alive. PAGE A10 
 NATO'S SPLIT STANCE ON RUSSIA
 Although divided, NATO leaders spent little time at their 60th anniversary summit meeting over how quickly to get back to business with a Moscow that seems to be an aggressive outlier, refusing to retreat from occupied parts of Georgia, intimidating opposition figures and using its enormous gas supplies as a political weapon. A Memo. PAGE A11 
 National
 SAFETY OF U.S. FOOD SUPPLY
 Has Not Improved, Data Shows
 After decades of steady progress, the safety of the nation's food supply has not improved over the past three years. And in the case of salmonella -- the dangerous bacteria recently found in peanuts and pistachios -- infections may be creeping upward, the government reported. PAGE A12
 A DIRE NEED FOR CROSSING GUARDS
 Among the many worries of Los Angeles parents who pack their children off to school each day, traffic dangers have been looming larger in recent years. The number of traffic incidents involving schoolchildren across the 900 Los Angeles public schools has significantly increased, particularly around middle schools. PAGE A12
 CAMPUS STILL SPLIT ON PROFESSOR
 A judge has yet to decide whether Ward L. Churchill, the former University of Colorado professor, will get his job back, but on the campus, some have already made up their minds. PAGE A16
 PLANS TO REFORM VETERANS' RECORDS
 President Obama announced plans to computerize the medical records of veterans into a unified system, a move that is expected to ease the now-cumbersome process that results in confusion, lost records and bureaucratic delays. PAGE A16
 SCHOOLS TO SHUTTER IN DETROIT
 The state-appointed official overseeing the finances of Detroit's school district said he would close more than one-quarter of its schools and get rid of more than 10 percent of its teachers and administrators to eliminate a budget shortfall. PAGE A16
 VIRUS GROWS MORE PROBLEMATIC
 The riddle of a malicious software program that has spread throughout the Internet deepened as security researchers examined a new version that is more difficult to eradicate the program. PAGE A13
 SACRAMENTO MAYOR REPAYS MONEY
 Mayor Kevin Johnson of Sacramento, and a nonprofit group he founded, have agreed to repay nearly $425,000 in federal money to lift a suspension that threatened to jeopardize millions of dollars in stimulus money due to the city. PAGE A13
 Tennessee Governor Assails Officials A14
 New York
 YOUNG STUDENTS FROM THE BRONX STUDY THE HOLOCAUST UP CLOSE
 In an unusual effort, teachers at P.S. 86 in the Bronx are giving lessons on the Holocaust to fifth- and sixth-grade students. The lessons are preparing the students for a trip to the Dachau concentration camp, exposing them to a world far from their Spanish-speaking neighborhoods . PAGE A17 
 Business
 RETAILERS REPORT DROP IN MARCH
 Retailers posted another month of disappointing sales. Abercrombie & Fitch posted a stunning 35 percent drop from March 2008. Wal-Mart was among a handful of exceptions, with a 1.4 percent increase. Most retailers have already cut costs, hoarded cash and reduced inventories. It seems now all they can do is wait for the economy to improve. PAGE B1 
 MORE PEOPLE ENTERING COURT ALONE
 Financially pressed, more people are representing themselves in court, according to judges, lawyers and courthouse officials. Judges say that these people make mistakes that make it more likely they will fare poorly, no matter the merit of their cases. PAGE B1 
 High & Low Finance
 Contrarian Exiting, Unbowed
 David N. Dreman was a star mutual fund manager. Then he bought bank shares and held on as the financial crisis grew. Now he has been fired from the flagship fund that bears his name, despite what remains a good long-term record. The fund's name will be changed, and the fund will take fewer risks. A drab industry will become a little drabber. PAGE B1 
 Bollywood Boycotts Theaters in India B1 
 NEW PLAN FOR G.M. BONDHOLDERS
 As part of its efforts to restructure itself and reduce its debt burden, General Motors is working on a new debt-exchange plan for its bondholders that would likely offer only equity instead of cash or new debt, a person briefed on the proposal said. PAGE B2 
 Toyota Said to Weigh U.S. Shake-Up B2 
 Breakingviews.com B2
 Advertising
 An Ad Styled as News Content
 The Los Angeles Times ran a front-page ad on Thursday that resembled a news column. The advertisement provoked debate about whether paper went too far to attract advertising money. PAGE B3 
 YouTube and Universal Online Hub B3 
 Leno to Lead NBC Show Onstage B3 
 LABOR DEAL AT CANADIAN WAL-MART
 After years of legal challenges, an arbitrator has awarded workers at a Wal-Mart store in St. Hyacinthe, Quebec, a labor agreement. The collective agreement is the only one to cover Wal-Mart employees in North America. PAGE B4 
 U.S. Trade Deficit Narrows B4
 Barclays Sells iShares Unit B6
 British Bank Holds Key Rate Steady B6 
 YELP TO LET BUSINESSES RESPOND
 Starting next week, small businesses owners will be able to respond to reviews on Yelp, the Web site whose users post reviews of restaurants, dry cleaners and other local businesses. PAGE B8 
 Canwest, a Media Firm, Posts Loss B8 
 Obituaries
 RUSSELL DUNHAM, 89
 As an Army sergeant in World War II, he received the Medal of Honor for charging up a hill in the Alsace region of France and single-handedly killing, wounding or capturing 18 German soldiers. PAGE A21 
 Arts
 PSYCHOS LOOSE IN THE MALL, 
 (One's Wearing a Uniform)
 ''Observe and Report'' is a potentially brilliant conceptual comedy about a psychopathic shopping mall security chief played by Seth Rogen, who rules retail with a Taser and a hair-trigger temper. Comedy is often cruel, but the writer and director, Jody Hill, ups the ante by asking audiences to laugh at this pathetic soul as well as the violence he wreaks, Manohla Dargis writes. PAGE C1 
 THE GENUINE SPINAL TAP?
 A mighty and awesome Toronto-based heavy metal quartet, Anvil, enjoyed a brief heyday in the '80s and never quite made it big after that. The film, ''Anvil! The Story of Anvil,'' is either an affectionate chronicle of the band or else a deadpan mockery with references to ''This Is Spinal Tap,'' the definitive rock-mockumentary, A.O. Scott writes. PAGE C1 
 NURSING DREAMS OF FLEEING TO PARIS
 ''Chasing Manet,'' the whimsy-clotted new play by Tina Howe, is about two ladies in a nursing home who come up with the idea of running away to Paris. The play celebrates human eccentricity and willfulness, even in the shadow of death. But the quirks assigned to the characters here all feel preowned, as does the gimmick-driven plot, Ben Brantley writes. PAGE C1 
 FILLING AN ACTIVIST'S SHOES
 Angela Davis, the scholar and activist, was both celebrated and reviled during the tumultuous 1970s. Styled as an affectionate tribute to her aunt as well as a memoir of her own unusual upbringing in Berkeley, Calif., ''Angela's Mixtape'' is a rhythmic collage of scenes, songs and reminiscences. PAGE C1 
 A Trio Picks Jazz Over Firewood C6 
 The World of Satyajit Ray C9
 Tale of a Stockbroker in Training C9 
 Jefferson's Brick and Mortar C23 
 INDIAN DRAWINGS AT THE MET
 The Metropolitan Museum of Art's ''Living Line: Selected Indian Drawings From the Subhash Kapoor Gift'' is a supernaturally beautiful exhibition of drawings by Indian miniaturists of the 17th, 18th and 19th centuries. The 40 small works, elegant, bold, and exactingly precise, illustrate subjects from bejeweled women to mythic beasts. PAGE C24 
 DYSFUNCTION IN OLD VIENNA
 In his new book, ''The House of Wittgenstein,'' Alexander Waugh tackles a well-known and notoriously eccentric Vienna family. The family included Ludwig Wittgenstein, one of the 20th century's foremost philosophers, and his brother Paul, a musician who after losing an arm in World War I went on to gain considerable international fame as a one-handed concert pianist. PAGE C29 
 Sports
 ANGELS' PITCHER KILLED 
 In Automobile Accident
 After giving the most promising performance of his short career, Nick Adenhart, a 22-year old pitcher for the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim, was killed along with three others when a vehicle he was riding in was struck by another car driven by a suspected drunk driver. Above, Adenhart's agent, Scott Boras, broke down during a news conference. Page B9 
 HORSE BREEDER'S FARM SEIZED
 The New York Racing Association revoked the credentials of breeder and owner Ernie Paragallo. It also informed Mr. Paragallo that he was prohibited from passing the operation of his stable on to either family or employees. Multiple charges of animal cruelty are pending against him after the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals found that he had severely neglected more than 170 horses under his care. Page B11 
 Escapes
 WHEN A GRIP IS MORE 
 Than Who Holds the Camera
 Malibu Creek State Park gets about 2,000 visitors a year intent on scrambling about in search of an alpine fix. Climbers grip and pull their way across the igneous face famous for its use in scenes from Hollywood films like ''Planet of the Apes,'' and television shows like ''M*A*S*H.'' Page D1 
 THE HAMPTONS FEEL THE PRESSURE
 Even in a place that attracts people willing to spend nearly $900,000 for a summer rental, the Hamptons are finally feeling that now familiar economic pinch. The number of sales for the popular destination has dwindled, and the amounts of those sales has declined, too. Page D1 
 THE JERSEY SHORE IN A DOWNTURN
 The Jersey Shore's many attractions have not rendered it immune from the economy's downturn. Renters generally wait until fairly close to the season's start, and this summer they'll have more to choose from and may be able to negotiate better prices. Some brokers are saying the market is dead for sales, while others are optimistic about 2009 and the attraction of dropping prices. Page D1 
 HONING SKILLS OFF THE MOUNTAIN
 Gymnastics-based programs are seeing increased use by snowboarders and skiers as a means of honing their aerial tricks without things like lift tickets, mountains and snow. There are even a few places dedicated to this purpose. The most inclusive and comprehensive one is Woodward at Copper Mountain near Denver. Page D2 
 High & Low
 A Bohemian Heritage D4
 Editorial
 PREDATORY BROKERS
 Mortgage brokers are supposed to be impartial advocates who search out the best possible deal. The mortgage crisis has revealed a different truth. Congress is finally seeking ways to rein in unethical brokers. PAGE A22
 MR. MEDVEDEV'S SILENCE
 Dmitri Medvedev has been president of Russia for almost a year and it's hard to think of anything on which he has demonstrated independence from his mentor and predecessor, Vladimir Putin. PAGE A22
 DELINQUENCY AND PREVENTION
 The Senate version of the reauthorized Juvenile Justice and Delinquency and Prevention Act of 1974 marks a welcome departure from policies that have increasingly criminalized the nation's children. PAGE A22
 Op-Ed
 PAUL KRUGMAN
 We were assured that a supersized financial sector was the key to prosperity. Instead, however, finance turned into the monster that ate the world economy. And it's time to make banking boring again. PAGE A23
 FREE-RANGE TRICHINOSIS
 In an Op-Ed article, James E. McWilliams writes that a study showing that free-range pigs are more susceptible to parasites and disease should give consumers pause. PAGE A23

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); FOOD SAFETY (83%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (75%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (75%); DEATHS (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); CORRUPTION (70%); NARCOTICS ENFORCEMENT (66%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (66%); BOMBINGS (66%); ANNIVERSARIES (63%); BACTERIA (61%)

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (88%); SUSILO BAMBANG YUDHOYONO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); INDONESIA (92%); IRAN (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2009



406 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2009
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; WASHINGTON MEMO; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: Obama (as TV Salesman) Pushes Home Refinancing

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
 He is not a mortgage broker. But for a time on Thursday, President Obama seemed to be playing one on television, urging Americans not to miss out on rock-bottom refinancing rates. 
 From his perch in the Roosevelt Room of the White House, the president donned his salesman's hat and pitched the benefits -- for you, and of course, for the American economy -- of home mortgage rates at their lowest levels in 35 years.
 Seldom has the president sounded so much like the host of a late-night infomercial, stopping just shy of imploring people to call the toll-free number at the bottom of their television screens. 
 ''There are seven to nine million people across the country who right now could be taking advantage of lower mortgage rates,'' Mr. Obama said, promising savings to average American families of $1,600 to $2,000 a year. ''That is money in their pockets.''
 Having just returned to Washington from his first overseas presidential trip, where he negotiated with other world leaders over how to contain the global economic crisis and rewrite international banking rules, Mr. Obama pivoted to the domestic economy. 
 The focus, vastly narrowed from his talks last week, was intended simply to draw attention to a government Web site that tells people if they are eligible to refinance their mortgages.
 ''We hope that everybody takes advantage of it. The Web site is Makinghomeaffordable.gov -- is that right?'' Mr. Obama said, repeating the address five times in five minutes, in case his audience did not hear it the first few times. ''So get on the Web site, find out what's available.''
 The housing crisis is one of the critical fronts in the battle to steer the nation through its deep recession. Mr. Obama said new housing programs would be presented soon, after last month's plan to provide $275 billion to help distressed homeowners, of which $75 billion would subsidize the mortgage industry to help borrowers avoid foreclosure. But he offered no details on Thursday as he reminded Americans to look into refinancing.
 To make his point, Mr. Obama invited eight people to the White House, all of whom live in the Virginia or Washington area. Their stories of refinancing were intended to serve as testimonials for the masses who have not already called their mortgage broker, whether they are in danger of foreclosure or simply looking for extra money.
 The Cruz family, Pedro and Luz, said they were at risk of losing their Virginia home after Mr. Cruz's work as a mechanic began to fall off in the slumping economy. By refinancing, they said, they saved $700 a month. 
 Similarly, the Haggray family, Jeffrey and Shelby, said they were able to consolidate a first and second mortgage on their Washington home by refinancing. They said they were able to reduce their monthly household expenses by $1,200, in part because they paid off a car loan and other credit card debt.
 ''Everybody here represents families who have saved hundreds of dollars a month -- thousands of dollars a year in some cases,'' Mr. Obama said, looking at the guests he invited to the White House.
 The average rate on 30-year fixed mortgages was 4.87 percent on Thursday, slightly higher than the 4.78 percent last week. Still, it was the lowest level since 1971, which the president used to bolster his two-pronged argument for why refinancing is so important.
 First, families will have more money to spend, which will help the economy. If that happens, the values of homes is likely to rise, which will begin rehabilitating the beleaguered housing market that contributed significantly to the economic collapse.
 Fannie Mae reported refinancing $77 billion of mortgages in March, administration officials said, which was nearly twice the February amount. 
 But in the flood of refinancing opportunities, Mr. Obama issued a warning for opportunists who were trying to make a quick buck.
 ''We're starting to see some scam artists out there who are contacting people,'' Mr. Obama said. 
 He added, ''I just want everybody who is watching today to know that if somebody is asking you for money up front before they help you with your refinancing, it's probably a scam.''
 The White House press secretary, Robert Gibbs, acknowledged the somewhat unusual presidential sales pitch. But he said drawing attention to refinancing had helped drive down mortgage rates to nearly record lows.
 When asked at his daily briefing whether the administration had further plans to encourage refinancing, Mr. Gibbs wondered aloud, saying: ''Little snappy refinancing commercials you see late night?''
 There's always the Home Shopping Network.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE REFINANCING (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); FAMILY (76%); SECOND MORTGAGES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); INFOMERCIALS (73%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (70%); WEB SITES (70%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (68%); DIRECT RESPONSE TELEVISION (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2009



407 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 541 words

HEADLINE: Tennessee Failed to Protect Cities in Bond Deals, Governor Says

BYLINE: By DON VAN NATTA Jr.

 BODY:
Gov. Phil Bredesen of Tennessee said on Thursday that state officials had failed to do enough to protect cities and counties that had used sophisticated municipal bond derivatives, which have crashed and caused interest payments for some cities to quadruple. 
 ''There are places where derivatives make sense,'' Mr. Bredesen said. ''I think that perhaps with more guidance from the state and approval from the state, and some better education that some forms of these can still be useful.''
 Mr. Bredesen's remarks came one day after The New York Times reported that the municipal bond market in Tennessee was dominated by Morgan Keegan & Company, a Memphis-based investment bank that served for years as adviser, underwriter and tutor for local officials through a state-sponsored teaching program.
 ''I think what happened is you had a very sophisticated seller of these things, and some people who were just learning their way making the decisions about how to utilize them,'' Mr. Bredesen told reporters.
 Since 2001, Morgan Keegan has sold $2 billion worth of the sophisticated financial transactions to 38 cities and counties in Tennessee, according to state records. 
 Mr. Bredesen, a Democrat, said he first heard two weeks ago about the state seminars, which were intended to teach city officials about the risks and rewards of interest-rate swaps. The daylong seminars, held in conference rooms around the state, were usually taught by bankers from Morgan Keegan and lawyers from Bass Berry & Sims, a Nashville law firm that usually served as bond counsel on the deals.
 Asked if it had been a conflict for Morgan Keegan to serve as adviser and underwriter of the bonds, the governor said, ''I think that really is probably at the core of what went wrong here.''
 After The Times began making inquiries last month, the Tennessee comptroller, Justin P. Wilson, announced a freeze on all applications for the complex financial transactions, known as interest-rate swaps. Mr. Wilson, who took office in January, said Wednesday that a state board would meet on May 4 to begin reviewing the state guidelines and the appropriateness of allowing bond traders and bond lawyers to teach the state-mandated seminars. 
 Morgan Keegan executives have defended their work in Tennessee, saying city officials were apprised of the risks and benefits of the transactions. The bank's officials said that the curriculum was approved by the state, and that they did not use the seminars to market products.
 Officials in the small cities of Lewisburg and Mount Juliet, and in Claiborne County, have complained that Morgan Keegan's bankers failed to warn them about the consequences if the bonds' insurer, Ambac Financial Group, was downgraded. When that occurred, the bonds' interest payments quadrupled and the pay-off time increased. The cost of terminating the interest-rate swaps was exorbitant. 
 Experts in municipal bonds have said that bond derivatives are inappropriate for small towns and rural counties, and that higher fees associated with the derivatives often eclipsed any savings the transactions had provided.
 John G. Morgan, the former Tennessee comptroller who now serves as deputy governor, has made no comment about the issue this week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); BONDS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (89%); COUNTIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); APPROVALS (78%); CITIES (78%); CURRICULA (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (69%); LAWYERS (69%); GOVERNORS (59%)

COMPANY: MORGAN KEEGAN & CO INC (84%); BASS BERRY & SIMS PLC (83%); AMBAC FINANCIAL GROUP INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); SIC6351 SURETY INSURANCE (50%)

PERSON: PHIL BREDESEN (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%); MEMPHIS, TN, USA (79%) TENNESSEE, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2009



408 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Bloomberg's Crib Sheet

BYLINE: By DIANE RAVITCH. 
Diane Ravitch, a research professor of education at New York University, is the author of ''The Great School Wars: New York City, 1805-1973.''

 BODY:
ARNE DUNCAN, the secretary of education, has urged the nation's mayors to take control of their public schools so that they can impose radical reforms. He points to New York City as a prime example of a school system that made sharp improvements under mayoral control. 
 Actually, the record on mayoral control of schools is unimpressive. Eleven big-city school districts take part in the federal test called the National Assessment of Educational Progress. Two of the lowest-performing cities -- Chicago and Cleveland -- have mayoral control. The two highest-performing cities -- Austin, Tex., and Charlotte, N.C. -- do not. Mr. Duncan came to New York City last week to urge the New York State Legislature to renew the law that grants control of the New York City public schools to Mayor Michael Bloomberg. That law, passed in 2002, will expire at the end of June. 
 Mayoral control of the schools is not a new phenomenon in the city's history. From 1873 to 1969, the mayor appointed every single member of the Board of Education. The era of decentralization from 1969 to 2002 was an aberration, because the mayor had only two appointees on a seven-member board. 
 Yet no mayor has exercised such unlimited power over the public schools as Mr. Bloomberg. Previous mayors respected the independence of the board members they appointed. The present version of the board, the Panel on Education Policy, serves at the pleasure of the mayor and rubber-stamps the policies and spending practices of the Department of Education, which is run by Mayor Bloomberg and Schools Chancellor Joel Klein. 
 Mr. Bloomberg's allies say that the results of the current system are so spectacular that the law should be renewed without change. Secretary Duncan agrees: ''I'm looking at the data here in front of me,'' he said while in New York. ''Graduation rates are up. Test scores are up ... By every measure, that's real progress.'' 
 It sounds good, but in fact no independent source has verified such claims. 
 On the federal National Assessment of Educational Progress -- widely acknowledged as the gold standard of the testing industry -- New York City showed almost no academic improvement between 2003, when the mayor's reforms were introduced, and 2007. There were no significant gains for New York City's students -- black, Hispanic, white, Asian or lower-income -- in fourth-grade reading, eighth-grade reading or eighth-grade mathematics. In fourth-grade math, pupils showed significant gains (although the validity of this is suspect because an unusually large proportion -- 25 percent -- of students were given extra time and help). The federal test reported no narrowing of the achievement gap between white students and minority students. 
 The city's Department of Education belittles the federal test scores and focuses on the assessments given by New York State. And, indeed, the state scores have soared in recent years, not only in the city but also across New York state However, the statewide scores on the N.A.E.P. are as flat as New York City's. Our state tests are, unfortunately, exemplars of grade inflation.
 The graduation rate is another area in which progress has been overstated. The city says the rate climbed to 62 percent from 53 percent between 2003 and 2007; the state's Department of Education, which uses a different formula, says the city's rose to 52 percent, from 44 percent. Either way, the city's graduation rate is no better than that of Mississippi, which spends about a third of what New York City spends per pupil. 
 Moreover, the city's graduation rates have been pumped up with a variety of dubious means, like ''credit recovery,'' in which students who fail a course can get full credit if they agree to take a three-day makeup program or turn in an independent project. In addition, the city counts as graduates the students who dropped out and obtained a graduate-equivalency degree. 
 To further raise the graduation rate, the city does not include as dropouts any of the students who were ''discharged'' during their high-school years. Some discharges are legitimate, like students who moved to another school district. But many others are so-called push-outs, students who were ejected from school even though they had a legal right to be there, often because their grades and test scores were bringing down their schools' averages. The Department of Education refuses to disclose how many students are in each of these categories. We do know, however, that more than one-fifth of the members of the class of 2007, or 18,524 students, were discharged and not counted as dropouts.
 Even those who manage to graduate from our high schools are often not ready for college. Three-quarters of the graduates fail their placement examinations at the City University of New York's community colleges and require remediation in basic skills. These are students who presumably passed five Regents examinations to graduate yet cannot read or write or do mathematics up to the standards of a two-year community college. This reflects as poorly on the Regents examinations as it does on the city's promotional policies.
 This is not to say that Albany should eliminate mayoral control -- nobody wants to return to the status quo of the '90s. However, as legislators refine the law, they should establish clear checks and balances. The mayor should be authorized to appoint an independent Board of Education, whose members would serve for a set term. Candidates for the board should be evaluated by a blue-ribbon panel so that no mayor can stack it with friends. That board should appoint the chancellor, and his or her first responsibility must be to the children and their schools, not to the mayor. 
 The board should hold public meetings to review decisions before they are made final. Local school boards composed of parent leaders should oversee the schools in their districts, although they should not have any financial authority. Moreover, the school system needs a professional auditing agency to evaluate test scores and graduation rates. Claims of improvement are not credible without independent scrutiny. 
 Not every school problem can be solved by changes in governance. But to establish accountability, transparency and the legitimacy that comes with public participation, the Legislature should act promptly to restore public oversight of public education. As we all learned in civics class, checks and balances are vital to democracy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (91%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (89%); ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (89%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); GRADUATION RATES (73%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); HISTORY (72%)

PERSON: ARNE DUNCAN (89%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (72%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2009



409 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: April 10, 2009

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 248 words

HEADLINE: Do It, or Pay

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: How Peter Orszag motivates himself -- and how you can try the same strategy at home.

 BODY:
Peter Orszag, the director of the White House's Office of Management and Budget, recently told N.P.R. that he tries to apply the behavioral economic approach that he advocates in public policy to his private life as well. For instance:
Regardless of the data, psychology matters. Orszag has employed this knowledge while training for a marathon.
"If I didn't achieve what I wanted to, a very large contribution would automatically come out of my credit card and go to a charity that I very much didn't support," Orszag says of his training strategy. "So that was a very strong motivation, as I was running through mile 15 or 16 or whatever it was, to remind myself that I really didn't want to give the satisfaction to that charity for the contribution."
He declines to name the charity.
Clever as this economic motivational scheme might be, it's not unique to Mr. Orszag.
SnuzNLuz, a (fake) Wi-Fi donation alarm clock, works the same way. 
Every time you hit the snooze button while trying to nab a few extra winks, the clock donates a specified amount of your (real) money to "a nonprofit you hate." The alarm clock comes with a selection of 6,200 nonprofits and charities from all over the political spectrum.
(Addendum: There are other economically-inspired alarm clocks out there, too. This clock, for example, forces you to save money.)

        
Swear-Jar Economics
        
There but for the Grace of Lehman...
        
[Your Name Here] Chair of Economics
        
How Much Do Americans Volunteer?
        
Can Businesses Do Well and Do Good?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CHARITIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); RUNNING (76%); PSYCHOLOGY (73%); MARATHONS (71%) alarm clock; behavioral economics; charities; nonprofits; Peter Orszag; Economix

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (84%)

PERSON: PETER ORSZAG (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2011



410 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 531 words

HEADLINE: Trade Is Falling Fast Across the Globe

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris's blog on finance and economics is at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
THE plunge in world economies that accelerated last fall is now reducing the volume of world trade at the fastest rate seen in decades. But February trade figures released this week by several countries provided tentative signs that the fall may be starting to slow. 
The total value of exports shipped by 15 large exporters in February was nearly a third lower than in the same month of 2008 -- a rate of fall much faster than anything seen in recent recessions.
''World trade is falling much faster now than in 1929-30,'' two economists, Barry Eichengreen of the University of California and Kevin H. O'Rourke of Trinity College in Ireland, wrote in a paper released this week titled, ''A Tale of Two Depressions.''
''That is highly alarming,'' they added, ''given the prominence attached in the historical literature to trade destruction as a factor compounding the Great Depression.''
As can be seen in the accompanying chart, the current decline came after a prolonged period of rapid growth. That growth was significantly fueled by the willingness of Americans to borrow and buy. Now, with credit harder to come by and unemployment rising, those consumers are cutting back.
Economists see some evidence of rising demand in China, however. While its overall imports continued to weaken last month, China's large fiscal stimulus program appears to be starting to bolster imports from some of its neighbors. Its imports from Australia, the only country in the group not experiencing a substantial drop in exports, have soared.
''Korea and Taiwan also have rising exports to China,'' Mr. Eichengreen said in an interview. ''It does indicate there is at least one source of increased demand.''
China's own exports, however, fell 41 percent during the month, the most of any of the countries shown.
In the United States, the February export figures showed a small increase from January, although they were 22 percent below the level of February 2008. That was the first month-over-month increase since July, when American exports, seasonally adjusted, peaked at $121.6 billion for the month. In February, the figure was $85.3 billion, a decline of 30 percent from the peak. Over that same period, China's exports were down 47 percent.
The fact that trade is now falling at a faster rate than in the Great Depression does not mean the world is destined to repeat that experience, Mr. Eichengreen said. ''The policy response now is very different,'' he said, pointing to the fiscal stimulus plans enacted in many countries, including the United States. If that stimulus works, he said, the current decline in trade could eventually appear as ''a blip'' in a picture of increasing world trade.
The figures in the chart are in dollars, and are affected both by currency swings and by changing prices. With oil prices down sharply, the fall in exports from Mexico, for example, may be overstated.
But there is no doubt that world trade has been collapsing, along with industrial production in nearly every country. So far, the countries that have experienced the largest declines are the export-oriented economies of Asia, which had become extraordinarily dependent on continued sales to the United States.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: World Trade Shrinks: Year-over-year change in total exports from 15 major exporters. Data are through February 2009, in U.S. dollars.(Sources: National governments, via Haver Analytics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); RECESSION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); INTERVIEWS (63%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); TAIWAN (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011



411 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM BLOGGING AT NYTIMES.COM/CITYROOM.; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg Backs Jersey City Mayor

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

 BODY:
Who says that New York and New Jersey can't make nice?
Sure, the two have their rivalries in sports. Sure, the two have quarreled bitterly over all sorts of economic and political issues, as exemplified by a sovereignty battle over Ellis Island in the 1990s. 
But these days, when it comes to New York City and Jersey City, at least, the relationship is quite good. So good, in fact, that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is opening his Upper East Side town house on Thursday for a $1,000-a-head fund-raiser for Mayor Jerramiah T. Healy of Jersey City.
Mr. Bloomberg does not hold fund-raisers at home all that often. But Deputy Mayor Kevin Sheekey described Mr. Healy as a common-sense politician who had shown an early appreciation of cooperation on issues like transportation and economic development.
''He is certainly supportive of Mayor Healy's re-election, and he's offered to campaign for him if asked,'' Mr. Sheekey said of the mayor.
It is the first time that Mr. Bloomberg, an independent who is hoping to capture a third term in November by running on the Republican and Independence lines, has held such an event for Mr. Healy, a Democrat who is heavily favored to win re-election on May 12.
But it is hardly geographical proximity that has made the mayors allies: they were part of the original coalition that began Mayors Against Illegal Guns, and Mr. Healy was one of the few politicians outside the city to support Mr. Bloomberg's congestion-pricing plan.
''He is in his own way a maverick,'' Mr. Sheekey said of Mr. Healy.
In an interview, Mr. Healy said he was flattered by Mr. Bloomberg's support and would enthusiastically do whatever he could to help him win in November.
''Anything that Mike asked me to do, I'd do, whether he's a Republican, Democrat or independent,'' Mr. Healy said. DAVID W. CHEN
COMMENTS
OF THE DAY
Protest at New School
Leads to Arrests
''I for one am glad to see students taking action rather than blindly accepting circumstances like all those who laid down and covered their ears during the Bush years.''
-- Jennifer Unruh
''They should be demanding that they get fair wage jobs after exiting school. They will need them. The lot of them are probably headed for coffee shops with the profoundness of what they are protesting about.''
-- Dave Bruno
ALSO
ON THE BLOG
VIDEO: Breaking 8-Year Silence: Video from St. Paul's Chapel, opposite ground zero, where the public can hear the chapel's Schlicker organ for the first time since it was damaged on Sept. 11.
AUDIO: Only in New York: In Sam Roberts's podcast, a look at the city's original birth certificate, nearly 400 years old. Now on display in Amsterdam, it will be exhibited in New York starting in September.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jerramiah T. Healy, mayor of Jersey City, in 2007. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAMELA SUCHY/THE JERSEY JOURNAL, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); POLITICS (77%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (64%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (64%); INTERVIEWS (63%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011



412 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1300 words

HEADLINE: Washington Churches Eye a Prize, the Obamas

BYLINE: By RACHEL L. SWARNS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The invitations have come in neatly typed letters, whispered entreaties and please-join-us blogs. They have come from predominantly white churches and predominantly black churches, venerable churches with distinguished lineages and smaller, plucky churches with little more than spirit and gumption.
The prize? The most sought after churchgoers in Washington: President Obama and his family.
Mr. Obama's search for a church home has touched off a frenzied competition among ministers of various colors and creeds who are wooing the first family. The president, in turn, has sent emissaries to observe worship services, interview congregants and scrutinize pastors. (His aides even searched YouTube to vet one local minister.)
On Easter Sunday, after nearly three months in the White House, the Obamas are expected to visit a church in an audition of sorts. Administration officials, who were still completing the president's Easter plans, said on Friday that he had yet to settle on a spiritual home. 
In January, Mr. Obama prayed at his first Sunday service here at Nineteenth Street Baptist Church, where hundreds of black professionals worship in a gleaming white sanctuary well beyond this city's corridors of power. (The president took notes.) Pastors and congregants are eagerly waiting to see where he goes next.
''It's extremely competitive,'' said Michael A. Brown, a city councilman here who has put in a good word for his church, Nineteenth Street Baptist, with well-connected friends. ''Every church in the city is trying to attract the Obamas.''
Aides say Mr. Obama is carefully considering his decision. His unhurried pace and overtures to Nineteenth Street Baptist and other congregations offer insight into his religious priorities and practices as he strives to find a church that will nurture his family, his faith and his desire to engage with communities beyond official Washington.
Mr. Obama is considering black and multiracial churches that are not the biggest or best known here, reaching beyond the constellation of institutions that have traditionally appealed to the nation's leaders, his aides say.
He is engaging in a methodical search that reflects, in part, his deliberative nature and his desire to avoid a repeat of the spectacle that surrounded his break with his previous pastor, the Rev. Jeremiah A. Wright Jr. The Obamas did not attend church every Sunday back home in Chicago and may follow the same pattern here, sustaining religious life at times with daily prayer, Bible readings and consultations with friendly pastors, some of his spiritual counselors say.
Most modern presidents have not attended Sunday services regularly, historians say.
Mr. Obama is seeking ''a bit of refuge from the business of Washington, a space where he can reflect on his own life and his relationship with God,'' said Joshua Dubois, the president's chief adviser on faith.
But the president's spiritual quest has also revived the awkward questions that often simmer in a city where blacks and whites, rich and poor still live in largely separate worlds: Will the nation's first black president join a predominantly black church or a predominantly white one? Will he pray in a wealthy community or in a neighborhood that is less prosperous?
''He is anxious to bridge those divides,'' said Terry Lynch, director of the Downtown Cluster of Congregations here. ''But it's a difficult process. Wherever he goes to church is going to be a public issue.''
Mr. Obama's aides have reached out to several churches, including Nineteenth Street Baptist and Peoples Congregational United Church of Christ, which both have middle-class black congregations and are in predominantly black, mixed-income neighborhoods rarely frequented by American presidents.
They have also contacted Calvary Baptist Church and National City Christian Church, multiracial churches closer to the White House. Pastors at both churches have written to the Obamas. The Rev. Amy Butler of Calvary Baptist posted her invitation on her blog.
''In a city where political posturing takes up most folks' waking hours Monday through Friday, come Sunday morning in worship lots of people get up and do it again ... at church,'' Ms. Butler wrote. ''Calvary is a place where we try really hard to get real.''
Historians say few precedents exist for such a public courtship. Most presidents have kept their church affiliations when they moved into the White House. Mr. Obama, however, broke with Trinity United Church of Christ after Mr. Wright's controversial sermons on race and patriotism nearly derailed his presidential campaign, making him something of a religious free agent.
People who know the president believe he is likely to choose a predominantly black or diverse church because he has often credited the African-American religious tradition and its emphasis on community activism with inspiring him to embrace his Christian faith.
Several of the churches on his short list seem to fit that bill. Nineteenth Street Baptist, with a congregation of 1,200 people, runs a food pantry and works to prevent and expand awareness of H.I.V. and AIDS.
Peoples Congregational, which has 2,200 members, also feeds the poor. National City Christian Church, which has about 200 members, works with the homeless. Calvary Baptist, with about 350 members, runs an after-school program. (It also has a Thursday night basketball game, which might hold some appeal to a hoops-shooting president.)
Such churches might also provide some cultural grounding for Mr. Obama's daughters, Malia, 10, and Sasha, 7. Mr. Obama's wife, Michelle, who attended a black church growing up, wants her girls to maintain a sense of normalcy, and membership in a racially and economically diverse church might help provide that.
And while Nineteenth Street Baptist and Peoples Congregational are not the biggest black churches here, they are well known to Mr. Obama's administration officials and friends.
Melody C. Barnes, Mr. Obama's domestic policy director, is a member of Peoples Congregational. Mayor Adrian M. Fenty, who is friendly with Mr. Obama, has prayed at Nineteenth Street Baptist. And Rev. Jim Wallis, a left-leaning evangelical and a friend of Mr. Obama, has had good relationships with the clergy at National City Christian.
Mr. Obama's advisers say he has not ruled out larger predominantly black churches like Metropolitan Baptist or Metropolitan African Methodist Episcopal, which claims Frederick Douglass and Vernon E. Jordan Jr., the Washington power lawyer, among the prominent worshipers who have prayed in its pews.
Nor have they ruled out churches favored by American presidents like Foundry United Methodist, where President Bill Clinton worshiped, or New York Avenue Presbyterian, where President Abraham Lincoln prayed. (In a letter to the president, the Rev. Roger J. Gench of New York Avenue Presbyterian noted that his church still possessed Lincoln's pew and an early draft of the Emancipation Proclamation.)
But most of those churches have not been contacted so far by Mr. Obama's aides, according to their ministers, though officials at Foundry declined to comment. (Mr. Obama did attend special inauguration services at St. John's Church and the Washington National Cathedral, institutions favored by presidents.)
Dwight N. Hopkins, a theology professor at the University of Chicago Divinity School who knows the Obama family, said he would not be surprised if the Obamas avoided a big church with a fancy membership list.
Mr. Hopkins said Trinity was not the church favored by prominent black politicians in Chicago. But Mr. Obama was drawn to its fusion of Scripture and community activism.
''If their decision to join Trinity in Chicago is any indication,'' Mr. Hopkins said, ''then they're going to follow an unpredictable path.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Rev. Derrick Harkins performing a baptism at Nineteenth Street Baptist Church, which the Obamas have attended.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW COUNCILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A9) MAP: A Place to Worship: President Obama and his family have yet to settle on a spiritual home, according to administration officials.(A9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); EASTER SEASON (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (72%); HISTORY (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JEREMIAH A WRIGHT JR (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011



413 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 352 words

HEADLINE: On NYTimes.com

 BODY:
SLIDESHOW: CULTURAL COST OF THE QUAKE
 Photographs of the destruction in L'Aquila, Italy, where local residents and officials have begun to assess the cultural damage wrought by Monday's earthquake. 
 nytimes.com/arts
 SLIDESHOW: A MASS FOR QUAKE VICTIMS
 A slide show of the thousands of weeping mourners who took part in a funeral Mass for the victims of the earthquake that devastated the mountainous Abruzzo region of central Italy, leaving 290 people dead and 28,000 homeless. 
 nytimes.com/world
 SLIDESHOW: ON THE STREET
 This week, Bill Cunningham tries to capture the excitement in New York City during Easter week and spring vacations. 
 nytimes.com/style
 SLIDESHOW: THE WEST'S BEST KEPT SECRET
 The Grand Staircase-Escalante in Southern Utah has been immortalized by the photographer Ansel Adams and countless Hollywood westerns. And yet, it still offers a seemingly endless choice of natural wonders that lie blissfully forgotten and empty. 
 nytimes.com/travel
 INTERACTIVE: PARADISE OF BIRDS IN BELIZE
 Flamboyantly feathered residents like emerald toucanets, scarlet macaws, pale-billed woodpeckers and hundreds of others can be spotted in the rain forests of western Belize in the Cayo District. 
 nytimes.com/travel
 SLIDESHOW: GASTRONOMIC DELIGHTS
 Though the international economic crisis has raged like a sandstorm through Dubai's office towers, the city's sprawling restaurant scene has remained relatively intact. 
 nytimes.com/travel
 AUDIO: BUSINESS PODCAST
 This week: Jeff Sommer talks with Jad Mouawad about the long-term outlook for energy; Tim O'Brien and David Segal discuss how the rich are faring in Palm Beach; and John Schwartz on unheralded Madoff victims. 
 nytimes.com/business
 AUDIO: THE CHEAPEST APARTMENTS
 Manhattan brokers and one owner explain what works about their studio apartments, which are five of the cheapest below 96th Street. 
 nytimes.com/realestate
 Opinion
 Dick Cavett 
 Conjuring Slydini (Part 2)
 The second installment on the great magician Slydini's appearance on the Dick Cavett Show, with personal recollections from the writer. 
 nytimes.com/cavett

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Cultural Cost of the Quake: Photographs of the destruction in L'Aquila, Italy, where local residents and officials have begun to assess the cultural damage wrought by Monday's earthquake. nytimes.com/arts 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EARTHQUAKES (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); EASTER SEASON (72%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (68%); OFFICE PROPERTY (65%); HOMELESSNESS (56%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (51%); PODCASTING (50%)

COMPANY: WEST'S BEST FREIGHT SYSTEMS INC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); UTAH, USA (79%); DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (53%) ITALY (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); BELIZE (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2009



414 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: Building In A Vacuum

BYLINE: By COLIN BRODERICK. 
Colin Broderick, a carpenter, is working on a memoir ''The Orangutan.''

 BODY:
THE Czechs have a motto left over from Communist times: ''They pretend to pay us and we pretend to work.'' It's a saying I didn't fully comprehend until my wife and I moved to Prague in 2007 and I started the usual inquiries about where a guy might find a decent job as a carpenter. It's also been on my mind since I returned to New York, where construction seems to be rolling along largely undisturbed by the sudden drop in the economy. 
 I've traveled a lot over the years, working construction, and getting a new job in any city has usually been easy. I'd find a popular Irish bar, get rip-roaring drunk with the local expats and wake up with a hangover and a handful of leads. But I'd stopped drinking, so when I arrived in Prague I resorted to the more civilized, though less exciting, method of soberly calling contractors and Irish bar owners. I understood quickly why I had never heard of any Irish guys talking about flocking to Prague for the fast buck. Prague didn't do fast. 
 By the spring of 2008, after following a number of bum leads, I settled on teaching English as a second language. One guy I tutored in my apartment worked as a construction manager for a big developer in Prague. Surely he could hook me up. He couldn't. Work was beginning to slow up, he informed me in broken English. The rush for newly developed luxury apartments had begun to slow and, with the dollar in decline, foreign investors were pulling out. The only sign of movement I witnessed in the construction industry was a steady stream of beer bottles being hoisted by a crew of roofers working on the building behind ours all winter and spring. 
 Around this time, my wife discovered she was pregnant. The few korunas we were making as tutors were barely enough to sustain ourselves and our dog and cat. We decided to try Northern Ireland instead. I had my family there and I had always been able to get a job, even if it didn't pay what I was used to making in America. If nothing else, our marvelous national health care system would take care of my wife free.
 By the time we reached Northern Ireland, that June, the sun had already retired for the year and the rain had set in for a marathon run. We rented a cottage in the countryside and assured each other daily that the rain would stop and I'd find steady work. Neither happened. 
 By the beginning of July my father, who's also a carpenter, was driving me around, showing me the houses that were ready for occupancy, sitting vacant all over the green countryside. Vulgar, characterless monstrosities erected on parcels of land you wouldn't have grazed a donkey on a decade earlier. And there they sat, a graveyard of greed, headstones fit for a Celtic tiger. 
 The papers were full of stories of economic doom and gloom. The Irish developer Sean Dunne had paid 379 million euros for a seven-acre patch of land in Dublin and it was beginning to look as if his best bet to regain some of his loss would be to plow it and plant potatoes. The human race might never again buy luxury apartments but we would still need food.
 I managed to get myself a few days of house painting with an old friend. Decent carpentry jobs were almost nonexistent by the end of the summer. I was glad of any work at all. 
 In the fall, our daughter was born. I was overjoyed and jobless. Then, the week before Christmas, the construction industry in Northern Ireland came to a complete halt. It felt as if a guillotine had been dropped.
 By mid-January of this year, I did something that I had once assured myself I would never do again. I took myself down to the social security office in the town of Omagh and I signed on the dole, or Jobseeker's Allowance as they have now considerately euphemized it. It's a humbling experience to have to ask for financial assistance after returning from 20 years in America. The locals assume you've made your fortune. If you're broke, they assume you've squandered it. In my case both assumptions would be accurate. The nice lady who interviewed me said they had witnessed a deluge of carpenters seeking help.
 Guys I had worked with in New York, carpenters who had since returned to Ireland to settle down and start families of their own, kept inquiring about my Jobseeker's Allowance. In the past, there had always been the whispers about a construction boom happening somewhere else: Germany, Australia, New York, Moscow, the Republic of Ireland. This time word was coming back that the boom was over. Everywhere. Hunker down, burrow deep wherever you can ride this thing out. 
 After two months on the dole, I could take the rain and unemployment no longer. We packed our bags, bundled our daughter into a baby carrier, put our dog in a crate and returned to New York.
 We had been gone for over a year and a half. We returned to a city of empty apartments, slashed fees, lowered rents, and courteous, desperate real estate agents. I made a round of phone calls, but the answers I received were variations on the same theme: work was slow, there was no work, something may start soon.
 Soon has not come. Friends running construction companies are getting by on next to nothing. Jobs they have started are being halted because the big financing has come to an end. Whatever minor remodeling jobs they can get their hands on, they are reserving for guys who stayed with them while I was gone. 
 And yet: a visit to a job my brother was working on told another story. From a 10th floor window on 18th Street, I could see 11 cranes, most still buzzing with activity. If the skyline was to be believed, this city was booming. 
 Right next to us, workers were fastening steel girders and dashing around unharnessed high above the street, directing the crane, guiding the huge beams into position by hand. The glut of new buildings and the vacancy rate meant that these guys were sweating over what could become a vertical ghost town. Not that these guys care, so long as their wages keep coming.
 Having witnessed the economy floundering from Belfast to the Bronx, I can't help but wonder when the guillotine will finally drop here. I hope it won't. In the meantime, I'd gladly pretend to work 20 hours a day if only I could find somebody in this economy who'd pretend to pay me.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (76%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); DRINKING PLACES (74%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (70%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (69%); CATS (67%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (65%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (60%); MARATHONS (50%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (50%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (90%) CZECH REPUBLIC (91%); NORTHERN IRELAND (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2009



415 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; PATIENT MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: In Another Recession Sign, an Uptick in Vasectomies

BYLINE: By LESLEY ALDERMAN

 BODY:
Last November I learned, to my great surprise, that I was pregnant. At age 47, I was not exactly trying to conceive. 
 My husband and I were conflicted:
 Another baby -- how wonderful! 
 Another child -- how stressful!How risky! How EXPENSIVE! 
 With the economy in a free fall, this seemed no time to have a baby. 
 When the pregnancy ended in a miscarriage at seven weeks, we were sad. But also relieved. My husband's only half-joking response was, ''It's time for a vasectomy.''
 Turns out we were not alone in our thinking. Urologists and clinics have noticed an uptick in recent months in the number of men requesting vasectomies. 
 It is too early to proclaim a bona fide trend in elective sterilization, because no organization regularly tracks the number of vasectomies performed on an annual or even a monthly basis. The most recent comprehensive data come from a study published in The Journal of Urology in 2006, which estimated that about 527,000 vasectomies were performed in this country each year. 
 But the recent anecdotal data, if they hold, would have a historical parallel in the Great Depression, when the birth rate fell sharply.
 As this recession continues, it is understandable that more people might hesitate to expand their families. A baby born in 2006 -- the latest year for which data are available -- will cost middle-income parents $260,000 by the time the child reaches 17, according to the Agriculture Department. And that doesn't include college.
 In Southern California, Planned Parenthood says that compared with last year's first quarter, requests for vasectomies were up more than 30 percent in the first three months of this year at its clinics in San Diego and Riverside Counties, where 64 of the procedures were done. 
 ''The recession has created a new level of urgency among our clients,'' said Vince Hall, a spokesman. ''We used to have a three- to six-week waiting period. Now men have to wait two-and-a-half months to get an appointment.'' 
 Helping spur demand, he said, might be the fact that unemployed men often qualify for free vasectomies under Family PACT, a California family planning program for low-income households. 
 On the Upper East Side of Manhattan, where the financial industry's collapse has compressed many a household budget, Dr. Marc Goldstein says he has been performing more vasectomies than usual over the last five months. 
 Through most of last year, Dr. Goldstein, who directs male reproductive medicine and microsurgery at the New York-Presbyterian Hospital/Weill Cornell Medical Center, was performing about six vasectomies a month. Then, in November, the number rose to nine, where it was holding steady through the end of March. 
 ''I've been in practice for 30 years, and I've never seen a spike like this,'' Dr. Goldstein said. ''Many of my clients work in finance and say they feel anxious about the expense of an added child.'' 
 In Seattle, Dr. Charles Wilson of the Vasectomy Clinic says that in the last half-year he has performed an average of 123 of the procedures each month -- 13 percent above the year-earlier average. ''Some come in because they are out of work and have more time on their hands to take care of medical issues,'' Dr. Wilson said. ''Others are afraid of losing their job and want to get their vasectomy done before they lose their health insurance.'' 
 Unemployment was the reason Michael Swogger, 30, went to see Dr. Wilson. Mr. Swogger was laid off in January from his job as a Microsoft software test engineer. With three children and another on the way, he and his wife decided it was time for a vasectomy. 
 ''I wanted to get this done before the insurance ran out,'' Mr. Swogger said. 
 Meanwhile, visits to Vasectomy.com -- a 10-year-old informational site that also markets doctors to patients -- were up 17.5 percent in the first quarter, compared with the first three months of last year. 
 And traffic to the site's physician profile pages was up 40 percent, according to Maya Wank, chief operating officer of the Web site, who said the activity might indicate consumers were not simply gathering information but wanting to take action. 
 Experts agree that from a practical and financial point of view, vasectomies are an ideal form of birth control. The procedure -- which cuts or seals the vas deferens, the tubes that carry sperm from the testicles -- typically costs $500 to $1,000, but is usually covered by insurance. 
 The surgery is done in a doctor's office with local anesthesia and requires less than 20 minutes. Recovery takes a matter of days. It is nearly 100 percent effective. A successful vasectomy renders a man permanently sterile -- unless he changes his mind. 
 The possibility that a man might change his mind, in fact, is the reason some doctors who perform vasectomies say men should think twice before having one. Reversing the procedure is a complicated, five-hour task, can cost thousands of dollars and is rarely covered by insurance. And, oh, yes: About half the time it does not work. 
 ''Since I spend a lot of time reversing vasectomies, I initially try to talk my patients out of getting one,'' says Dr. Harris Nagler, chairman of the Sol and Margaret Berger department of urology at Beth Israel hospital in Manhattan. ''If they are convinced that they want a permanent surgical form of contraception, then we go ahead. It is the right decision for many individuals.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dr. Charles Wilson with Michael Swogger, who was laid off in January and had a vasectomy before his insurance ran out.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STUART ISETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Dr. Charles Wilson of the Vasectomy Clinic in Seattle performs an average of more than 100 vasectomies a month.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STUART ISETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (90%); FAMILY PLANNING (78%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (78%); MISCARRIAGES (78%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (78%); TRENDS (77%); FAMILY (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); BUDGETS (77%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (76%); SEXUAL & REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH (76%); MEN (74%); UROLOGY (74%); REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%); RESEARCH REPORTS (73%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (70%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (69%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (69%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (69%); GREAT DEPRESSION (66%); BANKING & FINANCE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2009



416 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: Foes Rally, But President Of Georgia Vows to Stay

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY; Olesya Vartanyan contributed reporting.

DATELINE: TBILISI, Georgia 

 BODY:
President Mikheil Saakashvili, who came to power in one progressive uprising but is now the target of another, declared on Friday that he would not resign, rebuffing the demands of thousands of protesters who have assailed him as despotic and inept.
 With people gathering in the capital for a second day, Mr. Saakashvili said he would do nothing to interfere with peaceful demonstrations, and he offered to begin talks with opposition leaders to calm tensions and agree on changes to the Constitution and government. 
 ''There is only one way forward: that is by sitting down and addressing our challenges and needs together,'' he said.
 Opposition leaders rejected Mr. Saakashvili's appeal, saying that he had no interest in real reform, but European mediators said they would try to bring the sides together. Opposition parties said they would conduct civil disobedience, blocking roads around the capital and demonstrating at the president's residence and at the headquarters of the public television station.
 Some protesters threw cabbages and carrots at the residence, calling Mr. Saakashvili as cowardly as a rabbit. They were referring to an episode in August during the war with Russia, when he was hustled away and protected by security guards who apparently feared an attack.
 People rallied on Friday in front of Parliament, though in significantly smaller numbers than on Thursday, when tens of thousands gathered. Opposition parties insisted that the lower turnout did not indicate that support for these demonstrations was waning, and they have maintained that they will continue protesting until Mr. Saakashvili goes.
 ''We are going to make life for Saakashvili harder, but we are not going to create anarchy,'' said an opposition leader, Levan Gachechiladze. ''If he doesn't listen to us, he will get two additional protests. If two protests are not enough, he will get eight.''
 Mr. Saakashvili took office in 2004 after leading the so-called Rose Revolution, which ousted a government with Soviet ties. He pledged to pursue a pro-Western course, distancing the country from Moscow, rooting out corruption and reviving an economy that had fallen on such hard times that electricity outages were frequent in the capital, Tbilisi.
 He says the country has made notable progress under his leadership, and many analysts agree that the economy is far stronger. But his tenure has grown steadily more contentious.
 Former aides have deserted him, and a violent crackdown on a demonstration in 2007 hurt his reputation in Washington, his most important supporter. The ruinous war with Russia has further emboldened the opposition, which contends that he bumbled into a conflict that the country could not win.
 Even so, while Mr. Saakashvili's standing has suffered in recent months because of the financial crisis and war, polls do not indicate that most people want him to resign. Nor has the opposition united around a single figure to challenge him. His current term ends in 2013.
 At a news conference on Friday, Mr. Saakashvili emphasized that the peaceful nature of the rallies so far proved that Georgia, which has about 4.6 million people, was developing as a democracy. The government has been repeatedly cautioned by Western diplomats to avoid skirmishes with protesters, and law enforcement is assuming a very low profile in the capital this week.
 ''By demonstrating peacefully -- by the complete and total lack of violence, by ensuring the right to free movement and freedom of assembly -- we proved the maturity of our state,'' Mr. Saakashvili said.
 ''There have been some who have been saying for so many months that Georgia would go to hell yesterday, that so many of you came to witness it,'' he said. ''And you witnessed a normal country.''
 Protesters ridiculed Mr. Saakashvili's statements, accusing him of trying to distract the opposition by calling for negotiations.
 ''He is playing with our nerves,'' said Amiran Tsertskhladze, 40, a farmer who came into Tbilisi on Thursday and slept in a tent in front of Parliament. ''He says things like this only for the U.S. and Europe. But here no one believes he really wants dialogue. It doesn't work here anymore.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE (77%); POWER FAILURES (73%); CORRUPTION (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (53%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (53%)

PERSON: MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); GEORGIA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2009



417 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: Revenue Idea: Whatever It Is, Put a Fee on It

BYLINE: By DAVID SEGAL

 BODY:
After her sport utility vehicle sideswiped a van in early February, Shirley Kimel was amazed at how quickly a handful of police officers and firefighters in Winter Haven, Fla., showed up. But a real shock came a week later, when a letter arrived from the city billing her $316 for the cost of responding to the accident.
 ''I remember thinking, 'What the heck is this?' '' says Ms. Kimel, 67, an office manager at a furniture store. ''I always thought this sort of thing was covered by my taxes.''
 It used to be. But last July, Winter Haven became one of a few dozen cities in the country to start charging ''accident response fees.'' The idea is to shift the expense of tending to and cleaning up crashes directly to at-fault drivers. Either they, or their insurers, are expected to pay. 
 Such cash-per-crash ordinances tend to infuriate motorists, and they often generate bad press, but a lot of cities are finding them hard to resist. With the economy flailing and budgets strained, state and local governments are being creative about ways to raise money. And the go-to idea is to invent a fee -- or simply raise one.
 Ohio's governor has proposed a budget with more than 150 new or increased fees, including a fivefold increase in the cost to renew a livestock license, as well as larger sums to register a car, order a birth certificate or dump trash in a landfill. Other fees take aim at landlords, cigarette sellers and hospitals, to name a few.
 Wisconsin's governor, James E. Doyle, has proposed a charge on slaughterhouses that would be levied on the basis of each animal slaughtered. He also wants to more than triple the application charge for an elk-hunting license to $10, an idea that has raised eyebrows because the elk population in the state is currently too small to allow an actual hunting season. 
 Washington's mayor, Adrian M. Fenty, has proposed a ''streetlight user fee'' of $4.25 a month, to be added to electric bills, that would cover the cost of operating and maintaining the city's streetlights. New York City recently expanded its anti-idling law to include anyone parked near a school who leaves the engine running for more than a minute. Doing that will cost you $100. 
 ''The most dangerous places on Staten Island are the schools at drop-off and dismissal time, when parents are parked three deep in the road,'' says James S. Oddo, a City Council member from Staten Island who voted for the measure. ''There is a mentality here that Johnny can't walk 100 feet, he has to be dropped off right at the front of the school -- and frankly that's why Johnny is as pudgy as he is.''
 Nothing, it seems, is off the table. In Pima County, Ariz., the County Board of Supervisors increased an assortment of fees, including the cost of AIDS testing. Florida has proposed raising medical visit co-payments for inmates in state prisons. Parking fees at the Honolulu Zoo could rise by 500 percent if a proposal there goes through.
 Politicians tend to regard fees as more palatable than taxes, and more focused too. If a state needs to finance an infrastructure to oversee fishing, why shouldn't fishermen foot the bill? But groups like the nonpartisan Tax Foundation in Washington worry that governments are now using fees to shore up budget shortfalls rather than cover specific costs incurred by specific users. 
 ''When it comes to paying for bananas, you've got the market as a mechanism to make sure you're paying a fair price,'' says Josh Barro, a staff economist at the Tax Foundation. ''But when it comes to getting your driver's license renewed, the government has a monopoly, and you have no idea what it costs the state or what it's doing with the money.''
 In some cases, towns say they are merely enforcing rules that have long been on the books. For the first time in years, for instance, officials at Londonderry, N.H., have mailed notices to dog owners reminding them to renew their annual dog licenses, which cost $6.50 apiece, or face a $25 fine. Town leaders think the get-tough approach could raise an additional $20,000, but Meg Seymour, the town clerk, is dreading local reaction. When the town last sent out fine notices, in 2002, the calls to her office were vicious.
 ''Let's just say that we're the ones who take the venting,'' she said. ''You have no idea.''
 If past patterns hold, the new wave of fees is just getting started. Gary Wagner, a professor of economics at the University of Arkansas at Little Rock, was one author of a study of moving-vehicle and parking tickets in North Carolina, covering a 14-year period. He found a strong correlation between a dip in government revenue and a rise in ticket-writing by the police. 
 ''But there's a lag time,'' Mr. Wagner said. ''Typically, it's about a year after the revenues drop that the police start writing more tickets.''
 If you date the start of the downturn to last September, the ticket-writing is just getting under way. And New Yorkers can expect more days like the one in mid-March, when the police wrote 9,016 driving-while-phoning tickets within 24 hours, roughly 20 times the usual number.
 The ''accident response fee'' idea could spread, too. A company in Dayton, Ohio, called the Cost Recovery Corporation specializes in setting up collection systems for municipalities that bill for police and fire responses. (The company keeps 10 percent of billings.) Inquiries have tripled in the last year, says the company's president, Regina Moore. 
 ''What we're hearing from towns is, 'The taxpayers are all over us; they don't want to surrender more tax money,' '' she said. ''And response fees are basically a form of restitution, like paying for a stay in jail.''
 Insurance companies loathe the idea, because inevitably customers assume that a crash fee is covered by their policies. (It isn't, in most cases.) And unlike the pay-to-stay approach to jails, crash fees rarely play well in the media. The mayor of Duluth, Minn., backed off a crash fee proposal shortly after Jay Leno joked about the city, by name, in a ''Tonight Show'' monologue last year.
 In Winter Haven, the accident response fee seemed to leaders to be a reasonable way to help finance the police and fire departments, but so far only 20 percent of the $32,000 that has been billed to at-fault drivers has been collected. 
 ''We chose not to contract out the collection part of this, and frankly, because of staff cuts, we don't have enough people to handle all the paperwork,'' says Joy Townsend, the city's communications officer. ''We're now evaluating how cost-effective this program is.''
 Ms. Kimel, the S.U.V. driver in Florida, will not make the numbers look any better. She has no idea whether the city will come after her for that $316 bill, but she doesn't care.
 ''I'm not paying,'' she said, ''because it isn't fair.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shirley Kimel in Winter Haven, Fla., received a $316 bill from the city after her S.U.V. was in an accident in February.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILLIPPE DIEDERICH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A10) CHART: How New York Is Closing the Gap: Among other strategies to address a record $17.7 billion budget deficit, the New York State budget for 2009-2010 includes more than two dozen new and increased fees, estimated to generate nearly $300 million in revenue. Here is a sampling of the new fees.(Source: New York State Division of Budget)(A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (90%); BUDGETS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITIES (89%); SPORT HUNTING (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAMMALS (86%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); MAYORS (76%); LANDFILLS (73%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); FUNDRAISING (71%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (71%); LICENSES & PERMITS (69%); INSURANCE (68%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (68%)

PERSON: JIM DOYLE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2009



418 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: A Sure Winner in Uncertain Times

BYLINE: By JOE DRAPE

DATELINE: HOT SPRINGS, Ark. 

 BODY:
The Rebel Stakes was still eight hours away, but it was very much on the mind of Charles Cella, the owner of Oaklawn Park here in the hills of Arkansas. In his basement office, Cella had a phone cradled against his shoulder and was talking to the man in charge of the racetrack and casino's marquee sign.
 ''As soon as they cross the finish line, I want you to have the winner's name up in lights,'' Cella told him. ''We have a nice gaming room with a loyal following, but remember, we're all about the horse.'' 
 The Cellas have owned this charming racetrack for nearly 100 years, and their focus on quality horse racing has earned it the reputation as the Saratoga of the South. It is why a field of 10 3-year-olds will line up for the 73rd running of the $1 million Arkansas Derby on Saturday. It is why the trainer Larry Jones based Old Fashioned -- winner of four of his five races -- here to prepare for the Kentucky Derby.
 ''They keep the surface in very good shape, and it is about as close to mimicking Churchill Downs' oval as you'll find,'' said Jones, whose colt is the 9-5 morning line favorite to capture the Arkansas Derby. ''You can't beat the air here, either. It's fresh and clear and makes you feel like you're in the country. Mostly, though, it's because they have good purses, which brings in good horses.''
 In fact, Oaklawn has pulled off what few, if any, other racetracks have been able to do in this brutal economy: It has had a better year than last.
 It raised its purses twice during the 54-day meet and implemented a participation incentive, which added $500,000 to the nearly $16 million in purses. The amount of money bet on its races is up 3 percent and will surpass $50 million, and track attendance has increased 4 percent and will top 625,000.
 This fiscal renaissance has been powered by the success of Oaklawn's gambling business, primarily its Instant Racing game, which was conceived and developed here. It is an electronic game with parimutuel wagering on previously run races. Last year, it did $250 million in business. Since installing the machines in 2000, the casino part of Oaklawn has handled more than $1 billion. 
 ''And that's a quarter at a time,'' said Eric Jackson, Oaklawn's general manager.
 That number is likely to grow exponentially now that a $40 million expansion that will double the number of electronic games is nearing completion.
 And yet, horse racing still rules here and is the reason that the owners and trainers of Smarty Jones, Afleet Alex and Curlin chose to prepare their colts here for the Kentucky Derby and beyond. In 2004, Smarty Jones used the Arkansas Derby as a springboard to a near miss of the Triple Crown when Birdstone caught him in the stretch of the Belmont Stakes.
 The colt's owners, Roy and Patricia Chapman, however, enjoyed a windfall when Cella -- commemorating the 100th anniversary of Oaklawn -- offered a $5 million bonus to a horse that could sweep the Rebel, Arkansas and Kentucky Derbies. When Smarty Jones did just that, the racetrack's owner gladly paid up.
 ''I've been in this sport for more than 50 years and absolutely love it,'' said Cella, 72. ''I came of age when there was a lot of flair and promotion that I think the sport sometimes misses. When I watched Smarty Jones pull away for the win in Kentucky, it was one of the greatest sports moments I have ever witnessed. I wanted that horse to win as much as anybody.''
 The racetrack continues to offer novel promotions. It went through six tons of corned beef on opening day when corned beef sandwiches sold for 50 cents and Cokes cost a dime. But just like Saratoga Springs in August, Hot Springs brings in knowledgeable horse enthusiasts.
 ''It's a great, great racing town, and if you don't believe me, just walk into a diner or restaurant and see how many people are looking at the Daily Racing Form,'' said D. Wayne Lukas, the Hall of Fame trainer, who is based here and will saddle Flying Private in the Arkansas Derby. ''I have folks stop me all the time and ask me about the great horses I've had, and tell me about the good ones that are at the track right now. There's not many places left where people adore the sport.''
 So Cella once more intends to be on the phone early Saturday morning with the man who is in charge of Oaklawn's marquee sign. He will remind him again that this is a racetrack devoted to the horse. It's even money that those few souls not inside the racetrack but on Central Avenue will know who captured the Arkansas Derby as soon as the winner crosses the line.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Horses being led to the track at Oaklawn Park, where purses were raised. The amount of money bet on races is up, and so is the attendance.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NEEMAH A. ESMAEILPOUR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Charles Cella, the owner of Oaklawn Park. The track, with its focus on quality racing, attracts top trainers and horses.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NEEMAH A. ESMAEILPOUR)(pg. D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); CASINOS (89%); GAMING (89%); HORSES (89%); TOYS & GAMES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS, USA (94%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2009



419 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: Company's Quandary: Hit Shows, No Theater

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

 BODY:
No New York theater company in recent memory has experienced anything like the recent artistic highs and economic lows of the Theater for a New Audience. The spring has turned so bipolar for this nonprofit company that its artistic director, Jeffrey Horowitz, says half-jokingly that he has new sympathy for Ophelia as she descends into madness in ''Hamlet.''
 To wit: The theater group chose to mount back-to-back productions of two major Shakespearean tragedies, ''Othello,'' in February and March, and now ''Hamlet.'' Both received rave reviews; ''Othello'' sold out almost instantly and is returning this month for 12 additional performances.
 Yet because its rented theater, the Duke on 42nd Street, has only about 200 seats and must meet other commitments for the space, the company is neither making much money from its hit shows nor has the flexibility to extend them. 
 ''We're turning away 200 people a day who want tickets for 'Othello,' '' Mr. Horowitz said. ''It can drive you a little crazy.''
 Mr. Horowitz is working with commercial producers to run the numbers on possible transfers of one or both productions to the Little Shubert Theater, Circle in the Square or perhaps another Broadway or Off Broadway house. One idea under serious consideration, Mr. Horowitz said, is running both plays in tandem at a single theater, with six matinees and six evening performances a week.
 All of which underscores what is lacking for this 30-year-old theater company: a theater of its own.
 It has been renting the Duke while struggling to build a home in the Fort Greene neighborhood of Brooklyn. That $38 million project, announced by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg in 2005, has languished because of financial and design issues. Building costs have now ballooned to $59 million, because of rising steel and concrete costs. Mr. Horowitz is courting banks for $5.9 million in financing that he needs by June 30 to secure city money in hopes of breaking ground in December.
 At the same time, the Theater for a New Audience's budget has been shredded ''by the Great Recession,'' as Mr. Horowitz calls the current economic climate. The company had expected $2 million in donations this year, but, as with many nonprofit theaters, the rate of giving has declined more than 10 percent. Mr. Horowitz has made one layoff and plans to furlough the rest of the 15-member staff soon for at least a week each. While his season often includes four productions, Mr. Horowitz can afford only three shows, maybe even just two, for 2009-10. Much hinges on hitting the theater's fund-raising goal of $500,000 for its May 11 gala.
 ''One minute I have all these reasons to feel exhilarated, the next minute I have all these reasons to feel exhausted,'' Mr. Horowitz said in an interview at the company's warren of offices, where old props are strewn about, on Christopher Street in the West Village. ''It's like you ran the race, you got to the finish line, and even as you've crossed it, it somehow moved again.''
 Sitting at a beat-up metal desk that was used in Julie Taymor's 1994 production of ''Titus Andronicus'' -- ''a nurse was stabbed over this table, she got a pool stick in the belly'' -- Mr. Horowitz sounded a little worn out as he recalled sending copies of the reviews of ''Othello'' and ''Hamlet'' to banks in hopes of advancing his case for construction financing. 
 ''I made the argument, 'You're looking at our balance sheet, but you should look at our artistic balance sheet,' '' Mr. Horowitz said. ''I haven't heard back.''
 Charles Isherwood, in a review in The New York Times on Feb. 24, described the production of ''Othello'' as ''gripping'' and ''terrific,'' adding that ''Shakespeare is the star here, but he is handled with the kind of artistry we always hope for and rarely find.'' 
 Five weeks later Mr. Isherwood said that Christian Camargo gave a ''virtually perfect portrayal'' of the title role in ''Hamlet'' and called the production ''generally excellent.''
 ''Othello'' was nominated last week for six Lucille Lortel Awards, honoring Off Broadway work, the highest number of any production. Among the nominees is its director, Arin Arbus, the 30-year-old associate artistic director of the theater company. Mr. Horowitz last year invited Ms. Arbus to have her Off Broadway directorial debut with a play of her choosing. 
 ''It was no small gesture on Jeffrey's part -- it meant a great deal to me,'' said Ms. Arbus, who is among the staff preparing to be furloughed. ''Our theater company has a collaborative atmosphere and support system that I think is truly special. Without the relationships we have here, I'm not sure I would have felt as safe debuting Off Broadway with this major work.''
 Around the same time he made the offer to Ms. Arbus, Mr. Horowitz made good on an earlier promise of ''Hamlet'' to Mr. Camargo, who had starred in the company's production of ''Coriolanus'' in 2005. (Mr. Camargo appeared earlier this season on Broadway as the vengeance-seeking George Deever in Arthur Miller's ''All My Sons.'')
 ''On paper, having these two shows right after each other was fearful to look at,'' Mr. Horowitz said. ''But I've always felt that if you have the right artists and they can make something special, then you want to go for it.''
 Mr. Camargo said he admired the company's commitment to producing Shakespeare -- rather than ceding him to the British and transferring their productions to New York -- and to using theater-trained actors rather than casting Hollywood celebrities who might help sell tickets.
 ''A lot of commercial producers just think about star power, regardless of whether the stars have talent or not,'' Mr. Camargo said. ''To me that's the real strength of Theater for a New Audience, its dedication to the craft of acting and the classics, and I think it's the reason for having two good hits right now.''
 Mr. Horowitz said he could not predict, especially in this economy, whether one or both shows would end up moving to a bigger house, but he said his hope ran deep. 
 ''Shakespeare is the most produced playwright in America, but when it comes to the Broadway sector, there still is the superstition that if you want to have a really great Shakespeare, you really got to go over there,'' Mr. Horowitz said, pointing his finger east, toward Britain.
 Moments later, Mr. Horowitz returned to his cubicle-size office to make more telephone calls -- to banks, producers, board members, donors and, he hoped, an artist or two.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jeffrey Horowitz at the Theater for a New Audience offices.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KATIE ORLINSKY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (92%); THEATER & DRAMA (91%); THEATER COMPANIES (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2009



420 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 321 words

HEADLINE: Birth Control Options for Women

BYLINE: By LESLEY ALDERMAN

 BODY:
Women can also get sterilized, via tubal ligation (a k a getting your tubes tied). But the procedure is more complicated and costly than a vasectomy. And it is difficult to reverse. 
 Tubal ligation is performed in a doctor's office, but it requires general anesthesia and may cost $2,500 to $4,000, which is often covered by insurance. (Women might want to ask their gynecologists about a newer procedure called Essure, that is less invasive and less expensive than tubal ligation.) 
 Despite the money, time and aggravation involved, about a million women in this country get tubal ligations each year -- twice the estimated number of men who get vasectomies. 
 ''A lot of women get tired of waiting for their husbands to get around to it,'' said Dr. Charles L. Wilson, who performs vasectomies in Seattle. 
 Of course, in the current economy many women may simply want to delay childbirth, rather than eliminate the option altogether. 
 ''We're hearing women say, 'I want to have children, just not now,' '' says Lillian Tamayo, the president and chief executive of Planned Parenthood of South Florida, who oversees eight local health centers. ''They feel they can't afford to raise a child in this climate.'' 
 For those who would postpone, there are some cost-effective options. 
 Dr. Hugh Taylor, the director of reproductive endocrinology and infertility at the Yale University School of Medicine, suggests Mirena, an intrauterine device that delivers a steady dose of levonorgestrel, a contraceptive. ''It costs just a few hundred dollars initially, but lasts for up to five years.'' 
 Women who might prefer the pill should ask their gynecologists to prescribe one that has a generic equivalent. Some cost as little as $9 for the prescription at places like Target or Wal-Mart. ''The newer brands are often overhyped,'' Dr. Taylor said. ''The older versions are just as good and far less expensive.'' LESLEY ALDERMAN 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (90%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (90%); WOMEN (90%); CONTRACEPTION (89%); REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (79%); ANESTHETICS (77%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (77%); GENERIC DRUGS (77%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (77%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (76%); MEN (74%); CHILDREN (72%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (69%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (64%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (62%); ENDOCRINOLOGY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA (55%); YALE UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2009



421 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Exports Fall for Fifth Month, but More Slowly

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER

DATELINE: HONG KONG 

 BODY:
Chinese exports fell for a fifth consecutive month in March and imports continued to decline despite government efforts to stimulate the nation's economy, according to trade figures released Friday.
 The figures painted a moderately encouraging picture, however, as the rate at which exports were falling appeared to be slowing.
 Exports, which make up about one-third of China's economy, were 17.1 percent lower in March than a year earlier, the government said. That made a fifth consecutive month of declines as the world economy slowed to a crawl last year, sending demand for goods from China and other exporting countries sharply lower. 
 Imports to China fell 25.1 percent from a year ago, a slide that was steeper than February's drop and more than economists had expected. But the drop in exports was below what economists had projected, and less severe than the 25.7 percent plunge recorded the previous month.
 The slowing pace of that decline was the latest in a string of recent statistics that have led a growing number of economists to believe that the Chinese economy may have put the worst behind it.
 ''Signs have been emerging that China's stimulus package launched last November is working,'' Qu Hongbin, a China economist at HSBC in Hong Kong, said in a report in the last week.
 In addition to the 4 trillion yuan ($585 billion), stimulus program, the Chinese authorities have lowered interest rates and encouraged state-owned banks to step up lending, leading to explosive bank lending growth this year.
 Beijing has plenty of firepower for more stimulus measures, and the fate of millions of jobless migrant workers is a crucial concern to policy makers. Still, analysts now think the authorities may postpone announcing major new spending plans as the already-announced measures begin to take hold.
 China, along with India, is one of the few major economies that is forecast to escape recession in 2009 -- though the rate of growth is expected to be much slower than in previous years.
 Independent economists' forecasts for growth in China this year range from 5.5 to 8 percent -- down from 9 percent in 2008 and 13 percent in 2007.
 At the same time, despite the nascent signs of a bottoming-out, economists caution that a full-fledged recovery remains a long way off. Many of China's major trade partners, including the United States, have reported sharp declines in imports. On Thursday, the United States said that its imports had fallen 5 percent, to $152.7 billion, in February. ''The global financial crisis is ongoing, and external demand is still falling as the substantial economic contraction in the G-3 continues,'' Tao Wang, an economist at UBS in Beijing, said in the last week, referring to the United States, Europe and Japan.
 Friday's export figures showed an especially large drop in shipments to Europe -- 20 percent. Exports to the United States were down 12.6 percent from a year earlier.
 ''Clearly, the economic recovery this year is not going to be driven by strong export growth, and certainly not by growth in export-related investment. However, the collapse of global trade and China's exports in the last few months was not in small part due to a freeze in trade credit and aggressive destocking abroad as a result of extreme uncertainty. As expectations start to stabilize, we expect to see export orders rebound in the coming months,'' Ms. Wang of UBS said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (93%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (71%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (66%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (64%); MIGRANT WORKERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (89%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); HONG KONG (92%); JAPAN (79%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2009



422 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 522 words

HEADLINE: Fox Draws Criticism Over Reality Show on Firings

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
The Fox network appeared this week to be caught off guard by anger over ''Someone's Gotta Go,'' its forthcoming reality show about the employees of small offices who are told to choose a colleague to fire.
 Production is said to be under way on the program, which was devised by Endemol, a production company known for ''Big Brother,'' ''Deal or No Deal'' and other reality shows. Negative reaction to the premise included op-ed columns in newspapers and a segment on ABC's ''Good Morning America.'' 
 ''There's nothing entertaining about watching people lose their jobs -- especially with the country mired in a recession and national employment at 8.5 percent, a 25-year high,'' Jere Hester, the director of a news service at the City University of New York's graduate journalism school, wrote in an essay for the WNBC Web site, nbcnewyork.com.
 The trade publication Broadcasting & Cable reported that virtually none of the hundreds of Internet comments posted on half a dozen sites seemed to support the show. 
 Fox, the former home of ''Temptation Island'' and ''Joe Millionaire,'' has had a knack for shocking viewers, and gaining media attention, with its reality shows. ''They've always pushed the envelope,'' said Brad Adgate, the senior vice president for research at Horizon Media. In 2006 Fox canceled a planned TV special featuring O. J. Simpson based on the book ''If I Did It,'' a reference to the murders of his ex-wife and her friend, in response to public outcries.
 Mike Darnell, the head of alternative programming for Fox, granted interviews about the premise of ''Someone's Gotta Go'' earlier in the week, but he declined to comment on the reaction on Friday. The network would not say whether ''Someone's Gotta Go'' had received a full series order, which suggests that it is being treated as a pilot that may never be broadcast. Mr. Adgate said it was possible the show would not go on the air ''if there's a real push-back.''
 News of the series first leaked to the press on Tuesday. Mr. Darnell described its premise as a combination of ''Survivor'' (about castaways who vote people off the show) and ''The Office'' (about long-suffering employees at a small paper supply company). As Mr. Darnell told The Washington Post, ''I'm sure you've been through a situation where someone at your company gets fired and you think, 'Why did that guy get fired and that idiot is still here?' ''
 In ''Someone's Gotta Go,'' the firing decisions will be made by the employees, who will have access to each person's job reviews and salary figures. According to Variety, the series will be set in small offices of 15 to 20 people, and the laid-off workers may ''receive a small severance.''
 The recession and its effects on the work force have been dramatized in plotlines in some prime-time programs this season, including ''The Simpsons'' and ''Desperate Housewives.'' Mary Beth Haralovich, a television historian and a professor at the University of Arizona, said that an array of other reality programs showcase workplaces. ''But that is far different from lining up small companies to watch someone be fired,'' she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); REALITY TELEVISION (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (75%); JOURNALISM (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); LAYOFFS (72%); EXECUTIVES (68%)

COMPANY: ENDEMOL NV (57%); WASHINGTON POST CO (50%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (57%); SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2009



423 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 352 words

HEADLINE: Reviving the Motor Voter Law

 BODY:
In 1993, Congress passed the National Voter Registration Act, widely known as the motor voter law, to make it easier for eligible voters to register and to increase registration rates of traditionally underrepresented groups, including poor people. 
 In addition to requiring states to provide voter registration materials to people applying for and renewing driver's licenses, the law requires states to offer registration forms at offices that administer public assistance such as food stamps and unemployment insurance.
 States started out with some enthusiasm, but in recent years compliance has fallen sharply. Project Vote and Demos, public-interest groups that work for voting rights, studied the implementation of the motor voter law nationally from 1995 to 2007. In a 2005 study of 103 people leaving a Department of Jobs and Family Services office in Ohio, only three reported being given voter registration forms. Surveys conducted outside of public assistance offices in Arizona, Colorado, Florida, Maryland and other states found similar problems. 
 Not surprisingly, the motor voter law is proving to be far less effective in registering voters than it should be. According to the report by Project Vote and Demos, the number of people registering from public assistance agencies fell 79 percent between 1995 and 1996 -- the first years for which data were collected -- and 2005 and 2006, the most recent reporting period.
 This week, Senator Charles Schumer, a Democrat of New York, wrote to Attorney General Eric Holder and asked him to sue states that fail to comply with the National Voter Registration Act. For eight years, the Bush Justice Department showed little interest in enforcing the law. The Obama administration needs to do better.
 The larger answer to low registration rates is to enact laws requiring universal voter registration, which would put the burden on states to find people -- through government lists, including tax records -- and register them. But until that happens, the Justice Department should make sure that states follow the motor voter law's more modest mandates.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (95%); ELECTION LAW (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LAWYERS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); LICENSES & PERMITS (72%); FAMILY SERVICES (71%); FAMILY (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (64%); DRIVERS LICENSES (57%)

ORGANIZATION: PROJECT VOTE (83%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); ERIC HOLDER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2009



424 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: Spiritual Themes, Explored From Many Angles

BYLINE: By NEIL GENZLINGER

 BODY:
Channel surf around the television landscape, and it's not hard to find experts earnestly discussing politics or economics or even home decorating. But you'll rarely encounter anyone talking about spiritual matters, unless it's a megachurch pastor with an 800 number scrolling across the screen. 
 ''Global Spirit,'' a series that begins on Sunday on Link TV (and can be viewed free at linktv.org/globalspirit), is hoping to change that, and to capitalize on what the program's creators see as a growing interest in spiritual exploration. Each week the show will bring together scholars and other experts from different religious and philosophical backgrounds, not to sell a faith or argue hot-button issues, but to discuss universal themes like forgiveness or the nature of the spiritual journey. 
 ''Who are we? Why are we here? Where are we going?'' said Phil Cousineau, the program's host, paraphrasing the title of a Gauguin painting. ''In a sense, we're asking those three questions in every program.''
 Mr. Cousineau, a lecturer and author whose books include ''Soul: An Archaeology,'' has the job each week of moderating a genteel discussion between people who may not have ever met but may find they have much common ground. In the opening installment, titled ''The Spiritual Quest,'' Karen Armstrong, the scholar and author, who was once a nun, and Robert Thurman, the Columbia professor, who in the early 1960s was a Buddhist monk, share their stories and their thoughts on subjects like compassion and militarism.
 ''Forgiveness and Healing'' features Edward Tick, a psychotherapist who counsels war veterans, and Azim N. Khamisa, who after his son was killed in a robbery teamed up with the killer's grandfather to spread a message of reconciliation and peace.
 The discussions are broken up with short documentaries related to the guests and topics. In the ''Forgiveness'' installment, for instance, Dr. Tick accompanies Vietnam veterans back to that country to meet and learn from the people they once thought of as the enemy.
 ''We have been trying to come up with a theme that describes the show, and right now we're thinking: 'It's an internal travel series,' '' said Lorraine Hess, a creator and executive producer of the program, along with Stephen Olsson.
 Diane Winston, a professor of media and religion at the University of Southern California, said that although there have been occasional attempts to use television to examine spiritual themes -- Bill Moyers, for instance, has such programs on his resume -- the subject has generally been seen as having little commercial potential. 
 Now, however, might be an opportune time for such an endeavor, she said: other niche-television markets have proved fruitful, and spiritual tourism (travel to holy sites and places of meditation) is booming. Also, she noted, the number of people who identify themselves as spiritual but claim no religious affiliation -- and thus might be more open to accepting a range of ideas -- is growing. 
 Stewart M. Hoover, director of the Center for Media, Religion and Culture at the University of Colorado, also cited Mr. Moyers's work as among the precedents for the Link TV program, but said the series was new in several respects. 
 ''What is different about 'Global Spirit' is that it lacks the endorsement of specific authority, biblical or doctrinal or historical,'' he wrote in an e-mail message. And, he said, it reflects the character of the cable-TV and Internet age. 
 ''The digital realm carries with it an ethic of inquiry, of leveling,'' Dr. Hoover said, as opposed to the traditional voice-of-authority structure of many religions. ''That is the way we think when we go to the new media.''
 Dr. Thurman said the types of discussions fostered on ''Global Spirit'' are urgently needed.
 ''The world as it has been functioning is kind of crumbling,'' he said. ''I think that a complete reconstruction will have to go on, and very critical to building that new world that we now need is that we need to rethink things. And a very important place to begin is the world of spirit.''
 That view was echoed by Ravi Ravindra, a scholar who has written extensively on spirituality and religion and who is a guest on a segment titled ''The Journey Towards Oneness.''
 ''We have all sorts of fanatics and fundamentalists in many religious traditions,'' he said. ''Talking to people who come from different backgrounds is absolutely essential.''
 Though the program is having its premiere on Easter, Christianity is but one of many perspectives in the segments. An episode on April 26 explores ''Earth Wisdom'' with representatives of several indigenous peoples. ''In Search of Ecstasy,'' scheduled for broadcast next month, includes footage from Africa, Australia and other parts of the globe.
 Dr. Tick said getting insights from all over the world is one step to broader understanding, but another is getting the perspective of history, something he knows from studying post-traumatic stress disorder. Americans tend to think of that problem as a recent phenomenon, but countries where war has been a fact of life for many generations know better.
 ''The wounding of war is not new,'' he said. ''A cultural understanding of the depth and complexity of that wounding is not new.''
 For Mr. Cousineau, keeping the dialogue flowing among his varied guests is both the challenge and the fun.
 ''I try to put myself in the position of people I know who are curious about cultures,'' he said, ''and try to ask what they would ask if they were in my lucky shoes.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Edward Tick, center, comforts a Vietnam War veteran in a segment from ''Global Spirit.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY LINK TV) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); RELIGION (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (87%); WRITERS (87%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (74%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); VETERANS (63%); VIETNAM WAR (63%); ARCHAEOLOGY (51%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Global Spirit (TV Program); Global Spirit (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2009



425 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSIC REVIEW LOS ANGELES PHILHARMONIC; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: Moving On, a Music Director Leaves an Imprint, and a New Hall

BYLINE: By ANTHONY TOMMASINI

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
On Thursday night Esa-Pekka Salonen conducted his next-to-last program as the music director of the Los Angeles Philharmonic. And the most tangible manifestation of his galvanizing 17-year tenure with the orchestra may be the place the program was performed: Walt Disney Concert Hall, the Los Angeles Philharmonic's home since 2003.
 Within a few years of taking charge, Mr. Salonen was advancing the case that the orchestra needed a contemporary hall to match the adventurous spirit that he was generating with the musicians. This move would enable the Philharmonic, he said, not only to realize its full potential as an orchestra but also to become a cultural and educational force in the city. At the time, it was sharing the Dorothy Chandler Pavilion, a 1964 auditorium that was well appointed but too big and acoustically drab for the innovative ensemble that the Los Angeles Philharmonic was becoming under Mr. Salonen. 
 Board members, patrons, civic officials and corporate sponsors eventually agreed. When Disney Hall, one of Frank Gehry's most inspired creations, opened, it immediately became America's coolest concert hall, with an auditorium that seats 2,265 but feels much more intimate. Audiences surround the orchestra, and the acoustics are ideal. Building the hall was a vote of confidence by the city, signaling that a symphony orchestra could excite the public and revitalize a downtown Los Angeles neighborhood.
 With a $95 million operating budget, the largest of any American orchestra, the Philharmonic seems to be thriving. Even during the economic downturn, concerts have had a 92 percent attendance rate, according to Deborah Borda, the orchestra's president and chief executive.
 The other way that Thursday's concert was emblematic of Mr. Salonen's success here was in the typically adventurous program he chose. He began with a rapturous account of a bold work from the 1970s by Gyorgy Ligeti, the towering master who died in 2006. Then came the premiere of Mr. Salonen's own Violin Concerto, written for and played with stunning brilliance by Leila Josefowicz. The program concluded with a bracing performance of Beethoven's Fifth Symphony. 
 Mixing old and new works so the pieces interact in intriguing ways has been a hallmark of Mr. Salonen's programming. The orchestra's audiences have come to expect no less, and Thursday's packed house erupted in ovations after each performance, starting with Ligeti's ''Clocks and Clouds.''
 Ligeti took the title for this piece from an essay by the philosopher Karl Popper, which describes two kinds of processes in nature, one that can be measured in time, another that is amorphous but no less continual. Here Ligeti uses precise rhythmic and harmonic shapes that ''gradually change into diffuse sound textures and vice versa,'' in his own words. 
 It begins with rhythmically clipped two-note and three-note riffs, as if the instruments are stuttering. The clocks are relentless but irregular. The pulsating music evolves into hazy passages of layered sonorities and piercingly dissonant harmonies. The women of the Los Angeles Master Chorale, seated in the rows where the first violins are typically located, contributed an array of haunting vocal sounds: hushed hums, sustained high tones, sputterings and more. Mr. Salonen, a Ligeti champion, led a riveting performance.
 Mr. Salonen has said that the main reason he is moving on from the Philharmonic is that he wants more time for composing. In a program note about his new Violin Concerto, a 30-minute work in four movements, he writes that it is in some ways a ''summary of my experiences as a musician and a human being at the watershed age of 50.'' If that sounds like a big agenda for one piece, the concerto comes across as a rhapsodic, inspired and restless work, too immediate to weigh down listeners with philosophical musings
 The first movement opens with a long stretch for the solo violin that could be a neo-Baroque toccata, with nonstop spans of rippling 16th notes, until the orchestra begins to comment and respond. Soon, in a heaving eruption, the orchestra seems to tell the violin, ''Slow down, take a breath, let's consider all this,'' which the violin does.
 The back and forth continues throughout the movements, where the orchestra zooms in, ponders and rattles the soloist. The third movement, Pulse II, is the most raucous, with fractured tunes and heady orchestral wildness. It sounds like some hip West Coast answer to Stravinsky's ''Rite of Spring.''
 Mr. Salonen, with his vast experience as a conductor, is so skilled at orchestration that every piece he writes, including this concerto, has a brilliant surface and wondrous sound. In the late 1990s he had a sort of California epiphany, realizing that without his modernist mentors looking over his shoulder, he could write the way he wanted to. Like many of his recent scores, this concerto is afire with determination to reach the audience, perhaps too much so. The music lacks the sinewy toughness of Mr. Salonen's more modernist days. The most affecting movement may be the final ''Adieu,'' a pensive, elusive and harmonically quizzical rumination, though still spiked with virtuosic violin flights.
 Ms. Josefowicz gave a thrilling performance of this daunting work, playing with gleaming sound, supple technique and, amazingly, from memory. The orchestra sounded great. Some 54 players, about half of the current roster, were recruited during the Salonen years. So the Los Angeles Philharmonic is truly his band, and the collaborative connection comes through in every performance.
 After these two works were performed, it was somehow exactly the moment to hear Beethoven's Fifth. Mr. Salonen and his players were not striving for a performance to enter the annals of immortal Beethoven playing. Rather, here were adventurous musicians eager to bring freshness and enthusiasm to a repertory staple. And what a relief this well-played, vigorous and lucid performance was.
 The final performance of this program by the Los Angeles Philharmonic is Saturday night at Walt Disney Concert Hall, 111 South Grand Avenue, Los Angeles; Esa-Pekka Salonen concludes his tenure as music director next week with an all-Stravinsky program; laphil.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Esa-Pekka Salonen with Leila Josefowicz after the premiere of his Violin Concerto at Walt Disney Concert Hall on Thursday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CITY LIFE (74%); SPONSORSHIP (73%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (73%); BUDGETS (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (58%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (58%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (58%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (58%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (96%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2009



426 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: Asian Stocks Rise Modestly After Wall Street Jump

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER

DATELINE: HONG KONG 

 BODY:
Stock markets in Asia were broadly higher on Friday, helped by the strong rally staged by Wall Street overnight. But the rises in Asia were more modest, and numerous key markets were shut for public holidays. 
 The Nikkei 225 index in Japan eked out an increase of 0.5 percent, the Kospi in South Korea rose 1.5 percent, and the key indices in Taiwan and mainland China both gained more than 2 percent all helped by Wall Street's performance on Thursday in which the main indexes saw gains above 3 percent.
 The rally in the American markets was propelled by the announcement by Wells Fargo, one of the United States' largest consumer banks, that it expects to post record profits in the first quarter. That kindled hopes that the financial system, which dragged the economy toward the brink, was now poised to lead the way out of the downturn.
 The news came amid mounting signs that the worst of the economic downturn may now be over even though a perceptible recovery remains months off.
 On Friday, data from China showed exports in March were 17.1 percent below a year earlier, while imports slumped 25.1 percent. It was the fifth consecutive month of falls in exports but the drop-off was slightly less than analysts had forecast, and was less severe than a month earlier, when exports had slumped 25.7 percent.
 Meanwhile, market sentiment in Japan received a boost from Thursday's announcement of yet another major stimulus package the country's biggest ever, which Prime Minister Taro Aso said would make Japan into a global leader in technologies like solar energy and electric cars. Stocks of some of Japan's carmakers saw the biggest jumps in Tokyo on Friday, with Isuzu Motors, Japan's third-biggest maker of commercial vehicles, soaring 12.3 percent. Nissan gained 4.9 percent and Honda rose 1.1 percent. The electronics giants Sony and Toshiba advanced 4.2 percent and 2.2 percent respectively, and Hitachi gained 5.4 percent.
 But Japan's bank stocks dropped in the wake of news, after the close of trade Thursday, that Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group, one of Japan's three so-called ''megabanks,'' expected to report a full-year loss of nearly $4 billion and planned to raise $8 billion via a new share offer.
 That news raised fresh concerns about the health of the country's other banks. Fitch Ratings, the ratings agency, said late Thursday it may cut its ratings for SMFG and the other two main Japanese banks, Mizuho Financial Group and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, reflecting what it said was its ''concern about increasing downward pressure on the major bank groups' individual financial strengths as asset quality, capital quality, and core business profitability continue to be negatively impacted by the macroeconomic recession.''
 On Friday, SMFG's shares plummeted 13.9 percent, Mizuho Financial Group dropped 9.6 percent and Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group slid 1 percent.
 In the Asia-Pacific region, Australia, New Zealand, Singapore and Hong Kong markets were closed Friday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (79%); ELECTRONICS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); RECESSION (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (74%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (72%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); RETAIL BANKING (69%); AUTOMAKERS (68%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (68%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (68%); MOTOR VEHICLES (68%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (68%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (66%); PRIME MINISTERS (64%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (64%); CREDIT BUREAUS (63%); SOLAR ENERGY (63%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (63%)

COMPANY: MITSUBISHI UFJ FINANCIAL GROUP INC (84%); WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); MIZUHO FINANCIAL GROUP INC (58%); TOSHIBA CORP (58%); SUMITOMO MITSUI FINANCIAL GROUP INC (58%); ISUZU MOTORS LTD (53%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (51%)

TICKER: MTU (NYSE) (84%); 8306 (TSE) (84%); WFC (NYSE) (83%); MFG (NYSE) (58%); 8411 (TSE) (58%); TOS (LSE) (58%); 6502 (TSE) (58%); SMFG (NYSE) (58%); 8316 (TSE) (58%); 7202 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (53%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (51%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (51%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (51%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (51%)

PERSON: TARO ASO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%) JAPAN (95%); ASIA (94%); CHINA (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); TAIWAN (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2009



427 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: Witness to Luckless Lives on the Periphery

BYLINE: By ERIC KONIGSBERG

 BODY:
Wells Tower's book of short stories, ''Everything Ravaged, Everything Burned,'' has attracted a great number of vivid descriptions from admiring critics in the few weeks since it came out, and ''strange'' is perhaps the most commonly employed.
 Also: ''lurid''; ''crammed with more pathos than a 400-page potboiler''; ''bittersweet,'' ''beautiful'' and ''ardently conflicted'' (in the same review); and ''sad-funny-disturbing'' (all in the same hyphenated clause). The last came from Michiko Kakutani of The New York Times, who wrote that the book ''decisively establishes'' Mr. Tower ''as a writer of uncommon talent'' and drew comparisons to Sam Shepard's social radar, Frederic Barthelme's ear and David Foster Wallace's eye. 
 The book is a lot of things, in other words, but, given the subject matter of the stories, which range from marital infidelity to a boy's mistreatment at the hands of his stepfather to the dismemberment of a moose to Viking mutilation, you would not expect anybody to call it cute. Yet when Mr. Tower submitted the finished manuscript to Courtney Hodell, his editor at Farrar, Straus & Giroux, the words ''too adorable'' were among those she wrote most frequently in the margins. And she didn't mean it as a compliment.
 ''Initially, there was a lot more corn-pone-ing and self-consciously vernacular language, cute little moments,'' Mr. Tower said in an interview the other day, adding that he reined all that in upon revision. ''So I actually didn't sit down to write a bleak collection. When I look back at the early stories, it seemed much more like a 'Hee Haw' episode.''
 Mr. Tower, 35, recently moved to Brooklyn from his childhood hometown, Chapel Hill, N.C., and said he had always had a soft spot for the Southern Gothic, particularly the late-generation authors Barry Hannah and Larry Brown. The current that runs stronger than regional sensibility through his stories, however, involves a measure of working-class aggression among characters in culturally nonspecific American exurbs.
 ''I suppose they're stories about people in extremes, people who are just trying to find a little bit of peace in the world -- usually after some horrific incident,'' Mr. Tower said. ''And usually that quest for peace leads them to additional horror.''
 Mr. Tower's curiosity and affection for a less privileged group, he said, probably owe something to the complexities of growing up in a refined but less-than-wealthy household -- a family of teachers who drove beat-up old cars, as he put it. His father is an economics professor at Duke, and his mother teaches high school Latin. ''We lived on the fringe of the New South. It wasn't the kind of suburban upbringing where the people around us were doctors and lawyers.'' 
 As for his all-noun name, Mr. Tower (who has a half-brother named Lake) said he was named for Wells Kerr, a long-serving dean of students at Phillips Exeter Academy who, according to family lore, was responsible for expelling Mr. Tower's grandfather for possession of either cigarettes or a bottle of bourbon. (And perhaps the only thing fancier than having gone to boarding school -- Mr. Tower went to public school -- is having an ancestor two or more generations before you who went to boarding school.)
 ''He eventually became an abiding friend of the family,'' Mr. Tower said. ''But it wasn't a deliberate juxtaposition, I don't think, to -- '' He finished the thought by levering his hands in a way that suggested the above- and below-ground positions of a well and a tower.
 After graduating from Wesleyan University in Connecticut, Mr. Tower spent much of his 20s drifting around the country (New Orleans, Maryland, Oregon and Maine), working odd jobs -- ''data entry and warehouse work,'' he said -- and nursing an obsession with the mechanics of things (construction, animal anatomy, the properties of food) that has made its way into his stories' meticulous descriptions. 
 ''I went through a period in Maine when I just kept poaching chickens night after night,'' he said. ''It was so cold in the house in Maine that you always had to have a pot of water on. I reserved the stock of a dozen chickens and made this risotto that was so strong, it was like eating a vulcanized tire.''
 He was also, he says, an inveterate ''collector of conversations,'' keeping notebooks of heard and overheard language that struck him as unusual. ''There were some that I liked so much, I realized I had reused them in more than one of the stories in the book,'' he said. ''So that ended up letting me find homes for other pieces of conversation instead.''
 Mr. Tower's writing career began when he persuaded an editor at The Washington Post Magazine to assign him an article on life as a carnival worker. Then he was hired as one, operating a pirate-ship ride (it makes an appearance in one of the book's stories). He lasted a week, enough for the article, and for subsequent pieces he immersed himself in the disparate worlds of New Orleans voodoo, interstate truckers, a Pentecostal preacher, professional miniature golf players, compulsive gamblers and Wal-Mart workers. 
 ''I really came to identify with these blue-collar stories,'' he said. ''So much of our economic life in America is built on this substrate of brutal and crushingly dull work. But if all you did were watch sitcoms, you wouldn't even know this class exists.''
 Eventually, while pursuing an M.F.A. at Columbia, Mr. Tower began writing fiction. The first story he ever wrote was plucked from the slush pile of The Paris Review and published. But he remained drawn to the settings he encountered doing magazine work, perhaps because around the inhabitants of those worlds, the stakes feel higher.
 ''Maybe I've just chosen these characters from a rougher class because you can see them consider their lives in terms beyond where they're drawing a paycheck,'' he said.
 But Mr. Tower's characters are neither simple nor particularly reticent, and the disparity between their bad luck and their ability to recognize it is what fuels many of the stories.
 Mr. Tower is currently writing a novel. His fourth-floor walk-up in Greenpoint has desks in two different rooms -- one for fiction and one for nonfiction -- but only one sink, in the kitchen.
 ''It's a dream of mine to someday have an apartment in New York where I can brush my teeth in the bathroom,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Wells Tower at his home in Greenpoint, Brooklyn.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 PHOTO (pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (89%); INTERVIEWS (74%); STEPPARENTS (51%)

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2009



428 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: Austere Times? Perfect

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
Millions of Americans have trimmed expenses because they have had their jobs or hours cut, or fear they will. But a subset of savers are reducing costs not just with purpose, but with relish. These are the gleefully frugal.
 ''I'm enjoying this,'' said Becky Martin, 52, who has cut up her 10 credit cards, borrows movies from the library instead of renting them, and grows her own fruits and vegetables -- even though her family is comfortable. 
 Ms. Martin is a real estate investor, her husband is a plastic surgeon, and their home sits on the 12th hole of a Cincinnati country club.
 ''It's a chance to pass along the frugal lifestyle that my mother gave to me,'' she says, noting that her sensibilities seem to be rubbing off not just on her sons, but also on her husband. ''We're on the same page financially for the first time in years, and it's fabulous.'' 
 Americans' spending is down and their personal savings are up -- sharply. The savings rate in the United States, which had fallen steadily since the early 1980s, dropped to less than 1 percent in August of 2008. It has since spiked to 5 percent.
 ''It's huge,'' said Martha Olney, an economics professor at the University of California, Berkeley, who specializes in the Great Depression, consumerism and indebtedness. The rapid reversal is even more remarkable, she said, because in recessions consumers usually save less money. Not this time. ''It implies a re-emergence of thrift as a value,'' she said.
 The gleefully frugal happily seek new ways to economize and take pride in outsaving the Joneses. The mantra is cut, cut, cut -- magazine and cable subscriptions, credit cards, fancy coffee drinks and your own hair. 
 In San Francisco, Cooper Marcus, 36, has started choosing recipes based on the ingredients on sale at the market. Mr. Marcus canceled the family's subscription to Netflix, his premium cable package and a wine club membership. He uses a program on his iPhone to find the cheapest gas and drives out of his way to save 50 cents per gallon.
 ''It seems a little crazy,'' he laughs, then adds: ''I'm frugal and loving it.'' 
 Kellee Sikes, 37, a consultant in Kirkwood, Mo., no longer uses paper napkins. Ms. Sikes uses organic cloth ones until they get threadbare and then uses them as cleaning rags. When they are no longer useful, she puts them in the in-ground waste composter in the backyard. She plans to start burying her dogs' feces there, which saves on the cost of sending refuse to a landfill. 
 ''I recently heard a phrase: 'Never waste a crisis,' '' Ms. Sikes said. ''I love it. This is a chance for us to re-examine what's important.'' 
 Indeed, the recession has given penny pinchers -- once closeted in a society that valued what one had, not what one saved -- license to speak up. 
 ''There is no joy in other people suffering, but this validates the choices I've made,'' said Vicki Robin, author of ''Your Money or Your Life,'' a guide to saving money that was a best seller in the 1990s and was re-released last year. 
 Currently, there are dozens of Web sites and blogs devoted to celebrating conspicuous cutting, like Dollar Stretcher (www.stretcher.com), All Things Frugal (allthingsfrugal.com), Frugal Mom (www.frugalmom.net), and on and on. The Web site meetup.com, which helps people of like interests gather offline, lists 57 ''frugal living'' groups around the country, including eight formed in February and nine in March.
 One part of the gleefully frugal movement, frugalistas -- frugal fashionistas who refuse to sacrifice style -- may have been popularized in Britain before crossing the Atlantic. But Americans have taken it on as their own.
 A Virginia group, the Frugal and Fabulous Moms, tells prospective members: ''If you are a coupon-clipping, deal-seeking, stylish and fabulous mom that loves a great deal, then this group is for you!'' 
 A San Francisco group met one Sunday last month for an exercise in fashion frugality: a clothing swap. About 80 women exchanged clothing, shoes and accessories and they are planning another event for April 20 where they hope to have 400 participants.
 ''When a woman gets a compliment on a dress she got at a swap or the Salvation Army, she feels almost proud,'' said Suzanne Agasi, organizer of the event and operator of the Web site clothingswaps.com. People at the event ''feel like they've scored,'' she said. 
 ''My behavior has become less strange and more of a resource,'' said Katy Wolk-Stanley, 41, a nurse in Portland, Ore. A practicing penny-pincher for the last decade, she is now spreading her gospel. Last May, she started a blog with tips and tactics for cutting back called The Non-Consumer Advocate. 
 She knows whereof she blogs. She darns socks, dries clothes on a line she recently hung inside her house (even though it takes a few days for the clothes to dry inside), washes and reuses plastic bags and takes used clothes and furniture people leave on the street -- like the slightly torn Garnet Hill duvet cover she found recently.
 ''It was wet, and covered with dog hair,'' she said. ''I washed it really well a couple of times and mended it.'' Her quest for money-saving ideas ''is very energizing,'' she says. ''You see opportunities everywhere.''
 Ms. Wolk-Stanley says she is not cheap. She's sensible. Why spend on new things when there are viable alternatives? And she contends she does not judge others. 
 ''If everyone followed this advice, it would be catastrophic to the economy,'' she said.
 Indeed, economists call it the Paradox of Thrift. While saving is desirable, if everyone does it then consumption falls, businesses fail and the economy grinds to a halt. Professor Olney, from Berkeley, said that the increased rate of savings would most likely slow down the pace of recovery but she also said that a higher savings rate was not inconsistent with a strong economy; from the 1950s to the early 1980s, the savings rate hovered around 9 percent, according to the Bureau of Economic Analysis.
 Although the children of the Great Depression raised the spendthrift baby boom generation, Ms. Martin, from Ohio, echoes other penny pinchers in hoping that the recession spawns a new generation of frugality. Already, her 14-year-old son has picked up her lead. ''He is not beyond stopping and pulling things out from someone's trash,'' she said. He found one sectional sofa left on the sidewalk that he resold on the Internet for $200.
 ''I'm very proud of him.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Suzanne Agasi, founder of ClothingSwaps.com, with the San Francisco designer Victor Tung, who was donating a dress.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DaSILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Katy Wolk-Stanley of the Non-Consumer Advocate hangs clothes to dry in her Portland, Ore., house to save on electricity.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LEAH NASH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Stylists at Blow salon in San Francisco meet with Suzanne Agasi, right, of ClothingSwaps.com. Ms. Agasi wanted the stylists to help her pamper participants at one of her clothing swaps.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DaSILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); GREAT DEPRESSION (64%); LANDFILLS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: NETFLIX INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA BERKELEY (54%)

TICKER: NFLX (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (57%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (74%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (70%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (57%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (70%); OHIO, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2009



429 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: Bloomberg Bullish on Jobs While Others Forecast Gloom

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
Despite a steady downpour of gloomy forecasts about New York's economy, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is holding firm to a bold promise: He says he has a plan to ''create or save'' 400,000 jobs in the city over the next six years.
 Mr. Bloomberg first made that pledge in his State of the City speech in mid-January. Now he is making it again in the first television commercial for his re-election campaign. 
 The optimistic note, which implies a net gain of 100,000 jobs by 2015, seems to contradict most projections of employment in the city, including those from the mayor's own office. In January, the city's Office of Management and Budget forecast that there would be fewer jobs in the city at the end of 2013 -- nearly five years off -- than there are now.
 Since then, the situation has worsened. The city's unemployment rate jumped to 8.1 percent in February, from 6.9 percent in January, as the pace of job losses accelerated. On Thursday, the mayor indicated that he might add to the unemployment rolls by laying off as many as 7,000 city workers unless agencies otherwise reduce their spending by $350 million annually.
 The city's Independent Budget Office expects the job losses to continue until the middle of next year. After that, employment growth in the city will lag behind the national recovery, said George Sweeting, deputy director of the budget office.
 ''The city went into this late, and we think it's going to come out late,'' Mr. Sweeting said. He added that according to his office's forecast, ''by the end of 2013, we're still not back to where we were at the end of the first quarter of 2008.''
 Mr. Sweeting said that he expected the mayor's budget proposal for 2010 to be predicated on a gloomier outlook than Mr. Bloomberg gave in January. But Robert C. Lieber, the deputy mayor for economic development, said those forecasts were conservative, to reduce the odds of negative surprises.
 The mayor's pronouncement about job creation is a different matter, Mr. Lieber said. He called it a ''target, an objective that we want to push hard to achieve.''
 He explained that the mayor expected that as many as 300,000 private-sector jobs would be lost before the recession hits bottom, but that when the economy starts growing again, 400,000 jobs will be created. By 2015, the city will have 3.35 million private-sector jobs, or about 100,000 more than it had at the peaks of the last two booms.
 Over the last two decades, the city has established a pattern of boom and bust that has left it with about the same number of jobs at each of the high points, according to data compiled by the State Department of Labor. For the private sector, that high-water mark has been about 3.25 million jobs. It was reached in late 2000 and again last fall.
 ''We should be able to crack the high-water mark that the city has achieved in the past,'' Mr. Lieber said.
 To do that, employment in the city would have to grow considerably faster than it did after the last recession, an expansion that lasted from late 2003 through late 2008. During those five years, the number of private-sector jobs increased by about 270,000, or less than 10 percent. Mr. Bloomberg's goal implies growth of more than 13 percent.
 Mr. Lieber said the city's recovery from the deeper recession that begin 1989 and ended in 1993 was a more fitting comparison. During the boom of the 1990s, the city's employment increased at an annual rate of about 2.5 percent. With a lower crime rate and generally higher quality of life that it has now, the city should be able to attract jobs at a similar pace after this recession, he said.
 ''Is it an ambitious goal? Yeah, it's an ambitious goal,'' Mr. Lieber said. But he added, ''We're confident we can do that.''
 Mr. Lieber said the plan assumed that all 60,000 to 70,000 lost financial-sector jobs would be replaced. But some economists said they doubted that Wall Street would recover as fast as it had in the past, if it ever does. 
 ''I'm assuming that finance is going to come back really, really slow,'' said Marisa DiNatale, a senior economist who tracks the regional economy for Moody's Economy.com. ''It's not going to come back for several years after it stops losing jobs.''
 Ms. DiNatale said she expected financial-sector employment in the region to decline until mid-2010 and not rise again for two years after that. She said it should take at least 3 1/2 years to recover all of the jobs lost in the region once the recession ended.
 Even if Mr. Bloomberg is re-elected, he would be out of office before his promise could be tested. And, as N. Gregory Mankiw, a Harvard economist, pointed out, he could always fall back on the phrase ''create or save'' 400,000 jobs.
 ''Absent a parallel universe in which there was another New York City,'' Mr. Mankiw said, there would be no way to measure how many jobs had actually been saved by Mr. Bloomberg's actions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg in the first television commercial for his re-election campaign. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); MAYORS (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); RECESSION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (56%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2009



430 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1236 words

HEADLINE: Showdown Seen Between Banks And Regulators

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON and EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
As the Obama administration completes its examinations of the nation's largest banks, industry executives are bracing for fights with the government over repayment of bailout money and forced sales of bad mortgages.
 President Obama emerged from a meeting with his senior economic advisers on Friday to say ''what you're starting to see is glimmers of hope across the economy.'' But there were also signs of growing tensions between the White House and the nation's banks over the next phase of the financial rescue.
 Some of the healthier banks want to pay back their bailout loans to avoid executive pay and other restrictions that come with the money. But the banks are balking at the hefty premium they agreed to pay when they took the money. 
 Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, and two other executives of large banks raised the issue with Mr. Obama and the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, at a meeting two weeks ago. 
 ''This is a source of considerable consternation,'' said Camden R. Fine, who attended the White House meeting as president of the Independent Community Bankers, a trade group of 5,000 mostly smaller institutions, many of which are complaining about the repayment requirements. 
 Meanwhile, the Obama administration wants weaker banks to move more quickly to relieve their balance sheets of the toxic assets, the home loans and mortgage bonds that nobody wants to buy right now. But the banks are resisting because they would have to book big losses.
 Finally, there is increasing anxiety in the industry that the administration could use the stress tests of the 19 biggest banks, due to be completed in the next three weeks, to insist on management changes, just as it did with General Motors when officials forced the resignation of its chief executive after examining that company's books.
 Senior officials, recognizing that the next few weeks could prove pivotal for both the industry and the bailout effort, are moving ahead with major plans. 
 ''You will be seeing additional actions by the administration,'' Mr. Obama said after the meeting Friday, when the officials discussed the bank stress tests and the new $500 billion to $1 trillion plan that will use public subsidies to encourage private investors to buy mortgage assets.
 Attending the session were Mr. Geithner; Sheila C. Bair, the head of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; Lawrence H. Summers, the chairman of the National Economic Council; and other top regulators. 
 The tension between the industry and the administration is rising as the government's bailout fund is dwindling, putting the administration in a bind. It is all but certain to need to seek more money from Congress, which wants to see results from existing programs first. 
 The fund is down to its final $134 billion, according to Treasury officials, and is expected to face new requests for money in the coming weeks to aid tottering banks, the auto industry and possibly insurance companies.
 ''Between now and Memorial Day we're going to know a whole lot more about the degree of trouble the banks are in,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer, a New York Democrat who is vice chairman of the Joint Economic Committee. ''At the same time, we will begin to have a good initial reading as to how well the administration's programs are working.'' 
 This month, the nation's largest banks began announcing their latest quarterly earnings. Some, like Wells Fargo, have released results early to trumpet their profitable first quarter -- and possibly to give them leverage in coming negotiations with their regulator. 
 The immediate concern for the administration is how to get the weaker banks to relieve their books of deteriorating mortgages and mortgage-backed securities.
 Industry analysts estimate that United States banks alone have more than $1 trillion of such mortgages on their books but have recognized only a small share of the likely losses.
 Economists at Goldman Sachs estimated recently that banks were valuing their mortgages at about 91 cents on the dollar, far more than investors are willing to pay for them. 
 Even though the Treasury Department plans to subsidize the purchases of toxic assets by giving buyers low-cost loans to cover most of their upfront cost, a growing number of analysts warn that many if not most banks will remain reluctant to sell. 
 ''The gap is still very wide,'' said Frank Pallotta, a former mortgage trader at Morgan Stanley, now a consultant to institutional investors. ''If every bank was forced to sell at the market-clearing price, you'd have only five banks left in the market.''
 The stress tests of the banks are aimed at estimating how much each bank would lose if the economic downturn proved even deeper than currently expected. 
 Government officials do not plan to disclose the results for individual banks but may reveal broad results for the entire industry at the end of the month. 
 If the test indicates that the losses would leave a bank with too little capital, the bank will have six months to either raise extra money from private investors or get money from the government. Executives at some banks are worried that regulators will start demanding changes in management and strategy, possibly forcing them to merge with stronger institutions.
 Treasury officials said they understood that banks had valid reasons for placing higher values on their mortgages than investors, and said they were hoping to avoid major conflicts.
 Facing a host of government restrictions -- from how much they pay executives to how many foreign citizens they employ -- some small banks have returned the bailout money, and some larger ones, including Goldman Sachs, Wells Fargo and Northern Trust, have said they want to do so as quickly as possible. 
 On Friday, Sun Bancorp of Vineland, N.J., became the sixth bank to exit the program, returning $89.3 million just three months after it received its loan.
 Regulators are reluctant to approve the early repayments until banks can show that they have the capital to withstand further erosion in the economy and will not curtail their lending.
 Both large and small banks have pressed the Obama administration to make it less costly for them to exit the bailout program by waiving the right to exercise stock warrants the banks had to grant the government in exchange for the loans. At a meeting last month, the chiefs of three of the largest banks separately asked Mr. Obama to direct the Treasury not to exercise the warrants, Mr. Fine said.
 Douglas Leech, the founder and chief executive of Centra Bank, a small West Virginia bank that participated in the capital assistance program but returned the money after the government imposed new conditions, said he complained strongly about the Treasury Department's decision to demand repayment of the warrants. That effectively raised the interest rate he paid on a $15 million loan to an annual rate of about 60 percent, he said. 
 ''What they did is wrong and fundamentally un-American,'' he said. ''Even though the government told us to take this money to increase our lending, the extra charge meant we had less money to lend. It was the equivalent of a penalty for early withdrawal.''
 Stephanie Cutter, a spokeswoman at the Treasury Department, said it did not comment about the participation of specific banks in the plan or their efforts to exit the program.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama cited ''glimmers of hope across the economy'' after meeting advisers on Friday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A10) CHART: What's Spent, What's Left: According to the Treasury Department, more than $130 billion of the $700 billion allocated for the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) is still available.(Source: Treasury Department)(A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (78%); TOXIC ASSETS (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (77%); COMMUNITY BANKS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); BONDS (68%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (62%); INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY BANKERS OF AMERICA (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (62%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (62%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%); SHEILA BAIR (57%); JAMES DIMON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2009



431 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: Tanned, Rested And Moving On

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Condoleezza Rice will be there. So will Karen Hughes and Dan Bartlett and Michael Gerson. And George W. Bush himself.
 The old gang is getting back together next week in Dallas for a reunion of sorts, the Bush team's first since leaving the White House. On tap is a dinner with the former president and a daylong discussion of the future George W. Bush Policy Institute.
Barely 80 days after turning the Oval Office over to President Obama, a tanned and rested Mr. Bush is emerging from seclusion to begin his postpresidency. He has started giving speeches, joined an off-road bicycle club, thrown out the first pitch at the Texas Rangers' home opener and scheduled a trip to China to speak at an economic forum.
 More important, Mr. Bush is trying to map out what he wants to do with the rest of his life. Relatively young, at 62, and in good health, he plans to build a library, write a memoir and make some money, but he is also eager to use his time to promote the policies he cared about most while in the White House -- and to help define his legacy. 
 More than most other former presidents, Mr. Bush faces a daunting challenge on that front. After the war in Iraq, Hurricane Katrina and the financial crisis, he left office with some of the lowest poll numbers on record and may find it difficult rewriting the narrative of his tenure. But other former presidents -- Richard M. Nixon, Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton, for example -- have managed to burnish their reputations after leaving office.
 Not coming to next week's session is former Vice President Dick Cheney, who in the final days of the administration argued with Mr. Bush about his refusal to pardon Mr. Cheney's former chief of staff, I. Lewis Libby Jr., who was convicted of perjury for his role in the leak of Valerie Wilson's employment with the Central Intelligence Agency. Mr. Cheney later went on television to air his grievances with Mr. Bush, while also accusing Mr. Obama of endangering the country.
 That is an approach Mr. Bush has rejected. ''He thinks President Obama deserves his silence,'' said Mr. Bartlett, who was White House counselor. ''He's not going to be out there opining, second-guessing or flyspecking Obama's decisions.'' 
 Besides, he added, Mr. Bush is moving on. ''He's kind of getting a new cadence to his life,'' Mr. Bartlett said. ''He can hang out with a neighbor, go out for an evening and go down to Crawford if he wants.''
 After about a month at their ranch near Crawford, Tex., Mr. Bush and his wife, Laura, moved into their new 8,500-square-foot house in Dallas. He stopped by a nearby elementary school and talked to a class at Southern Methodist University, where his library will be built. He paid a surprise visit to a hardware store whose owner had offered him a job in a tongue-in-cheek newspaper advertisement. And he has been using e-mail for the first time in eight years.
 So far, he has delivered a paid speech in Calgary, Alberta, and has others scheduled soon in Michigan and China, though his office will not disclose his fees. (The Washington Speakers Bureau, which represents Mr. Bush, says on its Web site that he shares ''candid insights on his eight years in the White House, his experiences with other world leaders, the nature of public leadership and decision making, and a wide variety of domestic and international issues.'')
 As for his legacy, Mr. Bush plans to tackle the most controversial moments of his presidency head on, both in his memoirs and in his library, aides said. At the library, instead of a chronological format, he plans to present his presidency through 20 consequential decisions, most notably his decision to invade Iraq and topple Saddam Hussein. And instead of a full biography, his book will focus on a dozen key moments in his life, from quitting drinking to picking Mr. Cheney as his vice president.
 The idea, aides said, is to put the reader or visitor in Mr. Bush's shoes. 
 ''People may conclude that they would have made a different decision, or maybe they'll conclude they would have made the same decision,'' said Mark Langdale, a longtime friend and president of the George W. Bush Foundation. ''We're trying to take the tradition of presidential libraries and come up with a new twist on how they can be relevant.''
 The foundation has chosen an architect and is raising the first of $300 million it needs to build the library and museum on 25 acres provided by S.M.U. The groundbreaking is scheduled for November 2010, with hopes of opening in early 2013. Mr. Langdale declined to disclose how much has been raised, saying fund-raising is ''going well'' but has been constrained by the economy.
 Mr. Bush does not plan to wait to open his policy institute, which is set to begin sponsoring activities and host its first fellows this fall. The meeting next week was called to brainstorm on ideas for the institute. About 20 people close to the former president will dine with Mr. and Mrs. Bush at their home on Monday night and then spend Tuesday discussing the institute.
 ''It's an opportunity to further the issues that he cared about, expanding opportunity across the world,'' said Ms. Hughes, one of Mr. Bush's closest advisers since his days as governor of Texas. ''He's mentioned to me the idea of bringing staff from new democracies to the institute, people maybe from Africa who've worked on the AIDS initiative there. I think it will be a very vibrant and exciting place.''
 In addition to Ms. Hughes and Mr. Bartlett, those expected to attend include Ms. Rice, the former secretary of state; Mr. Gerson, the former chief speechwriter; Dr. Mark R. Dybul, the former director of Mr. Bush's international AIDS program; and Yuval Levin, a former domestic policy aide. 
 Mr. Bush started working on his memoir two days after leaving the White House, aides said, and gets up every morning around 5 or 5:30 to write for a few hours before heading to temporary offices in Dallas. He has written about 45,000 words so far with the help of Christopher Michel, 27, a former White House speechwriter, aides said; the book, tentatively titled ''Decision Points,'' is set for publication by Crown next year.
 While unpopular in other parts of the country, Mr. Bush has been welcomed home warmly by Texas. He received a standing ovation at the Rangers game this week, and, in posts online, people he encounters on the Dallas Off Road Bicycle Association trails have gushed about meeting him.
 And he is beginning to get out of Texas, as well. After the gathering with aides next week, he will fly to Boao, China, where he will address the Boao Forum for Asia, a Chinese version of the World Economic Forum at Davos, Switzerland.
 ''He's doing great,'' Mr. Langdale said. ''He's very happy.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO A week after he left office, former President George W. Bush posed with Baylor cheerleaders at a game in Waco, Tex. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JERRY LARSON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); IRAQ WAR (73%); BASEBALL (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%); HURRICANES (65%); PARDONS (62%); HURRICANE KATRINA (51%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: TEXAS RANGERS (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); DICK CHENEY (79%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (74%); BILL CLINTON (73%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (88%) TEXAS, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2009



432 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1351 words

HEADLINE: The Urge To Fudge On the 1040

BYLINE: By TARA SIEGEL BERNARD

 BODY:
With just a few more days to file your tax returns, you may be tempted -- especially in this down economy -- to shave a little income, maybe, or add a little more to your deductions.
 After all, what are the odds of being audited? (For the record: Only about 1.4 million of the 135 million returns filed each year are audited and of those, only about 310,000 taxpayers are forced to look an I.R.S. agent in the eye and explain their numbers.) 
 You couldn't help thinking of this when one after another of President Obama's nominees was caught underpaying taxes after the nominee's returns underwent a heavy-duty scrubbing. Most people don't have to worry about paying taxes on free limousines and chauffeurs -- as in the case of Tom Daschle, the former South Dakota senator who was Mr. Obama's first choice as health and human services secretary. But many of us could easily be unable to come up with a receipt for a charitable donation, which is what tripped up Mr. Daschle's replacement, Kathleen Sebelius. And how many people think it's easier to simply pay the baby sitter in cash and, by coincidence, avoid the nanny tax? 
 All this raises the question: If most Americans' tax returns were subject to the same scrutiny as those inside the Beltway, would we find that many of us pay less than we really owe? Or would we find that a lot of returns are, at the very least, riddled with errors?
 As it turns out, the most recent Internal Revenue Service statistics estimate that about 86 percent of taxes owed are collected. And of the approximately $290 billion that goes uncollected by the I.R.S., a big piece can be attributed to inadvertent mistakes, given the complexity of the tax code. But when presented with the opportunity, a large swath of people still seem to forget to report a chunk of their undocumented income.
 Not surprisingly, the I.R.S. has studied the issue. And what it found was that the biggest portion of uncollected tax revenue was from people who run cash-intensive businesses and don't have receipts for all their earnings. Wage earners, whose employers report every last penny, don't have much wiggle room. As a result, only 1 percent of income from wages, salaries and tips is estimated to be underreported, compared with 57 percent of income from businesses like plumbers or other sole proprietors, according to a 2006 report conducted by the I.R.S.'s National Research Program.
 Another report on the subject found that those who earn $500,000 to $1 million have the highest rate of misreported income. These people often have income from investments and other sources that are hard to track. 
 ''They make a risk calculation,'' said Nina E. Olson, the national taxpayer advocate, whose office helps taxpayers resolve their problems with the I.R.S. ''If the risk of me being discovered is low, the penalty is modest and the benefit is great, then I am willing to accept that risk.''
 But, she added, that logic cannot alone explain the fact that an overwhelming majority pay their fair share given the I.R.S.'s limited resources. When asked, of course, the vast majority of Americans claim to be a righteous bunch: 89 percent said it was unacceptable to cheat on their income taxes, according to the I.R.S. Oversight Board's 2008 Taxpayer Attitude Survey. And 81 percent of those polled said their personal integrity had a ''great deal of influence'' on whether they're truthful about their taxes. 
 But, as Ms. Olson explained, there's only so much more reporting that can be reasonably done. Busy families can't be expected to file a 1099 every time they pay the landscaper, for instance, or the party caterer.
 What might work, Ms. Olson said, is appealing to people's consciences, or really examining why we pay taxes and what society receives in return. 
 The government tried this tack during World War II, when it co-opted Donald Duck for the job. In an animated short produced by Walt Disney, a radio announcer reminds a tax-averse Donald that it's his patriotic duty to pay taxes. Donald, who in 1941 earned $2,501 (the equivalent of $36,101 in today's dollars), is persuaded after being told he needs to pay ''taxes to beat the Axis!'' 
 But civic duty may be a harder sell today, especially when average taxpayers are constantly bombarded with news of new bailouts, corporate tax breaks, loopholes and offshore hiding spots exploited by wealthier Americans.
 The following are the items most susceptible to fudging. But remember, the I.R.S. knows this, too.
 CHARITY Given the suspected abuse in this area, Congress added certain requirements in recent years. For donations of $250 or more, you need to keep the acknowledgment letter from the organization you contributed to. And all cash contributions require a note from the charity or a bank record, like a canceled check, even for small donation amounts, said Bob D. Scharin, senior tax analyst at Thomson Reuters. So unless you throw a check into the Salvation Army's kettle around the holidays, you can't deduct it. Moreover, donations of clothing or household items must be in ''good, used condition'' and you need a receipt. Your deduction is based on the estimated value of what the goods would sell for in a second-hand store. 
 ''I don't think people mean to cheat, but it's April 12th or 13th and they are looking at their spouse across the table asking how much they gave to the Red Cross, and they say, 'Oh, maybe $150?' '' said Tom Ochsenschlager, vice president for tax at the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. ''But it turns out you didn't have documentation or it turns out it was $75.''
 CAPITAL GAINS To determine whether you have capital gains or losses, you need to determine how much you paid for an investment, known as your basis. Since many people don't keep all their records or they purchased investments -- stocks or a vacation home -- long ago, it's easy to lose track. And unless you're audited, the I.R.S. is none the wiser. In the absence of hard data, people tend to guesstimate their basis (of course, it's usually in their favor). 
 Right now, it's up to you to determine that amount. But starting in 2011, your brokerage firm will be required to report your basis to the I.R.S. for investments bought after 2010, Mr. Scharin said. So be sure you -- and your brokerage firm -- have it recorded correctly. Also, remember to keep all receipts tied to the improvement of your home, because that is added to your basis over time. 
 HOME OFFICE A lot of taxpayers don't fully understand how this deduction works, and experts say it's susceptible to fudging. To claim this deduction, the room in your home being claimed -- or the portion of that room -- needs to be the principal place of business and used on a regular basis (it's also O.K. if you use it for storing, say, product samples). If that's the case, the amount you can deduct (typically, a part of your rent, utilities, insurance, home repairs) is based on the percentage of the space used for business.
 QUASI PERSONAL EXPENSES When you go on a business trip, but bring along your spouse for the following weekend, you can deduct your expenses (hotel room, airfare, transportation and meals) only for the time you were conducting business as long as an employer didn't reimburse you. ''That would be an area that could be scrutinized because something like that can be abused,'' said Rob Seltzer, an accountant in Beverly Hills, Calif.
 You also need to keep good records (of your total miles and business miles) when you use your personal car for business. ''It's not a question of if your car is deductible but what percentage is deductible or not,''Mr. Seltzer said.
 OTHER There are other taxes that people accidentally ''forget'' to pay, or willfully ignore because they are costly, the best known being the nanny tax. And people tend to think they can deduct a lot more than they're allowed. Mr. Seltzer says he always gets a chuckle from new clients who have certain expectations about what they can deduct. ''Parking tickets,'' he said. ''And no, you can't write off your dry cleaning.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Nina E. Olson, the national taxpayer advocate at the I.R.S.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Nina E. Olson, the national taxpayer advocate, says there is only so much more reporting that can be reasonably done.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); INCOME TAX (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); AUDITS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); PRIVATE HOUSEHOLD EMPLOYMENT (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); CHARITABLE GIVING (71%); CHARITIES (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); SMALL BUSINESS (60%); SOLE PROPRIETORSHIPS (50%)

PERSON: TOM DASCHLE (69%); BARACK OBAMA (69%); KATHLEEN SEBELIUS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2009



433 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2151 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times: April 11, 2009

 BODY:
International
 A CULTURE BATTLE IN SPAIN OVER A PROPOSED ABORTION LAW
 Since he became prime minister of Spain in 2004, Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero has pushed an ambitious series of reforms, prying the social fabric of the country from the centuries-old grip of the Roman Catholic Church. Mr. Zapatero's latest venture is into even more incendiary social terrain, the divide over abortion. And if he was looking for a battle, he found one. PAGE A4
 FUNERAL FOR MOST VICTIMS OF QUAKE
 Thousands of weeping mourners took part in an emotional funeral Mass for 205 victims of the earthquake that devastated the mountainous Abruzzo region of central Italy on Monday. In all, the earthquake left 290 people dead and 28,000 homeless. PAGE A4 
 SUICIDE ATTACK KILLS SEVEN IN IRAQ
 Five American soldiers and two members of the Iraqi security forces were killed in a brazen suicide truck bombing in Mosul, a United States military spokesman said. It was the deadliest attack against American soldiers in Iraq in 13 months. PAGE A4
 EXTENT OF GENDER TILT IN CHINA
 A paper in the British Medical Journal says that in China, there are 32 million more boys under the age of 20 than girls. The finding, the paper's authors wrote, was perhaps unsurprising in light of the country's one-child policy. The disparity is almost entirely because of sex-selective abortion, the authors wrote. PAGE A5
 Thai Protest Disrupts Meeting A5
 RECOUNT OF VOTES IN MOLDOVA
 Standing in the lobby of the presidential palace, where graffiti and broken windows spoke of this week's violent protests, President Vladimir Voronin of Moldova announced a recount of votes in the disputed parliamentary elections. PAGE A6
 The Saturday Profile
 A Black Imam Breaking Ground
 Sheik Adil Kalbani, an imam in Saudi Arabia, became the first black man to lead prayers in Mecca after being chosen by King Abdullah. Many have hailed his selection as more evidence of King Abdullah's cautious efforts to move Saudi Arabia toward greater openness and tolerance in the last few years. PAGE A6
 COURT RULES CONTRACTOR MUST PAY
 A federal appeals court ruled that a contractor found to have committed widespread fraud in Iraq could not avoid paying millions of dollars in damages by claiming that the relevant United States law did not apply in Iraq, as a previous judge had found on technical grounds. The appeals judgment reverses a decision that had put a chill on dozens of pending cases involving contracting in Iraq. PAGE A6
 GEORGIAN PRESIDENT SAYS HE'LL STAY
 President Mikheil Saakashvili of Georgia, who came to power in one progressive uprising but is now the target of another, declared that he would not resign. PAGE A7
 national
 OPPONENTS OF GAY MARRIAGE
 To Raise Pressure on Iowa Officials
 Opponents of last week's Iowa Supreme Court ruling allowing same-sex marriages said that they would step up pressure on state lawmakers to block the marriages through a constitutional amendment and predicted political fallout for any state leaders that did not join the opposition. Above, Mike Boone, of Ankeny, Iowa, stands with his wife Joni during an opening prayer at a rally against gay marriage in front of the Statehouse in Des Moines. PAGE A8
 TAX-CHEAT LIST FINDS A-LIST NAMES
 With California facing a severe budget deficit, the pressure to squeeze money out of tax delinquents is more intense this year. The state released its annual list of California's worst tax scofflaws, which included the actor Burt Reynolds and the singer Dionne Warwick. PAGE A8
 LIFE AFTER THE PRESIDENCY
 A tanned and rested George W. Bush is emerging from seclusion to begin his life since the presidency with a reunion of sorts of the old gang next week. But more important, Mr. Bush is trying to map out what he wants to do with the rest of his life. PAGE A9
 ACTING ON CLIMATE WITH CAUTION
 President Obama came to office promising swift action to combat global climate change, and yet the administration has taken a rather passive stance on the issue, remaining aloof from the details of major energy and climate legislation now in Congress. PAGE A10
 New York
 MAYOR MAINTAINS OPTIMISM
 On Pledge to Save Jobs
 Despite a steady stream of gloomy predictions about New York's economy, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is holding firm to a bold promise: to ''create or save'' 400,000 jobs in the city over the next six years. PAGE A12
 PROTESTERS ARRESTED AT NEW SCHOOL
 Twenty-two people were arrested for occupying a building on the New School campus in Manhattan, demanding that the school's embattled president, Bob Kerrey, be ousted. PAGE A12
 Business
 IN AN AGE OF AUSTERITY, THE FRUGAL FLOURISH
 Millions of Americans have trimmed expenses because of job loss, or in fear of it. But some savers are reducing costs not just with purpose, but with relish. These are the gleefully frugal. PAGE B1
 TEMPTED TO CHEAT ON TAXES
 The most recent Internal Revenue Service statistics estimate that 86 percent of taxes owed are collected. The biggest portion of uncollected tax revenue was from people who run cash-intensive businesses like plumbers or other sole proprietors. PAGE B1
 Patient Money
 No Money, No Baby.
 Although it is too early to proclaim a bona fide trend in elective sterilization, urologists and clinics have noticed an uptick in recent months in the number of men requesting vasectomies. Above, Dr. Charles Wilson and a patient, Michael Swogger, at The Vasectomy Clinic in Seattle. Dr. Wilson holds an instrument called a Wilson Vasectomy Forcep used in the procedure. PAGE B1
 Ruling in Russia Raises Concerns B1
 DOCTORS SEE A HEALTHY CHALLENGE
 The Obama administration is promising to spend billions to make health care more efficient. And while 8 in 10 American doctors still labor in a world of paper, some doctors have encountered upsetting setbacks when they tried to switch to electronic records. PAGE B3
 Chinese Exports Decline B5
 Obituaries
 DAVE ARNESON, 61
 Through the popular game he helped create, Dungeons & Dragons, he spawned a new form of interpersonal entertainment that has captivated millions. PAGE B8
 I. HERBERT SCHEINBERG, 89
 As a specialist in rare hereditary diseases, he helped develop a diagnostic test and treatment for Wilson disease, a potentially fatal buildup of copper in the body. PAGE B8
 arts
 GETTING THE MONEY WAS HARD,
 Doling It Out Is Even Harder
 More than 2,000 applications have arrived at the National Endowment for the Arts from cultural organizations all over the country seeking some piece of the stimulus pie allotted to the arts by President Obama. The endowment now faces the tough task of determining which groups are most deserving. PAGE C1
 Theater Review
 Couples Therapy, Tyler Perry Style
 Sermons and smackdowns vie for supremacy in the universe of Tyler Perry, the creative impresario who presides over an expanding kingdom of black entertainment. And like his previous plays, the latest, ''Tyler Perry's The Marriage Counselor,'' is less standard stage works than odd admixtures of gospel-pop concert, comedy show and church service. PAGE C1
 HIT SHOWS, BUT NO THEATER
 No New York theater company has experienced anything like the recent artistic highs and economic lows of the Theater for a New Audience. Even with its hit shows, the company is neither making much money nor has the flexibility to extend them for longer runs. What is lacking for this not-for-profit theater company is a theater of its own. PAGE C1
 THE MAN BEHIND THE STORIES
 Getting to know Wells Tower, whose book of short stories, ''Everything Ravaged, Everything Burned,'' has attracted a great number admiring critics in the few weeks since it came out. PAGE C1
 DISNEY BRINGS NATURE TO CHILDREN
 ''Earth'' is not routine, the G-rated movie marks the Walt Disney Company's high-profile return to the nature genre and presents it with a difficult balancing act. The film centers on three animal families that struggle to survive over the course of a year. So, how do you explain to children why a cheetah eats a peppy little gazelle? PAGE C1
 Arts, Briefly C2
 SPIRITUALITY CATCHES A BREAK ON TV
 Channel surf the TV and you'll rarely encounter anyone talking about spiritual matters, unless it's a paid program. ''Global Spirit,'' a series that begins Sunday on Link TV is hoping to change that, and to capitalize on what the program's creators see as a growing interest in spiritual exploration. PAGE C3
 Offers to Help Save Julliard Program C3
 Music Review
 The Sax Trio Is Back from a Hiatus
 It's good to hear this group again, Ben Ratliff writes about Fly, the saxophone trio group that has a new record-- ''Sky & Country,'' on ECM -- and is reconvening at the Jazz Standard through the weekend. PAGE C5
 Film Review
 'Dragonball: Evolution' C6
 Sports
 AFTER A GENTLE ROUND 1,
 A Tougher Masters
 In first round of the 2009 Masters tournament Thursday at the Augusta National Golf Club, a record 38 players broke par. That led some observers to wonder whether the course was too welcoming. That wasn't quite the case Friday after Round 2. PAGE D1
 Compliance Officers Play Key Role D2
 BIDDING A FINAL GOODBYE
 Waving and doffing his cap to acknowledge a prolonged standing ovation, Gary Player genuflected on the 18th green to bid the Masters goodbye after his 52nd and final appearance as a player. PAGE D3
 A Hockey Title and a Faded Memory D3
 Grief Shadows Angels' Game D5
 THE POLICE ARREST HORSE BREEDER
 The New York State Police charged Ernie Paragallo, above, a prominent New York thoroughbred breeder and owner, with 22 counts of animal cruelty for neglecting the horses on his farm. PAGE D6
 This Weekend
 MAGAZINE
 Western Christianity is being transformed by the religiosity of the developing world. Missionaries from African churches, like the Redeemed Christian Church of God, are evangelizing around the globe. Can a Nigerian Pentecostal movement take root in American soil? PAGE 30 
 Keeping Up With Being Kept 38 
 BOOK REVIEW
 ''The Song Is You,'' is another departure in Arthur Phillips' career of radical departures. This novel is a pas de deux between a singer and the man who obsessively inspires her. Or maybe it's about a man who is so moved by a woman's voice that he goes a little berserk before he emerges into a deeper sanity. Or maybe it's about the ways an artist is affected by her audience. Or all of the above, and more. PAGE 1 
 ARTS & LEISURE
 The subject of a retrospective at the Museum of Modern Art, Mike Nichols is not an obvious choice for the artsy and highbrow film department. MoMA retrospectives tend to be awarded to brooding European auteurs and not to commercial Hollywood directors who include on their resume hits like ''Working Girl.'' PAGE 1 
 TRAVEL
 More than 500 species of birds live or migrate through Belize, where frigate-spring birds share coastal waters with pelicans and red-footed boobies. Inland, residents like royal flycatchers, olive-throated parakeets, keel-billed toucans and dozens more can be spotted on a hike in the Chiquibul Forest Reserve of Western Belize. PAGE 6 
 SUNDAY STYLES
 Once thought of as a destination for lefty radicals committed to living lives of low pay, frustration and bitter burnout, community organizing is now in resurgence, seen by many college graduates as an exciting career. And these jobs, students say, can actually lead to ... well, you know. 
 PAGE 1 
 Editorial
 A MISSION FOR GOV. PATERSON
 Gov. David Paterson has promised again to push for a same-sex marriage bill in New York State. This is a basic civil right that has been denied to New York's gay residents for too long. For Mr. Paterson, this decent and important change could also give him a much needed political, as well as moral victory. Page A16
 A SEAT AT THE HUMAN RIGHTS TABLE
 The Obama administration has decided to run for a seat on the United Nations' highly dysfunctional Human Rights Council. That may be the best chance to shape up this international embarrassment, but it won't be easy. Page A16
 DR. LUBCHENCO AND THE SALMON
 Jane Lubchenco, the new leader of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, will have to devise a solution to the grave threats facing the salmon runs of the Pacific Northwest. She has the skills and, we hope, the will to do it. Page A16
 Op-ed
 GAIL COLLINS
 Happy holidays! This is one of those times of year when families and friends can forget their troubles and join together for a Passover Seder, as President Obama did on Thursday, or commemorate Easter with the traditional egg hunt, as President Obama will do on Monday. Americans with less religious inclinations can look forward to the coming Earth Day and Arbor Day celebrations. Page A17
 FINDING OUR WAY BACK TO LENT
 With the end of Lent, James Carroll, the author of ''Practicing Catholic,'' reflects on the power of the observance in troubled times. Page A17

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); ABORTION (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (88%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (88%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (86%); VOTERS & VOTING (86%); LITIGATION (85%); APPEALS (84%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (77%); RELIGION (77%); NATURAL DISASTERS (75%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); ARMED FORCES (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); VANDALISM (71%); BOMBINGS (70%); WRITERS (70%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); GAYS & LESBIANS (66%); DAMAGES (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); APPEALS COURTS (65%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (65%); RIOTS (64%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); MARRIAGE (60%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (60%); HOMELESSNESS (54%)

PERSON: JOSE LUIS RODRIGUEZ ZAPATERO (88%); MIKHEIL SAAKASHVILI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (92%) SPAIN (95%); IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); CHINA (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); GEORGIA (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ITALY (71%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2009



434 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: The Obama Holiday Tour

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS. 
Bob Herbert is off today.

 BODY:
Happy holidays! This is one of those times of year when families and friends can forget their troubles and join together for a Passover seder, as President Obama did on Thursday, or commemorate Easter with the traditional egg hunt, as President Obama will do on Monday. Americans with less religious inclinations can look forward to the upcoming Earth Day celebrations, when the president is planning to do something as yet unannounced, but undoubtedly special, and Arbor Day, when rumor has it that he will not just plant a tree, but personally reforest a large swath of the nation of Mali. 
 The president is back from his eight-day overseas trip, where, by my count, he visited six countries, held 25 meetings, eight variations on the theme of press conference and two town halls. He attended three summits and several receptions, gave two speeches, laid a wreath, walked across a bridge, took several tours of spots of local interest and made a quick stop in Iraq before arriving home in time for that seder. 
 In these troubling times, it's comforting to have an omnipresent leader, although we are a little worried about the fact that in the Czech Republic, his press secretary felt compelled to wake Obama up to tell him that North Korea had launched their missile. After all, everybody knew it was going to happen and the missile did fall into the sea shortly after it left the ground.
 Was it just because of that old Hillary Clinton campaign commercial? Was the administration afraid to admit that when it was 3 a.m. in the White House (or 4:30 a.m. at the Prague Hilton, if you're being literal) and the phone rang, the president wasn't awake to pick up the receiver? 
 This seems like a bad precedent. I think I speak for us all when I say they should at least reserve the knock on the bedroom door for successful missile launches.
 The poor man needs his sleep. So much stuff keeps happening. Pirates, for instance. Right now we're concerned with the fate of the kidnapped captain of the container ship the Maersk Alabama. Over the long haul, you also have to be disconcerted by the news that the crew of the Alabama thwarted the pirates' attempts to steal the vessel itself by using strategies that one of the officers learned from his father, who teaches a course on how to repel pirate attacks at the Massachusetts Maritime Academy.
 Who knew that the academy curriculum includes pirate control? This is the kind of thing that makes you realize how important it is to have a president who is both a multitasker and well rested.
 The president stays on the move because he knows we're looking for reassurance. We scan the news every day for signs and portents that tell us what's going to happen next. Does the stock market upswing mean the economy is getting better or just that Wall Street is still full of people with the long-range vision of a bunch of overstimulated hamsters? 
 What about the story from Winfield, Mo., where voters recently re-elected their mayor for a fourth term even though he had been dead a month? According to The Associated Press, Mayor Harry Stonebraker was ''a popular mayor who helped lead the community of 1,500 through the devastating 2008 flood, when a levee breach caused by a burrowing muskrat damaged about 100 homes.'' Is this yet another sign of our longing for stability? Or a warning that we ought to be more proactive about the burrowing muskrat problem?
 Obama's round of spring events will culminate in appearances at graduation ceremonies in Notre Dame (where the local bishop is ticked off about the abortion thing) and Arizona State University, where he is not going to receive an honorary degree. A spokeswoman for the university explained that it was withholding that honor from the president because ''his body of work is yet to come.'' 
 Tough standards, A.S.U.!
 Now a little caution when it comes to awarding honors is not a bad thing -- I am thinking of the haste at which my hometown of Cincinnati christened a major street Pete Rose Way in honor of a baseball hero whose body of work was soon going to include being banned from the Hall of Fame due to gambling issues. But really, getting elected to the most powerful job on the planet seems to be a pretty good lifetime resume, no matter what comes next. Particularly when, as Sam Stein of The Huffington Post pointed out, you are a university that already handed a degree to the vice minister of education of the People's Republic of China and the founder of Forever Living health and beauty aids.
 Maybe Obama will celebrate the Fourth of July by setting off fireworks in every state of the union. Even the ones that make him bring his own sparklers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EASTER SEASON (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PASSOVER (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); EARTH DAY (78%); RELIGION (73%); MARITIME PIRACY (70%); REFORESTATION (70%); MARINE VESSELS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); SOMALI PIRACY (66%); CURRICULA (64%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (55%) UNITED STATES (92%); MALI (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAQ (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2009



435 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1300 words

HEADLINE: A Rural Medical Practice Moves to Digital Records, And the Doctor Is Pleased

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM

 BODY:
In Washington, the Obama administration is promising to spend billions to make health care more efficient, but Jennifer Brull, a family doctor in rural Kansas, is already a step or two ahead.
 A year ago, she switched her 3,000 patients from paper charts to electronic health records, a core feature of most plans for healing the nation's ailing health system. Now, working with computers and printouts, her staff of part-time nurses and shared front-office workers has more time to help her meet the needs of patients.
 ''I'll never go back to the old system,'' said Dr. Brull, 37, who runs a solo practice in Plainville, Kan. ''I can always look at the records by Internet, whether I am seeing patients at the nursing home or a clinic or the hospital, or even when I'm as far away as Florida. The change has been tremendously beneficial for my productivity.'' 
 Patients are appreciative, too. Kagay Wheatley brings her 97-year-old neighbor, Charlotte Hayes, to Dr. Brull for blood tests every few weeks. ''We do not have to sit and wait while the nurses search for the records,'' said Ms. Wheatley, a retired school board aide who is also a patient of Dr. Brull's. ''They find the information right there on the computer, and when we leave, we get a printout of what we did and what she said.'' 
 About 42 percent of active family doctors have installed some type of electronic health records, according to surveys and estimates by the American Academy of Family Physicians, a professional and advocacy group. One in four said they did not plan to purchase an electronic system, and many said they could not afford the $30,000 to $50,000 in start-up costs. The academy has 94,600 members, including about 60,000 in active practice.
 Medical centers like the new 24-bed critical-access hospital in Plainville, connected by a walkway to Dr. Brull's office, are also rapidly adopting electronic records.
 ''The use of electronic health records and being able to transmit X-rays allows us to be in contact with the whole world,'' said Chuck Comeau, a hospital board member who is chief executive of Dessin Fournir, a national furniture design company that moved its head office to Plainville from Los Angeles.
 Even so, 8 in 10 of all American doctors still labor in a world of paper. And some doctors said they encountered upsetting setbacks when they tried to switch to electronic records. 
 Michael Ferris, a 33-year-old emergency medicine physician in Parsons, Kan., said he had to give up his solo practice after he had invested $38,000 in software for systems that kept crashing and thwarting his attempts to send out electronic bills. ''I was spending as much time trying to fix the computer and the billing as actually seeing patients,'' he said, ''and neither process was generating any revenue for me.'' 
 Now, as director of the emergency room at the Labette County hospital in Parsons, Dr. Ferris said, ''I get paid by the hour and don't have to worry if the software is down.'' But he said he expected that some day he would have to help the hospital make the transition to electronic records. ''I know it is coming.'' 
 Information technology for health care is a $20 billion section of the $787 billion economic stimulus package President Obama signed last month. But only part of the new I.T. financing will help individual doctors who convert to electronic health records, said Dr. Steven Waldren, director of the center for health information technology at the academy of family physicians. Those in rural and underserved areas should benefit the most.
 ''For the vast majority of physicians, there is not going to be upfront money to purchase electronic record systems,'' Dr. Waldren said. 
 Dr. Brull, who grew up in Grinnell, Kan., a town with 250 residents, has been an advocate of electronic records since she was in medical school at the University of Kansas in the 1990s. Seven years ago she moved to Plainville, where she rents space in a community-owned medical office building and shares a receptionist and bookkeeping staff with two other family physicians, Dan Sanchez, 45, and Lynn Fisher, 34.
 They have 8,000 patients in all, including some from neighboring counties. The three doctors together cover a lot of ground: delivering babies, performing colon cancer checkups and staffing the emergency room at the hospital. They refer patients who need intensive care or a specialist to the Hays Medical Center, 23 miles away. Trauma patients are flown to Wichita, a one-hour helicopter ride. Specialists, including a cardiologist, come to Plainville to provide follow-up care. 
 The three are the only doctors in Plainville, a city of 2,500 in Rooks County, a wheat farming and oil-producing area midway between Kansas City and Denver. ''We are it,'' Dr. Brull said.
 Dr. Sanchez is a deputy coroner and the ambulance service director and is taking a turn as hospital medical director. Each doctor is a solo practitioner with a separate tax ID. ''At the end of the day, our paychecks come from our own business, our own patients,'' Dr. Fisher said. 
 They are informal partners, and cover each other's patients. ''We do everything on a handshake,'' Dr. Brull said.
 It took five years for her to persuade the other doctors to make the switch to electronic records. ''Dan was our holdout,'' she said. 
 Dr. Sanchez explained that, at first, ''I was not sure I saw the benefits. Now I'm a very big proponent of it. I've gotten to the place where I prefer to get an electronic chart over a paper chart.''
 Costs, like those to have his dictation transcribed, are down 75 percent. ''The volume of paper flowing around has dropped dramatically,'' he said. ''That alone paid for half the cost of the software in the first year.''
 They selected a medium-priced system (from e-MDs, based in Austin, Tex.), obtained private financing and invested $45,000 in software. Dr. Brull said she paid ''the lion's share for the equipment -- $40,000 or $50,000 for hardware,'' which they also share. Staff members were sent out for training, and last March they closed the offices for two days of instruction. When they reopened, a trainer stayed to help.
 The electronic system helps Dr. Brull with just about every part of her practice. She keeps close watch on 250 patients with high blood pressure and 180 who have diabetes. She pays special attention to people who have both problems, summoning them for blood tests every six weeks 
 The computers make it easier to keep track of them. ''We can run a computer report on diabetics who haven't had appropriate lab work, or people who haven't had a wellness exam in 10 months or did not have a flu shot,'' she said.
 When she leaves the office to see patients at a nursing home, she said: ''I have access to my notes on each one on the laptop. It takes out the guesswork.'' For people who pick up their pills at Walgreens or Wal-Mart, the software forwards an electronic prescription. ''We are working to persuade the mom-and-pop pharmacies to get on that system,'' she said. 
 Dr. Brull said she expected to recoup her investment in five years, perhaps sooner. It did not hurt that two other family doctors left the community last April. ''All of a sudden, three or four thousand patients had no doctor,'' she said. ''We took on a large volume. If you work harder, you get more money.''
 Still, she said she shared the frustrations of many physicians who say the insurance companies often seem to use delaying tactics to avoid paying for care, even when the bills are delivered to them by computer. ''I feel like I spend a lot of time justifying what I do and chasing the dollar,'' she said. But despite such concerns, she said, she is too busy to have much time left for complaining. ''I am not a very good pessimist,'' Dr. Brull said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dr. Jennifer Brull with colleagues Lynn Fisher, right, and Dan Sanchez, foreground, checking his tablet PC.
 Dr. Michael Ferris had a different experience with electronic records: his $38,000 system kept crashing.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (91%); FAMILY PRACTICE (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); MEDICAL RECORDS (89%); ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS (89%); RURAL HEALTH (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); NURSING HOMES (78%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (78%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2009



436 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1007 words

HEADLINE: Obama, Who Vowed Rapid Action on Climate Change, Turns More Cautious

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama came to office promising swift and comprehensive action to combat global climate change, and the topic remains a surefire applause line in his speeches here and abroad.
 Yet the administration has taken a cautious and rather passive role on the issue, proclaiming broad goals while remaining aloof from details of climate legislation now in Congress.
 The president's budget initially included roughly $650 billion in revenue over 10 years from a cap-and-trade emissions plan that he wants adopted. But the administration, while insisting that its health care initiative be protected, did not fight to keep cap-and-trade in the budget resolutions that Congress passed last week, and it wound up in neither the House's version nor the Senate's. 
 Overseas, American officials are telling their counterparts that they need time to gauge the American public's appetite for an ambitious carbon reduction scheme before leading any international effort.
 Has the administration scaled back its global-warming goals, at least for this year, or is it engaged in sophisticated misdirection?
 Maybe some of both. While addressing climate change appears to be slipping down the president's list of priorities for the year, he is holding in reserve a powerful club to regulate carbon dioxide emissions through executive authority. 
 That club takes the form of Environmental Protection Agency regulation of the gases blamed for the warming of the planet, an authority granted the agency by the Supreme Court's reading of the Clean Air Act. Administration officials consistently say they would much prefer that Congress write new legislation to pre-empt the E.P.A. regulatory power, but they are clearly holding it in reserve as a prod to reluctant lawmakers and recalcitrant industries and as evidence of good faith to other nations.
 Industry lobbyists and members of Congress who are engaged in writing energy and global warming bills say they are well aware of the E.P.A. process bearing down on them.
 ''Once the Supreme Court declared carbon dioxide to be a pollutant under the Clean Air Act, E.P.A. had no choice but to act,'' said Representative Rick Boucher, a moderate Democrat from a coal-producing region of Virginia. ''Most people would rather have Congress act. We can be more balanced; we can take into account the effects on the economy. But if we don't undertake this, E.P.A. certainly will.''
 Still, the agency's regulations would take months to write and years to become fully effective. Meanwhile, Congress is already starting work on energy and climate legislation, though without significant guidance from the White House, at least in public.
 Carol M. Browner, the White House coordinator of energy and climate policy, issued a surprisingly bland statement last week when two top House Democrats unveiled a far-reaching plan to cap greenhouse gases and move the nation toward an economy less dependent on carbon-rich fuels like coal and oil.
 Ms. Browner stopped short of endorsing that plan, issued by Representatives Henry A. Waxman of California and Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts, saying instead that Mr. Obama ''looks forward to working with members of Congress in both chambers to pass a bill that would transition the nation to a clean-energy economy.'' She gave little clue as to what she and the president believe such a measure should say.
 At an international climate conference in Germany that ended Wednesday, some delegates said they were disappointed in the Obama administration's lack of robust leadership. The explanation offered by Jonathan Pershing, a leader of the American delegation, was that the administration was waiting to measure the American technological and political capacity to address climate change and was looking to Congress to set specific targets for reducing carbon pollution.
 Business lobbyists welcome the White House's go-slow approach, saying the issue is too complicated and too costly to be rushed, especially in a recession.
 ''We have not until now had a national debate on a climate change proposal, period,'' said Karen A. Harbert, a former senior Energy Department official who now heads the United States Chamber of Commerce's energy institute. ''That has to happen for any piece of legislation to achieve broad support across the country.''
 Ms. Harbert and other business lobbyists also welcomed the administration's hesitancy to undertake regulation of climate-altering gases under E.P.A. authority, saying the matter should be fully aired before Congress so that all interests and regions could be heard. 
 Keith McCoy, vice president for energy and resources policy at the National Association of Manufacturers, said his organization was ''strongly opposed to an E.P.A. regulatory process for greenhouse gas emissions under the Clean Air Act.''
 Mr. McCoy said his members would prefer a binding international treaty that would cover all nations, particularly those whose industries compete with energy-intensive American manufacturers. ''Absent that,'' he said, ''we would prefer a robust and transparent debate within Congress.''
 The administration's caution leaves many environmental advocates frustrated, although most are reluctant to speak on the record for fear of alienating their allies inside government.
 One environmental and energy lobbyist with close ties to the White House said the administration had been inhibited by a number of factors, including vacancies in many top policy jobs, an intense early focus on the financial and economic crises, and an unwillingness to alienate business and Congressional leaders with a heavy-handed approach. 
 ''With those realities, coupled with the fact that the president himself realizes this is harder to do in the midst of recession, they are basically content to see what Congress will do,'' this lobbyist said. ''Plus, Henry Waxman has put together a very serious piece of legislation, and that in my mind justifies their lack of forceful intervention. That's just where they are now.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATE CHANGE (91%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); BUDGETS (89%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (76%); LOBBYING (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); APPROPRIATIONS (76%); AIR POLLUTANTS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (76%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (66%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (66%); SUPREME COURTS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); COAL INDUSTRY (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); CAROL BROWNER (58%); RICK BOUCHER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2009



437 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 698 words

HEADLINE: Finding Our Way Back to Lent

BYLINE: By JAMES CARROLL. 
James Carroll, a columnist on leave from the Boston Globe and a scholar in residence at Suffolk University, is the author, most recently, of ''Practicing Catholic.''

DATELINE: Boston 

 BODY:
 MOST American Catholics were well acquainted with poverty even before the stock market crash of 1929. My mother quit school after eighth grade to add a wage to the family income. Later, she supported my father as he went to night school. Like millions of Catholics, their faith was a source of meaning and dignity at a time when both were in short supply. 
 The Depression stamped them for life. Born into the aftermath, I was shaped by those years as well. During these past weeks, I've worried that we might be facing an unexpected replay of our parents' and grandparents' economic distress. But I've also been remembering more vividly the Lenten seasons of my midcentury childhood, when I most sharply felt the pull of Catholicism. 
 By requiring fasting and abstinence, the observance of Lent somehow helped us cope with the multitude of other deprivations we could not choose or escape. My brothers and I gave up candy, but what really impressed us was Mom forgoing Chesterfields and Dad going ''on the wagon,'' which meant, he laughed, drinking from only the water cart. 
 From February on, I counted the turning pages of the calendar. The main point was to get through those 40 days. It was the same number of days a famished Jesus spent in the desert and the number of years the Hebrews wandered in the wilderness. ''God's will'' was the name we gave to suffering, and God's grace was the promise that it would end ... eventually.
 There was always doom in the air of the penitential season, and Lenten fervor was fueled by dread, as the oft-recited Act of Contrition put it, ''of the loss of heaven and the fires of hell.'' A damning God demanded penance, sacrifice and constant vigilance. My first wallet, a gift when I received the sacrament of confirmation, came with a card that defined my initiation: ''I am a Catholic. In case of an accident, please call a priest.'' 
 The Catholic theology of damnation was mitigated, if not eliminated, by the reforms of the Second Vatican Council in the 1960s. The dread of Hell evaporated as Catholics embraced a far more positive, all-merciful God. Those wallet cards disappeared overnight, and we started eating meat on Fridays. The sadomasochist in the sky, divine zapper, was gone, along with the gatekeeping role of the clergy. 
 Lent remains an important part of the Catholic calendar, but self-denial now, more suggested than required, aims less at penitence than at compassionate identification with, as Pope Benedict wrote at the beginning of this year's Lent, the impoverished ''situation in which so many of our brothers and sisters live.'' Like Lent, today's economic crisis can help stir that overdue empathy.
 Still, as for self-denial, one could be forgiven this year, perhaps, for wanting to give it up. There are plenty of difficulties in everyday life without choosing to increase them. Job loss is hell enough. In affluent America, seemingly out of nowhere, material insecurity has undermined assurance, and familiar structures of order have tumbled with the indexes. 
 Lent offers one answer to today's new reality. The season begins with the word ''Remember,'' uttered as a blot of ashes is smudged on the forehead. Remembering the transience of life -- ashes to ashes, dust to dust -- remains the essence of the observance. This year, I received my ashes at the Catholic church across the street from Harvard University, where the basilica was surprisingly overflowing with hundreds of undergraduates -- a privileged elite attending to what every person has in common, and wants ordinarily to deny. 
 All things are passing; this is the unsettling fact from which, during normal times, we've tried to escape by acquiring money and spending it. A consciousness of our own mortality -- made more acute by material worries -- reminds us of what matters most in life, including intimations, however they come, of what lies beyond, whatever it is. 
 Lent concludes today, but this probably isn't the end of our troubles. There is nothing wrong with job security, and there is nothing right with suffering, but insecurity is normal again. Lent tells us we may as well get used to it -- and remember that it always was.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY GRADY McFERRIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (93%); RELIGION (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); FAMILY (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); EASTER SEASON (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); GRANDPARENTS (72%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (65%)

PERSON: POPE BENEDICT XVI (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2009



438 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1882 words

HEADLINE: An Eldest Son's Failure and Paranoia, Unspoken Until a Sudden, Final Barrage

BYLINE: By MANNY FERNANDEZ and NATE SCHWEBER; Reporting was contributed by Al Baker, Bernie Becker, Rebecca Cathcart and Francesca Segre.

 BODY:
In November, Jiverly A. Wong walked into an employment center in downtown Binghamton. He had been laid off from his job at a vacuum cleaner plant, and he needed help applying for unemployment benefits.
Speaking in broken English, he struggled to communicate with a receptionist. She told Mr. Wong that a phone number that he could call for assistance provided information in Chinese or Japanese. She asked him if he was either one.
''No, I'm Vietnamese!'' Mr. Wong told her, before turning around and storming out.
Nearly two decades after arriving in America from Vietnam, Mr. Wong still had trouble with basic English, a fact of life for many immigrants, but a problem he seemed especially sensitive about. He was an introvert who was secretive in the extreme, keeping his love of guns and target shooting -- and even his marriage -- hidden from his family, his oldest sister said. They had improved their English-speaking skills and advanced their careers, while Mr. Wong, now jobless, had moved back in with his parents on a dead-end street in nearby Union. 
''I think he felt low and small,'' said the sister, who asked to be identified only by her first name, Nga. ''But he didn't share his thoughts. He would always just say he was O.K.''
On April 3, Mr. Wong had a 10 a.m. appointment at the employment center. He did not show.
Thirty minutes later and less than two blocks away, Mr. Wong walked into the American Civic Association, where he had recently taken an English class with other immigrants. Mr. Wong, 41, returned to his old classroom and, in one of New York State's deadliest mass shootings, killed 13 former classmates and association employees and wounded four others, firing 98 shots from two handguns in about a minute, before taking his own life, the police said.
Beyond his struggles with language and work, Mr. Wong's motivation for taking so many fellow immigrants to the grave with him may ultimately prove unexplainable. But in interviews with his sister, friends of the family, neighbors, former co-workers and people he met, a glimpse emerges of Mr. Wong's fractured life.
Unlike Seung-Hui Cho, who killed 32 people and himself at Virginia Tech University two years ago, Mr. Wong displayed no outward sign of mental illness. But it now appears that he was harboring a growing paranoia, with a fixation on law enforcement rooted in a few brief encounters that seemed to convince Mr. Wong that the police were out to do him in.
Just before setting off on his massacre, he sent a two-page delusional rant to a Syracuse television station saying the police were spying on him, sneaking into his home and trying to get into car accidents with him.
His other burdens were easier to detect. Moving from one low-wage job to another, struggling to find stability and making few friends along the way, Mr. Wong had felt that he had let down the family, Nga said. ''When everyone's successful but you, you feel low,'' she said. ''And in our culture, if you're the oldest son and you're not doing well, you feel terrible.''
The last time she saw her brother, he seemed withdrawn, but polite as always. He raked the leaves on the lawn outside her house, and they reminisced about their childhood in Vietnam, laughing about how they used to race around on roller skates.
Mr. Wong was the second oldest of four children, and he came to the United States in July 1990 at the age of 22, immigrating from Vietnam with his parents and siblings under refugee status. His father, Henry Voong, 66, had fought in the Vietnam War, alongside United States forces, as an officer in the South Vietnamese Army, according to Nga and a friend of Mr. Voong's.
The family -- ethnically Chinese -- had been excited about finally coming to America. ''We loved this country,'' Nga said.
They quickly settled in the Binghamton area, and Mr. Wong's father became well known in the Vietnamese community. He often volunteered at the Vietnamese Baptist Church in Binghamton, working as a translator and helping people with their immigration paperwork, even though his family was not Baptist, but Buddhist. ''He show kindness,'' said Ho Le, the church's pastor. ''He help the refugee people.''
His son seemed to have had a harder time assimilating. Within roughly a year, Mr. Wong left New York for Southern California. Nga said the warmer climate and the area's large Asian population appeared to be part of the rationale for the move. Over the next two decades, Mr. Wong moved back and forth between the Binghamton area and the Los Angeles area.
In August 1991, he was arrested in California, his first arrest in the United States. Details about that case remain unclear. The next year he was arrested on a charge of passing a bad check, the authorities said.
At least five times since 1990, Mr. Wong was arrested or cited or had some minor contact with the police in either the Binghamton or Los Angeles areas. About 10 years ago, the New York State Police investigated a tip that he had a crack cocaine habit and was planning to rob a bank, but nothing came of it. At the time of the shootings, he was not a subject in any investigation, the authorities said.
In Inglewood, Calif., he was involved in a fender bender, but was not arrested. In Johnson City, near Binghamton, he told the police he suspected that someone had tried to break into his apartment; the police found a loose window pane but no sign of burglary. Two days later, an officer happened to pull him over for driving an uninspected vehicle.
In his letter to the television station, he wrote that the police made his life ''terrible'' when he lived in Johnson City, and accused them of entering his home 13 times in 1994. From 1990 to 1995, he wrote, ''New York undercover cop'' repeatedly tried to get into a car accident with him by braking suddenly in front of him as he was driving.
Nga said that she did not recognize the letter's handwriting as being her brother's, and that he had not told the familyabout his paranoia about the police. The letter might be a sign that he had ''lost his rational thinking,'' she said.
In 2000, Mr. Wong had settled in Inglewood, a city of 113,000 near Los Angeles International Airport, and started working as a driver for a company that prepares and delivers sushi for supermarkets, hospitals and universities, earning $9 an hour. He had become a naturalized citizen five years earlier, yet still struggled with English.
Home was a just short drive from the sushi company, at an apartment complex on Century Boulevard where the airplanes fly so low that you can count the passenger windows without tilting your head up. Mr. Wong lived from September 2000 to September 2007 in a studio apartment with a window that looked out onto a brick wall. ''He'd be sitting in the hall with the postal boxes, smoking,'' said Eric Sherman, a neighbor. ''He'd nod his head, sometimes say hi. There wasn't anything creepy or strange about him. He never did anything out of the ordinary, good or bad.''
Mr. Sherman said he used to see uniformed police officers monitoring the complex, which until recently had been a magnet for drug dealing and prostitution. ''I've seen them standing across there, just watching the building,'' said Mr. Sherman, pointing to the balcony of a building next door.
A housekeeper who worked at the complex said that in 2006 and 2007, men in suits who resembled agents came to the apartment complex ''three or four times,'' asking her and some tenants about Mr. Wong. But the Federal Bureau of Investigation, among other agencies, said last week that it had no previous case involving Mr. Wong.
It was during this time that Mr. Wong's life took a sudden twist. On Dec. 23, 1999, at the age of 32, he married Xiu Ping Jiang. But he kept the marriage a secret from most of his family, neighbors and co-workers, some of whom described seeing Mr. Wong with different women. The marriage did not last. He and his wife separated on May 16, 2005, and were divorced more than a year later, on July 21, 2006, because of ''irreconcilable differences,'' according to the divorce papers. The couple had no children. Her current whereabouts are unknown.
Mr. Wong stopped working at the sushi company in 2007 -- leaving abruptly with no explanation, co-workers said -- and he returned to the Binghamton area.
He moved in with his parents, youngest sister and an infant niece in a modest single-family house on Taylor Street in Union. He began working at a Shop-Vac factory in Endicott, where he continued to have difficulty communicating in English, sometimes pointing at the parts he needed out of frustration.
But there was one thing Mr. Wong was talkative about: guns. He was granted a New York State license to own a handgun in June 1997, and he would later become a member of two shooting ranges in the Binghamton area. A clerk at Wal-Mart in nearby Vestal said Mr. Wong would shop there for ammunition and bull's-eyes for target practice. At Shop-Vac, he showed his pistol permit to co-workers and boasted of carrying a handgun in his glove compartment.
Last year, Mr. Wong went to one of the local shooting ranges and spent hours practicing on targets 50 feet away. He was using a semiautomatic Beretta pistol equipped with a laser sight, and he had a pile of shot-up targets at his side. Mr. Wong's style of target practice caught the attention of the man shooting next to him, a few lanes over.
''He was basically shooting his shots in rapid succession with virtually no hesitation between shots, very smooth and steady and rapid shooting,'' said the man, who asked that his name not be used.
Mr. Wong told the man that he had probably shot 10,000 rounds in about a year's time. ''He was pleasant,'' the man recalled. ''He was courteous. You would never suspect that he would pose a threat to anyone.''
After the Shop-Vac factory closed last year, Mr. Wong started receiving Trade Adjustment Assistance, a type of federal aid for workers whose jobs are moved overseas, and became a regular visitor at the employment center, said the center's director, Terry Stark. One of the center's suggestions to him was to enroll in courses in English as a second language, and Mr. Wong did, signing up for a class at the American Civic Association in late January.
Though he was an immigrant just like them, Mr. Wong had little in common with his classmates, and rarely engaged them or their teacher in conversations, his teacher, Elisabeth Hayes, said. He stopped showing up to classes in early March. ''He never said anything,'' said Long Ho, a Vietnamese immigrant who along with his wife, Lan Ho, 39, was in the same class as Mr. Wong.
On April 3, Mr. Ho and his wife were seated in class when Mr. Wong burst in. Mr. Ho tried to shield her from the bullets. He was shot in the right arm but survived. His wife was killed.
On Thursday, Mr. Ho, his right arm and left wrist and part of his face wrapped in bandages, sat in a wheelchair at his wife's funeral in Johnson City. His son and daughter, both in elementary school, stood at his side, as friends and relatives rang bells and sang in Vietnamese. With his one good arm, he touched his wife's body in the open coffin and bowed his head.
Asked why Mr. Wong had chosen to attack them, Mr. Ho, on the verge of weeping, his voice barely a whisper, replied, simply: ''Nobody know.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BICOASTAL LIFE: Jiverly Wong lived in this apartment complex in Inglewood, Calif., for seven years until 2007, when he left his job at a sushi delivery company and moved back to the Binghamton area. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 LAYOFF NOTICE: Mr. Wong, working at a Shop-Vac plant, left, in a photo taken a day before the plant closed. The day of the shooting, he sent a TV station his gun permit, top, and photos of himself with handguns. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NEWS 10 NOW, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GUNSHOT WOUNDS (88%); FAMILY (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (77%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); FIREARMS (73%); SHOOTINGS (73%); INTERVIEWS (60%); MENTAL ILLNESS (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (90%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); VIET NAM (77%)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2011



439 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 5843 words

HEADLINE: Sorting Out Their Goals, and Options

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG

 BODY:
FOR high school seniors applying to college, this has been an April unlike any in recent memory, if ever.
As families watch their paychecks and college savings accounts shrink, and their household expenses rise, the colleges themselves are scrambling to cut their budgets, too. Which has made the receipt of a so-called fat envelope -- brimming with the good news of college acceptance, along with details of scholarships and loans -- not necessarily the moment of joy it might have been in years past.
While most universities have strived to cut whatever else they can before winnowing financial aid awards, they are also laboring to meet students' escalating needs.
Meanwhile, a deadline looms: many colleges require a deposit, and thus a decision, by May 1. On The New York Times's new college-admissions Web site, The Choice, hundreds of readers -- including parents and students -- have been posting comments betraying their anxieties. 
One reader who identified herself as Sharon wrote that when she filled out the Free Application for Federal Student Aid, it indicated that her family should be able to contribute $20,000 a year toward her child's education.
''We don't know how we will do that,'' she wrote. ''We will have three children at home still, and we have lost 66 percent of our income, due to a layoff and a new job that pays substantially less.''
Little wonder, then, that applicants who may have once dreamed of attending elite, private colleges have been forced to give serious consideration to other options because of their finances.
One of them is Tyler K. Calder, 17, a senior at Brien McMahon High School in Norwalk, Conn. While Tyler has been accepted to New York University, Boston College and Boston University, none has offered her what the University of Connecticut has: a full, four-year scholarship. Which has left Tyler puzzling over what to do.
''It felt as if the weight of the world was lifted off my shoulders,'' she wrote. ''Although my decision is far from final, I am so grateful that I have been given the opportunity to attend a great school free of charge.''
Other seniors throughout the region are grappling with their own set of circumstances as they make their final choice for college. Some of their stories appear below.
VICTORIA SCOTT
AGE 17, senior
HOMETOWN Newark
HIGH SCHOOL Barringer High School
APPLICATIONS 20
Victoria Scott is loyal to her hometown of Newark, and to her state. But for higher education, she wants to consider colleges that will let her experience living somewhere else, like Virginia Union University in Richmond, or Morgan State University in Baltimore.
''It's not that far away,'' she said. ''I want to go away and then come back to New Jersey.''
Her mother, Brenda Scott, says not so fast. ''It will probably be more in New Jersey, due to the economics,'' she said.
Victoria was insistent. ''No, no, no.''
But so was her mother. ''At the end of the day, we're the ones who have to pay,'' Ms. Scott said.
Such is the frequent tug of war between child and parent, and this is being made tougher by hard times and the family's limited resources.
Victoria, the younger of Ms. Scott's two children, has a choice of more than a half-dozen colleges that have accepted her so far, including Rutgers and William Paterson Universities in-state and Virginia Union, Morgan State and the University of New Haven.
She was expecting to hear any day from Smith and Spelman Colleges.
''For the longest time, I have wanted to go there,'' Victoria said of Spelman, which is in Atlanta.
But with some resignation she said, ''It's going to be the school that offers me the most money.''
Victoria attends Barringer High School in Newark, which has 2,000 students. Only a quarter of her classmates passed the state's graduation exam on the first try, and even fewer are likely to go on to four-year colleges.
Victoria is the senior class president and is carrying a 3.4 grade point average.
Even though Barringer may not compare with high-achieving high schools, Victoria said she had strong and supportive teachers.
And Victoria has been outspoken in efforts to bring more opportunities to city students. She was a witness in court this winter in the latest chapter of the state's long-running school-financing case, Abbott v. Burke, testifying that her school and other urban schools like it need more money for economically disadvantaged students.
Now, with college ahead of her, Victoria said she is confident that she is ready.
''I've done everything I can,'' she said. ''I feel I'm in the right place.''
JOHN MOONEY
DANNY CASARELLA
AGE 17, senior
HOMETOWN Ossining, N.Y.
HIGH SCHOOL Archbishop Stepinac High School, White Plains
APPLICATIONS 8
Danny Casarella didn't spend much time worrying about getting accepted to college. Paying for it is another matter.
Danny has maintained a 3.9 grade point average at Archbishop Stepinac High School in White Plains.
He played defensive tackle for the football team and is editor of the yearbook. Danny, who lives in Ossining, is also a Life Scout, a Boy Scout rank earned through extra leadership positions, service projects and merit badges.
He applied to eight colleges: Boston College, Northeastern, Fordham, Iona, SUNY Geneseo, SUNY Binghamton, SUNY Buffalo and Maryland.
Danny was rejected by Boston College and wait-listed by Geneseo. Binghamton wait-listed him for admission for the fall of 2009, but guaranteed him admission for the fall of 2010. As of the first week of April, he hadn't yet heard from Maryland. He was accepted at the other four schools.
Now it's decision time, and Danny is weighing the attractiveness of programs and campuses against the money available to help pay his way. Originally, Northeastern was his top choice, but the university has not offered any money. Danny qualified for a federal loan of $5,500, but tuition and other costs at Northeastern are more than $48,000 a year. The state schools are cheaper -- tuition runs about $5,500. SUNY Buffalo offered $2,500.
His current first choice is Fordham. He visited the campus recently and was highly impressed.
''I've always had a very Roman Catholic background,'' Danny said. ''Going to church while I am away at school is something I really want to do. At Fordham, I loved the Jesuit feel.''
Fordham has offered him $5,600 a year, but tuition and other costs average close to $50,000. Danny has applied for several scholarships, and the outcome will determine his decision.
He has had several frank talks about finances with his parents: Dan, an electrician, and Patricia, a nurse. They explained that most of Danny's college fund was invested in stocks and much was lost in the recent economic downturn.
The Casarellas are refinancing their house to help pay for Danny's college expenses.
''Like all parents, they always tell me to go where I want to go,'' he said. ''But I really don't want to be a burden on my family.''
KATE STONE LOMBARDI
HELENE CHEN
AGE 17, senior
HOMETOWN Jersey City
HIGH SCHOOL High Tech High School, North Bergen
APPLICATIONS 9
Helene Chen of Jersey City boarded a Greyhound bus last weekend with her mother for a four-hour ride to Baltimore, to check out the Maryland Institute College of Art, one of several colleges that have accepted her.
During their short stay, she and her mother toured the campus and listened to a presentation for hundreds of other high school seniors who have been accepted, and their families.
There was time to visit the city's Inner Harbor, and Helene's mother, Rita, later split off to visit the financial aid office.
When they arrived back home around 4 a.m. on Monday, there was another prize waiting: an acceptance package from Rhode Island School of Design was in the mail.
''I have a lot to consider,'' said Helene later that afternoon, still groggy from her all-night travels.
Helene, who attends High Tech High School in North Bergen, a magnet school in the Hudson County vocational-technical district, is first and foremost an artist.
She has been accepted to arts schools like Parsons and the Pratt Institute, and also to Northeastern, Rutgers and Syracuse, among others. Of the nine schools she applied to, only Carnegie Mellon turned her down.
Helene, whose SATs topped 2000 combined (out of 2400), is a talkative girl, eager to show her works of art and talk about their meaning. One piece in the portfolio she showed to colleges is a self-portrait, showing hands emerging from her face. ''I was feeling something wanted to come out, feeling a little pent-up,'' she said.
William Kennon, an art teacher at the school, said about her, ''She's always finding new angles to interpret what's inside her.''
Though Helene is looking for the best art program she can find, money will be a factor as she chooses a college. Her mother, a bank examiner, earns about $70,000 a year, and has money saved for Helene's education.
But Ms. Chen recently learned that she has lymphoma, requiring chemotherapy, and Helene wants to avoid adding to her burden.
''I definitely need to go to the cheapest option,'' she said. ''I can't put my mother into debt.''
Helene expects to hear soon from more schools about financial aid, and is researching other sources of aid. ''I'll be looking at all those random, strange little scholarships they have online,'' she said. ''Google is my friend.''
JOHN MOONEY
GREGORY MAGILL
AGE 18, senior
HOMETOWN Westport, Conn.
HIGH SCHOOL St. Luke's School, New Canaan, Conn.
APPLICATIONS 8
Gregory Magill learned he had been accepted to Wake Forest University while he was attending his grandmother's funeral in New Hampshire. His next-door neighbor in Westport was checking the family's mail for college letters, and called Gregory to relay the good news.
''It was bittersweet,'' said Gregory, a senior at St. Luke's, a private school in New Canaan, Conn., whose acceptance to Wake Forest was initially deferred after he applied in the fall for early admission.
Gregory eventually applied to eight universities including Lehigh, Syracuse and Indiana. He was accepted at seven, but came back to his first choice, Wake Forest, in Winston-Salem, N.C. Gregory said Wake Forest meets all his criteria: He wants to attend a medium-size college with a strong business department, and one where sports are a big part of campus life.
Gregory, a member of St. Luke's lacrosse team, is an avid sports fan. Last October, he attended a Wake Forest-Clemson football game the day before his admissions interview.
''It was the first big-time football game I ever attended,'' he said. ''I loved it -- the energy, the excitement. I bonded with the students and knew I fit in there. I wanted that kind of atmosphere for myself.''
As vice president of the Six Man Club, a St. Luke's fan club that promotes school sporting events, Gregory already knows a lot about school spirit. ''We organize cheers, make T-shirts and basically get everyone out to the home games.''
He is equally passionate about cars. ''I love cars. I love looking at them, reading about them and working with them,'' he wrote in his college essay, which discussed the future of Detroit's Big Three automakers. His interest translated to a summer job at the Mercedes-Benz dealership in Greenwich, Conn., where he said he loved going to work every day.
Gregory, who was born in Norwalk, Conn., and has lived in Westport since he was 7, said he is looking forward to a change of scenery. ''I purposely chose colleges that are farther away,'' he said. ''I'm looking for a new experience.''
While finances are not an issue for Gregory's family -- his father is a banker and his mother is an interior designer -- he is pragmatic about his purpose in going to college. ''Good school spirit means a strong alumni network,'' he said. ''I want to work hard, have fun, but my goal is to get a good job.''
MOINA NOOR
ZACHARIE RYAN-GILLIAM
AGE 18, senior
HOMETOWN Yonkers
HIGH SCHOOL Roosevelt High School
APPLICATIONS 50
When Zacharie Ryan-Gilliam moved with his family to Yonkers from Maryland two years ago, he transferred to Roosevelt High School from the McDonogh School, a private preparatory school in suburban Baltimore. He quickly caught the attention of Shannon Burton, assistant principal of the senior class, even though he was only a junior.
''We knew we had a star here because he is so well spoken,'' said Dr. Burton, who also noticed Zacharie's high SAT scores. ''I promised him last year that I'd help him get a free ride to college.''
Dr. Burton has more than fulfilled his promise. By the end of March, Zacharie had been accepted by 10 colleges and had received more than $400,000 in scholarship offers.
Working closely with Dr. Burton, Zacharie had applied to 50 colleges, including many historically black colleges in the South. They worked every day after school and many nights and weekends last fall to complete the mountain of application forms.
''I actually didn't have a preference,'' said Zacharie, who has participated in three varsity sports (football, wrestling and track), has an 88 average and is in the top 20 percent of his class. ''My guidance counselor advised me on the list. I was looking for schools that would offer me scholarships.''
Most colleges have offered him some scholarship money, and two black colleges have offered full rides: Lincoln University in Pennsylvania and Edward Waters College in Florida.
Zacharie wants to teach English someday, but other educational aspects of Lincoln make it appealing.
An agriculture professor at Lincoln recently called Zacharie at home to encourage him to choose Lincoln.
''He wanted to talk to me about my essay,'' Zacharie said. ''I thought I had spoken from the heart in it. I wrote about how agriculture is a good profession for minority students because a lot of minorities are forced to live in inner-city areas and they lose where their roots are from.''
Lincoln is his mother's top choice because the college says more than 20 percent of its graduates go on to medical school -- a sign of Lincoln's quality, Zacharie said. For Zacharie, the fact that the writer Langston Hughes graduated from Lincoln is more significant.
Zacharie and his mother, Eura Gilliam, who moved to Yonkers to work for Amtrak at Pennsylvania Station in Manhattan, plan to start making college visits over the next few weeks.
Lincoln is first on his list.
ABBY GRUEN
LAURA ROSENFELD
AGE 18, senior
HOMETOWN East Islip
HIGH SCHOOL East Islip High School
APPLICATIONS 12
Laura Rosenfeld has always been interested in music. At East Islip High School, she is a violinist in the symphony orchestra and was part of the pit orchestra for the recent school play. But while music is her passion, she sees journalism as her future.
''I really want to write for a magazine one day,'' Laura said.
When she started applying to colleges, Laura, whose grade point average exceeds 96 and who has an SAT score of 1970, opted not to seek early decision, because among her 12 applications, there were five ''favorite choices.''
''In the beginning, my first choices were N.Y.U., Northwestern, Columbia, UPenn and Brown,'' Laura said. ''But then I narrowed it down to two: Northwestern and Brown. I decided that I wanted to go further away from Long Island and to experience another area.''
College visits with her family to most of the schools were part of the process, beginning with the University of Pennsylvania.
''I liked how it was in the middle of a city but had its own campus,'' she said.
A trip to Northwestern University, in Evanston, Ill., followed during Christmas break.
''It was freezing and there was snow everywhere, but I loved that it was more suburban and a typical college campus,'' she said.
When the responses arrived, Laura learned that she had been accepted by 9 of the 12 colleges, rejected by Columbia and Brown and wait-listed at Penn.
The rejection by Brown made her decision easier, she said. The choice became even more exciting because Northwestern has a highly respected school of journalism.
Although some of the colleges that accepted her offered scholarship money -- some for half the tuition, others as much as $10,000 -- she and her family discussed the options and agreed that Northwestern would be her best destination, even though it did not offer her any scholarships. Some loans offered by Northwestern will help cover the $38,000 annual tuition, she said, although she is still not sure of the details.
''My family wanted me to choose the college that's right for me, and where I really want to go,'' Laura said.
She said she was the only one of about 400 seniors in her graduating class who had applied to Northwestern.
''I don't know anybody else who's going there,'' Laura said, but she didn't seem a bit concerned.
LINDA SASLOW
Several seniors have been chronicling their experiences during the endgame of this year's college admissions process in The Choice, a new blog. Here are excerpts from one student:
FAITHLYNN MORRIS
AGE 17, senior
HOMETOWN Bridgeport, Conn.
HIGH SCHOOL Central Magnet
APPLICATIONS 10
PUB-DATE: April 4, 2009,
I knew I'd been rejected by N.Y.U. before I even got the letter.
Honestly. I'd been bracing myself for the upset in the weeks since two of my friends -- both of whom are in the top 1 percent of my senior class, a distinction I simply cannot boast -- received their acceptance packages. I knew it was no mistake that I hadn't received any news of my own that day.
I hadn't been fooling myself into thinking that this pipe dream would be any more than just that, so when I opened the thin envelope, I was both unsurprised and undaunted. Don't worry about it, New York University Committee on Undergraduate Admissions; no need to express any regrets. For whatever reason, N.Y.U. wasn't in the cards for me.
Life goes on. And now it's time for me to decide where it is I'll be going on.
I'm thankful that my choices have been narrowed for me, but I'm less appreciative -- far less -- that I've yet to receive all of my financial packages. I'm hoping these are just systematic snafus and not signs of Faithlynn's Financial Aid Apocalypse. I need to know about aid before I get my heart set on one school.
My mother and I have been struggling for some time and it is important to me, vitally so, that I can ensure a strife-free future for both of us. Paying off loans for decades to come wouldn't quite fit with that plan. But then again, neither would a career as a journalist in these times, what with print journalism almost on its way out.
I'm thinking too much. Funny though, I haven't even scraped the surface of all the things I'm going to have to think about in the coming weeks.
As of the middle of last week, Faithlynn had been accepted to the University of Connecticut, Quinnipiac, St. John's, Massachusetts, Fordham and Emerson. She had been rejected by Boston University and N.Y.U.
FAITHLYNN MORRIS
JENNIFER POOLE
AGE 17, senior
HOMETOWN Yonkers
HIGH SCHOOL Lincoln High School
APPLICATIONS 17
Jennifer Poole is the valedictorian at Lincoln High School in Yonkers, and she is the most unassuming academic superstar that the principal there, Edwin Quezada, said he had ever seen.
She doesn't flaunt her average of 100.66 percent or her excellent SAT scores in a school where last year only 33 percent of the graduating class went on to four-year colleges, according to the New York State Department of Education.
''I asked her once, 'What do you want to change in this world?' '' Mr. Quezada said. ''She said: 'I truly want to change what is meant by the word acceptance. I think a lot of people go around saying they are accepting, but they aren't.' ''
In the last few weeks, Jennifer has been hearing the word acceptance a lot. She applied to 17 colleges as a premed or biomedical engineering student and has been accepted by every one, most of which promised her scholarship money.
While she was opening her much-anticipated fat envelope from Columbia, she received an e-mail message on her cellphone -- it was her acceptance from Harvard.
Hearing from both universities at once made Jennifer lose her typical reserve.
''I was running all over the house,'' she said. ''My parents were home, and they were really excited, and then we called my grandmother.''
As a little girl, Jennifer always thought she wanted to go to Columbia. But now, in addition to Harvard, she is also considering the Sophie B. Davis School of Biomedical Education at City College of New York, from which she could graduate with a medical degree in seven years.
''I'm waiting to hear from them on money,'' said Jennifer, who will visit Harvard for the first time this month. ''They all say they try to meet everybody's financial needs as best as possible.''
Harvard will have to be generous to entice Jennifer, an only child who likes the idea of staying in New York. Her father, Terry, is a New York City police officer and her mother, Annette, is a freelance designer of wedding accessories.
As she visits her top college choices in the next few weeks, Jennifer has a plan in mind.
''I will be looking to see how I feel about the campus and the people,'' she said. ''I'll try to picture myself there next year.''
ABBY GRUEN
JAMES CARROLL
AGE 18, senior
HOMETOWN Darien, Conn.
HIGH SCHOOL Darien High School
APPLICATIONS 11
James Carroll estimates that he and his family have driven more than 1,000 miles to visit dozens of colleges around the Northeast since last spring. Now, with less than a month remaining before he has to decide which school to attend, James is planning one last excursion. This time, however, he said he would be evaluating the colleges he visits with a new perspective -- that of an accepted student.
James has received offers from nine schools including Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Bucknell University, Colgate University and Carnegie Mellon University.
''I'm looking to see what has changed since the initial visit and recalculate the ambience,'' said James, who describes himself as a ''math and science guy.'' Indeed, on his applications, James, the son of two actuaries, listed computer science, physics and mathematics -- in that order -- as his possible majors.
''I still have a lot to think about,'' he said.
James said that on these second visits, he planned to meet with the track coaches. As a middle-distance runner for the Darien High School track team, he said that the quality of a college's track program was not a factor during the initial application process but it might be a criterion used to narrow his choice.
He said that he thinks in numbers and that his facility with them allows him to recall easily his best times for the mile races he has participated in since middle school. In the seventh grade, James said, he ran a mile in 7 minutes 1 second, but now he can run it in 4 minutes 49 seconds.
''Track has taught me the importance of sticking to something,'' he said, noting his steady improvement as a runner over the years.
James said he loves the outdoors and knew that he did not want to attend college in a big city where students leave the campus on weekends. ''I like grass and trees. I want to hang out on campus during the weekend and play Frisbee.''
As an Eagle Scout, James is a regular camper and hiker and is well versed in survival skills. He is confident that this knowledge will help him as he prepares for college. ''I've camped in hurricanes and subzero temperatures. I can survive most situations.''
MOINA NOOR
DEVIN CLINE
AGE 17, senior
HOMETOWN Westfield, N.J.
HIGH SCHOOL Westfield High School
APPLICATIONS 8
When it came time to think about college, Devin Cline took a relatively laid-back approach.
''I started a little late, I would say,'' said Devin, the middle child in a family of three boys. ''I usually try to stay away from the overachievement mentality that's prevalent where I go to high school, and my parents mostly left it up to me,''
But Devin, a National Merit Scholarship finalist who will graduate with a weighted grade-point average of 4.14, also understood that he possessed an intellect and passions that would make him an excellent candidate at many colleges. He applied to eight: Georgetown, (rejected); McGill (accepted); George Washington (accepted); Boston University (accepted); Northwestern, where both parents had earned degrees (wait-listed); Tulane (wait-listed); the University of Virginia (rejected); and Maryland (accepted).
He has narrowed his choices to three: McGill, in Montreal; George Washington, in Washington; and Boston University. As of last weekend, he was leaning toward McGill, and planning to drive to an open house there with a friend. ''It'd be really cool to study in a foreign country,'' Devin said. But he was also planning to revisit other colleges.
''I've just been trying to visualize what my life would be at each school,'' he said. He finds the process stressful but exciting.
College costs are important, but not a deciding factor. A relative has volunteered to chip in, but Devin said he would rather not accept the help ''out of my own conscience.'' George Washington has offered him a $15,000 annual scholarship; McGill, which costs less, a $3,000 entrance scholarship.
Devin once planned to major in journalism -- he is the opinion editor of his school newspaper -- but has decided against declaring a major so soon. He said he is interested in government, history and politics. Devin also likes community service: He volunteers at a soup kitchen and has traveled twice to Guatemala to help build houses.
At college, he said, he would like to continue writing and making music (he is the bass guitarist for a band, Banana Hammock). He seemed unconcerned about social climate.
''I'm the kind of person who fits into most crowds,'' he said. ''There aren't many people I don't like. I certainly have my own group of friends. We're an interesting bunch. If anything, I'd say we're the weirdos at school. A little crazy, but not crazy dangerous.''
One thing is for sure: Devin hungers for city life. ''When you're stuck in suburbia your whole life, you have a craving for adventure,'' he said. ''I've lived my whole life in one house.''
MARY JO PATTERSON
JACQUELINE MORGEN
AGE 18, senior
HOMETOWN Harrison, N.Y.
HIGH SCHOOL Harrison High School
APPLICATIONS 14
Hanging out with the girls from Swarthmore College's volleyball team was a thrill for Jacqueline Morgen when she had an overnight there recently.
They shared her passion for volleyball and her drive to excel beyond the sport -- in academics and in life.
Swarthmore is a Division III college, so there are no athletic scholarships, but the coach and the players did their best to recruit Jacqueline, taking her to classes and a baseball game.
''I want to be in a team environment with those girls,'' said Jacqueline, a student at Harrison High School in Westchester County. ''I love playing volleyball.''
But volleyball is not her only consideration. Salutatorian of her class, she has been accepted to a list of colleges that offer advantages that she realizes may outweigh her desire to be on a team.
Choosing from among them will not be easy.
Jacqueline applied to 14 colleges and was accepted at 11. She was wait-listed at the University of Pennsylvania and rejected by Yale and Middlebury.
She has already narrowed her choices by largely ruling out SUNY Binghamton, Tufts University, Colgate, Skidmore College and the Universities of Rochester and Vermont.
But Cornell is a strong contender.
''It has some of the best facilities and offers a great education all around,'' Jacqueline said. ''It's the largest of all of my options, so if I want to go larger I would go to Cornell. If I want to go smaller, I would go to Swarthmore.''
Then there is Barnard College, in Manhattan.
''Having such a close relationship with Columbia is good, and I could take advantage of all that the city has to offer,'' she said.
And Jacqueline is also considering Washington University in St. Louis.
''It has some of the happiest students, and it seems like a nurturing and positive place to be,'' she said.
The process of visiting all the colleges with her family has not made the decision any easier.
''I am looking to make sure that the people I'm meeting when I go on campus for a visit are friendly and open,'' Jacqueline said.
This makes her think of Swarthmore.
''The girls at Swarthmore were really great to me and said, 'Please, we want you to come,' '' she said.
On April 17 and 18, Jacqueline is attending a gathering at Swarthmore for accepted students.
She might even be able to fit in a little volleyball.
ABBY GRUEN
GEORGIA SQUYRES
AGE 17, senior
HOMETOWN Maplewood, N.J.
HIGH SCHOOL Columbia High School
APPLICATIONS 9
At this point, there is only one thing of which Georgia Squyres is certain.
The college where she hopes to spend the next four years is going to have a ''C'' in it, somewhere.
After a tumultuous March -- her description -- Georgia is torn between Columbia University, Cornell and the University of Chicago.
''I'm trying to enjoy the whole process,'' she said, ''but it gets increasingly stressful as my other friends make their decisions and I don't know yet.''
Georgia is planning a trip to the University of Chicago, which she researched but did not visit, as well as repeat visits to Columbia and Cornell. At each campus, she expects to wander and wait for the ''gut feeling'' that will clarify things.
''Before, when I visited, it was like, 'This would be cool, if I could even get in, but don't get your heart set on it,' '' she said. ''Now, you know you're in. You can get excited. It's 'Oh, my God, I'm going to college!' This could conceivably be my life four months from now.''
It is a little surprising that Georgia found the admissions process tumultuous, considering her credentials. The older of two girls, she was thinking about college as early as the fifth grade, and made her first round of college visits when she was a sophomore.
Her parents, she said, exerted no pressure on her choices. ''It was always, 'As long as you're trying,' '' she said. ''It's been really lovely.''
Striving to excel, she sought out challenging classes and Advance Placement courses. By the end of her junior year, she had a weighted grade-point average of 4.75. Still, she said, ''the best way to describe me is laid-back and down to earth.''
''A lot of kids who work very hard and look at the harder colleges tend to take themselves really seriously,'' she said. ''I tend to take myself less seriously.''
Georgia considers herself ''kind of a nerd'' who likes science and math. She plays piano and drums. ''I'm really bad at visual arts and athletics,'' she said. ''Except for badminton. I'm doing very well there. I cling to that.''
She applied to nine colleges: Yale, Princeton, Columbia, Cornell, the University of Chicago, Michigan, Rochester, Johns Hopkins and Rutgers. College costs were not a limiting factor, but Georgia plans to get a job at college to help with expenses.
Yale and Princeton rejected her, but she was not fazed. ''I'm a pragmatist,'' she said. ''You never know, especially with the Ivies. It could be a case where you worked really hard, but they have 20 kids that look just like you.''
MARY JO PATTERSON
SHEILA GARCIA
AGE 17, senior
HOMETOWN Freeport, N.Y.
HIGH SCHOOL Freeport High School
APPLICATIONS 11
Sheila Garcia has always dreamed of going to Harvard. Or if not Harvard, then definitely an Ivy League university.
''My parents are immigrants, and they wanted to give me the opportunity to go to a better school than they did,'' said Sheila, a senior at Freeport High School whose parents, Rene and Clara, are from El Salvador. ''My dad went to college, but my mom never did, and this was my chance to follow my dream.''
Sheila applied to 11 colleges -- including all of the Ivy League universities. As an honors students who ranks fourth in her class of 382 with almost perfect SAT scores and an impressive portfolio of extracurricular activities that includes being president of the Key Club, a member of the tennis team, the marching band and a school-based Christian club, Sheila was optimistic.
On March 31, at exactly 5 p.m., when the Ivy League colleges posted their acceptances online, Sheila signed on to learn her fate. To her surprise, she had only one acceptance -- to Cornell -- and was wait-listed at Penn.
''I was disappointed when I saw that I had been rejected at the other schools,'' Sheila said. ''I was moping around for a while, but then I started to get excited about going to Cornell.''
Financial aid was a factor in looking at colleges, Sheila said. Early this month she learned that Cornell had awarded her $34,000.
Sheila plans to major in business and economics at Cornell. ''Whatever I do in the future, it will have something to do with business,'' she said.
No stranger to Cornell, Sheila visited many times when her brother, Benjamin, who is now 23, went there. She is encouraged by his career path since graduating from Cornell last year.
''He has a job now at J. P. Morgan and is very successful,'' she said.
LINDA SASLOW
MATT FRIES
AGE 18, senior
HOMETOWN Lynbrook, N.Y.
HIGH SCHOOL Lynbrook High School
APPLICATIONS 8
Matt Fries had a wish list for the college he would attend.
''I wanted a school in a big city, with a diverse student body and a really vigorous international business program,'' Matt said.
Matt, who has a 95 grade average at Lynbrook High School and scored 2020 out of 2400 on the SAT, had another interest that influenced his application process: a love of foreign languages. This year he is taking Spanish, French and Chinese, and last year he took Japanese.
Matt recalled that when he and his parents visited McGill University in Montreal, ''I liked the idea of being in a city that was different from my own and where they spoke another language.''
But McGill did not have the international business program he wanted.
Last summer, when Matt spent a month in Antibes, France, studying French at the Lycee Horticole, his interest in going abroad for college grew stronger.
''I was one of 200 students from all over the world, and I loved how everyone was so different but we could all be friends,'' he said. ''I decided that I really wanted to be in an international setting for college.''
Matt's parents, however, did not share his enthusiasm.
''They said that I could apply to only one school in Europe,'' he said. ''But I don't think they really took it too seriously.''
Among the eight colleges to which Matt applied was the Rotterdam School of Management at Erasmus University in the Netherlands. His other applications went out to McGill, New York University, the University of Southern California, the University of Pennsylvania, Maryland, Boston University and George Washington.
Rotterdam was the first school to accept him, and after that, Matt knew his decision was made.
''When I got in, it finally hit my parents that this was real,'' he said.
Other acceptances followed from four more colleges, with rejections from U.S.C. and Penn and a wait listing from N.Y.U.
During February break, Matt and his parents, Elena and Robert, visited Rotterdam, where he handed in his acceptance papers.
''I'm not the homesick type, and I'm good being on my own,'' Matt said. ''Already, I've met a few people on Facebook from different countries, and we're getting to know one another.''
LINDA SASLOW

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); FAMILY (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (79%); STUDENT LOANS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (78%); EDUCATIONAL SAVINGS PLANS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (72%); LAYOFFS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (65%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011



440 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1492 words

HEADLINE: Amid the Gloom, Some Signs of Life

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
A STRONG, broad rally in March helped the stock market bounce back from an awful start to the year. That lifted spirits on Wall Street much as it lifted share prices -- but only part way, and not nearly enough to undo the damage of the previous year.
A recovery of almost 20 percent in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index from the low of early March still left the benchmark with an 11.7 percent loss for the first quarter. That, as well as several false dawns for the market last year, explains why the mood has swung from despair to something closer to relief than euphoria.
Among investment advisers, the widespread view is that conditions in the market and economy appear better, but they are reluctant to say that a lasting bottom has been reached in either. Buying stocks makes sense, many say, but instead of chasing the rally and making a big bet, they recommend building positions a bit at a time, especially on market pullbacks.
There have been plenty of those. The year began on a hopeful note after stocks spent December rebounding from their low the month before. But the hope and the rally dissipated quickly, as the extent of the economy's woes became clearer. 
The unemployment rate has risen to 8.5 percent from 4.4 percent in two years, and monthly net job losses of more than a half-million have become routine. Gross domestic product fell at an annual rate of 6.3 percent in the fourth quarter of 2008, and a similar loss was expected for the first quarter of this year.
The housing market remains enfeebled, although sales figures announced last month showed a semblance of stabilization. And, not surprisingly, measures of consumer sentiment have been scraping along near record lows.
Some attribute the continuing weakness in stocks not so much to these problems as to solutions devised in Washington. One plan after another, offered by one presidential administration after another, was judged unequal to the task by Wall Street.
Komal Sri-Kumar, chief global strategist at the TCW Group, identifies Feb. 10 as the day when ''the market's lack of enthusiasm for the Obama administration'' crystallized. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner was supposed to lay out a comprehensive plan to fix what ailed the financial system, but what he outlined was regarded as just that -- an outline.
''After this tremendous buildup that Geithner was going to tell you what the solution is, it was clear that he did not have a plan yet,'' Mr. Sri-Kumar said. Instead, he said, ideas have been floated ''in dribs and drabs on a daily basis.''
As far as Wall Street was concerned, Mr. Geithner evidently hit the right note last month, when he announced a program to provide incentives for private investors to take up to $500 billion in toxic assets off the hands of banks. That sent the stock market up about 7 percent on March 23, but Mr. Sri-Kumar wonders whether that plan is better than the others. He said a months-old problem remains: banks want more money for the bad paper than investors are willing to pay.
Mutual fund performance data compiled by Morningstar shows that investors were unwilling to pay for much of anything for most of the quarter; the average United States general stock fund lost 8.3 percent. That's better than the S.& P. 500 was able to muster, but it still helps to add up to a 36.1 percent loss over the last four quarters.
AMONG eight flavors of sector funds tracked by Morningstar, real estate fared the worst in the quarter, losing, on average, 29.8 percent, while financial services lost 15.8 percent. Precious-metals funds performed best, rising by an average of 11.5 percent, followed by technology funds, up 4.2 percent. Funds focusing on international stocks lost 9 percent in the period, on average, dragged down by weakness in Japan and Europe. Emerging-market funds performed much better, but still fell 1.7 percent.
Bond funds kept their heads above water as investors sought safety in Treasury instruments and as the perceived risk of owning corporate debt waned. The average taxable bond fund rose 1.3 percent.
It is hard to pinpoint a reason for the stock market's abrupt turnaround last month that is tied to corporate or economic fundamentals. Investors may have just reached a point where they had little left to sell.
Blaze Tankersley, chief market strategist at Bay Crest Partners, an institutional brokerage firm, said that even the most stable, defensive stocks had been sold heavily, including companies like Johnson & Johnson, McDonald's and Procter & Gamble.
''When you look at that type of action, it's like they're shooting the last generals,'' Mr. Tankersley said. ''There's finally no place left to hide. It's an indication that the bear market was extremely advanced.''
The rally may also be a result of a realization that there was more selling than was warranted by the deterioration of fundamental conditions. It's not so much that investors believed that the cures offered by Washington suddenly were all that good, but that the disease was not all that bad.
''We've certainly seen panic and capitulation a couple of times in the last few months,'' said Brett Hammond, chief investment strategist at TIAA-CREF. ''It's very easy for people to say, 'This is the most extreme' fill-in-the-blank. Things are bad and getting worse and it's time to hunker down, but that's not to say all is at an end and we're in the worst depression ever. It's not as bad as the '30s.''
The selling through most of the last two quarters may not have been the most extreme ever, but it has had few precedents. By one measure, stocks went beyond the garden-variety oversold condition that is often reached during routine zigs and zags to the kind of washout that occurs very rarely and only after a long, steep downturn.
Duncan W. Richardson, chief equity investment officer at Eaton Vance, noted that popular averages reached a 12-year low in the quarter. That situation had occurred only twice before in the last 80 years: in 1932, during the Great Depression, and in 1974, in the aftermath of the Watergate scandal and the Arab oil embargo.
A 12-year low ''is a once-in-a-generation'' event, Mr. Richardson said.
The last two such lows gave way almost immediately to long bull markets, so will this one produce another once-in-a-generation buying opportunity? Probably, investment advisers generally predict, but probably not yet.
Many financial and economic problems remain to be solved, so a retest of the March low may be in store. An erosion of the recent improvement in sentiment may hasten a market reversal.
''What I'm afraid of is when people get their first-quarter statements, they'll say, 'That's it, I'm done,' '' said Michael L. Avery, chief investment officer at Waddell & Reed and co-manager of the Ivy Asset Strategy fund. He added, ''I'm not really sure why we've had the rally we've had.''
Befitting such doubt, only 28 percent of his portfolio is in stocks. He has 40 percent in cash, 20 percent in gold and the rest in bonds.
Mr. Richardson's main short-term concern is a different sort of first-quarter statement.
''The market is going to have to fight through what probably will be horrible earnings,'' he said. ''There won't be good news there.''
But he wonders whether investors might shrug it off as something they have seen before. As low as prices have fallen, ''things don't have to be great for the stock market to go up,'' he said. ''They just have to stop getting worse.''
There is widespread agreement that the long term is more promising than the short term. The next few months may be unknowable or just plain bad, but the economy has always recovered eventually, and share prices appear cheap compared with business prospects over the long haul.
''What history has shown is that when investors have endured that sort of pain, returns can be well above historic norms,'' Mr. Richardson said. To help limit further pain, he prefers stocks of companies that have high dividend yields and enough cash on hand to get by without having to raise capital in the markets.
MR. TANKERSLEY encourages long-term investors to take a chance on stocks -- delicately, by putting in cash when the S.& P. 500 dips.
''If you're someone with a longer horizon, I think you can start picking away here,'' he said.
One sector he has warmed to recently is financials. ''I'm disposed toward bullishness there,'' he said. ''It's well worth someone's time to investigate who the winners will be'' once stability returns to the industry.
Mr. Sri-Kumar also recommends buying stocks only gradually. He would allocate 20 percent of cash available for investment now and increase the exposure if the market heads back toward the March low, which he predicts. The lingering caution among the public seems about right to him.
''Start entering the stock market now but don't get ecstatic and think the rally is going to pass you by,'' he said. ''I still think there will be a lot of opportunities for the little investor to get in.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The market reacted well to Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner's incentive program to take toxic assets off the hands of troubled banks.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. BU34) DRAWING (DRAWING BY TIM ROBINSON)
 CHART: FIRST QUARTER (Source: Morningstar) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (76%); STATISTICS (76%); COMPANY LOSSES (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); NEW ISSUES (74%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (69%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (89%); BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2011



441 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 4954 words

HEADLINE: Keeping Up With Being Kept

BYLINE: By RUTH PADAWER. 
Ruth Padawer is an adjunct professor at Columbia University's Graduate School of Journalism. This is her first feature article for the magazine.

 BODY:
AT FIRST GLANCE, the Web site SeekingArrangement.com seems like any other dating site. Most of the men are looking for fit, sexy women, and most of the women want nice guys who can make them smile and laugh. But if eHarmony or Match.com is a chatty social mixer, Seeking Arrangement is a down-and-dirty marketplace where older moneyed men and cute young women engage in brutally frank transactions. They're not searching for longtime soul mates; they want no-strings-attached ''arrangements'' that trade in society's most valued currencies: wealth, youth and beauty. In the cheesy lexicon of the site, they are ''sugar daddies'' and ''sugar babies.'' 
 There's the 18-year-old from France asking for $5,000 to $10,000 a month from ''a mentor who can provide me with the finer things in life and keep me happy!'' And the 49-year-old investor from upstate New York willing to pay $5,000 a month for a ''daytime playmate'' for ''intense connection without commitment.'' Critics say the site is at best a convenience store for adulterers and at worst a virtual brothel, but Brandon Wade, Seeking Arrangement's 38-year-old founder and chief executive, is unperturbed by the criticism. ''We stress relationships that are mutually beneficial,'' he says. ''We ask people to really think about what they want in a relationship and what they have to offer. That kind of upfront honesty is a good basis for any relationship.''
 The site now claims more than 300,000 registered members, far fewer than mainstream dating sites like Match.com, which has 1.5 million paying subscribers, but still a remarkable number. Sugar babies outnumber daddies 10 to 1, Wade says, providing what one sugar daddy called ''the best fishing hole I ever fished in.'' 
 This abundance of possibility is part of what the site is selling, along with fantasy. Some of these men -- especially those shopping for women half their age -- are digging deep into their pockets to pay for an illusion: that despite their receding hairlines and wattled skin, they're still enchanting enough to charm pretty young women. One image on the site features a dazed, graying man doted on by two barely clad attendants -- a caricature of an already caricatured relationship. But this marketing spin doesn't capture the nuances of the relationships that often develop between the ''daddies'' and the ''babies'' who meet on the site -- relationships that can turn out to be more complicated than even the members themselves expect. Men may use money as a way to buy themselves out of the normal obligations of romance, like accommodating a woman's emotional needs as much as their own. But despite the power and security that the money buys, it can also undercut the very ego it's intended to boost.
 Consider B. K., a fit finance executive in his early 40s, who, last October, began ''dating'' a 20-year-old engineering major at a college 90 minutes from his house. Like nearly half the sugar daddies on Seeking Arrangement, B. K. is married. (Neither B. K. nor any other user of the site would allow full names to be published -- certain the revelation would infuriate wives or boyfriends, shock colleagues and repel friends or family -- and agreed to use only their first names, nicknames or initials.) B. K. and his wife opted against separation, for the sake of the kids, and for now, they have a policy -- at least in his mind -- of don't ask, don't tell. Between pangs of guilt about cheating, B. K. views his secret dallying as a safety valve, letting him feel desired so he can return home and appreciate the many things he loves about his wife, even if they don't include giving him the attention he wants.
 And so, nearly each week, B. K. gets together with Lola, the young woman he met on the site, for a meal or a gym workout and a few hours at a hotel outside the Western city where he lives. Their visits are generally no longer than four or five hours because Lola, a senior, has a full course load and also works 40 hours a week at two low-wage jobs. With no money from her parents, she was frank in her Seeking Arrangement profile, saying she needed ''immediate financial assistance.'' In B. K., she gets that in the form of $100 or $150 stuffed in her bag each time they meet. He feels good about helping her with her tuition, encouraging her studies and romancing her, albeit in hotel rooms. Most of all, he's grateful that she doesn't want a commitment. At least he was at first.
 ''It's very clear with this site that she's getting something out of this, hopefully emotional support and mentoring advice and fun in bed, but also something financial, so don't come back to me and say that you were used or that I left you high and dry,'' he said. ''I like that aspect of it, but on the other hand, it would be nice not to have the money involved, because you always wonder: would she still want to be with me even without the money? Does the money make me more attractive than I really am?''
 ABOUT 30 PERCENT OF ARRANGEMENTS on the site involve the daddy paying an ''allowance,'' usually a thousand or two a month, though the site claims some reach $10,000. The rest provide the baby with incidental cash, shopping sprees, gifts, travel or the fleeting illusion that theirs is a high-end, easy life. ''I get flown to whatever city I want,'' wrote a North Carolina college student, who goes by the name gurlnextdoor on the site's blog, a mix between an online support group and a kaffeeklatsch. ''He pays for it, takes me shopping, we talk, laugh, go out to eat and do whatever we want to do for our days together. . . . I don't bring up mundane problems about my home life, and he does the same. . . . If I wanted someone to talk to about my life problems, I'd get a boyfriend or a therapist.''
 Like B. K.'s companion, Lola, many women on the site are in their 20s, though plenty of others are in their 30s, 40s and 50s. Some are looking for attention, some have financial problems and some are seeking refuge from romantic pain. On the blog and in conversations with me, still others said benefactors provide a way to get the extras they want -- the Fendi bags, the to-die-for shoe collection or the breast enhancement. A surprising number of babies say on the blog that they don't need the money at all, either because they have decent-paying jobs or bottomless credit cards from their parents. What appeals to them about the arrangements are the expensive gifts -- ''I just LOVE being spoiled,'' gushed one 19-year-old woman on the blog -- because those gifts make them feel valued, as if the money spent measures just how desirable they are.
 Other women on the site would happily forfeit conspicuous prizes and go for the cash instead, especially for tuition. One woman's profile says, ''That you can help me get through school and achieve financial stability through support and mentoring is more important than wowing me with diamonds and Prada.'' In fact, Seeking Arrangement pays to have its ads pop up on search engines whenever someone types in ''student loan,'' ''tuition help,'' ''college support'' or ''help with rent.'' Lola was one of many to stumble on the site that way, when -- behind on her rent and tuition and down to one meal a day -- she Googled ''student loan.'' What popped up was hardly what she expected, but she was willing to try almost anything to stay in school. 
 Her first sugar daddy, a man in his early 50s, turned out to be a terrible kisser and too dominating in bed. ''I had to grit my teeth every time we met,'' she told me. In four visits, she earned $550, enough to cover the rent, and then dropped him. A month later, she connected with another sugar daddy, a man in his late 50s who lived in Louisiana. The only thing he wanted, he told her, was that she do well in school. He insisted she send her transcript, and once satisfied, he sent her nearly $500 a month. Though they never met, never even talked on the phone, he wrote her long letters by hand encouraging her studies and advising her on finances and sent her novels, newspaper clippings and a J. K. Rowling commencement address for inspiration. He never once mentioned sex.
 Six months later, the man in Louisiana had to cut back on expenses, so Lola began looking for a new source of income to supplement the $8 an hour she earned working in a lab and the cash she picked up cleaning houses and selling her plasma. Last October, Lola and B. K. had their first date. 
 Though petite, Lola seems older than she is, maybe because she is so matter-of-fact in her manner. On the day I met her, on her way to meet B. K., she was wearing jeans, a striped T-shirt and no makeup. Her hair was pulled back, no-nonsense style, making her look more as if she were about to go camping than rendezvous with her sugar daddy. She brought along a textbook and her GRE vocabulary flashcards, in case B. K. was late.
 ''At first, it was a job, then it became a pleasant job and then it was getting together with a friend,'' she said, describing her relationship with B. K. ''With him, I don't feel like a prostitute, though maybe I am. It's not just the sex with us. We care about each other, we talk, there's a connection, not just business.''
 Whether sugar relationships amount to prostitution is hotly debated among the site's members. ''Let's get real here,'' wrote GoldenGate on the blog. ''I'm with a guy who's old enough to be my dad, short and balding. Not to mention his other shortcomings, ahem. But he gives me a great big fat allowance every month. If that wasn't there, we wouldn't be together.''
 Others on the blog were shocked, saying they could never be with a man, even a rich one, if they weren't somehow attracted to him. Indeed, most go to considerable effort to distinguish between ''sugar'' and prostitution. (Legally, at least, they are right; since the 1970s, courts have ruled that as long as the woman is paid for some service besides sex -- housecleaning, companionship -- the arrangement is not the equivalent of prostitution.) They say being a sugar baby is no more an occupation than dating is, especially when the goal of dating is to find a rich boyfriend or a wealthy husband. They routinely turn down creeps interested in nothing but sex. 
 Some sugar babies also insist that wives who stay in miserable marriages for an American Express black card, mansion or country-club membership are more like prostitutes than they are. And yet the blatant financial transactions leave many uneasy. Even Seeking Arrangement's chief executive uses a fake name -- his legal one is Brandon Wey -- partly because he's afraid his association with the site might dampen his chances of raising capital for a more mainstream enterprise in the future and partly because he thought the name Brandon Wade sounded more Hugh Hefneresque. 
 In interviews and on the blog, the site's members parse the nuances of the sex and money transactions. ''I read on a post about asking 10k if you're model material . . . so because I ask for so little, am I 'on sale'?'' wrote one woman. ''I don't think I can accept more than 1k a month plus gifts, because then I will start feeling compelled to do ANYTHING for him.''
 E. C., a 23-year-old sales-and-marketing coordinator in Toronto, says she already earns $40,000 a year as well as commission and the use of a company car. But having grown up in a wealthy family, her current salary doesn't allow her to live in the manner to which she's accustomed. So E. C. dined with a banker from the site who was charming and attractive. His breath, however, was so bad she decided he wasn't sugar-daddy material. 
 Then she met a charming 43-year-old businessman from the site with nice breath. She tried to steer their conversations to the question of an allowance, unsuccessfully. On their third date, they slept together. Afterward, she was glad no money had changed hands. ''If he'd given me money after that, I would have felt he was paying me for the sex,'' she said. ''And if he'd paid me beforehand, I would have felt I owed him something, and the whole thing would have gone from charming to being bought.'' Instead of paying her, he takes her to swank restaurants and penthouse suites in Niagara Falls. ''He shows me off to the whole place, and it makes me feel good.''
 Her parents, she added, would be appalled if they knew she was on such a site -- except if they thought it increased her chance of meeting an eligible and rich young doctor.
 MOST PEOPLE WOULD LIKELY BE appalled to learn that a daughter -- or father -- was using SeekingArrangement.com. Beth Bailey, a Temple University historian of courtship, said that her first reaction to the site was ''revulsion.'' But when she reconsidered it within the historical context of dating, she had a somewhat different response.
 Heterosexual relationships, including marriage, have long involved economic transactions, but Bailey points out that when men provided financial security, they traditionally did so in exchange for a woman's sexual virtue (and potential to bear and rear children), not for sexual thrills. For that, they often turned to prostitutes and mistresses, involving a more frank money-for-sex exchange. It's only in the last century that money has been traded -- albeit indirectly -- for sexual attention from ''respectable'' unmarried women. In the early 1900s, courtship shifted from girls' porches or parlors to a commercial venture: a date. Etiquette manuals of the time were explicit -- boys were to pay for meals, entertainment and transportation, and in return, girls were to provide well-groomed company, rapt attention and at least a certain amount of physical affection. His money bought not only companionship but also her indebtedness.
 ''It made a lot of people uneasy, because if men's money was central to the dating relationship, what distinguished it from prostitution?'' Bailey says. Seen in this context, Bailey argues, Seeking Arrangement ''is a piece of contemporary society. It's simply more explicit and transparent about the bargains struck in the traditional model of dating.''
 Though one-quarter of the site's sugar daddies (including married ones) are looking for male ''babies'' and 1 percent of the site's members are ''sugar mommies,'' they still tend to fall into traditional roles, where the one who is paid supplies sex, admiration, comfort and the kind of status conferred by any other expensive consumer good. The ''baby'' is the one who regulates her appearance, schedule, behavior and emotions to make the payer feel special.
 Still, a 22-year-old named Mercedes told me, ''I don't see how people can view this as exploitation.'' Mercedes is a junior who pays her own tuition at a Georgia university. She has had six sugar daddies in the past year to supplement her wages busing tables and washing dishes at a bar. ''I could go out and work three jobs and still go to school and probably make decent grades, but is that really what I want to do? I make more money this way, and I have a lot more fun because I get to go out to concerts, go shopping, see movies and make money off of it. If instead of this I was just dating a rich guy, it'd be almost the same thing, and society wouldn't look down on that. You know with a sugar daddy that they're spending a lot of money on you and they clearly want something in return, but is that really any different than how it is with a boyfriend?''
 BRANDON WEY GOT THE IDEA for the site from his own dissatisfying love life as an M.I.T. student and then as a well-off but awkward tech executive. Traditional dating Web sites were no help. ''It was difficult to advertise the assets I had compared to hundreds of thousands of guys who had better looks or better pickup lines,'' says Wey, now married to a woman 13 years younger than he is, whom he met before the site went live. ''I needed to find a way to put myself at the front of the line.''
 Wey unveiled SeekingArrangement.com in 2006 and aimed to keep the site well stocked for his wealthy customers. Babies can join free, while daddies pay $44.95 a month -- and an optional $5 to ensure the site's name doesn't show up on credit-card statements. For another $1,200 a year, a sugar daddy can become a Diamond Club member, with his income and net worth verified and his profile featured at the top of the home page. 
 B. K. joined the site about a year ago, swapping flirtatious e-mail messages with potential sugar babies, taking a few out to dinner and romancing one for a few months before he found Lola. He was drawn, he said, to her independence and intellect, her humility, her academic determination and, of course, her looks. He loved their time together -- dancing, snuggling, the whole bit -- and, at times, feared he was falling in love.
 From the start, Lola was clear that her heart lay elsewhere. Her boyfriend of four years lives 1,000 miles away, and though they see each other only a few times a year, Lola maintains that she is deeply in love with him. When B. K. asked Lola what gift she wanted for Christmas, she demurred, but when pressed, she asked if he would pay for plane fare to visit her boyfriend. B. K. said yes -- and felt great about it. ''Isn't that what love is?'' he told me later. ''It's not about trying to own someone.'' 
 While Lola was gone, B. K. sent her e-mail and text messages virtually every day but heard nothing back. Pining, he began trolling the site, window shopping, and noticed Lola had logged on. He feared that she was looking to replace him. ''I was like, What the hell is this?'' He e-mailed her, asking why she was on the site, but got no answer. ''Maybe I'm the needy one,'' he mused. He wondered if Lola was trying to end their relationship or if her boyfriend had found out. ''The no-strings-attached assumption is hard on my heart sometimes, but I don't think she will just disappear.''
 RELATIONSHIPS BETWEEN RICH men and kept women have been around for a very long time, of course, but the Internet makes hunting for such arrangements easier. Quickly and privately, a well-off man can find a young woman wherever in the world he wants. And he can find someone who fits his needs, however unconventional they may be. 
 One sugar daddy whose screen name is Sam has tried long-term girlfriends, mistresses, prostitutes and a brief marriage. Now single, the 39-year-old entrepreneur has found the arrangement that suits him best: a monogamous business-associate-with-benefits deal in which he pursues an entrepreneurial project with a young, beautiful, intelligent woman. He provides financial backing, mentoring and networking; she provides sex, fun and, inevitably, a bit of worshiping, all of which make him feel virile and influential. In between vacations using his private jet, both work hard on the project. They don't tend to see each other much, as he travels frequently for his work.
 Sam's profile on Seeking Arrangement is audacious. He advertises for a woman who is ''drop-dead beautiful, sexy, fun and elegantly mannered in a fancy setting. She must turn heads . . . and make me the envy of the crowd.'' He wants no tattoos, no cosmetic implants, no vegetarians and no Gen Yers who begin their e-mail-message sentences with lowercase letters.
 When I asked to chat in person, Sam suggested meeting at CORE, a private Manhattan club where membership is by invitation only and costs $65,000 the first year and where Sam's assent was required before I could be admitted. Sitting alone at a long conference table in a room set aside for him, he looked utterly unremarkable, a man of average height with a buzz cut and an aloof air. But once Sam got talking, he became affable and witty, especially as he described his unorthodox history with women. He started college when most kids his age were still in middle school. ''When you go to college at that age, you're pretty undatable,'' he said. ''I was somewhere between a curiosity, a mascot and a friend. I tutored freshman physics and calculus so I could at least be near women. Of course, all they'd do is talk about their boyfriends.'' 
 He has an almost mathematical approach to assessing relationships, and once even computed the costs for a girlfriend, mistress, prostitute and wife -- mistresses turn out to be most expensive by the hour; wives, by the year; girlfriends are cheapest all around. But he's not as calculating as he seems. In fact, he concluded there's little correlation between cost and quality. Still, he is relentlessly searching for an algorithm that will predict relationships' success. 
 Sam is also more determined than most to try separating a sugar baby's affection and the money she's paid to provide it. In his arrangements, he says, he establishes a trust in the woman's name that pays a monthly stipend of at least $5,000 for the length of their contract. If the woman decides to quit sleeping with him at any point, he may quit serving as adviser and pamperer, but the stipend continues regardless. ''If I didn't do that, then it's like a leash I'm putting on somebody, and that seems really unfair,'' he said. ''Besides, then I'd never know what the relationship was really about.'' 
 Sam runs these relationships with an explicit business plan, a set budget, measurable goals and quarterly reviews. From the outset, the contract has an end date. It's a brilliant, if contrived, way to protect his pride. The contract specifies that the romance and sex are to end by the preset date, so there's no break up, no rejection, no bruised ego. She's not dumping him; the gig's just over.
 He was involved in three relationships this way, helping the women establish a school overseas, start a tech company and help run a nonprofit, he told me. He declined to put me in touch with the women but said each had been successful. He is like Pygmalion, smitten with his own creations.
 He found those three women through word of mouth, long before he discovered Seeking Arrangement and its rush of possibilities. Between November and shortly after I met him in mid-January, he had winnowed down 140 candidates to four finalists. ''It feels so good to have so many people paying attention to me,'' he said. He met all four, interviewed them extensively, coached them on their business plans and took two of them on multiday outings. In each case, he told them he preferred to put off sex until he'd settled on a candidate, though he did end up sleeping with one of them -- but only, he says, because she so aggressively pursued him.
 NOR ARE MEN THE ONLY ONES seeking relationships within particular parameters. A. B. was 18 when she first went on the site, in 2006, looking for extra money. She had started college at 15 but quit when her money ran out. She was soon contacted by a well-to-do, married filmmaker whom she liked immediately. He encouraged her ambition to become a professor of art or philosophy. For a few months, they saw each other frequently, visiting museums, discussing Camus and Nietzsche, taking in films, sharing their poetry and artwork and sometimes romping in bed. He gave her $500 each time they met, whether or not they had sex. In between visits, he sent her money for art supplies. He said if she got a part-time job, he'd pay the tuition and living expenses she couldn't cover.
 Ecstatic, A. B. re-enrolled at her Southern college. Her sugar daddy flew her up to Pennsylvania to meet him a few times. But he became increasingly peeved that she also had a boyfriend at school. And though her boyfriend understood why she was in a relationship with a sugar daddy, A. B. felt compromised, as if she were leading two lives. She ended that Seeking Arrangement relationship. 
 About two years later, A. B. met another sugar daddy from the site, a single father who seemed pleasant enough but unlikely to entangle her emotions. Still, after a few visits, he wanted nothing but sex, so she stopped seeing him.
 ''When these sugar-daddy relationships go the way I think they should go, the lines are pretty blurry between that and a typical boyfriend-girlfriend relationship,'' she said. ''And when they go the way I don't think they should go, the lines are blurry between that and sex work.'' 
 In February, A. B. met a third benefactor. This one was a pleasant and clever psychologist in his 40s. He flew her to San Francisco. They went to jazz clubs and a tony restaurant, talked about philosophy and shared a bed but stayed on their own sides all night. But the next night, after they'd both been drinking, he pressured her into forgoing a condom during sex. ''I yielded because I thought that if he came away from the weekend having enjoyed himself, he would be more likely to want to see me again and want to support me,'' she said. The experience soured her on flagrantly transactional relationships, because she realized the power dynamic would always be lopsided. She is done being a sugar baby, A. B. said, even if it means delaying her education even longer. 
 AT TIMES, B. K. DEBATED WHETHER to turn off his Seeking Arrangement profile to honor his relationship with Lola. But whenever communication from her would go dark for a few days, he was glad that his profile was still active. The e-mail messages he got from women were an ego balm. After all, it's not often a man in his 40s is wooed by a former surfer in her 20s or a 26-year-old model looking for the ''finer things in life.''
 During the two weeks over Christmas that Lola was incommunicado and B. K. worried that he'd just been dumped, he received a suggestive note from a woman close to his age from another state. She sent him long enticing messages, which boosted his morale. Unlike Lola, she was mercurial and dramatic, and he was drawn by her damsel-in-distress air. He loved feeling like her savior. Neither Lola nor his wife seemed to need saving, just help with tuition (in Lola's case) or with kids and chores (in his wife's case). 
 Everything about the woman seemed enticingly dangerous, and B. K. became obsessed with her and told me their interactions were like the ''thrill'' of running through a burning building and making it out alive. And then it imploded: a combination of hotheadedness, different politics and her resentment that he wouldn't pony up a regular allowance. 
 By then, Lola was back at school. She said she'd been out of touch during her visit with her boyfriend because her cellphone battery died. She told B. K. she hadn't bought a charger because she was out of money, even using Target gift cards she received at Christmas to pay for groceries. She reassured him that she wanted to keep seeing him but also reminded him that she had several looming deadlines at school and at the lab where she worked. Delighted that she was still in his life, B. K. turned off his Seeking Arrangement profile. But with Lola's packed schedule, their visits dwindled to every other week. It took days for her to respond to his e-mail messages. Even a text message he sent asking ''Are you O.K.?'' went unanswered for days.
 Eventually, she e-mailed him in her typically even-tempered way: ''I am all right. When I don't respond it means I don't have time at the moment and then I forget because I'm running from one place to the next.''
 Restless, B. K. switched his profile on. He got a Seeking Arrangement message from a graduate student in her mid-20s who lived just 10 miles from his office. They met for a quick coffee, long enough for the woman to grab B. K.'s hand and put it on her ripped abs, just to show him what she was made of. He was thrilled by her aggressiveness. Afterward, when he suggested by e-mail that he could pay her $1,500 a month, she objected that she was worth much more. He decided to play it cool and wait for her to come begging.
 And then in the midst of all that, he got a message from Lola that she could meet him the following Sunday afternoon, after a study session. Upon getting her note, his message to me was effusive: ''YAY!!! I'm almost giddy like a schoolboy!!''
 When they finally met in late February, B. K. asked Lola more about her boyfriend than he ever had before. Lola told him she loved her boyfriend and that she hoped he would propose after she graduates later this year. Once engaged, she added, she would stop being a sugar baby. B. K. felt devastated.
 Lola seemed particularly tender in that meeting, he told me. Moved by his deep affection for her, B. K. offered her an extra $200 to see her boyfriend over spring break. Afterward, he was scared he would soon lose her and also scared at how much his feelings for her had intensified. If she asked him to leave his wife, he told me, he would seriously consider it.
 In the days after their meeting, B. K.'s moods shifted rapidly; he was dreamy one minute, testy or melancholy the next. Then, after weeks of silence, the graduate student with the taut abs e-mailed him, and they agreed to meet at a local bar. ''I may be a fool for love, but I'm also practical,'' he said before going to meet her, adding that, then again, ''maybe I am just a big wallet, and I'm getting played on all sides.''
 On a weekday evening, B. K. sat in a back booth, waiting for his new potential sugar baby. She showed up in a tight, low-cut blouse and scooted up next to him, he told me, purring that it had all been a misunderstanding and that $1,500 a month would be just fine. To his delight, she said none of the other men on Seeking Arrangement had impressed her the way he had. B. K. explained that his current sugar baby might soon get engaged and disappear from the scene. At that point, he assured her, he would want to pursue things. She snuggled in closer and told him that she would wait. And then she started kissing and nibbling on his ear. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY YUSUKE SAITOH) (pg. MM38)
(pg. MM39)
 (pg. MM42) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ONLINE DATING SERVICES (91%); DATING SERVICES (90%); WOMEN (89%); CONVENIENCE STORES (51%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



442 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN PORT CHESTER, N.Y.; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1452 words

HEADLINE: Rich Ethnically, Poised for Change Politically

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

 BODY:
WITH sections of modest one- and two-family houses and a teeming downtown of industrial buildings, Port Chester has a reputation as a ''poor stepchild'' in a county of wealthy enclaves, says Kathleen Zaccagnino, the owner of Rye Port Real Estate. Despite the fact that colonials and Tudors in Port Chester's most sought-after neighborhoods cost less than comparable ones in nearby suburbs, the unflattering image has historically deterred some buyers, who opt instead to settle in nearby Harrison and Rye, or in Greenwich, Conn. she said. 
 Pockets of well-kept homes and tree-lined streets aside, census figures do not gainsay those perceptions. In 2007, 13 percent of Port Chester's residents lived below the poverty level, and the estimated median household income was $55,115, compared with, for example, $98,056 for its neighbor Harrison.
The village's blue-collar makeup is linked to its heritage as a destination for immigrants. In the 19th century and continuing into first half of the 20th, new arrivals from Italy, Ireland and Poland worked in the local mills and factories. 
 These days the immigrants are from South and Central America; they account for nearly half of the 28,000 residents, and they often work as gardeners and nannies in neighboring towns. Their children represent almost three-fourths of the public-school enrollment, said Donald K. Carlisle, the superintendent of schools. 
 Yet for some, that eclecticism is an asset. It is exactly what drew Cathy and Ian Rosenfeld to Port Chester 12 years ago from New Rochelle, their hometown. Mr. and Mrs. Rosenfeld -- he is a technology manager for a hedge fund firm; she is a stay-at-home mom -- chose Port Chester because they wanted ''a smaller, more homey'' version of a city like New Rochelle, she said. 
 For their first home here, a two-bedroom town house, they paid $227,500; in 2003 they sold it for $475,000. The three-bedroom colonial they then bought for $544,000 was $5,000 over the asking price at a time of heady real estate values.
 Their daughters -- Reanna, 9, and Lyndsay and Stacey, 7-year-old twins -- attend the public schools. ''We find the diversity in the schools a plus,'' Mrs. Rosenfeld said. ''Both of us attended the public schools in New Rochelle, and we thrived on the mix of students.''
 Cesar and Louann Ruiz have children in the public schools, too: Caesar, 13, and Amanda, 18, who marches in village parades as a member of the band. The Ruizes rent a three-bedroom apartment for $1,725 a month. But unlike the Rosenfelds, they have a bone to pick with the village: Latinos, despite their numbers here, have no representation on the Board of Trustees. 
 Mr. Ruiz, who was born in Peru but grew up in Port Chester, owns a food service business; Mrs. Ruiz, who is American-born, works as a registrar at a local school. Although Mr. Ruiz is active in the community and represents a large constituency, he failed when he ran for a seat on the board in 2001. 
 That prompted him to file a complaint with the Justice Department that resulted in a ruling, two years ago, that Port Chester's at-large voting system discriminates against Hispanics. Federal District Judge Stephen C. Robinson is now weighing a proposal to carve the 2.4-square-mile village into six voting districts to give Latinos more representation. 
 Meanwhile, efforts by Mayor Dennis G. Pilla to rezone the village and develop higher-end mixed-use centers have been upended by the economy. 
 For now, Port Chester remains a tiny village with big-city concerns. 
 WHAT YOU'LL FIND
 The interface of what Port Chester is and what some would like it to become is clearly articulated at the intersection of Westchester Avenue and Main Street. In recent years, stores like Costco and Bed, Bath & Beyond have risen along the Byram River near Long Island Sound. But north and south of the new shopping district, the main thoroughfare is lined with small, shabby storefronts. 
 Along Westchester Avenue, which leads down from Interstate 287 in Harrison and Rye to Port Chester's main retail area, bodegas and other small shops alternate with historic buildings like Our Lady of Mercy Roman Catholic Church, built in 1894, and the 1920s Capitol Theater, where Janis Joplin appeared in August 1970. Today the church still serves an active parish, and the theater remains open for events like birthday parties and bar and bat mitzvahs.
 Side streets off Westchester Avenue lead to many of the village's neighborhoods, some with wood-frame multi-family homes alongside small stores and Laundromats, others with single-family homes on tree-lined streets. Near Rye and Harrison, Westchester Avenue is also home to condominium and co-op complexes, like the Imperial, a co-op converted in 1984, and the new Wellington Greene, a condo.
 The weak housing market has resulted in vacancies in some of those complexes, Ms. Zaccagnino said. 
 WHAT YOU'LL PAY
 Only co-ops have maintained their value in Port Chester. The median sales price for all co-ops in the village has held steady for the second year at $135,000, according to the Westchester-Putnam Multiple Listing Service; that is up from $90,000 in 2004. A one-bedroom co-op in a 27-year-old converted apartment building at 395 Westchester Avenue is on the market for $159,000.
 Condos have lost value. The median for all condos was $350,000 on April 1, down from $376,400 last year but up from $303,500 five years ago. In Wellington Green, a two-bedroom condo is on the market for $409,900.
 The 46 single-family-homes currently listed in Port Chester are facing the toughest market conditions. The median sales price for a house was $440,000 on April 1, compared with $570,000 last year and $498,000 five years ago. For all of Westchester, the median sales price of a single-family house in 2008 was $650,000. (The listing service has not yet released the median for the first quarter of this year.)
 The average length of time on the market for a single-family house is 210 days; last year it was 140. 
 A three-bedroom two-and-a-half-bath 1930s colonial in the village is listed for $589,000 and a four-bedroom two-and-a-half-bath colonial for $799,000. 
 THE SCHOOLS
 Children of Latino parents represent more than 70 percent of the 4,000 students enrolled in Port Chester's four elementary schools, its middle school and the high school, said Dr. Carlisle, the schools superintendent.
 ''Port Chester has always been and still is a poor immigrant community,'' he said. In view of that, the district provides dental services and school-based health clinics staffed by nurse practitioners, in addition to academic offerings that include bilingual and English as a Second Language classes. 
 Some parents send their children to Corpus Christi School, part of the Roman Catholic Corpus Christi Church, or other area private schools.
 For Wendy Del Monte, a co-president of the King Street Elementary School's parent-teachers group, the ethnic composition of the student body is a plus. ''Many of us think our children learn a lot in class with children from different cultures,'' said Ms. Del Monte, whose family has lived in Port Chester for three generations. 
 According to Mitchell A. Combs, principal of Port Chester High School, SAT averages last year were 470 for reading, 481 for math and 458 for writing, versus 502, 515 and 494 statewide
 WHAT TO DO
 Partially because of the village's ethnic variety, it has in recent years become a destination for diners. Discoveries include Colombian food at Aqui Es Santa Fe Cafe; Brazilian barbecue at Copacabana Steakhouse; Peruvian meals at El Chalan; and Italian specialties at Mario Batali's Tarry Lodge. 
 Longtime residents like Frank and Elaine Vaccaro also have praise for the old standbys. ''We have simple tastes,'' said Mr. Vaccaro, a retired printer, who enjoys the boardwalk at Playland Park in nearby Rye and dinner at Seaside Johnnies, also in Rye, or Italian fare at T & J Villaggio Trattoria in Port Chester.
 Younger residents say chances for socializing are limited. ''If I'm looking to go to a bar or to watch a game with friends,'' said Christopher J. McCants, 25, who rents an apartment in Port Chester and commutes to Midtown, ''I go to White Plains or Stamford.'' 
 THE COMMUTE
 Weekday commuting to Grand Central Terminal on Metro-North's New Haven line takes less than 45 minutes. A monthly ticket costs $200.90 online. 
 The trip to Midtown via I-95 takes about 45 minutes, depending on traffic.
 THE HISTORY
 Port Chester developed as a shipping and shipbuilding center, according to a village history. In the late 19th century, the railroad attracted manufacturers like BeechNut LifeSavers and Fruit of the Loom, among others. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ECLECTICISM: A home for immigrants since the 19th century, when new arrivals from Europe worked in local mills, Port Chester now draws residents from South and Central America.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Map details Post Chester, NY. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (86%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (77%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (69%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (65%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (65%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (65%); CENSUS (56%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL AMERICA (70%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (64%); EUROPE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2009



443 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; DANCE; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1887 words

HEADLINE: 'This Probably Isn't Possible, But ...'

BYLINE: By ALASTAIR MACAULAY

 BODY:
''NEARLY NINETY,'' a new work by the choreographer Merce Cunningham, will have its world premiere at the Brooklyn Academy of Music on Thursday. The title makes sense: Mr. Cunningham turns 90 that day, and the choreography runs nearly 90 minutes. 
 There are other Cunningham anniversaries this year. Ten years ago this July, on the stage of the New York State Theater, he was awarded the city's highest cultural award, the Handel Medallion. To that audience he recalled, as he has on other occasions, how he arrived in New York for the first time in September 1939, by train, ready to join Martha Graham's company as its second male dancer: ''I stepped onto the sidewalk, took one look at the skyline and thought, 'This is home.' '' 
 Earlier in 1999, two weeks after his 80th birthday, he presented the premiere of a magnum opus, ''Biped,'' in Berkeley, Calif. It seemed -- if any Merce Cunningham piece may be said to have any subject beyond itself -- to be full of images of transcendence, of life beyond death. Its many exits and entrances, astonishingly lighted by Aaron Copp, were magical. 
 Above all, and most surprising from a man of 80, ''Biped'' looked fecund, abundant, a cornucopia of poetic invention. That Berkeley audience greeted it with a mighty ovation (as audiences the world over have ever since). At a reception afterward Mr. Cunningham recalled how he had recently visited his brother in his hometown, Centralia, Wash. After they had talked of various old acquaintances, his brother asked, ''Merce, when are you going to make something the public likes?'' 
 Mr. Cunningham told this blithely, without further comment. He was for many years a phenomenal dancer and has committed his whole career to virtuoso technical accomplishment. I sometimes think he was America's Nijinsky, without the madness. Like Nijinsky he had an astounding jump, an extraordinary neck, an animal intensity, an actor's changefulness. Like Nijinsky he does not mind offending his audience.
 He enjoys applause, but he has been used to -- and seems amused by -- boos, bad reviews, near-empty theaters and people walking out of performances. His work does not ingratiate; his dancers do not address the audience in a ''Let me entertain you'' manner. That his company does far better business and generates far more excitement in Paris and London has never changed his love of living in New York.
 He loves paradox, awkwardness, imperfection. In 1992 he gave the premiere of another magnum opus, ''Enter,'' at the Paris Opera. Cunningham, still dancing at 73, had two solos, one of which made references to his companion of 50 years and closest artistic associate, the composer John Cage, who had just died. As happens with almost every work of Cunningham dance theater, neither Mr. Cunningham nor his dancers had heard the music in rehearsal. So they did not know in advance that the score by David Tudor (a longtime friend and colleague of Cage and Mr. Cunningham) would include duck quackings and goose honkings that sounded automatically ridiculous. 
 Another choreographer might well have accused Tudor of sabotaging a major work of poignant personal significance. The Paris audience, during the curtain calls, made it clear whom they blamed, cheering Mr. Cunningham and other dancers but booing Tudor and his fellow musicians. At each performance Tudor adjusted the music so that the quackings, honkings and other noises grew louder and sillier. The more boos the musicians received, the more Mr. Cunningham, twinkling, would gesture affectionately at them.
 The independence of music and choreography is just one of the ways -- though surely the most profound -- in which Mr. Cunningham has, in Mikhail Baryshnikov's words, ''reinvented the dance.'' Since the early 1950s the central, only occasionally broken, law of Cunningham dance theater is that the music, designs and choreography are made separately and not assembled until dress rehearsal or the first night. 
 There are further methods whereby Mr. Cunningham has changed dance and dance making. On March 31 at the Guggenheim Museum (he is a central figure in its current exhibition ''The Third Mind: American Artists Contemplate Asia, 1860-1969''), he demonstrated two of them. One is his use of chance as a method of composition, which he began experimenting with in the 1950s, in particular after discovering the I Ching. The other was his use of a Life Forms (now DanceForms) system of dance composition on the computer, which, from 1989 on, he has not only used but also helped to develop.
 At the Guggenheim, with the dancer-choreographer Jonah Bokaer (who spent most of this decade dancing in Mr. Cunningham's company), Mr. Cunningham demonstrated how to use chance (shaking the dice and letting their even or odd numbers determine his binary choices) while creating a dance on a computer. Mr. Bokaer showed a Cunningham-type dance phrase on the screen; Mr. Cunningham responded by suggesting, ''Try that part slower, and that part faster.'' Then, adding a second dancer, he started rolling the dice. Do we change this phrase? (Yes, said the dice.) Do we turn the head? (Yes.) Left or right? (Right.) Is the arm straight or bent? (Bent.) Do we raise the heel? (Yes.) 
 The questions and the answers came thick and fast. So did the results on screen. About using chance Mr. Cunningham remarked simply: ''You find out something you didn't know. It lets your mind open up to something new.'' 
 He has been using the dance computer less often of late. Because he no longer travels everywhere with his company, he has taken to working out his choreography with its young apprentice dancers, the Repertory Understudy Group, known as the RUGs. They have become well acquainted with his way of starting a rehearsal with lines like, ''This probably isn't possible, but. ...'' He welcomes their openness. ''If at the end of the day I decide to scrap what we've been making, they don't mind,'' he said. They won't perform onstage the dances Mr. Cunningham has created with them unless they graduate into the company, which not all his apprentices do.
 Mr. Cunningham loves the new. It is well known that he works most intensely with dancers during their first six months in the company. After that he tends to leave them alone (or so they feel). For some dancers this change makes it seem, as one put it, ''as if I wasn't there.'' This period is usually when his best dancers come into their own, without his close tuition. He seems to like how they bloom along lines decided by themselves. 
 His interest in his junior dancers has become more pronounced. The great event of ''Xover'' (pronounced ''Crossover,'' 2007) was a male-female duet, the longest he had created in decades and one of his most beautiful (which is saying a very great deal). He double cast it, giving it to his company's least experienced dancers. (Since its premiere he has remarked on the pleasure it has given him to see how each couple has developed this duet along different lines.) 
 Recently he shocked not only his company but also the dance world by firing his three senior full-time dancers, Holley Farmer, Daniel Squire and Koji Mizuta, officially for ''artistic reasons.'' It is widely assumed that this is a legal euphemism and that the reasons are economic; every American dance company is suffering, and the three fired dancers, being senior, had been earning the most. 
 Some have also assumed that the decision was not really or originally made by Mr. Cunningham. He is approaching 90, confined to a wheelchair and increasinglylimited in physical energy. And so -- this version goes -- he has been falling increasingly under the influence of those with whom he runs his operation. (They are: his executive director, Trevor Carlson; his assistant, Robert Swinston; and the head of the John Cage Trust, Laura Kuhn.) When Martha Graham was in her final years, she allowed those who ran her ship to make decisions that, had they truly come from her, would have been increasingly uncharacteristic. Mr. Cunningham danced with Graham from 1939 to 1945; is his history repeating hers? 
 One day, when Mr. Cunningham dies, it may be dismaying to observe how these people (or their successors) govern his artistic estate. Who could keep his company going posthumously and successfully? I will say here and now that once the Master departs, I would like his company to give a world tour and then disband. Just now, however, Mr. Cunningham is alive.
 And nobody who heard him talk at the Guggenheim would think him feebleminded or in danger of abandoning his dearest principles. What was best was to see the fluency, speed and practicality with which he put ideas into practice. Dance evidently remains his instinct and his passion. 
 I would also guess that ''artistic reasons'' for the sackings do exist in Mr. Cunningham's mind. They can hardly be grievous: Ms. Farmer was evidently his favorite female dancer earlier this decade, and all three dancers performed valiantly this year. But they have probably outlived their chief usefulness to him. Having absorbed the freshness and openness of his company's younger members and RUG apprentices, his appetite has moved on. 
 Genius does not keep functioning successfully without occasional ruthlessness. Within any great creative temperament there will always be a force that says, ''My will be done.'' Even in the 1950s and '60s Mr. Cunningham -- otherwise a genial and courteous man -- often hurt dancers by not taking their feelings into consideration. Those feelings were not his business.
 At merce.org, the first Cunningham quotation you find in ''About Merce'': ''You have to love dancing to stick to it. It gives you nothing back, no manuscripts to store away, no paintings to show on walls and maybe hang in museums, no poems to be printed and sold, nothing but that single fleeting moment when you feel alive. It is not for unsteady souls.'' 
 Usually this dictum sounds like enthusiasm. Who does not thrill to the phrase, ''that single fleeting moment when you feel alive''? But nobody should miss the toughness in that last line. 
 His mind is restlessly analytical, working now toward poetic drama, now toward pure-dance intricacy. His main concern is always dance itself. Sometimes he shapes it in ways that are evocative, as in the several classic ''nature studies'' he made from 1955 to 1998, or dramatically charged, as in the innumerable great male-female duets he has made since the 1940s. Sometimes he twists it in ways that are so focused they refuse to yield meanings: only their own intensity or complexity (only!) makes them riveting. Almost invariably his dances have so many layers that they richly reward multiple viewings. 
 But most of them put a peculiar emphasis on the role of the individual, on being alone even in company, on being independent even when partnering. And all of them make the point that nothing stays constant. From these facts alone arise meanings. Amid all the change, you frequently see dancers holding one difficult balance after another. 
 No, this is ''not for unsteady souls.'' 
 ''Nearly Ninety'' runs Thursday through April 19 at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, 30 Lafayette Avenue, Fort Greene, Brooklyn; bam.org. It will be performed in Madrid April 30 to May 3. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A 2009 photograph of Merce Cunningham, above. Far left, Mr. Cunningham and dancers rehearse ''Nearly Ninety,'' and, left, Carolyn Brown and Viola Farber in ''Summerspace,'' in 1958. Below, Mr. Cunningham, second from left, in ''Pictures,'' in 1984. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARK SELIGER
RICHARD RUTLEDGE
 ART BECOFSKY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); CHOREOGRAPHY (90%); MUSIC (89%); DANCERS (89%); DANCE (89%); OPERA (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); OLYMPIA, WA, USA (88%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (77%); PARIS, FRANCE (65%); LONDON, ENGLAND (51%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); WASHINGTON, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (65%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



444 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: Video Game Becomes Spectator Sport

BYLINE: By PATRICIA COHEN

DATELINE: PRINCETON, N.J. 

 BODY:
''Go Tigers!'' someone in the crowd shouted, hoisting a placard with Princeton spelled out in orange and black. The enthusiastic fan was one of about 60 who had gathered on a recent Friday night to watch the first international exhibition match for the newly created Collegiate Star League, the latest addition to the university's roster of sports.
 The face-off between Princeton and Tsinghua University, which is in Beijing, was not happening on a field or a court, but in a residential hall lounge on a large screen, where the science-fiction video game StarCraft was being projected from an online stream. As Mona Zhang, a freshman, offered play-by-play, Princeton's player, hunched over his computer, was cordoned off in a separate room, his opponent 6,800 miles away. 
Welcome to the next generation of collegiate competition: electronic sports.
 In recent months, 27 colleges -- including Harvard, Yale, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Ohio State, Texas, Cal-Berkeley, Johns Hopkins and Oberlin -- have joined the league to play StarCraft. Four made it to the semifinals, which take place this weekend. The finals should happen by the end of this month. 
 Although Princeton's 13-member team, SmashCraft Heroes, was knocked out in an earlier round, Zhang, the driving force behind the new league, seems buoyant about the prospects of competitive gaming. ''We're helping bring StarCraft to the United States as a spectator sport,'' she said.
 StarCraft, developed by Blizzard Entertainment and introduced in 1998, involves a three-way galactic war among Terran (human beings), Zerg (alien insectoids) and Protoss (alien humanoids). Each race has specific characteristics, weapons and technology. Gamers choose one, then build up an economy, research and military capabilities for every battle. 
 In the college league, matches are composed of five rounds. 
 Although video games make up an estimated $20 billion industry in the United States, the scene is nothing like in South Korea, where professional StarCraft teams have corporate sponsors and e-sports generate millions of dollars. Top players, who can draw tens of thousands of fans to tournament finals, are as familiar to South Korean audiences as Derek Jeter and Peyton Manning are to Americans.
 Zhang, 18, is a Chinese-American born in Maryland who became hooked on the game after watching Korean matches with English commentary on YouTube. ''It really introduced a whole new world of strategic depth,'' she said. 
 Ke Wan, a graduate student from China who is studying operations research, detailed each world's character traits: Zergs are prolific and fast, Terrans are sophisticated strategists, and individual Protoss units are extremely powerful. Wan drew a geopolitical analogy. ''Zerg is like China,'' he said. ''It depends a lot on its large population. The U.S. is Protoss because it emphasizes the value of the individual. And Terran is Russia or the former Soviet Union, a huge high-tech war machine.'' He plays as Terran.
 Zhang is Zerg. ''You pick one most suited to your personality,'' she said. 
 When Zhang first brought up the idea of a StarCraft league at Princeton, she was laughed at. But she managed to find other gamers -- mostly engineering students -- here and elsewhere. 
 ''What really did it was the Princeton versus M.I.T. show-match that we organized and broadcasted,'' she said of the league's kickoff match in February. Zhang set up the contest with a friend from elementary school, Yang Yang, who was at M.I.T. 
 ''Princeton and M.I.T. both made promotional videos for hype, and we all advertised the event on YouTube, StarCraft communities, and campus news,'' Zhang said.
 For this exhibition match, spectators -- mostly Asian, mostly male -- snacked on chips and doughnuts; about a dozen brought their laptops to follow the action or play their own games. Peter Liu, a junior and chemistry major who was doing live commentary with Zhang, said he could manage 200 A.P.M., or actions per minute (an action is any keyboard or mouse click). ''My fingers get sore,'' said Liu, a Protoss. Professional South Korean players have 400 to 500 A.P.M.'s.
 Yang Mou, 20, a junior and economics major from Houston, is the team's coach. ''There's a lot of mental preparation,'' said Mou, a Protoss, who estimated he spent 5 to 10 hours preparing for his game that night. Each strategy has its advantages and disadvantages. It's like ''rock, paper, scissors.''
 Zhang, the only woman on the Princeton team, was going up against the sole woman on Tsinghua's team. Mou took over the mike. ''It's going to be a battle for female dominance,'' he said. 
 The match began as green (Princeton) and beige (Tsinghua) drones, fluttering triangles with tails, and jellylike spawning pools, started filling up the screen. 
 ''Here we go, here we go,'' Liu said excitedly as Princeton's legions of green-winged Zerglings started attacking Tsinghua's half-built defenses. Flames shot up from Tsinghua's bases. Standing now, the audience hooted and clapped. It was Princeton's first win of the evening. A few moments later, Zhang came back in, a broad smile on her face, and double high-fived a few teammates. 
 Of course, compared to, say, the Princeton football team, the group is small; fans and players could probably easily fit into the Tigers' locker room. But the club has big ambitions.
 ''It's definitely a very beautiful game,'' Liu told the crowd, keeping up the standard between-game banter. ''We're looking to get more people off the athletic field and into the gaming room.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mona Zhang, a freshman at Princeton, is the driving force behind the video game league.
 Students at Princeton, members of the SmashCraft Heroes, playing against students at Tsinghua University in Beijing. Bowen Zhou, below, preparing for a match in the Collegiate Star League. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); TOURNAMENTS (77%); STUDENT HOUSING (76%); ASIAN AMERICANS (73%); SPONSORSHIP (71%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (69%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (56%)

PERSON: DEREK JETER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2009



445 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; ON LANGUAGE; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: I Don't Do 'Do'

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE

 BODY:
When Larry Summers, the top White House economic adviser, was asked in February whether he backed the Treasury's decision to introduce a bank-bailout plan before it could provide specifics, the Times reporter Sheryl Gay Stolberg wrote: ''Mr. Summers, well schooled in Washington's ways, invoked newspaper slang for behind-the-scenes tales. 'I just don't do ticktock,' he said flatly.'' 
 My first reaction, as a student of politico-journalese, was to run my computer's mouse up the clock on ticktock. First citation, it turns out, was in a query directed at me by Henry Hubbard, the White House correspondent for Newsweek in 1971: ''I'm doing a tick-tock on the new economic policy.'' He wanted to learn the chronology of Nixon administration decision-making on a plan to stop inflation and a run on U.S. gold reserves by imposing wage-and-price controls and ending the convertibility of the dollar into gold (not, in retrospect, such a hot idea). Only when assured he was not working on a gloomy violin piece -- the monicker for a purple-prose mood setter in the front of the then-thick newsmagazines -- did I, the speechwriter-source, do the ticktock, a term from the era of mechanical clocks that lingers on (although it has since lost its hyphen).
 But then I started thinking about the front end of Summers's dismissive comment: not his concluding noun ticktock, but the beginning verb do. Soon after straight-talking George W. Bush became president, Candy Crowley of CNN recalled having asked him, years before, about ''the nuance of your answer.'' She said, ''He looked at me, and he said, 'In Texas, we don't do nuance.' '' In 2000, The Times reported that a former colleague of the digital analyst Esther Dyson said that ''she just doesn't do small talk.'' Before that, the O.E.D., in its exhaustive history of do, cites Charles Dickens and other 19th-century writers using the phrase ''to do the [adjective like ''grand'' or ''lazy''] thing''; then came a burst of usage in the 1990s of the ''I don't do'' phrasal template followed by the likes of ''nuance'' or ''small talk'' or ''ticktock.'' Last month, Michael Neal, president of GE Capital, told analysts that his company shunned the complex securities now in disrepute: ''We don't do bad acronyms, like C.D.O.'s or S.I.V.'s'' (which are initialisms, not acronyms, words formed from a name's initial letters).
 It struck me that this latest fad use of do was rooted in the stern warning of the prospective maid (later domestic servant, later domestic worker, now cleaning lady): ''I don't do windows.'' I ran this speculation past Ben Zimmer of visualthesaurus.com, who replied: ''I think your hunch is correct about the provenance of the 'I don't do X' phrasal template. There must have been a major influence from the stereotypical maid's stipulation, 'I don't do windows,' which attained catchphrase status by the mid-1970s as a staple of sitcoms and cartoons.'' 
 But does the ready acceptance of this ''phrasal template'' mean we are living in syntax, undermining the rules of order and word relationships in sentence structure on which we base our grammar? ''An interesting syntactic aspect is that the complement of do, regardless of whether it's a noun or adjective, can take on a highly abstract quality,'' Zimmer said. ''When Larry Summers said, 'I don't do ticktock,' he was taking the journalistic sense of 'ticktock' and abstracting it into a mass noun for the disclosure of behind-the-scenes gossip.''
 I do usage, I do etymology, I do synonymy, I do nuance, I do metaphor, I do slang, I do a little light grammar, but I don't do syntax.
 WAR ON MAN-CAUSATION
 When Janet Napolitano, the new secretary of homeland security, testified before Congress, she caused a stir by ostentatiously avoiding the use of a certain familiar word central to the mission of her department: terrorism. A reporter for the German magazine Der Spiegel asked, ''Does Islamist terrorism suddenly no longer pose a threat to your country?'' Napolitano replied, ''I presume there is always a threat from terrorism,'' and also noted that she had referred to ''man-caused disasters.'' She added, ''This is perhaps only a nuance, but it demonstrates that we want to move away from the politics of fear.''
 The Wall Street Journal columnist Peggy Noonan commented: ''Ah. Well, this is only a nuance, but her use of language is a man-caused disaster.'' Noonan makes an excellent point of light: a word is not the thing itself. (That was the message of the general semanticist Alfred Korzybski, famous for ''a map is not the territory.'') Renaming terrorism ''man-caused disaster'' does not begin to deal with the real thing that is terrorism.
 Napolitano, however, is to be hailed for breaking the taboo that has afflicted the word man. Political correctness, driven by the abhorrence of sexism in language, has banished such phrases as the forgotten man, man on horseback, century of the common man, even man in the arena. The adjective manly is forbidden and mankind is out, replaced by humanity. Chairman finds its substitute in chairperson or plain chair (although The Times requires a writer to choose between chairman and chairwoman). The only acceptable use of man is when it is introduced by hu.
 Not anymore! Thanks to the vocabulary policy adopted at the cabinet level by the Obama administration, long-awaited change has come to lexical misanthropy. With the start of what phrasemakers could call ''War on the Word 'Terrorism,' '' Napolitano's coinage of the compound euphemism man-caused shows we finally have a top-level politico who can do nuance. 
 Send comments and suggestions to: safireonlanguage@nytimes.com 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING / LETTERING BY MICHIEL SCHUURMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); CHRONOLOGIES (78%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (78%); WRITERS (77%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (60%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (60%); GEC (LSE) (60%); GE (SWX) (60%); GE (NYSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (60%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



446 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION CONNECTICUT; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: Revival in Progress; Stay Tuned

BYLINE: By LISA PREVOST

DATELINE: BRIDGEPORT 

 BODY:
 AS the premier booster for the comeback potential of downtown Bridgeport, Philip Kuchma doesn't allow himself to be put off by difficulties -- even those that loom five stories high. 
 That's the size of his stalled condominium project in Bijou Square, a compact collection of buildings that he and his partners have been trying to rebrand as a mini entertainment district named for the restored movie house at its center. Mr. Kuchma has recruited a lively array of restaurants and cafes, but construction of the 84-unit condominium building came to a halt more than a year ago after Citibank retracted its loan commitment. 
 The hollow structure on the corner of Fairfield Avenue and Lafayette Circle is a very noticeable glitch in the city's efforts to revitalize its struggling downtown by filling empty office buildings with apartments and retailers. Yet Mr. Kuchma (who has so far been unable to put together a new condominium financing deal) insists that this fact ought not take away from other successes that, together, are beginning to yield the outlines of a downtown community. 
 ''I look at the pace as a setback,'' he said, ''but I'm not in any way discouraged.'' 
 That is no small feat, in a city burdened by poverty, crime and corruption for so long that even its most loyal residents tend to ridicule talk of a revival. Just two years ago, after all, city officials were reveling in proposals by various developers for two major mixed-use projects surrounding the downtown area -- most notably a $1 billion waterfront development planned for the Steel Point peninsula. 
 As Bridgeport's luck would seemingly have it, the recession halted both, at least temporarily.
 Yet work downtown has continued, if at a slow-and-not-so-steady pace, since the opening five years ago of artists' lofts in the former Read's Department Store on Broad Street. 
 Urban Green Builders of New York, the city's designated developer for a variety of downtown redevelopment projects, has completed two rental conversions: the Citytrust bank building on Main Street, with 117 apartments, and a 36-unit building at 144 Golden Hill.
 The company is now close to completing a long-awaited third conversion -- the Arcade, a historic hotel and retail hall on Main -- after three years filled with construction delays. Tenants have begun moving into the 23 upper-story apartments while workers wrap up the restoration of the building's impressive glass-domed retail atrium. 
 In Bijou Square, more suburbanites are filling the tables at the Two Boots bar and pizzeria, Epernay Bistro, Cafe Roma and Las Vetas coffee lounge.
 As for the Bijou movie house, which dates to 1909, Mr. Kuchma says he has at last found a tenant for it. He was not prepared to give further details but said he was hopeful of a summer opening. (The theater already has one nonthespian tenant: its second-floor ballroom and viewing balcony house the architecture offices of Antinozzi Associates.)
 The economic slowdown has definitely hurt progress downtown, said Jason Epstein, a partner at E/N Properties of Stamford, the developer of a 38-unit condominium project, Lofts 881, on Lafayette Boulevard. Carved out of a former office building, the lofts have exposed brick walls, bamboo floors and granite countertops. 
 Even though the price range, at $180,000 to $325,000, is affordable compared with those in surrounding Fairfield County communities, tighter lending restrictions have made it harder for buyers to qualify, Mr. Epstein said. But prospects are improving. The project is almost half sold, the threshold at which buyers will be able to obtain lower-cost F.H.A. loans. And a cafe will open soon on the building's ground floor. 
 Still, Mr. Epstein said, ''I think a lot more would have happened if the economy hadn't come to a halt.'' 
 At the same time, however, downtown rentals have remained strong, said Eric Anderson, a partner at Urban Green Builders. The company's first two rental projects are both fully leased, he said, and interest is strong at the Arcade, where rents are $800 to $1,200 a month. 
 ''What has proven to be true is that as the housing market has gotten worse, things have gotten slightly better for us,'' Mr. Anderson said. 
 Renovation of the Arcade, which is listed on the National Register of Historic Places, was far more arduous than the company had expected. ''A lot of the interior had been bastardized,'' Mr. Anderson said. ''The upstairs had been cut into these horrible little hotel rooms. Floor plates had been raised and lowered. There was layer after layer of renovation that we had to undo.'' 
 The ground-floor retail spaces and arcade are about two months from completion. The arcade, reached by a passageway from the main entrance, is topped by an elliptical glass dome adorned with intricate metal work. Some two dozen storefronts encircle the lower level and an upper gallery. 
 Additional retail space faces the street. About 40 percent of the roughly 35,000 square feet of space is leased so far, Mr. Anderson said, but he has yet to land what he views as a crucial tenant: a grocery store. He says he is hoping to sign a smaller market with reasonable prices and a focus on prepared foods (along the lines of the Gourmet Garage markets in New York City) and has asked the state to help subsidize the deal. 
 The absence of a food market is a definite drawback to living downtown, said David Amorando, a cartoonist who has lived in the Read's lofts since they opened. Mr. Amorando doesn't own a car, so he sometimes has to rely on downtown pharmacies for groceries when he can't find a ride to the supermarket. 
 Otherwise, however, downtown Bridgeport suits him fine. He works at Rainy Faye's bookstore on the ground floor of Read's, walks to the restaurants at Bijou Square and takes the bus to movie theaters. Which reminds him, he said: ''That's another thing -- the Bijou. I'm waiting for that to open up.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: IN BRIDGEPORT: The rehab of the Arcade, above, is almost finished after many delays
 the restored Bijou movie house is to gain a tenant. Other elements of the revitalization have stalled.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUGLAS HEALEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); CONSTRUCTION DELAYS & STOPPAGES (75%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); RETAILERS (73%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (72%); BRANDING (71%); GREEN BUILDING (70%); CORRUPTION (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (91%) CONNECTICUT, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



447 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; HABITATS PROSPECT HEIGHTS, BROOKLYN; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: The Home As Cultural Refuge

BYLINE: By DEBORAH BALDWIN

 BODY:
VERA BEAUDIN SAEEDPOUR talks about her home as it if she met it on a blind date and didn't know what hit her. One minute she's checking it out, and the next thing she knows she's settling in. ''I walked in and looked around -- just the entrance -- and I said, 'I'll take it.' '' 
 But then, few events in Dr. Saeedpour's life seem calm, orderly or expected. There was her elopement at 18 (''He was the handsomest man on the block.''), her life-changing roots tour to Israel 20 years later (''who in the world takes four little kids?''), her subsequent decision to leave her husband and her native Vermont to earn a Ph.D. at Columbia.
 And then answering her door one night to find a neighbor with whom she had exchanged only a few words across the courtyard (''how was I to know he'd ring the doorbell?''). He was a fellow student, a Kurd from Iran, carrying a cake and a bouquet. Soon afterward, they married; five years later, he died of leukemia. 
 ''Nothing that happens to normal people happens to me,'' Dr. Saeedpour said recently in her mildly melodramatic fashion, her gray-blue eyes lighting up as if witnessing an epiphany. 
 As tiny and intense as a shot of espresso, Dr. Saeedpour, 78, is one of those New Yorkers whose lives -- funny, bitter, sorrowful and inspiring -- begin to reveal themselves once you get inside their front door.
 From the outside, her four-story corner house, at 144 Underhill Avenue in Prospect Heights, looks like countless Brooklyn brownstones: steps straight up to a formal entrance, with a second door tucked underneath; a wrought-iron wraparound fence swamped in ivy; a wisteria-laden patio visible in back. The top two floors are rented out, leaving plenty of room for Dr. Saeedpour to stage her highly personal rendition of Victorian Orientalism down below.
 She bought the place in 1984 for $300,000, motivated not only by her love of atmospheric old rooms with high ceilings, but also to have space for what she describes as the first -- and still the only -- Kurdish library and museum in the United States. (It is open by appointment; the Web site is kurdishlibrarymuseum.com.) It's a pro-bono enterprise, to say the least. 
 Dr. Saeedpour, who is nothing if not focused, took possession of the house with characteristic fervor, breaking open the parlor floor to create two airy rooms for her library-museum. She built a graceful alcove for her books set off by deep-purple damask draperies, and she organized Kurdish jewelry and garb in tall display cases and under glass. Anchored by Victorian divans, Kurdish carpets and an elaborately carved 1880s rosewood piano brought down from Vermont, the rooms feel at once fresh and old-fashioned.
 Dr. Saeedpour lives below the store, in a floor-through space where she sleeps, eats, tolerates an aging dog and five cats, and edits two scholarly journals dedicated to Kurdish affairs. 
 Although she favors long, prairie-style dresses and refers to herself as a country girl from Barre, Vt., Dr. Saeedpour gives herself away with her raspy Brooklyn accent and well-honed aesthetic. 
 How to furnish rooms of your own when your first husband was the Modernist architect Marcel Beaudin, and he prefers glass walls and clean surfaces? ''I like things that speak to me,'' Dr. Saeedpour said one recent afternoon as a visitor scanned the cozy living space, taking in a table that she had made with an old iron base and marble scrounged on the street; a polished brass bed; an array of potted plants; and a row of crinkle-faced figurines lined up near the door as if on their way out. 
 Many items arrive with their own history. ''The older it is, the better she likes it,'' Mr. Beaudin said jokingly in a recent telephone conversation. 
 Not that she doesn't have her way with her things. Lamps are taken apart and reconfigured; an old hutch was cleaved, the bottom half assigned to showcase a slab of green marble and the other to sit on the floor, holding books. Items she is unsure of are relegated to the back, where rolled-up oriental rugs lean against a wall as though awaiting an audition. 
 Alluding to her Vermont upbringing, she said, ''I have this love of stone.'' But she could easily have been referring to the other materials she surrounds herself with -- mirrors, brass lamps, tin molds, copper pots, many burnished by age and their owner's elbow grease. One of her favorite finds is a dark vintage library table with a hole in the middle for a lamp. 
 A Jew whose Russian grandparents somehow ended up in Barre, Dr. Saeedpour became a scholar relatively late in life. She began what she called the Kurdish Program in 1981, piqued partly by the discrimination that her second husband, Homayoun Saeedpour, had endured and partly by a curiosity about a culture almost as tragic as her own.
 ''I've got this feeling for sadness,'' she said, at once describing herself and paraphrasing her lugubrious Russian grandmother. And the Kurds? Don't get her started.
 She tracks their plight and predicaments at a computer tucked in a passageway, surrounded by photographs of family members and a Kurdish woman. ''I love the old women in Kurdistan,'' said Dr. Saeedpour, who visited Iran in 1992. ''They survive through smarts.'' 
 A photograph of her father, Harry Fine, who ran a wallpaper business, hangs over the long wooden counter where Dr. Saeedpour does her dishes. She says he taught her everything that matters, like judging people not by rank but by how they treat others. ''He was my favorite person,'' she said. 
 A cabinet toward the back, near a door to the patio, holds a colorful Indian box where she keeps his prayer shawl. 
 Although neighbors know her as the woman who organized a candlelight protest against the war in Iraq, these days she prefers to confront the world from her desk, using research and correspondence to raise questions that encompass American and Israeli foreign policy and the influence of political lobbies on mainstream academia.
 Which brings her to one question that's been nagging at her in recent years: Once she is no longer able to care for her museum and library, not to mention the dozens of boxed files stored on shelves in her basement, who will? ''I want to know that it's there for some scholar,'' she said. 
 Her collection is clearly not for sale. ''You could mention that I'm looking for an honest university, one that is not beholden to governments or vested interests for its funding,'' she said. 
 No point mentioning the exigencies of fund-raising in a shrinking economy. As she noted succinctly, ''My father used to say, 'Money never broke my heart.' '' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FRESH AND OLD-FASHIONED: Vera Beaudin Saeedpour turned the parlor of her brownstone into a Kurdish library-museum. Anchoring the space are Victorian divans, Kurdish carpets and a carved rosewood piano. She sleeps on a vintage brass bed.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (65%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (63%); LIBRARIES (63%); LEUKEMIA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (54%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (75%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2009



448 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; CONSUMED; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: Work Study

BYLINE: By ROB WALKER

 BODY:
GARMENT VALET
 It's easy to draw despondent conclusions from the economic headlines. For instance, if you were thinking of starting a laundry-and-dry-cleaning business that requires consumers to pay for the value and convenience of an efficient pickup and delivery service, you might be skeptical. Aren't people just beating their clothes on rocks down by the river these days? 
 The good news is that not everybody has that attitude. Dominic Coryell, a 23-year-old senior at Northeastern University, recently won a prize for collegiate entrepreneurs on the strength of a business he runs in Boston called Garment Valet. The proposition is basic enough: Customers use GarmentValet.com to arrange laundry and dry-cleaning pickups and deliveries that -- thanks to arrangements with building owners and managers -- don't involve waiting around for the driver to show up. And it's not a business plan; it's a business, with 14 full-time employees and about $950,000 in revenue last year. Grim economy notwithstanding, Coryell says he believes the company will fare even better after he graduates next month. 
 The Global Student Entrepreneur Award, which Coryell won, comes with about $10,000 in cash and a variety of products and services donated by members of the sponsoring group, the Entrepreneurs Organization. Rooting for the abstract idea of the entrepreneur, whether a small-business owner or the hypothetical Next Bill Gates, is one of the great cliches of American politics and life. From consumers to politicians to whatever Joe the Plumber is supposed to be, everyone supports entrepreneurs. They're pivotal figures who will get us out of this recession. Some observers suggest that the downturn is actually sparking entrepreneurship, as laid-off workers make a go of a variety of new small businesses. 
 Funny then that, as Coryell notes, ''the thing about entrepreneurship is that nobody knows what it is.'' To some, it means dreaming up a magic-bullet idea that becomes the next Google or Facebook (or at least shows enough potential to flip to a buyer like Google or Facebook). And then there are ''the people who are more kind of operators at heart,'' he says, ''who get involved in the complexities of an operation.'' He falls in the latter category; Garment Valet was not even his idea. Another Northeastern University student, Adam Jacknow, created it in the late 1990s, when he was an undergraduate. They met when Coryell applied to be a driver as a freshman, and he promptly ended up as the chief executive and owner of 49 percent of the business.
 ''What really got me involved was that everything I did there, there was a direct response,'' Coryell says. ''If I wanted to make a flier and see how many customers it would bring in, I could do that.'' Such elementary experiments led to tinkering with the accounting, with sourcing strategies, with figuring out which marginal changes really improved profits and cash flow. Jacknow has focused more on proprietary software and other technology that improves efficiency and that he hopes will fuel more growth. 
 The story of the young company is a reminder that entrepreneurship often depends more on successful execution than radical reinvention. Originally focused on students, the business has shifted toward young professionals who now make up two-thirds of its customers; more recently, the company began deploying a ''virtual concierge'' system involving special lockers in some buildings so the exchanges can happen even in the absence of a doorman or building manager. Garment Valet offers a variety of pricing options to remain relatively competitive, but what it is really selling is the value of time saved. 
 The downturn has affected the business, most notably through tighter credit terms from lenders. So Coryell is focused on details, like how many active customers remain loyal, meaning that they use the service at least every 14 days. ''From a sales perspective we've done nothing but grow, month by month, in this economy,'' he says, estimating that the company is on track for $1.5 million in revenue this year. 
 He's certainly aware that some might see a service like his as an easy expense to eliminate. ''Now is the time to show people that you can kick service up and give them what they deserve,'' he says. The next step is operating in a second city, by 2012, and slowly building a national brand. ''The economy is what you make it,'' he adds. Spoken like an entrepreneur -- one with student loans to pay. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PETER ARKLE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (91%); DRY CLEANERS & LAUNDRIES (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); INDUSTRY AWARDS (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); PACKAGE SHIPPING (72%); BUSINESS PLANS (72%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (67%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (52%); FACEBOOK INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTHEASTERN UNIVERSITY (57%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (52%); FB (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



449 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 247 words

HEADLINE: The Human Face of Poverty

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 I am deeply saddened, but not surprised, that Fresno, Calif., was featured in ''Tent Cities Arise and Spread in Recession's Grip'' (front page, March 26). 
 Like most cities in the eight counties that make up the San Joaquin Valley, Fresno has for decades borne the brunt of chronically high jobless rates, poverty and a large pool of unskilled labor. 
 Fresno's city and county budgets have been decimated by the economic crisis in California and nationwide, and local officials have been forced to slash critical health and human services.
 Soon after Hurricane Katrina, Alan Berube and Bruce Katz of the Brookings Institution cited Fresno as having the highest concentrations of urban poverty in the country, a legacy that lives on. 
 As their report vividly showed, poverty, behind the statistics, has names, faces and families who struggle to survive on a day-to-day basis.
 Despite Fresno's many challenges, however, many of us believe we are making strides to ameliorate the consequences of poverty by addressing root causes -- a lack of education, not working full time and teenage pregnancy -- through systemic and policy changes.
 Attacking poverty at the community level means putting real solutions into effect instead of accepting the status quo. And that is what many of us continue to work toward, with or without government intervention.
 Amy Chubb Executive Director, Fresno Works for Better Health Advocacy Center Fresno, Calif., March 26, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); COUNTIES (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); BUDGETS (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (71%); ADOLESCENTS (71%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); HURRICANE KATRINA (55%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRESNO, CA, USA (97%) CALIFORNIA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



450 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1462 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Soddy's Ecological Economy

BYLINE: By ERIC ZENCEY. 
Eric Zencey, a professor of historical and political studies at Empire State College, is the author of ''Virgin Forest: Meditations on History, Ecology and Culture'' and a novel, ''Panama.''

DATELINE: Montpelier, Vt. 

 BODY:
 INNOVATIVE and opaque instruments of debt; greedy bankers; lenders' eagerness to take on risky loans; a lack of regulation; a shortage of bank liquidity: all have been nominated as the underlying cause of the largest economic downturn since the Great Depression. But a more perceptive, and more troubling, diagnosis is suggested by the work of a little-regarded British chemist-turned-economist who wrote before and during the Great Depression. 
 Frederick Soddy, born in 1877, was an individualist who bowed to few conventions, and who is described by one biographer as a difficult, obstinate man. A 1921 Nobel laureate in chemistry for his work on radioactive decay, he foresaw the energy potential of atomic fission as early as 1909. But his disquiet about that power's potential wartime use, combined with his revulsion at his discipline's complicity in the mass deaths of World War I, led him to set aside chemistry for the study of political economy -- the world into which scientific progress introduces its gifts. In four books written from 1921 to 1934, Soddy carried on a quixotic campaign for a radical restructuring of global monetary relationships. He was roundly dismissed as a crank. 
 He offered a perspective on economics rooted in physics -- the laws of thermodynamics, in particular. An economy is often likened to a machine, though few economists follow the parallel to its logical conclusion: like any machine the economy must draw energy from outside itself. The first and second laws of thermodynamics forbid perpetual motion, schemes in which machines create energy out of nothing or recycle it forever. Soddy criticized the prevailing belief of the economy as a perpetual motion machine, capable of generating infinite wealth -- a criticism echoed by his intellectual heirs in the now emergent field of ecological economics. 
 A more apt analogy, said Nicholas Georgescu-Roegen (a Romanian-born economist whose work in the 1970s began to define this new approach), is to model the economy as a living system. Like all life, it draws from its environment valuable (or ''low entropy'') matter and energy -- for animate life, food; for an economy, energy, ores, the raw materials provided by plants and animals. And like all life, an economy emits a high-entropy wake -- it spews degraded matter and energy: waste heat, waste gases, toxic byproducts, apple cores, the molecules of iron lost to rust and abrasion. Low entropy emissions include trash and pollution in all their forms, including yesterday's newspaper, last year's sneakers, last decade's rusted automobile. 
 Matter taken up into the economy can be recycled, using energy; but energy, used once, is forever unavailable to us at that level again. The law of entropy commands a one-way flow downward from more to less useful forms. An animal can't live perpetually on its own excreta. Neither can you fill the tank of your car by pushing it backwards. Thus, Georgescu-Roegen, paraphrasing the economist Alfred Marshall, said: ''Biology, not mechanics, is our Mecca.''
 Following Soddy, Georgescu-Roegen and other ecological economists argue that wealth is real and physical. It's the stock of cars and computers and clothing, of furniture and French fries, that we buy with our dollars. The dollars aren't real wealth, but only symbols that represent the bearer's claim on an economy's ability to generate wealth. Debt, for its part, is a claim on the economy's ability to generate wealth in the future. ''The ruling passion of the age,'' Soddy said, ''is to convert wealth into debt'' -- to exchange a thing with present-day real value (a thing that could be stolen, or broken, or rust or rot before you can manage to use it) for something immutable and unchanging, a claim on wealth that has yet to be made. Money facilitates the exchange; it is, he said, ''the nothing you get for something before you can get anything.'' 
 Problems arise when wealth and debt are not kept in proper relation. The amount of wealth that an economy can create is limited by the amount of low-entropy energy that it can sustainably suck from its environment -- and by the amount of high-entropy effluent from an economy that the environment can sustainably absorb. Debt, being imaginary, has no such natural limit. It can grow infinitely, compounding at any rate we decide. 
 Whenever an economy allows debt to grow faster than wealth can be created, that economy has a need for debt repudiation. Inflation can do the job, decreasing debt gradually by eroding the purchasing power, the claim on future wealth, that each of your saved dollars represents. But when there is no inflation, an economy with overgrown claims on future wealth will experience regular crises of debt repudiation -- stock market crashes, bankruptcies and foreclosures, defaults on bonds or loans or pension promises, the disappearance of paper assets. 
 It's like musical chairs -- in the wake of some shock (say, the run-up of the price of gas to $4 a gallon), holders of abstract debt suddenly want to hold money or real wealth instead. But not all of them can. One person's loss causes another's, and the whole system cascades into crisis. Each and every one of the crises that has beset the American economy in recent years has been, at heart, a crisis of debt repudiation. And we are unlikely to avoid more of them until we stop allowing claims on income to grow faster than income. 
 Soddy would not have been surprised at our current state of affairs. The problem isn't simply greed, isn't simply ignorance, isn't a failure of regulatory diligence, but a systemic flaw in how our economy finances itself. As long as growth in claims on wealth outstrips the economy's capacity to increase its wealth, market capitalism creates a niche for entrepreneurs who are all too willing to invent instruments of debt that will someday be repudiated. There will always be a Bernard Madoff or a subprime mortgage repackager willing to set us up for catastrophe. To stop them, we must balance claims on future wealth with the economy's power to produce that wealth. How can that be done? 
 Soddy distilled his eccentric vision into five policy prescriptions, each of which was taken at the time as evidence that his theories were unworkable: The first four were to abandon the gold standard, let international exchange rates float, use federal surpluses and deficits as macroeconomic policy tools that could counter cyclical trends, and establish bureaus of economic statistics (including a consumer price index) in order to facilitate this effort. All of these are now conventional practice.
 Soddy's fifth proposal, the only one that remains outside the bounds of conventional wisdom, was to stop banks from creating money (and debt) out of nothing. Banks do this by lending out most of their depositors' money at interest -- making loans that the borrower soon puts in a demand deposit (checking) account, where it will soon be lent out again to create more debt and demand deposits, and so on, almost ad infinitum. 
 One way to stop this cycle, suggests Herman Daly, an ecological economist, would be to gradually institute a 100-percent reserve requirement on demand deposits. This would begin to shrink what Professor Daly calls ''the enormous pyramid of debt that is precariously balanced atop the real economy, threatening to crash.''
 Banks would support themselves by charging fees for safekeeping, check clearing and all the other legitimate financial services they provide. They would still make loans and still be able to lend at interest ''the real money of real depositors,'' in Professor Daly's phrase, people who forgo consumption today by taking money out of their checking accounts and putting it in time deposits -- CDs, passbook savings, 401(k)'s. In return, these savers receive a slightly larger claim on the real wealth of the community in the future.
 In such a system, every increase in spending by borrowers would have to be matched by an act of saving or abstinence on the part of a depositor. This would re-establish a one-to-one correspondence between the real wealth of the community and the claims on that real wealth. (Of course, it would not solve the problem completely, not unless financial institutions were also forbidden to create subprime mortgage derivatives and other instruments of leveraged debt.) 
 If such a major structural renovation of our economy sounds hopelessly unrealistic, consider that so too did the abolition of the gold standard and the introduction of floating exchange rates back in the 1920s. If the laws of thermodynamics are sturdy, and if Soddy's analysis of their relevance to economic life is correct, we'd better expand the realm of what we think is realistic.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (90%); CHEMISTRY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); PHYSICS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); NOBEL PRIZES (77%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (74%); EMISSIONS (74%); WRITERS (71%); NUCLEAR CHEMISTRY (71%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (70%); WORLD WAR I (68%); ANIMALS (60%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTPELIER, VT, USA (59%) VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



451 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 589 words

HEADLINE: The First Showdown on Health Care

 BODY:
Republican senators are hyperventilating over the possibility that Democrats might try to pass health care reform with only a majority vote -- depriving them of the chance to try to block legislation with filibusters that can only be overcome with the votes of at least three-fifths of all senators. 
 How quickly they forget. When the Republicans controlled Congress they used the same expedited procedure to ram through controversial measures, including the enormous tax cuts for the wealthy that plunged the federal budget deep into deficit. 
 There are reasons to be wary about resorting to the expedited process, known as budget reconciliation. But it is a weapon that the Democrats would be foolish to give up without evidence that Republicans will truly cooperate in fashioning meaningful reform. Not one Republican in the House or the Senate voted for the budget resolutions, and only three supported the stimulus bill.
 Other than dealing with the economic crisis, health care reform is the most essential item on the Congressional agenda. It is imperative to lower the cost of health care, improve its quality, and cover tens of millions of uninsured Americans. 
 The Obama administration has proposed sensible ways to finance broader coverage and to improve some aspects of the health care delivery system but has left it to Congress to thrash out most of the issues. Members of both parties are trying to reach consensus. But on some issues, like how much to rely on public or private plans, they remain far apart.
 The House version of the budget resolution has authorized the use of reconciliation for health care reform; the Senate's has not. Soon after Congress returns to work on April 20, a conference committee will have to decide which view will prevail. 
 If reconciliation is endorsed, the budget resolution will direct relevant committees to prepare health care legislation that can be merged into a single bill and then passed by a simple majority of those voting. That would make it easier to adopt such important measures as a tightly regulated insurance exchange for those without group coverage, a new public plan to compete with private plans, and mandates that employers contribute to the cost of covering their employees. 
 The reconciliation approach is not bulletproof. It is primarily designed to deal with spending and revenue issues that affect the deficit. Under current rules, senators can seek to remove any provisions deemed extraneous or ''merely incidental'' to such budgetary concerns. Nobody is quite sure how the Senate parliamentarian would rule on such items as tighter regulation of private insurers or creation of a new public plan or incentives to improve the coordination of care.
 Republicans are also complaining that reconciliation limits the hours of debate and the opportunity for amendments. But Congress has already been wrestling with health care reform in multiple committees, so the need for more posturing in floor debate is not apparent. There are also dire warnings that resorting to reconciliation will poison the atmosphere for bipartisanship. That may well happen, but so far most Republicans have shown little appetite for cooperation on anything. 
 Reconciliation is not a weapon that should be deployed immediately. The conferees should agree on language that would allow it to kick in by a date in the fall if the two parties cannot agree on a reform bill. A bipartisan agreement would be nice, but what the country needs right now is effective health care reform.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILIBUSTER (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); BUDGETS (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); INSURANCE (87%); POLITICAL DEBATES (79%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); TAX LAW (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



452 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; JERSEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: Maintaining The Spirit of Giving

BYLINE: By Kevin Coyne. 
E-mail: jersey@nytimes.com

DATELINE: Kearny 

 BODY:
 UR Lady of Sorrows sits halfway down one flank of the gentle ridge to which this old manufacturing town clings, its back turned to the Manhattan skyline rising above the marshes to the east. It is the smallest of the three Roman Catholic parishes here by almost every measure but one, and when its pastor arrived eight years ago, he gave it a name he has since used often enough to transform into a creed.
 ''The little parish with the big heart,'' said the Rev. James J. Reilly, 66, who wasn't even an altar boy yet when he decided, back at St. Aloysius grammar school in Jersey City, that he was meant to be a priest. ''I try not to beat it to death, but I do say it a lot.'' 
 He will say it often again this Easter weekend, because it has proved especially true in these hard times, when big hearts are needed more than ever. For the fifth straight year, while donations have stalled in some of the wealthier quarters of the Archdiocese of Newark, this parish of modest means once again exceeded its fund-raising goal for the Archbishop's Annual Appeal, the first one since the economy crashed. The money helps feed, clothe and shelter the poor, and also aids strapped parishes that can't support themselves.
 ''They're all tied up in Wall Street,'' Father Reilly said of the richer parishes in the archdiocese, ''and they give less to the church when they lose money, but here they give of their hearts and souls. We're just an urban, blue-collar parish, traditional people with traditional values, and some of them here give in a sacrificial manner. Sometimes the wealthy will say, 'Oh, here's a couple of grand' -- they don't need it. These people need it, and yet they'll make a sacrifice for God.''
 Last month the archbishop himself, the Most Rev. John J. Myers, came to thank the parish at a packed Mass and basement social-hall reception where he shook hands at every table. Of the four parishes he visited that raised more money than they were asked to, Our Lady of Sorrows was the smallest. 
 ''People know there are others worse off than they are, so they kind of dig deeper,'' Archbishop Myers said.
 The annual appeal has raised about the same amount, $8 million, as last year at this time, but more people have been giving: 34,000 donors so far, up from 32,000. Last year, Our Lady of Sorrows gave $21,424, far above the goal assigned by the archdiocese, $14,275. This year its goal rose to $16,100, and it has given $17,400 so far; the tally doesn't end until December. 
 ''It's surprising us, happily,'' the archbishop said.
 Measured strictly by numbers and geography, Our Lady of Sorrows looks more like a candidate for the receiving end of a charitable campaign like the archbishop's appeal. It started in 1915 as a Lithuanian parish in neighboring Harrison, one of the many national parishes established to serve the first generations of European immigrants. The church built its orange-brick home here in 1954 in a neighborhood of duplexes and corner apartment buildings down the slope from the two older and much larger parishes on Kearny Avenue. It is among the smaller parishes in the archdiocese, with 565 families, a size that would target it for merger or closing in many other places. 
 But Kearny's population has been more stable than other old urban settlements like it, and the church's members have remained loyal -- the descendants of earlier parishioners who worked in the thread mills and the shipyards, at Western Electric and DuPont and Congoleum.
 ''Like you have your neighborhood bar, well, this is the neighborhood parish -- everybody knows each other,'' said Linda Mackalonis, the parish's coordinator for the archbishop's appeal, who moved to Kearny after she was married in 1963, and raised her two children here, but still thinks of herself as something of a newcomer. ''Most of the people in the parish grew up in Kearny, went to school together, then married their classmates.''
 The congregation is only about 10 percent Lithuanian now, and the last Lithuanian Mass was said here before Father Reilly arrived, but some of the traditions persist. Before the first Mass on Easter, Father Reilly will lead a procession to the altar, accompanied by some parishioners in native dress, and carrying with him an index card that spells out phonetically his parts in the prayers. 
 At the start of the 5 p.m. Mass last Saturday, Father Reilly entered the sanctuary from beneath a choir loft that displayed the Lithuanian flag. It was Palm Sunday, the solemn prelude to Easter, and he blessed the congregation first with holy water, sprinkling them so vigorously as he walked the length of the sanctuary that droplets lingered on the oak pews all through the Mass.
 Our Lady of Sorrows is Father Reilly's first assignment as a pastor, after assisting at other parishes and directing campus ministries at several colleges. He presides over it with something of the manner of the ward councilman he might have been in another life. It is far smaller than his boyhood church, but it often makes him feel as if he has come full circle: the tight-knit urban neighborhood, the steady attendance at Mass, the wallets that open even in times when it might seem more prudent to keep them closed.
 The Palm Sunday Mass, with its reading of the Passion, is long enough already, and Father Reilly hadn't planned to give a homily to make it any longer, but the excitement over the archbishop's visit was still fresh, and he wanted to thank the parish yet again. '' 'Whatever you do for the least of these on earth, my brothers and sisters, you do it for me,' '' he said, quoting the Gospel of Matthew. ''You listened to his words in the Bible, and you live them.''
 And then, at the offertory, as the ushers made their way along the pews, the envelopes and bills drifted steadily into their baskets. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BLESSED: The Rev. James J. Reilly and parishioners at Our Lady of Sorrows.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY DIBIASE BLAICH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(NJ1)
 FAITHFUL: Parishioners at Mass.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY DIBIASE BLAICH)(NJ2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (77%); FUNDRAISING (76%); EASTER SEASON (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (58%) NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



453 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1374 words

HEADLINE: Lives Streamlined for a New Era

BYLINE: By LAURA M. HOLSON

 BODY:
FEW things keep Jason Bell awake at night. But last fall, worried about the direction of the economy, Mr. Bell laid off three employees to make sure his small interior design firm would stay afloat. He took similar actions at home. To avoid getting into financial trouble, Mr. Bell, 36, and his wife, Marion, an architect, decided to move out of their 2,200-square-foot two-bedroom TriBeCa apartment, which cost them $6,950 a month in rent.
 They considered moving with their 8-month-old baby to their weekend home in Millbrook, N.Y., but neither wanted to commute for two hours in each direction. So in December they went hunting for a smaller apartment in Manhattan. Each time they saw a place that seemed promising, they went home and spent hours drawing floor plans to see if their furniture would fit. Finally, in February, they settled on a two-bedroom apartment in the financial district for $4,500, which, while one-third cheaper, was also only 900 square feet.
 They chose it even though they knew their possessions would not fit. They considered ditching their oversized sofa and buying a new one, but balked at the expense. Ultimately, their Tiffany china went to the country house, as did the dining room table for 12, a large kitchen cabinet and much of their cooking gear. 
 ''We still have our friends over for dinner,'' Mr. Bell said, ''but now we balance plates on our laps. The most important thing is to ride out this thing. So what if we have to do it someplace smaller? It's not like we need all that stuff. We just didn't really think about it.''
 With the economic crisis unlikely to subside anytime soon, some renters and homeowners in Manhattan are seeking to downsize before a financial calamity hits home. In recent months, real estate brokers say clients have become more open to discussing whether now is the time to ''right size,'' given stock market losses and dwindling retirement savings accounts.
 ''The downturn in the stock market and the loss of retirement savings has propelled many, particularly baby boomers, to think about this more,'' said Marianne Ciccantelli, a real estate broker at the Corcoran Group. ''I don't think anyone is living in a fantasy world.''
 For those looking to lower costs and save more, the decision is relatively easy if they are renters. Some rents in Manhattan have fallen as much as 20 percent; the change varies depending on the size and location. For sellers it is more difficult because there aren't a lot of eager buyers right now.
 Moving to a smaller place evokes complicated feelings. It can be difficult to let go of favorite things collected over the years, even if the decision is made for the most prudent of reasons.
 In 2002, Jennifer Tobias, a librarian, bought a 325-foot studio with a large roof deck in the East Village for $199,000. ''I've always been very happy there,'' she said, particularly during the summer when she would sleep on the deck at night.
 To give the deck a homey feel, she bought large clay pots and filled them with willowy grasses and sedum, a succulent often used for green roofs. She experimented with growing roses and researched which plants thrived in a roof climate.
 But recently, with the economy sinking and her maintenance fee rising to more than $1,000 a month, she decided to put her apartment on the market for $450,000 and, ideally, move downstairs to a studio being offered for $315,000 whose owner was willing to wait until she sold to make the deal. 
 If Ms. Tobias sold her studio for her price, she said she would be able to pay off her mortgage and use the profit to pay for the downstairs apartment, significantly lowering her mortgage payments each month. ''Even though I love my place, I want financial peace of mind,'' said Ms. Tobias, 46. ''It's important not to panic. But you start to think about the long term.''
 Of course, she will lose her roof access and her garden. If she sells the apartment, a friend in Philadelphia has agreed to pick up her assortment of pots and flowers and to tend them for her. ''I didn't want to leave them with just anyone,'' she said. ''I nurtured them. I want them to have a good home.'' And even before she moves, she said, she is preparing herself psychologically for what she called ''a monastic life'' indoors. 
 She is going back to school to get a doctorate in art history and expects she will be spending a lot of time at the library. And she will no longer see her sometimes naked neighbor frying his dinner in a hot pan. ''I always thought that was a little dangerous,'' she said.
 Of course not everyone is downsizing by choice. Andrew Saracino, a real estate broker with Halstead Property, recently sold an apartment for an executive who was laid off last summer and has yet to find a job. Seven years ago, the client bought a two-bedroom apartment near Gramercy Park; with an adjacent studio acquired later, he created a 1,700-square-foot apartment. Soon after the layoff, a friend moved in to help pay the mortgage. But that wasn't enough to cover expenses, and the executive was forced to sell the apartment for about $1.5 million earlier this year.
 ''It was sad,'' Mr. Saracino said. ''It was not an easy decision.''
 The client and friend moved into a 1,100-square-foot two-bedroom rental, which left little room for items collected over the years. A sofa designed specifically for the old living room was too big for the new one and was given to charity. The dining room table and handmade rug were left for the new owners. The client also gave Mr. Saracino's niece, a fan of Audrey Hepburn, a wall-sized ''Breakfast at Tiffany's'' poster.
 ''Everyone is considering whether to downsize, whether they are employed or not,'' said Jack Guttman, a co-owner of Cirker Hayes, which has two storage facilities in Manhattan for fine art and antiques, adding that the number of people seeking to store objects had increased 25 percent since the fall. ''They are taking the furniture, the chandeliers, the fine art, taking it all down, and will put it back up again when they get a bigger place.''
 One reason could be that the value of acquisitions -- like a rug, armoire or painting picked up on vacation -- is more emotional than monetary. Laurel Hoffman, 65, discovered that last spring when she sold her home, a four-bedroom 2,500-square-foot prewar apartment on West 79th Street with high ceilings and hardwood floors, for $2.4 million.
 Although she and her husband were not forced to downsize because of economic pressure, they wanted to sell before they retired. Like Ms. Tobias and the Bells, she had to grapple with what to do with all of her belongings. 
 She and her husband moved into a two-bedroom high-rise apartment half the size of their old place; they paid $1.8 million. She had five sets of china and closets full of silver-plated serving dishes. She owned a collection of vintage painted French posters that lined one room. And she and her husband had collected furniture from their vacations, including an oversized antique armoire she picked up in France.
 But when Ms. Hoffman went to sell those pieces, she found they were worth less than she had expected. When she brought her silver-plate collection to the auctioneer Tepper Galleries to be sold, an employee, after viewing them, shook his head. ''He walked me back and pulled back a curtain and there were barrels of silver-plate,'' she said. She was able to sell only two of her vintage posters at Swann Auction Galleries. And the armoire she picked up in France? It ended up at Housing Works.
 ''Kids today don't want 18th-century antiques,'' she said. ''Everything I thought was worth something wasn't.''
 Ultimately, she said, she ended up giving most of her furnishings to charity. 
 Her favorite clothes and accessories went to Manhattan Mini-Storage, because the closets in her new apartment are too small.
 Even now when she drives by her old apartment on 79th Street, she gets a little nostalgic for the larger place.
 ''People say: 'Why did you do this? Don't you miss the space?' '' Ms. Hoffman said. ''I say, 'Yes, I miss the space.' '' But, she said, ''I did not need the 20 towels I had collected over the years because they were on sale. We realized it was just stuff.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PARING POSSESSION: Jason Bell and his family left their 2,200-square-foot TriBeCa apartment for 900 square feet in the financial district.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CASEY KELBAUGH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(RE1)
 GOODBYE, GARDEN: Jennifer Tobias is selling her East Village apartment, with its roof access. ''I want financial peace of mind,'' she said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(RE8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (85%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); INTERIOR DECORATING (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (62%); BABY BOOMERS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



454 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1606 words

HEADLINE: Awake and Sing!

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
''I am pronouncing the depression over!'' declared CNBC's irrepressible Jim Cramer on April 2. The next day the unemployment rate, already at the highest level in 25 years, jumped yet again, but Cramer wasn't thinking about the 663,000 jobs that disappeared in March. He was thinking about the market. Mad money. Fast money. Big money. The Dow, after all, has rallied in the weeks since Timothy Geithner announced his bank bailout 2.0. Par-tay! On Wednesday, Cramer rang the opening bell at the New York Stock Exchange, in celebration of the 1,000th broadcast of his nightly stock-tip jamboree. 
 Given Cramer's track record on those tips, there's no reason to believe he's right this time. But for the sake of argument, let's say he is. (And let's hope he is.) The question then arises: What, if anything, have we learned from this decade's man-made economic disaster? It wasn't just trillions of dollars of wealth that went poof in the bubble. Certain American values also crumbled and vanished. Making quick killings by reckless gambling in the markets -- rather than by investing long-term in new products, innovations, technologies or services that might grow and benefit America and the world -- became the holy grail in the upper echelons of finance. 
 This was not an exact replay of the preceding dot-com bubble. As a veteran of the tech gold rush recently observed to me, in Silicon Valley ''the money comes later'' and ''the thing you make comes first, however whimsical, silly, microscopic, recondite it may be.'' On Wall Street over the past decade, the money usually came first, last and in between. There was no ''thing'' being made at all unless you count the slicing and dicing of debt into financial ''products,'' the incomprehensible derivatives that helped bring down the economy, costing some five million Americans their jobs (so far) and countless more their 401(k)'s.
 On the same Friday that the Labor Department reported the latest jobless numbers, the White House released (in the evening, after the network news) some other telling figures on the financial disclosure forms of its top officials. From those we learned more about how much the bubble's culture permeated this administration. 
 We discovered, for instance, that Lawrence Summers, the president's chief economic adviser, made $5.2 million in 2008 from a hedge fund, D. E. Shaw, for a one-day-a-week job. He also earned $2.7 million in speaking fees from the likes of Citigroup and Goldman Sachs. Those institutions are not merely the beneficiaries of taxpayers' bailouts since the crash. They also benefited during the boom from government favors: the Wall Street deregulation that both Summers and Robert Rubin, his mentor and predecessor as Treasury secretary, championed in the Clinton administration. This dynamic duo's innovative gift to their country was banks ''too big to fail.''
 Some spoilsports raise the conflict-of-interest question about Summers: Can he be a fair broker of the bailout when he so recently received lavish compensation from some of its present and, no doubt, future players? This question can be answered only when every transaction in the new ''public-private investment plan'' to buy the banks' toxic assets is made transparent. We need verification that this deal is not, as the economist Joseph Stiglitz has warned, a Rube Goldberg contraption contrived to facilitate ''huge transfers of wealth to the financial markets'' from taxpayers.
 But perhaps I've become numb to the perennial and bipartisan revolving-door incestuousness of Washington and Wall Street. I was less shocked by the White House's disclosure of Summers's recent paydays than by a bit of reporting that appeared deep down in the Times follow-up article on that initial news. The reporter Louise Story wrote that Summers had done consulting work for another hedge fund, Taconic Capital Advisors, from 2004 to 2006, while still president of Harvard.
 That the highly paid leader of arguably America's most esteemed educational institution (disclosure: I went there) would simultaneously freelance as a hedge-fund guy might stand as a symbol for the values of our time. At the start of his stormy and short-lived presidency, Summers picked a fight with Cornel West for allegedly neglecting his professorial duties by taking on such extracurricular tasks as cutting a spoken-word CD. Yet Summers saw no conflict with moonlighting in the money racket while running the entire university. The students didn't even get a CD for his efforts -- and Harvard's deflated endowment, now in a daunting liquidity crisis, didn't exactly benefit either. 
 Summers's dual portfolio in Cambridge has already led to one potential intermingling of private business and public policy in his new White House post. He tried -- and, mercifully, failed -- to install the co-founder of Taconic in the job of running the TARP bailouts. But again, Summers's potential conflicts of interest seem less telling than the conflict of values that his Harvard double-resume exemplifies.
 In the bubble decade, making money as an end in itself boomed as a calling among students at elite universities like Harvard, siphoning off gifted undergraduates who might otherwise have been scientists, teachers, doctors, entrepreneurs, artists or inventors. The Harvard Crimson reported that in the class of 2007, 58 percent of the men and 43 percent of the women entering the work force took jobs in the finance and consulting industries. The figures were similar everywhere, from Duke to the University of Pennsylvania. Dan Rather, on his HDNet television program in December, reported that at Penn this was even true of ''over half the students who graduated with engineering degrees -- not a field commonly associated with Wall Street.''
 Clearly the last person to serve as an inspiring role model for alternative values would have been Summers. But in her first baccalaureate address last June, his successor as Harvard president, Drew Gilpin Faust, stepped into that moral vacuum, zeroing in on the huge number of students heading into finance, consulting and investment banking. ''Find work you love,'' she implored the class of 2008. The ''most remunerative'' job choice ''may not be the most meaningful and the most satisfying.''
 This same note was hit a month earlier by the commencement speaker at Wesleyan University, Barack Obama. ''The big house and the nice suits and all the other things that our money culture says you should buy,'' he said, amount to ''a poverty of ambition.'' He wasn't speaking idly. As America knows, Obama turned down the lucrative career path guaranteed to the first African-American president of The Harvard Law Review to pursue the missions of service and teaching instead. The potential rewards for our country, now that that early choice has led him into the White House, are enormous. 
 But it's hardly a given that the entrenched money culture has evaporated along with the paper profits it generated. One skeptic is Howard Gardner, the Harvard education professor who has created seminars at several elite colleges to counsel students in the notion of pursuing meaningful, ethical and effective work -- ''Good Work,'' as he has titled it. He believes that many students may still be operating on the assumption that the world of finance will just pick up where it left off in a few years. ''But we're not going to be back there,'' Gardner told me last week, ''and we shouldn't be back there.'' 
 He notes that while the New Deal was built from ideas developed in the Progressive Era and that the Reagan counterrevolution was the culmination of the conservative movement of the 1950s and '60s, there is as yet ''no counternarrative to replace 'money is king.' '' The post-crash influx of graduates into Teach for America, while laudable, may be transitory unless there's the political vision and leadership to make altruistic values stick after our crisis has passed. ''It's completely up in the air what's going to happen,'' Gardner said.
 No one is better placed or more philosophically suited than Obama to construct the new counternarrative as we go forward in our new New Deal. But many masters of the old universe, including quite possibly his chief economic adviser, can't recognize that the world has changed or should change. Even at the cratered Citigroup, a technical analyst was moved to write a report last month urging his peers to stop living in ''denial'' and recognize that we are witnessing the end of ''25 to 30 years worth of excess.'' The ''new normal'' in lifestyle, wealth creation and profitability of companies, he wrote, ''may be a shadow of the past.''
 There was a poignant quality to this Citi report, which cited as its mantra the R.E.M. song ''It's the End of the World as We Know It (and I Feel Fine).'' Its tone somehow reminded me of the stirring speech written by the American playwright Clifford Odets in his classic drama of the Great Depression, ''Awake and Sing!'' (1935). ''Boychick, wake up!'' the grandfather Jacob tells his grandson, Ralph, as the battered Berger family disintegrates in the Bronx. ''Be something! Make your life something good ... Go out and fight so life shouldn't be printed on dollar bills.''
 When Lawrence Summers was president of Harvard, he famously delighted students by signing his autograph on dollar bills that already bore his signature from his Treasury secretary days. How we leave that bankrupt culture behind and get to ''something good'' will be as much a factor in our recovery from this Depression as the fate of the unemployment rate and the Dow.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BARRY BLITT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); BANK FAILURES (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (69%); US 401K PLANS (65%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (65%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (65%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); CITIGROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%)

PERSON: JIM CRAMER (90%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (55%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



455 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; THE ISLAND; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: A Teacher of Basketball, and Its Life Lessons

BYLINE: By Robin Finn. 
E-mail: theisland@nytimes.com

DATELINE: Hempstead 

 BODY:
 THE Hempstead- and Roosevelt-honed Julius Erving, better known as the Hall of Famer Dr. J, was weighing in by phone from Atlanta, where he has embarked on a Baby Boomer project that is easier on the knees than basketball: golf course development. Not an easy sell in this punitive economy, he said last week, even for an aging but high Q-quotient superstar with a low handicap and a lofty reputation. 
 ''The project has turned into a labor of love at this point,'' he said. ''I've been so busy with the business end, I haven't had time to play golf in six months.'' There was an audible sigh over the line. These are tough times for grown-ups. 
 The moment begged for a speedy change of topic. Time to play the nostalgia card and ask Mr. Erving, 59, about Don Ryan, the volunteer Biddy Basketball coach at the Salvation Army's Hempstead headquarters who was a teenager himself when he took Mr. Erving, a fatherless 12-year-old basketball whiz, under his wing 47 years ago and never let go. 
 Mr. Ryan's loyalty to his hometown (he is a village trustee after teaching business at Hempstead High for 33 years), to his Biddy Basketball players (in 2011 he'll celebrate his golden anniversary as coach), and to his mother, Teresa (at 95, she remains his teammate on the home front), is legendary. A gift from God to Hempstead is how Mr. Erving describes him.
 ''Don was probably the first person who had a truly great influence on my sports career,'' Mr. Erving said. ''The Salvation Army motto was 'Carry the books and the ball.' Don was the guy who taught me about accountability: there were no road games if you behaved like a bad apple. He was like a big brother to me and maybe at that time a father figure. He's been a part of my life for a 50-year spread, never more than a phone call away, and I've made that call many times.''
 Which is why, on this Easter weekend, Mr. Ryan and his current crop of Biddy ballplayers, an excited group of 11 local sixth and seventh graders, are spending a fantasy holiday in Atlanta with Mr. Erving as celebrity host. 
 On Saturday, at the Salvation Army Ray and Joan Kroc Corps Community Center in Atlanta, two squads of Hempstead players were to compete in the Julius (Dr. J) Erving Biddy Basketball Tournament against all-star squads from the Boys & Girls Club and the Salvation Army. On Easter Sunday, they planned to wear their red warm-up suits and attend a morning church service with Mr. Erving, then hit the Six Flags Over Georgia amusement park. On Monday, they will visit the Celebrity Golf Club International as guests of Mr. Erving and test their prowess on the fairways before traveling to Orlando, Fla., for more games.
 ''I can safely say that most of these kids have never been on a golf course before,'' Mr. Ryan, 66, said last week while palming a basketball (he played guard here on the adult squad) on the same Salvation Army court where Mr. Erving and other notables, including Kenneth I. Chenault, now chief executive of American Express, practiced their dunks and jump shots. The best dunker that Mr. Ryan, a student at Adelphi University when he began volunteering in Hempstead as a coach in 1961, ever saw? A no-brainer. 
 ''Julius is the only N.B.A. player to come out of the program so far,'' said Mr. Ryan, whose coaching uniform consists of gray dress slacks, highly polished black dress shoes and a Salvation Army sweatshirt with his name in red script on the chest, ''but we've been blessed to be affiliated with some other success stories. Ken Chenault was a heck of a ballplayer'' before his success in the business world. 
 Mr. Ryan has been devoted to all of his teams (his goal is to funnel them toward college, not the National Basketball Association), but his personal all-time dream team, the one that broke urban-suburban playground precedent -- that urban, as in New York City, always trounces suburban, as in Long Island -- was assembled in 1964. ''People always said Long Island couldn't match up to the city players; well, we did,'' he said.
 Mr. Ryan, who said he ''came close a couple of times'' but never married, recites the names from that team with paternal pride: Julius Erving, Al Williams, Tommy Brethel, Dave and Terry Conroy. The champions of the Summer Playground Championships in the Bronx. Winners in life: four of the players are in their colleges' halls of fame and the fifth, Dave Conroy, served as a much-decorated medic during the Vietnam War.
 The tallest kid, the top rebounder and the Most Valuable Player on the 1964 team was, of course, Mr. Erving. According to Mr. Ryan, he was about 5 feet 7 inches tall and weighed 115 pounds in his pre-pre-Dr. J prime. ''Very coachable,'' said Mr. Ryan, who recalls Mr. Erving's earliest nicknames -- the Claw, the Medicine Man -- but finds an abundance of logic, not hubris, in the moniker the player himself favored, the one that stuck. ''Because he is a student of whatever he does.''
 And Mr. Ryan, in turn, is an inspiration to whomever he coaches.
 ''Being around a person like Don was a life-changing experience for me,'' Mr. Erving summed up. ''I did move on, but I didn't burn the bridge back to home. The highest recognition of my life was being inducted into the Hall of Fame, and when it was time for the ceremony, I told them I wanted to see a Salvation Army flag flying right behind my head.'' His wish was granted.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: MAINSTAY: Don Ryan, 66, began coaching basketball on Long Island when he was a teenager nearly 50 years ago. One of his first proteges was Julius Erving. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BARTON SILVERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.LI2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (92%); ATHLETES (89%); CELEBRITIES (89%); EASTER SEASON (86%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (86%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); GOLF (77%); BABY BOOMERS (77%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (72%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (72%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (72%); SPORTS (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION (70%); MEN (67%); ANNIVERSARIES (65%); TOURNAMENTS (62%)

COMPANY: SIX FLAGS OVER GEORGIA INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: THE SALVATION ARMY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%) GEORGIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



456 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FRESH STARTS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: Connecting the Dots Of Medicine and Data

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE LARSON

 BODY:
RUSS CUCINA, 37, lives a double life. For two months of the year, he practices internal medicine, treating patients at the UCSF Medical Center in San Francisco. The rest of the year, he helps the hospital develop its electronic medical records and other data systems. 
 As a medical doctor who also has a master's degree in biomedical informatics, Dr. Cucina has a foot in both worlds -- medicine and technology -- and can bridge the sometimes daunting gap between them. 
 ''I'm the glue between the I.T. enterprise and the clinical leadership,'' said Dr. Cucina, the hospital's associate medical director of information technology. ''Because I have the vocabulary of both sides, I can serve as translator between them.'' 
 Such translators, known as ''health informatics specialists,'' typically have expertise in medical records and claims, clinical care and programming.
 ''The health I.T. people run the servers and install software, but the informatics people are the leaders, who interpret and analyze information and work with the clinical staff,'' said William Hersh, chairman of the department of medical informatics and clinical epidemiology at Oregon Health and Science University. 
 The federal government's economic stimulus package is dedicating $19 billion to speeding the adoption of electronic health records, so demand for health informatics specialists is skyrocketing. ''My rough estimate is that we need about 70,000 health informaticians,'' said Don E. Detmer, president and chief executive of the American Medical Informatics Association, a nonprofit industry group. 
 Health informatics specialists usually start as computer programmers or as doctors, nurses, pharmacists or health record administrators. After earning a graduate degree in health informatics, they may move into midlevel or senior positions at hospitals, doctor's offices, insurance companies, pharmaceutical companies or other organizations concerned with health data. 
 Amen Amusan, 36, of Minneapolis, works for a technology company developing programs to help hospitals analyze claims data. After receiving an undergraduate degree in computer science, she enrolled in a health informatics master's program at the University of Minnesota. 
 When she finished her degree in December 2007, she took a job paying almost 50 percent more than her previous one. (The big bump was only partly because of her degree; she also moved from a nonprofit to a for-profit company.) ''I was getting two or three calls a day from recruiters and going on interviews every day,'' she said. 
 Midlevel jobs, like those for clinical analysts or informatics analysts, typically pay around $70,000 a year, according to the association, but salaries can be much higher at senior levels like that of chief clinical information officer. Other senior level jobs, which sometimes require a Ph.D., include leadership roles at medical device, life science or insurance companies. 
 Consulting firms are also hiring health informatics experts to serve their health care clients. ''A lot of hospitals have to hire external consultants to do the work because they're constrained by the availability of resources,'' said Hui Cao, 31, of New York, a senior consultant at Deloitte, who earned her doctorate in biomedical informatics at Columbia University.
 Currently, there are no educational, licensing or credential requirements for health informaticians. Still, training programs are proliferating. Within the past four years, St. Louis University, the University of Minnesota and Oregon Health and Science University have all added master's programs or certificates in health informatics.
 At the same time, many universities are offering short courses or certificate programs to train working health care providers or programmers in informatics. Some schools are adding associate degrees or undergraduate majors. 
 These programs can bear a bewildering variety of names. Typically, ''medical'' or ''biomedical'' informatics programs focus on data that doctors need for treating patients. ''Bioinformatics'' programs stress biological or genetic data, while ''health informatics'' programs often emphasize clinical data and health records. Even among programs with the same name, the emphasis may vary. 
 ''You can't tell by the title what these programs are truly offering,'' warned Claire Dixon-Lee, executive director of the Commission on Accreditation for Health Informatics and Information Management Education, which accredits academic programs offering degrees in health informatics. ''Students have to truly look closely at what courses are being taught.'' 
 IT takes more than technical skills and an understanding of health care to succeed as a health informatician. Diplomacy skills are crucial in connecting two potentially contentious groups: doctors and programmers.
 Dr. Cucina tries to head off conflict and help both sides avoid errors. He once caught a well-intentioned mistake in an electronic medical record design that would have been glaringly obvious to any physician. If he hadn't gently suggested a correction, he said, ''it would have been an embarrassment to the entire medical record project that would be hard to live down.'' 
 Fortunately, he said, heading off such problems and creating a system that works well for both sides can be highly rewarding. When he does his job right, he said, ''we can create a common vision for health care information technology.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dr. Russ Cucina, center, at the UCSF Medical Center in San Francisco. He is a medical doctor who also has a master's degree in biomedical informatics.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (95%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (90%); MEDICAL RECORDS (90%); ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS (90%); INFORMATION SCIENCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); HOSPITALS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (87%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (78%); PHARMACISTS (78%); BIOMEDICINE (78%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (77%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); MEDICAL DEVICES (73%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); INSURANCE (67%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (69%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



457 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: Financial News, Front and Center: What Took So Long?

BYLINE: By JIM IMPOCO. 
Jim Impoco is a freelance business editor and writer.

 BODY:
THERE is a well-worn but telling newspaper industry joke: ''If it bleeds, it leads.'' But that has never applied to the elementary, if trickier, parts of business news -- things like the federal budget deficit, current account shortfalls, or quarterly losses at companies like G.M. 
 Despite the dramatic rise in stock ownership among ordinary Americans through 401(k) plans and electronic trading, financial news has remained, at best, an afterthought for most general-interest publications. Even though many financial threats the world faced in recent years were hiding in plain sight -- in the pages of the business press -- the broader media's longstanding indifference to economic news helped keep it safely out of the public dialogue. 
 Forget about television. Viewers tend to find business chatter more boring than a test pattern or a Charlie Rose interview. It has never delivered ratings -- even CNBC considers an audience of 600,000 a pretty good day, and the network's unaccountable loudmouth, Jim Cramer, is lucky to get a quarter of that. 
 Now that the global financial system's belly-flop has become Topic A, the mainstream media has stifled its yawns and is digging in ferociously. In this news cycle, the press has become so obsessed with Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner and Edward M. Liddy, A.I.G.'s dollar-a-year C.E.O., that even Octomom and Rihanna have trouble grabbing air time and column inches. 
 Suddenly, everyone has an opinion about how to retrofit financial markets for the next economic earthquake. The same talking heads who once prided themselves on their inability to balance their own checkbooks are now engaged in ''Crossfire''-esque shouting matches over newly proposed hedge fund regulations or debt-to-capital ratios for banks. Television, predictably, is discovering that sexy extra little something that had always been missing from the financial story: lynch mobs. 
 What has the masses frothing -- justifiably -- are the Bizarro World salaries and bonuses that executives pulled in before and after they blew up the global economy. President Obama satisfied some of this blood lust by defenestrating Rick Wagoner, G.M.'s chief executive. But even if the White House could figure out a way to better align pay with performance on Wall Street and elsewhere, would you really want to see officials take time out from what should be Job One: stabilizing financial markets? It's a little like asking a firefighter to stop and inspect a safety code violation on his way to a four-alarm blaze. 
 In reality, the financial press has been screaming about executive pay for decades, though hardly anyone else seemed to care. In 1980, the year the Carter administration bailed out Chrysler, Lee Iacocca earned what for that time was a princely salary of $868,000 (or $2 million in today's dollars), according to Forbes, enough to put him in the top 100 on the magazine's best-paid C.E.O list -- and no one was talking about putting his head on a pike. (Six years later, as his popularity soared, Mr. Iacocca would top the same Forbes list.) 
 In June 2001, Geoffrey Colvin wrote a cover article for Fortune called ''The Great C.E.O. Pay Heist'' that was shocking and prescriptive -- and completely ignored by the nonfinancial punditry. The article also noted a few unintended consequences in the government's earlier attempts to rein in runaway C.E.O. pay: In 1993, the Securities and Exchange Commission demanded that companies provide far greater detail about what they pay their leaders -- but once every corner-office mandarin knew how much his peers made, compensation consultants were armed with everything they needed to get even more from corporate boards. 
 Sure, you could point to countless other articles in Fortune, and other magazines and newspapers, that read like love sonnets to A.I.G. and other companies that would later be vilified. But if you were paying attention, there were also plenty of warnings about equity and real estate manias, not to mention the ever-riskier bets on Wall Street that seemed destined to go terribly awry sooner or later. 
 So far during this financial crisis, the cathartic moment has been Jon Stewart's deft evisceration of Jim Cramer, on ''The Daily Show'' last month. But again, followers of the financial press could only roll their eyes. Critics have been hammering Mr. Cramer ever since he unveiled his Ozzy Osbourne routine on ''Mad Money'' a little over four years ago. 
 In January 2006, the New York Times columnist Joe Nocera put it bluntly in an interview with NPR: ''The people who are watching this and following the advice are fools.'' 
 A year or so later, Henry Blodget, the former analyst who was banned from the securities industry after privately criticizing stocks he extolled in public -- but has reinvented himself as a financial journalist -- pointed out that Mr. Cramer's portfolio was losing money even in a fabulous bull market. That's what made smart financial folks snigger when Mr. Stewart stared at Mr. Cramer from across his desk and shouted, ''You knew!''
 The sad and maddening irony, as Mr. Nocera, Mr. Blodget and others have pointed out in article after article, is that when it comes to predicting what stock is going to do what or where the economy is headed, he didn't know, doesn't know and will never know. 
 No one does, really. 
 With a little luck and a lot of taxpayer money, the economy will one day be removed from the intensive care unit and the news media will likely retreat from the business story again. But why wait for another financial crisis to start making sure that economic news has its rightful place alongside politics, sports and entertainment? 
 Otherwise, we run the risk looking as silly as the TV viewers who bet real money whenever Jim Cramer shouts into his microphone if we keep expecting ''The Daily Show'' to take down the next Enron or smoke out the next Bernie Madoff. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY GARY HOVLAND) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (85%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); COMPANY LOSSES (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); US 401K PLANS (72%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); GLOBALIZATION (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (65%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (65%); BONUS PAY (60%); EXECUTIVES (60%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); FIRES (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%); SECURITIES LAW (50%)

PERSON: CHARLIE ROSE (57%); NADYA SULEMAN (54%); JIM CRAMER (53%); RICK WAGONER (50%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (50%); BARACK OBAMA (50%); EDWARD M LIDDY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



458 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2079 words

HEADLINE: So Botox Isn't Just Skin Deep

BYLINE: By NATASHA SINGER

 BODY:
DR. MARK STILLMAN, the director of the Center for Headache and Pain at the Cleveland Clinic, has a treatment for people with frequent migraines: he injects Botox around the head and neck.
 Dr. Andrew Blitzer, the director of the Center for Voice and Swallowing Disorders at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan, has an antidote for speech impediments caused by vocal cord problems: he injects Botox into the larynx.
 Dr. Fredric Brandt, a dermatologist in Manhattan and Coral Gables, Fla., has a novel procedure for oily skin and skin redness. 
 You guessed it: Botox. 
 Over the last decade, Botox has become a synonym for the eradication of wrinkles, a kind of shorthand for the entire enterprise of cosmetic medicine. But now, with the popularization of new medical uses, therapeutic applications of the drug are poised to outstrip the cosmetic treatment in both revenue and prominence.
 In the hunt to discover the next blockbuster medical use for Botox, doctors have injected it experimentally into muscles and glands all over the body, making it medicine's answer to duct tape. According to recent medical journals, physicians have used it to treat chewing problems, swallowing problems, pelvic muscle spasms, drooling, hair loss, anal fissures and pain from missing limbs.
 ''We see it as a molecule that keeps on giving. As we understand it more, it gives us new ideas of how to use it,'' says Dr. Mitchell F. Brin, a neurologist who is the chief scientific officer for Botox at Allergan, the drug's maker.
 No other therapeutic agent ''has so many demonstrated uses,'' he says.
 But some health advocates worry that doctors are widely adopting novel uses for Botox before federal guidance and rigorous clinical studies have established safe and effective dosages for the new treatments. 
 ''It's trial and error with a nerve poison,'' says Dr. Sidney M. Wolfe, the director of the health research group at Public Citizen, a consumer advocacy group. Last year, the group petitioned the Food and Drug Administration to require a warning label for injectable toxins. 
 BOTOX is a purified form of botulinum toxin, a nerve poison produced by the bacteria that cause botulism, a disease that paralyzes muscles and can be fatal. Injections of Botox act like minuscule poison darts that temporarily blunt chemical nerve signals to certain muscles or glands, reducing their activity. 
 The F.D.A. has approved Botox to treat four problems: eye muscle disorders, neck muscle disorders, excessive sweating -- and that deadly age giveaway, eyebrow furrows. But Allergan, a $14.5 billion specialty pharmaceutical company, owns or has applied for patents on more than 90 uses for the drug. 
 Dr. Brin of Allergan says Botox has a long safety track record -- backed by 30 years of favorable research, studies on 11,000 people worldwide and 17 million treatments in the United States since 1994.
 ''That safety profile has enabled us to continue to explore the product in deeper parts of the body and in more novel areas,'' Dr. Brin says. Allergan does not promote unapproved uses of the drug, he says.
 Botox was developed in the 1970s by Dr. Alan Scott, an ophthalmologist in San Francisco who was searching for a cure for crossed eyes. He theorized that minute doses of a nerve poison used to weaken the muscles that pull crossed eyes inward could treat the malady, and he experimented with a variety of paralytic agents.
 Then a biochemist who had isolated and purified a strain of botulinum toxin for potential military use as a biological weapon sent Dr. Scott a sample. It worked. 
 Dr. Scott named the new drug Oculinum. In 1989, the F.D.A. approved it to treat crossed eyes and twitching eyelids. Allergan bought Oculinum in 1991 for about $9 million, rebranding it Botox. When David E. I. Pyott became chief executive of the company in 1998, Botox had $90 million in annual sales. Last year, sales topped $1 billion.
 ''Nobody at Allergan understood how big a gold mine they were sitting on,'' Mr. Pyott says.
 Drug companies often rely on multiple products to fill their pipelines. But at Allergan, Botox became a virtual pipeline in and of itself after the arrival of Mr. Pyott, who recognized that it was a medication that could be serially reincarnated for other applications. 
 Doctors, who are permitted to use approved drugs in unapproved ways as they deem appropriate, were already using Botox off-label at the time on body parts other than eye muscles. Some physicians reported that patients had unexpected side effects -- fewer headaches, for example, or smoother skin -- after they had Botox. 
 Mr. Pyott invested heavily in expanding in-house research and encouraged doctors to formalize their anecdotal observations with published research. He also recognized that some Americans would be willing to pay handsomely for injections that tempered wrinkles. To prove the efficacy of the drug, the company sponsored clinical trials to use Botox for cosmetic medical purposes and for other muscle disorders. 
 Over the last nine years, the F.D.A. has approved Botox to treat neck muscle spasms and to hinder excessive sweating. The agency also approved the same drug, under the name Botox Cosmetic, to smooth forehead wrinkles.
 Last year, Botox had worldwide sales of $1.3 billion, divided about equally between cosmetic and medical uses. Among botulinum toxins, Botox has an 83 percent share of the market, Allergan said.
 But, with competing toxins set to enter the American market, Allergan has positioned Botox for other medical uses. Mr. Pyott says he expects therapeutic sales of the drug to soon eclipse sales of Botox Cosmetic.
 Health insurers sometimes cover medical uses of Botox; a treatment for a clenched jaw might cost $1,000 every three months, for example. But for cosmetic treatments, which dipped slightly at the end of last year, consumers must pay cash. 
 ''The therapeutic will end up being bigger than the cosmetic even if the economy recovers because there are some big unmet medical needs there,'' Mr. Pyott says.
 In the next few months, the company is expecting federal approval to market the drug for stroke victims suffering from limb tightness or spasms. 
 Later this year, Allergan plans to seek approval to market the drug for chronic migraine headaches, Mr. Pyott said. He also said the company eventually plans to seek F.D.A. approval to market Botox for benign enlarged prostate.
 But many doctors are not waiting for federal sanction to inject Botox for these and other disorders. While Allergan doesn't break down Botox sales, Gary Nachman, an analyst at Leerink Swann, an investment bank, estimates that perhaps as much as half of Botox sales already come from off-label uses.
 ''It's the magic bullet,'' says Mr. Nachman.
 BOTOX is so widely adopted in medicine -- and ingrained in popular culture -- that some doctors don't think that novel uses are experiments.
 Several years ago, Dr. Kamran Jafri, a facial surgeon in Manhattan, started injecting Botox just under the skin of the face, a technique that he says reduces pore size, blotchiness and oily skin. 
 ''Dosing is by trial and error,'' Dr. Jafri says. ''I don't think it's experimental because it's a treatment I've been doing a lot and it's been working.'' 
 Such ad hoc uses of Botox are perfectly legal for doctors. But some medical professionals are concerned that doctors are experimenting with and adopting Botox therapy before clinical trials and government approval have established safe doses for new indications -- and without definitive proof that the new treatments work.
 While life-threatening complications following use of Botox and other botulinum toxins are rare, a few people have died after they were treated. In some cases, the toxin has spread from the injection site, causing serious swallowing and breathing problems. For example, several children with cerebral palsy died after receiving large doses in their limbs.
 ''It is possible to over-inject. This is a poison,'' says Dr. Frederick Burgess, the chief of anesthesia at the V.A. Medical Center in Providence, R.I. ''Things can go wrong. It is rare, but it happens.''
 Last year, Public Citizen petitioned the F.D.A., asking for a stronger warning on botulinum toxins that would emphasize the risk of diffusion from the injection site and the need for patients to seek immediate medical care for swallowing or breathing difficulties. The Canadian health authority instituted such a labeling change earlier this year.
 Mr. Pyott of Allergan says that there have been a few serious problems following Botox injections -- but not necessarily directly caused by the drug. Some patients had serious illnesses prior to treatment, he said.
 ''Physicians have experimented with higher and higher doses,'' Mr. Pyott says. ''Like any drug, if you take too much, you can have side effects.''
 The F.D.A is reviewing the safety of botulinum toxins, according to an agency press release. Last year, the agency also postponed approval of a new toxin called Dysport for use in neck muscle problems. The F.D.A. asked the manufacturer to first develop a plan for communicating the risk of the drug to doctors and patients. 
 On Monday, the F.D.A. is due to issue a decision on the cosmetic version of Dysport, called Reloxin.
 Johnson & Johnson is also developing an anti-wrinkle injection called PureTox.
 But industry analysts predicted that the F.D.A. would postpone approving any new botulinum toxins until regulators have finalized a stronger warning label for all of the brands.
 WHEN Mr. Pyott arrived at Allergan, it specialized in eye-care pharmaceuticals. Over the last decade, he has turned it into the house that Botox built, expanding credibility for the drug in various medical specialties by buying complementary businesses.
 To solidify Allergan's dominance in appearance medicine, for example, the company spent $3.2 billion in 2006 to acquire Inamed, a leading maker of skin-plumping injections and breast implants. In preparation for the planned introduction of Botox as a treatment for headaches, overactive bladder and enlarged prostates, the company has also established itself in neurology and urology by developing or marketing other specialty drugs, Mr. Pyott says.
 The possibility of lucrative new uses for Botox has not gone unnoticed. After rumors of a possible merger with GlaxoSmithKline last month, Allergan stock rose almost 24 percent over the course of two days, to $48.95; it now trades at $47.47. Both companies declined to comment on merger rumors.
 ''This is a bad time to sell because they are not going to get rewarded for all of the wonderful stuff in the pipeline,'' says Ronny Gal, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein. ''I would stay independent for a couple of years.''
 Mr. Gal says sales of Botox could double within the next five to seven years, provided that the F.D.A. approves new major medical uses. One million people or more might seek Botox injections for chronic headaches, while the audience for benign enlarged prostate would be ''practically every man over the age of 75,'' Mr. Gal says.
 MR. PYOTT has a master plan, meanwhile, to expand the Botox franchise even further. The company is developing new iterations of the drug intended to treat specific targets, such as pain receptors, without weakening muscles. 
 Allergan also owns or has applied for patents on dozens of other uses for its toxin, a move to pre-empt competitors from marketing their products for expanded uses.
 ''I feel a little bit like I am sitting with a beautiful vessel inside the harbor but I forgot to give you the map to where our mines are,'' Mr. Pyott says of the Botox patents that he said were filed in different countries. ''There could be a big bang when you hit one of our patents.'' 
 But Mr. Gal, the analyst, devoted his Christmas vacation to unearthing about 90 patent applications worldwide by Allergan. These included Botox for sinus headache, fibromyalgia pain, ulcers, inner ear disorders and uterine problems as well as appearance treatments like ''buttock deformity.''
 Nevertheless, there are still a few ailments that Botox does not claim to solve. Botox doesn't work on stuttering, for example, because it involves too many parts of the anatomy -- including the lips, the larynx and the tongue, says Dr. Brin of Allergan.
 ''Stuttering is too complicated,'' Dr. Brin says a little wistfully. ''It didn't pan out.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Botox is used by Dr. Andrew Blitzer to treat vocal cord problems
he injects it into the larynx.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL FALCO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.BU1)
Dr. Andrew Blitzer, of St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan, uses Botox to treat vocal cord problems and, at right, severe jaw muscle pain.
Allergan, Botox's maker, owns or has applied for patents on more than 90 uses for it.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL FALCO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. BU10) CHART: The Body Botox: Botox, a purified form of botulinum toxin, is approved for five uses in the United States and another 16 uses in some 80 other countries. But doctors, who are free to use approved drugs in unapproved ways as they see fit, are injecting the drug in many muscles and glands across the body. Allergan, the manufacturer, has applied for or received patents on more than 90 uses for the drug, a move to discourage competitors while it pursues further research.(Sources: Food and Drug Administration
Allergan
 Ronny Gal, Sanford C. Bernstein)(pg. BU10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NONSURGICAL COSMETIC PROCEDURES (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); COSMETIC SURGERY & TREATMENTS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (89%); SPEECH & LANGUAGE DISORDERS (78%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (78%); NECK DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); DERMATOLOGY (78%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); EAR NOSE & THROAT DISORDERS (77%); PARALYSIS (77%); NEUROSCIENCE (77%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (74%); DRUG SAFETY (73%); CLINICAL TRIALS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); APPROVALS (68%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); PATENTS (68%); HAIR LOSS (66%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (63%); PRODUCT LABELING (61%); CONSUMER LAW (61%); BACTERIA (60%)

COMPANY: ALLERGAN INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (59%)

TICKER: AGN (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333314 OPTICAL INSTRUMENT & LENS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) OHIO, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



459 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; PING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: Software That Monitors Your Work, Wherever You Are

BYLINE: By DAMON DARLIN

 BODY:
PEOPLE need to be watched.
 Back at the dawn of the Industrial Revolution, Jeremy Bentham, the English philosopher, seized on that basic management precept to design a building that would become a touchstone for architects of a new age. Calling it the Panopticon, he arrayed prison cells in a semicircle. The innovative layout gave a smaller number of guards the ability to watch a greater number of prisoners. 
 In other words, it cut costs. 
 The Panopticon design is still in use today, and not just in prisons around the world. It was easily adapted for factories and offices.
 But what happens in the information age, when workers are no longer there in front of the manager, but working from home -- maybe in their pajamas, or maybe with a cat on their lap and a peppy Lily Allen tune playing on the iPod? In many managers' eyes, they wouldn't do as much work. 
 No worries. Software becomes the new Panopticon. It can monitor workers who, conveniently, do most of their work on computers. It can also measure their efforts and direct work to those who do it best. 
 LiveOps, a rapidly growing company in Santa Clara, Calif., that operates virtual call centers -- agents working from home across the country -- has also found that software can perform other management tasks. How it uses that software points to the direction in which technology is taking the workplace. 
 Founded in 2000, LiveOps fields some 20,000 ''home agents,'' all independent contractors who take orders for products advertised on late-night TV, sell insurance or transcribe recordings for other companies. The agents even take pizza orders. If there is a storm in a particular city and pizza orders surge because no one is going out, calls to the pizza store are routed to LiveOps agents thousands of miles away. (The delivery boy still has to brave the rain and the wind. Software hasn't solved that problem.)
 The virtual call center is nothing new. A number of companies, like Elance, oDesk and Guru, assemble freelance work forces to take on specific tasks so that companies don't have to run call centers or hire additional employees. TopCoder and RentACoder have done it specifically for computer programmers. A start-up, Serebra Connect, hires college students in developing economies to do work.
 But Maynard Webb, the chief executive of LiveOps, says he thinks that the company's software gives clients like Kodak, Colonial Penn and TristarProductions, a direct marketing company, an advantage. The software moves a company beyond simple cost-cutting. Mr. Webb says greater efficiencies can be found because the company's software measures the results from each agent according to criteria determined by the client.
 If a client wants agents to persuade callers to buy additional products, the software tracks that -- and then directs calls to the agents who do it best. Those agents prosper.
 What about the agents who aren't so good? ''No one gets fired,'' Mr. Webb said. ''They just don't get work.'' 
 Software becomes a passive-aggressive manager.
 He thinks the concept can be expanded to any line of work -- like health care, retailing, publishing and law -- where the output can be measured. 
 And the advantage for LiveOps, which Mr. Webb says has been profitable since 2006, is a harbinger of things to come. ''The economics are better. No buildings. No benefits,'' said Mr. Webb, a former eBay executive. (LiveOps's 300 employees do get benefits.)
 Before everyone wrings their hands at the horror of an economy shifting to workers paid by the minute doing piecemeal work at the kitchen table while monitored by an all-seeing computer, consider that Mr. Webb isn't having trouble finding workers.
 ''There are way more people who want to work in this model than we have room for,'' he said. 
 He says that the company accepts only about 2 percent of all applicants, and that his contract work force has an average age and education level higher than at call centers. And attrition, a major problem in the call center industry, is lower, less than 10 percent after the first 300 calls. 
 Mr. Webb says it's because his work force is happier. Dawn Linseman, a LiveOps sales specialist in Madison, N.C., says she checks the LiveOps internal Web site every day for statistics on how well she meets the clients' criteria. ''If you keep your stats up, your calls are back to back,'' she says.
 She started in 2004 and handles mostly infomercial orders from a spare bedroom she converted into an office. She schedules her work around the needs of her family, grossing about $18,000 a year working about 24 hours a week.
 ''As soon as my son gets his driver's license, I'll be working full time,'' she says. 
 Yes, she wishes she had the benefit of company-provided health insurance, which she doesn't get as a independent contractor. A plan offered by her husband's employer covers the family. But she says she is much happier than she was when was an accounting manager for a Michigan supermarket chain. ''I don't miss the office politics,'' she said.
 Indeed, she recruited her sister, who does a lot of work transcribing medical reports. 
 Mr. Webb says the best workers can bring in about $50,000 a year. ''If they get really good, I hire them as managers,'' he said.
 Software, always on and always watching, remains the real middle manager. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jeff Veir, infrastructure manager at LiveOps, shows network traffic to Maynard Webb, company chairman. LiveOps, a virtual call center, can track its workers' output nationwide.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); HOME BASED EMPLOYMENT (90%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (89%); CALL CENTERS (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); PRISONS (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (74%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (72%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (71%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (67%); DIRECT MARKETING (66%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (65%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (62%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (50%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (75%) CALIFORNIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



460 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1667 words

HEADLINE: NEW THREADS; Creme de la Career

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
In the Depression, smart college students flocked into civil engineering to design the highway, bridge and dam-building projects of those days. In the Sputnik era, students poured into the sciences as America bet on technology to combat the cold war Communist challenge. Yes, the jobs beckoned and the pay was good. But those careers, in their day, had other perks: respect and self-esteem.
 Big shifts in the flow of talent can ripple through the nation and the economy for decades with lasting effect. The engineers of the Depression built everything from inter-city roads to the Hoover Dam, while the Sputnik-inspired scientists would go on, often with research funding from the Pentagon, to create the building-block innovations behind modern computing and the Internet.
Today, the financial crisis and the economic downturn are likely to alter drastically the career paths of future years. The contours of the shift are still in flux, in part because there is so much uncertainty about the shape of the economic landscape and the job market ahead. 
 But choosing a career is a guess about the future in which economics is only part of the calculation. Prestige, peer expectations and the climate of public opinion also matter. And early indications suggest new career directions that are tethered less to the dream of an immediate six-figure paycheck on Wall Street than to the demands of a new public agenda to solve the nation's problems.
 The deep recession has clearly battered industries -- and professions -- whose economics were at risk before the downturn. Law firms are laying off lawyers as never before and questioning the industry's traditional unit of payment, the billable hour. Journalism is reeling from the falloff in advertising and the inability of newspapers and magazines to make a living on the Web.
 Still, the industry whose troubles are having the greatest impact on the rethinking of careers, especially at the nation's elite universities, is the one at the center of the country's economic downturn -- finance. For years, the hefty paychecks and social status on Wall Street proved irresistible to many of America's brightest young people, but the jobs, money and social respect there are much diminished today.
 ''In choosing careers, young people look for signals from society, and Wall Street will no longer pull the talent that it did for so many years,'' said Richard Freeman, director of the labor studies program at the National Bureau of Economic Research. ''We have a great experiment before us.''
 What will the new map of talent flow look like? It's early, but based on graduate school applications this spring, enrollment in undergraduate courses, preliminary job-placement results at schools, and the anecdotal accounts of students and professors, a new pattern of occupational choice seems to be emerging. Public service, government, the sciences and even teaching look to be winners, while fewer shiny, young minds are embarking on careers in finance and business consulting.
 For the highest-paid business fields, the outlook is for a tempering correction instead of an all-out exodus. At Harvard, for example, about 40 percent of undergraduates in recent years went into the most lucrative corporate arenas like finance and consulting, based on surveys at the school year's end. ''That certainly won't be the case this year,'' observed Lawrence Katz, a professor and labor economist who has studied undergraduate career choices at Harvard going back to the 1960s. ''We're seeing students who would have been part of the Ivy League pipeline to Wall Street in the past considering very different career paths.''
 Kedamai Fisseha, a 21-year-old senior, is one of them. An economics major, Mr. Fisseha says he always assumed he would go into finance, and his summer internship last year was at the investment bank Morgan Stanley. Yet after Wall Street's meltdown, job prospects there have withered. Instead, he is interviewing with Teach for America, a nonprofit group that recruits college graduates to teach in hard-to-staff schools for two-year stints. (After that, only one-third stay in the classrooms, though two-thirds remain in education.)
 Mr. Fisseha regards the turn of events as an opportunity to broaden his horizons. ''It's been liberating, and lucky for me,'' he said. ''But your situation does dictate your preferences.''
 Graduate schools of government and public policy are seeing a surge of applications. In a survey of its members released last week, the National Association of Schools of Public Affairs and Administration found that 82 percent reported an increase in applications this year, and many saw the largest percentage jumps in several years, or ever. The most-cited reason was the expectation by students that government will be hiring.
 Still, the appeal of public sector careers extends beyond job openings, say school officials. The laissez-faire presumption that government is not the solution but the problem, dating back to the Reagan era, has been cast aside, they say. 
 The government's need to step in with financial bailouts and recovery programs to steady the economy is seen as the immediate proof, they say, but not the only one. The environment, energy and health care also pose huge, complex challenges. ''Young people today understand that government has a powerful role to play in solving these problems,'' said Sandra Archibald, dean of the Evans School of Public Affairs at the University of Washington, where applications this year are up 26 percent.
 Government school officials also point to an Obama effect: his election as an endorsement of government activism. 
 The economy, other long-range policy issues and the new administration, according to David Ellwood, dean of Harvard's Kennedy School of Government, add up to a ''benevolent perfect storm,'' which could lure talented people to public service in a way not seen in decades. 
 Yet even before the economic crisis, Mr. Ellwood said, there were signs of a drift among young people toward trying to work on public problems, influenced by everything from the 9/11 attacks to climate change.
 Matthew McKnight attended Phillips Exeter Academy and was a freshman at Dartmouth College during the 9/11 attacks. The event and its aftermath, he recalled, left him with a conviction that he should serve his country ''because of the opportunities I'd been given.'' After graduating from college, Mr. McKnight joined the Marines. His four years in the military included a stint at the State Department in a counterterrorism unit, and he recently returned from 13 months in the field in Iraq. 
 This fall, Mr. McKnight, 25, is headed to the Kennedy School for a joint-degree program with the Harvard Business School. He may work in the private sector for a couple of years at some point, he said, but he plans to make his career in government service. Mr. McKnight's particular experience, to be sure, is unusual. But, he said, ''There is a big crop of people, like me, who grew up in a different time when public policy and public issues have been at the center of things.''
 At leading business schools, too, a shift in career patterns is evident. Last year, 64 percent of the graduating class from the Darden School of Business at the University of Virginia went into finance or consulting. Graduation is still a couple of months away, but that percentage will be well down this year, especially in finance, said Jack Oakes, director of the career development center. Jobs in investment banking, for example, are running at less than half the level of last year, while more students are showing an interest in government jobs.
 PatriciaFoglesong, a second-year student at Darden, turned down a job offer from a major consulting firm. Instead, she is considering two government jobs, one with the Secret Service and another with the Park Service. 
 ''Am I going to be a federal employee for the next 30 years? Probably not,'' Ms. Foglesong said. ''But public-private partnerships are going to be increasingly important in almost any field. And the timing is right to do this.''
 The sciences could well rise in the new pecking order of career status. The Obama administration wants to double federal spending in basic research over 10 years and triple the number of graduate fellowships in science. 
 There are already signs of a renewed interest among students in science and technology. For the first time in six years, enrollment in computer science programs in the United States increased last year, according to a university survey last month. At Stanford University, the number of students taking the introductory computer science course increased 20 percent this year, said Eric Roberts, a professor of computer science. 
 ''What we need to do is to broadly educate as many people as possible in science, so the most talented people find their way into the field,'' Mr. Roberts said. ''That's what happened in the Sputnik era.''
 Don Chamberlin, a professor of computer science at the University of California at Santa Cruz, was a member of the ''Sputnik generation,'' when American schoolchildren were encouraged to pursue careers in science, after the launch of a tiny satellite in 1957 appeared to give the Soviets a lead in missile technology used in nuclear strikes. As a teenager, he endangered his family garage in California with his rocket kits and later went into the fledgling field of computer science. He was a leading scientist in a team of IBM researchers that created the SQL database, an unseen technology that nonetheless animates every credit card purchase and A.T.M. banking transaction.
 In the early 1960s when he was choosing a career, Professor Chamberlin recalled, technical people were respected and well paid. Money, he said, was part of the equation. ''But the bigger part of the motivation for me,'' he said, ''was that I would be doing exciting and important work and that my contributions would be appreciated.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: SECOND THOUGHTS: Students visit the New York Stock Exchange on Nov. 6, a day the Dow dropped 400 points. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SPENCER PLATT/GETTY IMAGES) (pg.WK6) DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID HEATLEY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE STUDENTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); DAM & HYDROELECTRIC CONSTRUCTION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RECESSION (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); SCIENCE FUNDING (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (77%); LAW PRACTICE (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); COLD WAR (72%); LEGAL SERVICES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2009



461 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2204 words

HEADLINE: The Fading of the Green

BYLINE: By SOPHIA HOLLANDER

 BODY:
DAN GREANEY'S brown-flecked blue eyes can still see half a century ago, when thousands of spectators roared at his every move, piled into stands at Gaelic Park, spilling out along the hillside and packed in around the sidelines. He is 71, his ruddy cheeks now spotted with age, but he can hear the cries of the beer sellers and the bands, heavy with fiddlers, behind the field where generations of Irish and Irish-American athletes once clashed.
 Gaelic Park, a 2,000-seat stadium that sits in the shadow of the el at Broadway and 240th Street in Riverdale in the Bronx, was always more than just a sports field. It was the place where New York's Irish went to make connections and to meet potential spouses, to mingle with friends from the old country and to discover new ones. 
 From the 1920s on, players battled ferociously in the Irish sports of hurling (a combination of baseball, lacrosse and field hockey) and Gaelic football (which blends elements of soccer and rugby) while fans caught up on teams back in Ireland. Amid the alien concrete landscape of America, where streets were filled with strangers, Gaelic Park was a haven. 
 ''There was so much activity here, so many teams, so many players,'' Mr. Greaney said one Sunday afternoon, surveying the thin spread of fans gathered under a drizzling gray sky. ''They removed all that stuff.''
 Where rickety wooden stands once teetered toward the sky, there is now a scattering of empty picnic tables. On the field where players once barreled into one another, cracking heads and bones in brutal pursuit of the ball, a referee's whistle regulates play. The beer sellers and the Irish bands are absent.
 Though the great waves of Irish immigrants had long since passed, by the 1980s New York's concentration of Irish immigrants earned the region the status of an Irish county in the eyes of the Gaelic Athletic Association, which is based in Ireland and oversees hurling and Gaelic football (the rest of North America is considered a second county). 
 But from 1990 to 2000, the number of Irish in New York fell from about 390,000 to just over 300,000, according to census data. And while the booming Irish economy of the 1990s has started to skid, the reversal has yet to staunch the number of Irish returning home.
 Gaelic Park, where the season officially starts next Sunday, has felt the impact of these shifts. The number of hurling teams has fallen to four from nine; men's Gaelic football teams have been slashed to 27 from 32. On the women's side, nine Gaelic football teams have withered to five.
 ''What we find is the people who are actually managing and running these clubs are the same old faces,'' said Larry McCarthy, chairman of the Gaelic Athletic Association of Greater New York, the group's local branch. ''They are not being replaced.''
 On this Sunday, a cluster of young men were warming up, cheerfully smacking small, hard balls against a wall bearing the words ''Absolutely No Ball Playing in the Area.'' Players scrabbled for the ball, sticks crashing in rapid fire.
 But old-timers acknowledge that crowds are not what they used to be, that the park's centrality to the Irish experience is fading as older players start families and feel the tug of American options. 
 ''The type of immigrant coming out of Ireland now isn't dependent on that social structure,'' said Mr. McCarthy, who teaches management at Seton Hall. ''There are a lot of people in New York, Irish immigrants, who have never been to Gaelic Park.''
 And while the park is currently in its best physical condition ever -- a $3 million renovation provided a new turf field and night lighting -- other forces have taken their toll. Tightened immigration laws and stricter border security after 9/11 have drained the park of players and spectators, further challenging its historic role as the heart of New York's Irish community.
 ''The funny thing is, for years Gaelic Park was going very well because there were so many Irish here and we were trying to get the field renovated and done up,'' said Peter Slattery, 39, a hurler turned coach. ''Last year is the first year it was done with the new surface and made a massive improvement. But it's a shame that there are so many people gone, that it didn't happen years ago.''
 'The Worst Place Ever'
 When Therese Crowe arrived in 1962 from Tipperary in Ireland, the Bronx seemed to be all concrete. Back home, jobs were scarce, and relatives and other adults tracked every move she made. And so at 27, she exchanged her lush, intimate village for a land of pavement and tall buildings, surrounded by strangers with a bewildering assortment of accents, languages and activities. 
 ''I wanted freedom,'' said Ms. Crowe, now 74, with cropped blond hair and eyes ringed with dark eyeliner. She was sitting in a dimly lighted banquet hall next to Gaelic Park, chairs stacked on tables. She looked around and sighed. ''It used to be fabulous years ago.''
 Growing up in Ireland, Ms. Crowe had heard of Gaelic Park; everyone had. She envisioned a vast stadium, grand and glittering. Instead, she said with a laugh, ''it was the worst place ever,'' an expanse of balding fields dotted with ''a couple of little huts.'' 
 It didn't matter. Thousands streamed into the park every Sunday, filling the stands with familiar talk, familiar food and, most of all, the feeling of home.
 ''You met everybody,'' said Ms. Crowe, who has volunteered as the park's nurse for more than 30years. ''If you were lonely, it was a great place to go.''
 In the crowd was Terry Connaughton, a barrel-chested athlete who in 1952, at age 19, had emigrated from western Ireland. His oldest brother had left before him, sending back the family's single suit for the next sibling to wear on the journey.
 When Mr. Connaughton was growing up, his village was home to 100 people and four pubs. There were no movie theaters, no television sets. Entertainment consisted of one main activity: hurling.
 ''I was involved practically since the day I was born, like most of the people,'' said Mr. Connaughton, now 75, sitting on the sidelines of Gaelic Park. ''I would be playing every single day. Because back in the day, as the fellow says, Ireland was poor in my time. Very poor.''
 On Mr. Connaughton's first Sunday in New York, his brother took him to Gaelic Park. He joined a team and played for the next 20 years. 
 Over that time, he joined the Police Department, met his future wife in the stands and found a second career as the owner of a local restaurant. Even after he stopped playing, his life remained interwoven with Gaelic Park, and he served three terms as president of New York's Gaelic Athletic Association.
 The field that Mr. Connaughton played on -- the ''Sahara Desert,'' as the Irish papers called it -- is now gone, replaced by artificial turf. The dressing rooms, with their unpredictable water temperatures, have been renovated. But it is other things that he misses.
 ''One thing is for sure, there's less people attending the games now than back in the day,'' Mr. Connaughton said. ''Almost 100 percent of the Irish immigrants would come here. Today it would be 20 percent, maybe, tops.''
 The Ireland he knew is also changing.
 ''Young people have almost everything they have in this country,'' he said. ''Irish people coming out here today? They go skiing.''
 New World, Old Pastime
 Even a generation after Ms. Crowe and Mr. Connaughton emigrated, little had changed in their homeland. When Peter Slattery was growing up there during the 1970s and '80s, schoolbags were still packed with books and a hurling stick, and in rural villages, the hurling pitch remained the central gathering place. 
 ''From the time you're a kid, that's what you're taught,'' Mr. Slattery said. ''All your idols are playing it; all the kids you know are playing it; everybody's playing it.''
 Hurling unified the community and provided identity. Mr. Slattery and his five siblings grew up with the game, but when it came time to find work, they struggled. Listening to stories spun by cousins home on holidays from America, Mr. Slattery began to dream of a different life. 
 In 1992, Mr. Slattery made his move. He immigrated to the United States, settling in New Jersey and going to work as a bartender. Like Ms. Crowe a generation earlier, he felt an initial shock.
 ''I loved it and all that,'' he said, ''but there wasn't that many Irish up around here. There's no point in talking to an American person about hurling because they won't know what you're talking about.''
 One day, a priest named Father Bolland walked into his bar.
 ''How is everything going?'' the priest asked in a Galway accent.
 ''Great, great,'' Mr. Slattery recalled replying.
 ''There aren't too many Irish around here,'' Father Bolland observed. He passed along the number of a local hurling club where he had played 30 years before, and a few weeks later, Mr. Slattery joined the team.
 At Gaelic Park, Mr. Slattery found the conversations he craved, along with news about teams back home. He tried to make it to Gaelic Park every Sunday, whether or not his team was playing, and frequently staggered home at 3 or 4 in the morning after postgame nights at the pub.
 But when Mr. Slattery finally retired from playing, he noticed that everyone else seemed to be retiring or moving away, too. He stayed involved, suiting up when there were too few people to field a team, but other players just disappeared. Mr. Slattery began hearing talk of teams disbanding. Clubs started to fold, one by one, and two years ago, he realized that his team could be next. 
 ''It's very hard to have a championship with less than five or six teams, but if it goes below four, you're going to have big problems,'' Mr. Slattery said. ''We're always trying to recruit new guys. But the numbers are dwindling all the time.''
 'Can You Play Camogie?'
 As Geraldine Lavery, then a trim 34-year-old with long dark hair, stepped out onto the field, a shiver raced through her body. It was June 2007 and the first day of the Cul Camp, an Irish camp making its debut in New York.
 More than 80 boys and girls from 6 to 9 years old were arrayed in hurling and Gaelic football practice stations around the field. Not all of them were Irish. She was overwhelmed.
 ''I saw in front of me the future of Gaelic sports for my children,'' Ms. Lavery recently recalled. ''I had a rush that just came through me.''
 Her involvement began in the late '90s, just weeks after she arrived from Ireland. A young teacher uncertain about her next steps, Ms. Lavery stopped at a pub down the block from Gaelic Park. There, a friendly Irish waitress started peppering her with questions, most important of which was: Did Ms. Lavery play camogie, the female version of hurling? 
 ''Once you hear that accent, the first question you ask is can you play football or camogie,'' said the waitress, Pauline Coll, who is now a close friend of Ms. Lavery's. ''You serve her a cup of tea. 'By the way, can you play camogie?' It's just something automatic that comes out of my mouth.''
 Ms. Lavery joined a camogie team and soon began playing Gaelic football as well. 
 ''Had I not had the Irish sports and the Gaelic sports the first two years, I would have gone home within the first six weeks of being here,'' said Ms. Lavery, who is now dean of students at St. Jean Baptiste High School on the Upper East Side.
 Both women were participants in the Ladies Gaelic Athletic Association of New York, which was founded in 1991. When a president named Nollaig Cleary was elected, she asked Ms. Coll to found a youth program for girls.
 ''Patience, hard work and lots of phone calls,'' Ms. Coll said of her strategy. ''Initially I'd say to one mother: 'Oh, you know Gaelic football. Why don't you bring your daughter up?' It's a very tight-knit community, and if your daughter is doing it, my daughter should do it, too.''
 Ms. Coll recently moved back to Ireland. But results of her efforts are clear. More than 300 girls play in a program that began with 35. The boys' side has undergone a similar transformation; today, as many as 600 boys play on local teams.
 The leader of the boys' youth program, Roger Slattery (no relation to Peter Slattery), retired from playing in 1979, but when his first son, Ciaran,turned 5, he wanted to play. 
 ''My father hurled here in Gaelic Park when I was a kid, and I hurled in Gaelic Park when I got old enough,'' said Mr. Slattery, now 53. 
 Every Friday and Saturday night, his household in Castle Hill in the Bronx crackled with debates between his father and his uncle over Irish clubs. Hurlers visited the house, photographs of their exploits adorned the walls, and radios broadcast the games. Every Sunday, they all trooped to Gaelic Park.
 It's a tradition he has tried to pass on to his American-born sons.
 ''There comes a place where family, work, children come along and our priorities change, and we can't devote the time that we have to,'' Mr. Slattery said. ''And we miss it.''
 He paused. ''Maybe we're living a little vicariously through our children at this stage,'' he continued. ''We never wanted to be spectators on the sidelines. But now we have a chance to get back involved.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Hurlers at Gaelic Park in Riverdale, top. ''Maybe we're living a little vicariously through our children,'' said Roger Slattery, above.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(CY1)
''There are a lot of people in New York, Irish immigrants, who have never been to Gaelic Park,'' said Larry McCarthy, above, chairman of the Gaelic Athletic Association of Greater New York.
 ''Irish people coming out here today?'' one longtime player said of the new crop of immigrants. ''They go skiing.''(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(CY7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (76%); SPORTS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION (76%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (74%); REFEREES & UMPIRES (72%); FIELD HOCKEY (71%); BASEBALL (71%); LACROSSE (69%); SOCCER (67%); CENSUS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: GAELIC ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRELAND (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



462 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: Restore Order And Win a War

BYLINE: By ALAN S. BLINDER. 
Alan S. Blinder is a professor of economics and public affairs at Princeton and former vice chairman of the Federal Reserve. He has advised many Democratic politicians.

 BODY:
MANY Americans are bewildered, aggrieved and even angry about the financial shenanigans that led to the current mess -- and about the seemingly unending stream of government bailouts. They should be. 
 A bunch of wealthy, supposedly smart financial ''experts'' made irresponsible bets that went bad, pushing our economy to the brink and taking the rest of us down with them. Millions of people worldwide have already lost jobs. Millions more will. And taxpayers are being handed monstrous bills for mistakes that were not their doing.
 It is maddening that hardly any of the miscreants have been punished, not to mention that many remain well paid. But foolishness is not a crime, and most of them broke no laws. Perhaps worse, a host of safeguards that were supposed to protect us -- from corporate boards and ratings agencies to regulators and elected officials -- all failed. To add insult to injury, hardly anyone has apologized for the disaster, or even explained how we got into it and how we plan to get out. 
 Let me try the latter. 
 In the bubble era, even sophisticated people deluded themselves into believing that home prices would soar indefinitely and that lending risks were minimal. On those weak foundations, a huge house of cards was built. Wall Streeters designed a hideously complex financial system to enrich themselves. Financial institutions took on far too much debt. People signed mortgages they could ill afford and did not understand. Regulators, the Bush administration and Congress looked the other way. The bubble grew until it burst.
 Much of this shouldn't have happened. But we are where we are, and the urgent priority is to extricate ourselves from this mess as quickly as possible, with minimal damage. Here's how I conceptualize the master plan.
 American policy makers are fighting a two-front war. On the eastern front, they are battling a shortage of demand, as traumatized households and businesses pull in their horns. Less spending by some people means fewer jobs for others who, in turn, curtail their own spending. Keynes diagnosed this vicious recessionary spiral in the 1930s, and we are now in the midst of the worst one since then. 
 Fortunately, we know how to fight a demand shortage -- with more government spending, tax cuts and lower interest rates. That is why Congress enacted a huge fiscal stimulus in February and why the Federal Reserve has cut interest rates to virtually zero. But the cure takes time, and we are still sliding downhill. Depending on how long and deep the recession gets, we may need more firepower. But at least policy makers know what to do -- and are doing it.
 The western front is vastly more complex. All economies run on credit, and ours developed an extreme dependency. Largely through their own failings, banks have been seriously damaged. Bankers are paralyzed by fear of further loan losses and shrinking capital that might subject them to regulatory penalties -- or worse. One way or another, the banks must be restored to health and emboldened to lend.
 How? The Fed has made huge loans to banks and flooded them with cash. But the banks also need capital, and private money is not stepping up to the plate. That was why Henry M. Paulson Jr., the former Treasury secretary, decided to devote the Troubled Asset Relief Program to injecting capital into banks last fall. I disagreed with both his decision and the way he executed it. But there was a rationale for what he did, and the current Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, will eventually be back for more money for this purpose.
 But banks are just part of the problem. Much modern lending is securitized by the so-called shadow banking system -- a complex web of interlocking, sometimes mysterious capital markets. Invisible to most people, it is crucial to getting credit to mortgagees, credit card holders and businesses. And while the financial implosion wounded the banks, it decimated the shadow banking system.
 The most obvious -- but not the only -- disasters stem from mortgage delinquencies, fears of more, and consequent uncertainty about the values of mortgage-related securities. Bringing these markets back to life is one rationale for both the administration's foreclosure mitigation programs and its public-private investment programs. It is also a principal rationale for many of the Fed's unprecedented lending and money-creation activities.
 Thus the war plan has four essential components that hang together logically: stimulating aggregate demand, limiting foreclosures, rescuing (most of) the banks and rehabilitating the shadow banking system. Three of the four are in place. We await Mr. Geithner's bank rescue plan, which, I hope, will be some version of the good bank-bad bank idea I mentioned here last month.
 Unfortunately, the administration seems to have a penchant for complexity in designing its programs, and I certainly would not defend all the details. But it's essential that citizens see through the trees to the forest. All this taxpayer money is being put at risk for a good, simple reason: Victory in a two-front war requires winning on both fronts. We won't defeat the recession unless we restore some financial order.
 Countries do unpalatable things in wartime, and collateral damage is common. So it is here. The impending federal budget deficits are monstrous. The Fed is printing money like mad. People who deserve punishment are receiving help instead. The government's investment partnerships may enrich some investors. 
 There will be time to address these problems later. For now, the nation must focus single-mindedly on winning the war. There really is a plan. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RECESSION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (86%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); TAX LAW (76%); TAX RELIEF (76%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (73%); HOME PRICES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); INTEREST RATES (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



463 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1224 words

HEADLINE: States Slashing Social Programs For Vulnerable

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM

DATELINE: PHOENIX 

 BODY:
Battered by the recession and the deepest and most widespread budget deficits in several decades, a large majority of states are slicing into their social safety nets -- often crippling preventive efforts that officials say would save money over time. 
 President Obama's $787 billion stimulus package is helping to alleviate some of the pain, providing large amounts of money to pay for education and unemployment insurance, bolster food stamp programs and expand tax credits for low earners. But the money will offset only 40 percent of the losses in state revenues, and programs for vulnerable groups have been cut in at least 34 states, according to the Center for Budget and Policy Priorities, a private research group in Washington. 
 Perhaps nowhere have the cuts been more disruptive than in Arizona, where more than 1,000 frail elderly people are struggling without home-care aides to help with bathing, housekeeping and trips to the doctor. Officials acknowledge that some are apt to become sicker or fall, ending up in nursing homes at a far higher cost. 
 Ohio and other states face large cutbacks in child welfare investigations, which may mean more injured children and more taken into foster care. Despite tax increases, California has ended dental coverage for adults on Medicaid, all but guaranteeing future medical problems. 
 ''There's no question that we're getting short-term savings that will result in greater long-term human and financial costs,'' said Linda J. Blessing, interim chief of the Arizona Department of Economic Security, expressing the concerns of officials and community agencies around the country. ''There are no good options, just less bad options.'' 
 Arizona has one of the nation's highest deficits in relation to its budget. As revenues sank late last year, forcing across-the-board cuts this spring, the child protection agency stopped investigating every report of potential abuse or neglect, and sharply reduced counseling of families deemed at risk of violence. Some toddlers with disabilities like autism and Down syndrome are not getting therapies that can bring lifelong benefits. And here, as in other states, the drive to help disabled people live at home has been set back. 
 Mary Beth Thompson, 57, who lives in an apartment with two small dogs here, is on the growing waiting list for help. Seriously overweight, with chronic pain and weakness on her left side, she has trouble moving about and cannot step into the bathtub without falling, she said, displaying the cast on her broken wrist. 
 ''I can't even walk to do the laundry anymore,'' she said from the chair where she spends most of her days playing with her dogs, one of which she has trained to knock the handset off the telephone so she can reach it when she falls. 
 Winona Conn, 75, who uses a wheelchair because of a paralyzed leg, has been on the waiting list for home aid for a year. ''It feels like you've been shelved,'' she said. 
 In Florida, recent modest cuts in home aid came on top of a growing backlog, while the number of people in need keeps climbing. State support for home and community services was reduced by $2 million in 2008, and the waiting list has grown to 50,000 from 30,000, said E. Douglas Beach, secretary of the Department of Elder Affairs. 
 Reluctantly endorsing another $1 million in cuts next year to salvage a different program, Mr. Beach told legislators, ''It's like trying to decide whether to give up your first-born boy or your first-born girl.'' 
 Mary Lynn Kasunic, president of the Area Agency on Aging in Phoenix, described the potential consequences. ''If you don't give people a bath a couple times a week, change the linens and make sure they get their medicines, their health will decline much faster,'' she said. ''They end up in the emergency room in a crisis, and then in a nursing home.'' 
 The Illinois governor's budget proposal would scale back home visits to ill-equipped first-time mothers, who are given advice over 18 months that experts say is repaid many times over in reduced child abuse and better school preparation. 
 ''We spend $1.2 billion a year on child welfare,'' said Diana M. Rauner, director of the Ounce of Prevention Fund in Chicago, which channels government money to private agencies. ''You'd think we'd spend a lot of money to keep people out of that system.''
 Ohio's proposed budget ''will dramatically decrease our ability to investigate reports of abuse and neglect,'' with some counties losing 75 percent of their investigators, said Joel Potts, director of the Ohio Job and Family Services Directors' Association, which represents county officials. 
 New York State is using stimulus money and a tax increase to avoid most of the large cuts in child care, nurse visits to inexperienced mothers and other services that were originally proposed. But if revenues keep falling by the billions, ''all bets are off,'' said Karen Schimke, president of the Schuyler Center for Analysis and Advocacy in Albany, which studies child and family issues. 
 As in many states, Arizona's crunch came on fast and hard. In January, the newly seated Republican governor, Jan Brewer, had to cut $1.6 billion from a $10 billion annual budget -- squeezing all the reductions into the final five months of the fiscal year ending June 30. 
 Arizona expects a $3 billion shortfall in the next fiscal year. In a speech to legislators in March, Ms. Brewer proposed to fill the chasm with $1 billion in spending cuts, $1 billion in federal stimulus money and -- in a risky idea she floated after emphasizing her conservative credentials -- $1 billion raised through ''a temporary tax increase.'' 
 Some Republican legislators still argue that state expenses are too large, while officials say that carving another $2 billion from the budget will wreak havoc. Ms. Blessing, of the Department of Economic Security, said her agency had already laid off 800 workers, including 15 percent of its child protection investigators, and imposed furloughs amounting to a 10 percent pay cut. 
 In one bit of good news for the department and its clients, the state has secured $18 million from the stimulus package to save child care subsidies for the working poor. 
 But some efforts to prevent child abuse, like in-home counseling of troubled families, have been deeply cut. This presents investigators with a stark choice: either remove children and put them in foster care or, as one case worker put it, ''wait for something bad to happen.'' 
 Idolina Moreno, 36, and her five children are still together and happier, she says, because they have been visited weekly for the last several months by a counselor who defused a simmering crisis. One daughter was angry and violent, Ms. Moreno said, and badly bruised the infant boy; Ms. Moreno admits to throwing a plastic bat to stop her. A school nurse called Child Protective Services. 
 Instead of removing the children, the agency called in a counselor who meets with family members both individually and together. ''She's been wonderful,'' Ms. Moreno said. 
 Officials said it appeared likely that the counseling will continue for now. But she has also been told that special therapies for her mentally retarded 6-year-old son may be eliminated. ''I don't know what I'll do if that happens,'' she said. ''I'm really worried.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 19, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about state budget deficits referred incorrectly to Arizona's cuts for fiscal 2009. In closing a $1.6 billion budget gap, the state is cutting $580 million in general-fund spending, has taken more than $500 million from agencies financed with fees or other sources, and is using $500 million in federal stimulus money; the entire $1.6 billion deficit is not being covered entirely through direct spending cuts. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In Arizona, the drive to help disabled people live at home has been set back by budget cuts. Mary Beth Thompson, left, and Winona Conn are both on a waiting list for state-financed home aid.
 Idolina Moreno, with her son Javier, 14, and daughter Kiela, 8, receives family counseling visits. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); DISABLED PERSONS (87%); CHILD ABUSE (79%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); MEDICAID (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); BONE FRACTURES (76%); MENTAL RETARDATION (76%); TAX INCREASES (76%); NURSING HOMES (76%); FAMILY (76%); VULNERABLE HEALTH POPULATIONS (75%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (74%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (74%); DOGS (73%); COMPANION & HOMEMAKER SERVICES (73%); CHRONIC DISEASES (72%); PARALYSIS (71%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (71%); DENTAL INSURANCE (71%); CHILD WELFARE (71%); FOOD STAMPS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (71%); SENIOR CITIZENS (70%); AGING (68%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (67%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (66%); FOSTER CARE (66%); AUTISM (61%); DOWN SYNDROME (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



464 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 241 words

HEADLINE: A Song for Detroit

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

 BODY:
SAM ROBERTS has never gotten over a sight familiar to anyone who has crossed the Ambassador Bridge over the Detroit River: the expansive view, at the crest of the bridge, of the Detroit skyline. 
 That image, and the events of 1967, were the inspiration for ''Detroit '67,'' a song by his eponymous Montreal-based band that was released in Canada last year. Not surprisingly, the song is getting extensive air play in the Detroit area and is about to become the group's new American single.
''Detroit '67'' comes at a time when the city, and the problems faced by the auto industry, have inspired a number of entertainers. The country singer John Rich has found his own hit song in 'Shuttin' Detroit Down', while NBC's Jay Leno played two free shows at the Palace of Auburn Hills in suburban Detroit, intended for an audience of unemployed workers. 
 Now the Sam Roberts Band has been adopted by Detroit and Windsor as something of a mascot. The group has played three events over the past few months to packed houses, thanks in part to the backing of 93.9 FM The River, a Windsor rock station with a broad Detroit audience. (The band's most recent concert, at St. Andrew's Hall in downtown Detroit, attracted Kid Rock, a local resident.)
 ''It's a real phenomenon -- a guy from Montreal who's been able to write a song that's so descriptive of this town,'' said Matt Franklin, the station's program manager and midday disc jockey.
 MICHELINE MAYNARD 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: MOTOWN: Sam Roberts, center, with the band. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDY CLARK/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (76%); COUNTRY MUSIC (71%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (71%); SONG WRITING (71%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (70%)

PERSON: JAY LENO (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (95%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (90%) MICHIGAN, USA (95%); QUEBEC, CANADA (90%) UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2009



465 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; COLORADO SPRINGS JOURNAL; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: Waving a Hand, Trying to Be Noticed in the Stimulus Rush

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: COLORADO SPRINGS 

 BODY:
If bad times divide the world into the timid and the bold, the folks at Pikes Peak Behavioral Health are clearly the latter. 
 The nonprofit group, a mental health counseling center with a growing number of military veteran clients and patients, wants to buy a half-built foreclosed apartment project near the Fort Carson Army base. Using military veterans to complete the construction project, the group would sell the buildings and use the proceeds to buy another property, and repeat the process.
 The group also wants to hire veterans as ''peer navigators'' in a buddy system to guide wounded and troubled veterans into civilian life, helping them with things like job applications and the fine print at the department of motor vehicles. 
 All of this, of course, would take money -- at least $4 million, though the group hopes for more. The startup cost of the peer navigator program might vary widely. With money from the $787 billion federal stimulus package beginning to filter down through state and local governments, Pikes sees its main challenge now as getting a piece of it. 
 But the group's leaders said it was a good time to think creatively. ''We see a growing need,'' said Jonathan Liebert, the deputy director of clinical services at a job training unit, ''and just a whole lot of opportunity, too.'' 
 Whether the stimulus even has a place for the ideas Pikes is pursuing is not clear. The group is also trying to build support for a Department of Defense appropriations bill that would channel startup money to it, but its journey reflects what many midsize organizations, not well known beyond their home cities, are going through as they try to work the mysterious gears of federal financing at a time of economic upheaval and growing social need. 
 With pressure from Washington on state and local government agencies to spend the federal money as soon as they receive it, catching the stimulus wave has become a race. ''It's a car going 150 miles an hour, and right now everyone is just trying to catch up,'' said Gary D. Bass of OMB Watch, a nonprofit group in Washington that is tracking the stimulus.
 Pikes's ideas have found support in Colorado Springs, but with stimulus money not yet flowing here, and confusion about the rules when the spigot does open, encouragement has gone only so far.
 ''We'd really like to see this happen, obviously,'' said DeAnne McCann, the economic development manager for El Paso County, referring to the foreclosed housing plan in the town of Fountain, just south of Colorado Springs. ''But it's such a new game for everybody. It takes a lot of effort to figure out where the funds are and who has access.''
 Ms. McCann said that before the stimulus package was approved, the county received $1.2 million in federal community development money, which she thought could be used to help the group buy the apartment property. But that is less than half of the $4.5 million or more that the group says it needs to buy and rehabilitate the two buildings, where 37 apartments sit moldering.
 ''Right now, I'm not overly optimistic,'' Ms. McCann said. ''But we're going to look at the various pots of funds and see if anything would work.'' 
 The effort to access the money, whatever comes of the group's new ideas, addresses painful needs here in southeastern Colorado, many people say. The consequences of war that spill out of Fort Carson, including substance abuse and domestic violence, have become part of the local agenda, regardless of recession or stimulus. Pikes has worked in the community for 135 years, starting as a charity collecting coal for the poor, and now has an annual budget of $52 million.
 Col. Kelly A. Wolgast, the commander of the Evans Army Community Hospital at Fort Carson, said of the proposed peer navigator program, ''If someone from Congress or a political representative calls, I would tell them we have a need for this service in the community and we see this as a positive addition.'' As an active-duty military official, though, Colonel Wolgast and other base officials are barred from lobbying for political causes or projects.
 So Pikes's leaders have been left pounding the pavement. Over the last few weeks, Paul D. Sexton, the group's chief operating officer, and his associates have pitched their ideas to the state agencies that stand to receive stimulus money, as well as to Colorado's first lady, Jeannie Ritter, who has made mental health and veteran's issues part of her portfolio.
 Mrs. Ritter said she loved the peer navigator idea in particular. But when asked if she would consider contacting Michelle Obama, who is working on veterans issues in the White House, Mrs. Ritter demurred. She said a pilot project started this year at Pikes needed time to show results. 
 ''When I'm comfortable going forward to talk about it, I will,'' Mrs. Ritter said in an interview this month. ''I know Michelle Obama has been outspoken in her support for families of veterans, but she's also got a lot on her plate right now.''
 That has not stopped the group from trying to get the attention of the White House. It has written letters to President Obama and his wife, and has made wooden boxes for the Obamas -- carved by its health care clients and employees -- that would be offered in person if a White House meeting could be arranged. 
 There is no telling if that will happen. But Mr. Sexton, on a recent visit to the Fountain property, said his optimism was unbounded, no matter what. 
 ''This is the poster child,'' he said, standing in the dirt, gesturing to the forlorn buildings. ''These exist all over the country where things have bottomed out -- they're just waiting.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Paul D. Sexton of Pikes Peak Behavioral Health touring a foreclosed apartment project in Fountain, Colo., that his group wants to buy with federal stimulus money. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN MOLONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VETERANS (90%); MENTAL HEALTH (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); ARMIES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ARMED FORCES (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); DEFENSE SPENDING (77%); MILITARY BASES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (72%); APPROPRIATIONS (72%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (72%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (69%); APPROVALS (69%); LEGISLATION (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (90%) COLORADO, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



466 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1369 words

HEADLINE: American Power Puts On the Civvies

BYLINE: By DEXTER FILKINS

DATELINE: KABUL, Afghanistan 

 BODY:
-- The meeting with the Afghan clerics was just ending when Richard Holbrooke, America's irrepressible new envoy to the region, approached one of the aging imams and pulled him aside. ''Didn't you used to be in the Taliban?'' Mr. Holbrooke asked, towering over the Afghan.
 ''Yes, I was,'' he said.
 ''Why did you leave?'' 
 ''That's a very long story,'' the cleric said.
 ''If I come back,'' Mr. Holbrooke asked, ''would you tell me about it?''
 The cleric took both of Mr. Holbrooke's hands in his and shook hard.
 ''Yes, I would.''
 It's difficult to imagine such a conversation, between a senior American diplomat and an ex-member of an armed group with which the country is at war, happening at almost any other point since September 2001. In the nearly eight years since the 9/11 attacks, the foreign policy of the United States has often appeared to be an exclusively military affair, if not always conducted by men with guns then practiced by civilians not shy in reminding their foes that they had force at their disposal. The diplomats, for the most part, watched from afar.
 As a result, America's engagement with dangerous parts of the world in that time became largely militarized -- good at projecting force but sometimes, it seemed, missing opportunities that might have been better exploited by an earlier and more vigorous use of people without guns. Not just in Afghanistan, but in Iran, North Korea and the Middle East as well. 
 The military itself, straining to fight two wars, groaned under burdens it had not intended to take on.
 Mr. Holbrooke -- relentless, experienced, charismatic -- seems the embodiment of a new paradigm, one that includes military force but emphasizes a wider range of tools, like diplomacy, persuasion and money. In a rapid-fire tour across South Asia last week, Mr. Holbrooke and his military counterpart, Adm. Mike Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, met with a range of people who might, in another time, have been considered enemies, or at least deeply suspect: former Taliban fighters, a former prisoner who spent three years in Guantanamo, and leaders from the Federally Administered Tribal Areas, the ungoverned Pakistani area that Al Qaeda's leaders have turned into a sanctuary. 
 It was not just whom Mr. Holbrooke sat down with that was remarkable, but what he talked about: In gathering after gathering with ordinary Afghans, for instance, Mr. Holbrooke apologized for the inadvertent deaths of civilians at the hands of the American military.
 The reassertion by civilian leaders is being led by Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, who has promised to restore the State Department's centrality in the making of foreign policy. In the first six years of the Bush presidency, Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld dominated the administration's interactions with the world, pushing aside Secretaries of State Colin Powell and Condoleezza Rice. Likewise, in places like the Balkans and Iraq, the military began undertaking activities once reserved for diplomats, like overseeing reconstruction and development projects. Mrs. Clinton says she not only wants to take back those former responsibilities, but to restore diplomacy's primary role in resolving crises. One of the centerpieces of that effort would be Iran, which the West fears is rapidly developing the capacity to build nuclear weapons.
 She has a long way to go. According to an article in the January-February issue of Foreign Affairs by J. Anthony Holmes, there are more musicians playing in military bands than there are diplomats working around the globe. The Pentagon's budget is 24 times larger than the State Department's and Usaid combined, Mr. Holmes found. For the recent trip to the subcontinent, Mr. Holbrooke flew on a Pentagon jet. 
 Indeed, Admiral Mullen has himself decried what he calls the ''militarization'' of American foreign policy and advocated restoring some of the State Department's influence. In 2007, when Admiral Mullen was chief of naval operations, he offered to turn over part of his budget to the State Department -- an extraordinary act for a public official. ''The military should be led by diplomacy,'' Admiral Mullen said during his trip. (The State Department, he said, never took him up on his offer.)
 It is perhaps in Afghanistan, where American troops are bogged down in a bloody war, and in Pakistan, which is lurching toward chaos, that the new diplomatic approach will face its toughest and most important test.
 President Obama, vowing to prevail in the region, has made the suppression of Al Qaeda his top priority. He recently ordered the deployment of 21,000 troops to Afghanistan, over and above the 40,000 already there. These are ends and means that are military, not diplomatic. But President Obama made clear that in order to defeat Al Qaeda America will have to embark on a long and expensive campaign of diplomacy and nation building in both places. In a speech last month outlining his strategy, President Obama said he would order a ''dramatic'' increase in the number of civilians working in Afghanistan. He also said he would spend considerably more on communications to counter Taliban propaganda.
 Regarding Pakistan, where no American troops are fighting, President Obama said he would ask for huge increases in economic aid to the country, much of it directed at the tribal areas along the Afghan border where Al Qaeda has found havens. 
 Under the plan, the United States would send Pakistan $1.5 billion each year for the next five years. That would mean, perhaps for the first time ever, that economic and humanitarian assistance to Pakistan would nearly equal the amount spent on that country's military.
 The money for Pakistan is meant in part to help take the heat off of Afghanistan, but it's mainly meant to help Pakistan save itself. Indeed, with 175 million people, most of them impoverished and illiterate, and a large store of nuclear weapons, Pakistan is potentially a far larger problem for the United States than Afghanistan. The Taliban insurgency that took shelter in western Pakistan after 2001, but was for years directed only at American and Afghan soldiers across the border in Afghanistan, has begun spreading east into Pakistan itself. The area where the insurgency is located is arid and mountainous -- almost impossible, in other words, to vanquish by force of arms.
 ''Even if we get everything right in Afghanistan -- if we have a corruption-free government, if we get counter-insurgency just right -- we will not succeed if we do not fix Pakistan,'' Mr. Holbrooke said during a stop in the Pakistani capital of Islamabad last week. 
 ''Pakistan can threaten Afghanistan anytime it wants, and at very little cost.''
 Mr. Holbrooke, 67, has a long history of practicing diplomacy in time of war. As a young desk officer in the State Department, he spent six years in Vietnam during the height of that war. In 1995, he led the negotiating team at the Dayton peace talks, which ended the war in Bosnia.
 Looking back, Mr. Holbrooke said the crises in Afghanistan and Pakistan reminded him more of his days in Vietnam than of those in the Balkans. Both the Vietcong and the Taliban were rural-based insurgencies, and in both cases, he said, the United States was supporting weak and troubled civilian governments. ''But there the similarities end,'' Mr. Holbrooke said. ''In Afghanistan, there is no North Vietnamese Army ready to roll into the country.''
 As if to highlight the new cooperation between the uniforms and the suits, Mr. Holbrooke and Admiral Mullen bantered and joked all week. 
 Admiral Mullen, cerebral and soft-spoken, often seemed more the diplomat, and Mr. Holbrooke, brash and overbearing, the one with four stars.
 Standing before the clerics in Kabul, Admiral Mullen told the group that he was so concerned about the fate of the region that he had traveled here nearly once a month since becoming chairman of the Joint Chiefs in October 2007.
 ''I've come to the region nine or ten times,'' Admiral Mullen told the clerics.
 Mr. Holbrooke jumped in.
 ''And each time, things have gotten worse.''
 Admiral Mullen, Mr. Holbroooke, and all the clerics laughed. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: TALK: Richard Holbrooke, left, with Pakistan's foreign minister. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANJUM NAVEED/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TALIBAN (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); AL-QAEDA (72%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (72%); TERRORISM (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); FOREIGN POLICY (67%)

PERSON: RICHARD HOLBROOKE (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%); SOUTHERN ASIA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



467 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; CONEY ISLAND; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 408 words

HEADLINE: A Small Casualty In Hard Times

BYLINE: By GREGORY BEYER

 BODY:
WHEN it comes to the recession, tactful New Yorkers may refrain from complaining too loudly about their misfortunes, knowing that the chances are, there is someone else out there who has it worse. 
 But try explaining to a 6-year-old, no matter how worldly and well mannered, that budget cuts may prevent him from spending quality time with a penguin.
 The Wildlife Conservation Society, which manages the city's zoos and the New York Aquarium in Coney Island, is among the many organizations in the city facing steep budget cuts. 
 Last week, the society announced that 100 of its 1,200 employees had accepted buyouts and that dozens more would be laid off. Gov. David Paterson has proposed eliminating all funding for zoological institutions in the next fiscal year. 
 The consequences of these cuts and threats may seem trivial in a landscape of home foreclosures, disappearing jobs and a pervasive sense of fragility. But the cuts would mean the trimming or elimination of certain longstanding pleasures that until recently seemed eternal.
 One is the New York Aquarium's summer education program, which for more than 30 years has run science-theme children's camps and which the aquarium has decided to cancel. At the four-day-a-week camps, younger children learned about marine life and conservation, and teenagers earned community service credits in an intern program. 
 ''It's sort of this perfect storm of economic pressures,'' said Jon Forrest Dohlin, the aquarium's director. ''It's not as though anybody would like to see summer camps stop. It's a shame, and we're incredibly distressed about it.''
 Aquarium employees have been told to direct inquiring parents to the Bronx and Central Park Zoos, where summer camps will continue, because they serve more children each year, Mr. Dohlin said. The Bronx Zoo serves about 750 children a year and the Central Park Zoo 225, compared with 175 at the aquarium.
 Julie Fissinger, who lives in Prospect Heights, Brooklyn, sent two of her three children to the aquarium's camp last summer. With the camps canceled, she said her family may opt this year for a day trip to the Bronx Zoo instead. Her son Gavin Mulcahy, 10, said he enjoyed throwing fish into the shark tank from above, as well as the camp's access to animals, including his favorites: sea lions and clownfish.
 ''I enjoyed getting to spend so much time with certain animals,'' he said. ''I feel like they would remember who I was.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Amid the marine life, budget cuts.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ANIMALS (89%); FISHES (89%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (89%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); WILDLIFE (76%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (76%); MARINE MAMMALS (76%); MAMMALS (76%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (75%); LAYOFFS (75%); ZOOLOGY (74%); ADOLESCENTS (70%); FORECLOSURE (53%)

ORGANIZATION: WILDLIFE CONSERVATION SOCIETY (57%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



468 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; URBAN STUDIES YORKVILLE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 432 words

HEADLINE: Long Live Whoever

BYLINE: By CAROLINE H. DWORIN

 BODY:
IF you didn't know where to look, you might never notice the 100-square-foot storefront gallery on East 88th Street near Second Avenue, even though it has been there for a decade. 
 In the window lies a diminutive homemade coffin bearing an enormous artillery shell and a tombstone inscribed with the word ''Whoever.'' The walls of the space, which is called Gallery 221, are papered with scores of laminated obituaries, which have been clipped from The Economist magazine.
''They're precise,'' said Michael Brod, the gallery's owner and the creator of the installation. ''I like the uniformity of them. To be able to encapsulate a life in a thousand words, and to do such an eloquent job, it's very democratic.''
 Mr. Brod, a tall, dark-haired 67-year-old, was until last spring a man of high finance on Wall Street. In the early 1980s, he left his life as a potter and a poet in California after receiving a phone call from his weeping father in New York, whose fifth wife had just died. 
 Mr. Brod had not set eyes on the man since his parents separated when he was an infant, yet he traveled east to see him. Seduced by the life of Wall Street, Mr. Brod spent 10 years at his father's stock brokerage firm. Art was relegated to Plan B.
 During that time, father and son shared an office, seated at opposite ends of a long walnut conference table. Mr. Brod also discovered that he, like his father, was good at finance, and in 1986, his father handed him the reins of the firm. He left in 1992 to work first at a brokerage company, then as an independent consultant. 
 ''What I liked about Wall Street,'' Mr. Brod said, ''was that it's full of manic-depressives. There are a lot of artists who are manic-depressive. And there's a lot of creative people in Wall Street.''
 It was not the downward spiral of the economy that drove Mr. Brod a year ago to go back to work full time at the gallery he owned and where he had occasionally worked in the evening. Instead, it was a recent birthday, along with his growing collection of obituaries and a desire to lead a life that seemed to have more value than one devoted to crunching numbers.
 ''The point of the Street wasn't me trying to get rich,'' Mr. Brod said. ''It was me trying to figure out who I was.''
 The other day, Mr. Brod stood at the window of the gallery, assembling the words of a poem in crisp, adhesive letters on the glass in preparation for the opening of his funereal installation on May 12. 
 ''Whoever on the road,'' the poem reads. ''Whoever still traveling. Whoever says whatever. Whoever is dead. Long live whoever.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''There's a lot of creative people in Wall Street,'' says Michael Brod, gallery owner.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); WRITERS (70%); SECURITIES BROKERS (68%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (63%); BIPOLAR DISORDER (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2009



469 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; NEW YORK OBSERVED; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 888 words

HEADLINE: When Johnny Comes Marching In

BYLINE: By HELEN BENEDICT. 
Helen Benedict is the author of ''The Lonely Soldier: The Private War of Women Serving in Iraq,'' which was published this month.

 BODY:
THE other night I was in a literary bar in the East Village, the kind of place where nervous poets, novelists and memoirists read their work to other nervous poets, novelists and memoirists, when in walked a tall, strapping soldier in full desert camouflage.
 He said something to the bartender, downed a beer, hitched his huge Army backpack farther up his shoulder, sent a shy grin out to the room and left. Nobody looked at him; nobody grinned back -- I glanced around to check. It was as if an unwelcome ghost had entered the room, a harbinger of bad news we didn't want to acknowledge. 
 I know it's the New York way not to stare. We don't stare at anybody, celebrities, crazies or ghosts, let alone soldiers. But it bothered me that everybody pretended not to have noticed him, and it bothered me that neither I nor anyone else had said hi or welcome or how are you doing? 
 I felt a class and political chasm open right there in the bar as I sipped my white wine. Here we were, a room full of writers, students and other privileged Manhattan types. And there was he, a young soldier reminding us that we are indeed at war, but that it's not being fought by the likes of us. 
 It's only too easy to live in New York, particularly Manhattan, and almost never see a uniformed soldier, let alone talk to one. They are a rare sight even in the subway and the streets, let alone in the literary bars of the city. But that young soldier got me to thinking: Is the invisibility of soldiers in New York keeping us out of touch with the fact that we are at war? And is it keeping us out of touch with who soldiers really are and what they really think? 
 In smaller cities and rural towns all over the country, the war is present because soldiers are. Even in New Jersey, this is the case. All you have to do is hop the PATH train to Jersey City, about an hour from Fort Dix, to find yourself surrounded by soldiers.
 In fact, I met a soldier because of the PATH train once. A middle-aged Nicaraguan was sitting next to me on the train, and we began the usual grumbling about delayed trains, which led to a conversation about the economy and the cost of the Iraq war, which then led to his telling me about his son. ''He joined up to get his citizenship,'' he told me. ''Now he is back from Iraq and he's all screwed up.''
 I expressed sympathy and I told him that I'd been reading a lot about the war lately. 
 ''I don't want my son in this crazy war,'' he said, pulling his cellphone out of his pocket. ''Call him, please. Tell him not to go back.'' And he thrust the phone at me.
 A few minutes later, I found myself standing outside on the sidewalk with this man, talking to his very surprised son on his father's phone. I didn't tell him not to go back; why would he listen to me? But I did ask him how he was doing. I expected the usual gung-ho patriotism because that's what I heard all the time from soldiers quoted in the news. But he surprised me.
 ''I don't know; I feel weird,'' he said. ''I'm completely different. My temper's changed. My marriage is falling apart -- I'm getting divorced. I've forgotten how to be a father. My wife, she's not understanding because she wasn't there. I'm going to be redeployed to Afghanistan. I'm scared but I'm going because I don't know how to fit in here anymore.''
 ON the way back to Midtown that same day, I was surrounded by soldiers. We were in one of those quaint, rattle-trap minivans that ferry people from Midtown to New Jersey and back, and behind me a young man was saying: ''Yeah, I joined 'cause all my friends were headed for gangs or jail and I didn't want that to be me. So I spend a year over there, come back, and they're all in gangs or jail. There's nothing here for me. I'm going to re-enlist.''
 After that, I began to seek soldiers out and talk to them. And almost every one of them said things I didn't expect and told me things I didn't know.
 So when I saw that soldier in the literary bar, I had a hard time listening to the next nervous poet read at the lectern. I couldn't stop thinking that the soldier really was a kind of apparition, a physical manifestation of the fact that we're at war. A young American in his Army uniform, he was either on his way to kill others in our name, or on his way back from having already done so. This was the uncomfortable if barely conscious thought, I suspect, that made us turn our backs on him. 
 I'm not saying that New Yorkers are apolitical. Quite the contrary. Most of the people I know here are passionate about politics, especially about the war in Iraq. They have written articles, plays and poems about it, marched in the streets to protest it, voted for President Obama in the hope of ending it. Yet most of them don't know a single soldier. And because of this, many assume that soldiers and liberal New Yorkers will never be able to talk.
 Soon, though, this chasm might start to narrow. With the Iraq war winding down, the economy driving up recruits and the new G.I. bill offering better tuition benefits, soldiers will be showing up everywhere: in our streets and subways, our classrooms and, yes, our literary bars. 
 I wonder what we New Yorkers will do. Will we continue to ignore them in disapproval or fear? Or will we be willing to greet them and listen to the surprising things they have to say? 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY KYLE T. WEBSTER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (93%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (91%); LITERATURE (90%); POETRY (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); ARMIES (78%); DRINKING PLACES (78%); IRAQ WAR (65%); TRAINS (61%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



470 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; GENERATION B; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1153 words

HEADLINE: Resume Writing for C.E.O.'s

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINERIP. 
E-mail: Generationb@nytimes.com

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
 GREG SAM, 50, has always been a rising corporate star. In his most recent job, as a vice president for Millipore, a company that services the pharmaceutical and biotech industries, Mr. Sam built a quality-oversight program from scratch into a staff of 350 working worldwide, from the corporate headquarters in Billerica, Mass., to offices in China, Japan, Ireland and France.
 For this, he earned a mid-six-figure income and traveled the globe, making two dozen business trips a year. At Millipore's 50th anniversary celebration in Puerto Rico, Mr. Sam delivered the keynote speech in Spanish. In France, he sometimes conducted business in French.
 In fact, Mr. Sam was so good at what he did, he was fired. 
 ''He came in, built us a global quality assurance program, but now that it's in place, we don't need a person of his skills and caliber to continue running it,'' said Dr. Martin D. Madaus, the president of Millipore, who fired Mr. Sam during a round of 200 layoffs in December. ''Someone with lesser expertise can do the job, because Greg essentially did such a good job.'' 
 As Dr. Madaus explained when he visited Mr. Sam's office to deliver the bad news, it was nothing personal. But because Mr. Sam was so highly valued until he was fired, Millipore added about $40,000 to his severance package for job placement services.
 ''The higher up you are,'' said Dr. Madaus, whose company employs 6,000, ''the longer it takes to find a new job.''
 For three months, instead of going to work, Mr. Sam has come to a handsome fifth-floor office in a renovated warehouse overlooking Boston Harbor that is the headquarters of New Directions, a top-of-the-line job-search firm. As its literature says, New Directions specializes in helping unemployed ''C.E.O.'s, C.O.O.'s, C.F.O.'s, C.I.O.'s'' find their way back up the corporate ladder.
 Situated in the heart of Boston with beautiful views; staffed by friendly professionals with advanced degrees; stocked with plenty of fresh-brewed coffee and free lunches; offering glassed-in offices for making calls, New Directions feels like an exclusive corporate retreat -- except that the participants have lost their corporations.
 Like Mr. Sam, most of the 85 current clients are baby boomers who've enjoyed an uninterrupted string of successes that have seemed almost magical, but now, in very bad times, they are struggling to recapture the magic.
 Mark Gorham, a Harvard Business School grad and a former Hewlett-Packard vice president, has been unemployed for six months. At first, he said: ''I sat around thinking someone will realize how great I am and call me out of the blue. Next, I figured, I'll throw out my great resume to search firms and someone will come knocking.''
 Now he's learning networking from Jeffrey Redmond, his personal job coach.
 ''Mark grew up in an age when being understated about yourself was valued,'' said Mr. Redmond, a partner who has been at New Directions since its founding 23 years ago. ''At 53, he has to learn to tell his story and, like a marching band, toot his own horn.''
 Mr. Gorham is looking for a job using his management skills in the renewable-energy field.
 ''We try to work on it a little every day,'' Mr. Redmond said. ''Three contacts today, three tomorrow. At the end of month we have 60 people thinking about this guy who can bring all this knowledge to a growing industry.''
 Mr. Gorham dreaded his first networking call in January. For weeks, he and Mr. Redmond rehearsed.
 ''Like a lot of senior executives, Mark was used to going on and on,'' Mr. Redmond said. ''He used to give speeches to thousands of people. When there was quiet, he was the one filling in the air.''
 They practiced answering questions in 45 seconds.
 ''Jeff told me I could just talk 40 percent of the time,'' Mr. Gorham said.
 Mr. Redmond had him write a one-page script. 
 ''We rehearsed to get it shorter,'' Mr. Redmond said.
 ''Before calling,'' Mr. Gorham said, ''I must have rehearsed five more times at my office at home.'' 
 THAT first call was to a colleague he hadn't spoken with in eight years.
 ''I knew he'd be nice,'' Mr. Gorham said. ''We weren't supposed to pick the toughest one for our first call. It went a hundred times better than I thought it would. Part of the dread was saying I didn't have a job. I've never not had one. But I realized, I wasn't calling to say, 'Hey can you hire me.' I basically was letting him know what's going on and getting his advice on my plan. He was very engaged and threw out a bunch of ideas. He said, 'Let's get back together.' Afterward I wondered why was I so worried.''
 Mr. Redmond said in its 23 years, New Directions has served 2,400 executives and, typically, they find new positions in seven to nine months, although in a recession that could be a year. 
 If it is a year, Mr. Sam said his severance will cover him, but after that he would have to dip into savings.
 ''My frame of mind is realistic, a bit anxious,'' he said. ''Last night I sat with my wife and we looked at our finances. My philosophy is, be aware of it, manage it, but don't get obsessed by it -- that's not doing myself or family any good.''
 ON a recent Tuesday, Mr. Sam sat in on a seminar about LinkedIn, the online business network. Many of the men attending were dressed as they had for work, in jackets and ties. Though sitting in a room full of such bright, urbane unemployed people could be worrisome, Mr. Sam found it calming.
 ''When you're at home,'' he said, ''you feel you're the only one.''
 He spent six hours at New Directions that day. He had his weekly meeting with his job coach, who gave him tips on cutting his resume from five pages to three. (Too many bulleted lines like: ''Performed due diligence on M & A targets and developed integration plans to extract value and support growth.'')
 He met with the New Directions research director, Claire Burday, and asked her to do a search for Food and Drug Administration-regulated companies with sales over $10 million that had offices within 30 miles of places where he would like to live, including his home in Andover, Mass., and his cabin in Vermont.
 He spoke with the staff psychologist, Dr. William Winn, who'd given him a battery of tests, and for several hours interviewed him to make sure he was suited for the jobs he's seeking. 
 Dr. Winn concluded that it wouldn't be wise for Mr. Sam to take a position that would focus solely on what's wrong with a company. Mr. Sam is a builder who needs to be involved in fixing what's wrong, Dr. Winn noted. 
 Indeed, asked what he missed about his old job, Mr. Sam said, ''There was still plenty of opportunity to improve the company.''
 Later, sitting in one of those glassed-in offices, a mob of gulls hovering outside his window, Mr. Sam checked his BlackBerry.
 ''A call last night from Millipore,'' he said softly. ''More layoffs. Two directors who worked for me were let go.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A SIX-FIGURE LOSS: Greg Sam, who was fired for being too efficient, at New Directions, a job-search firm for executives.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARK OSTOW FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); DISMISSALS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (73%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (73%); QUALITY CONTROL (72%); ANNIVERSARIES (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); SEVERANCE PAY (69%); BABY BOOMERS (50%)

COMPANY: MILLIPORE CORP (90%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (50%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (90%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (92%); CHINA (91%); FRANCE (90%); PUERTO RICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



471 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: 'To Cultivate, Promote and Encourage'

BYLINE: By SUSAN HODARA

DATELINE: New Canaan 

 BODY:
 VISITORS to the sculpture garden at the Silvermine Guild Arts Center are greeted by a pair of oxen made of stone. Planted amid a changing array of contemporary works, the oxen were carved in 1908 by Solon H. Borglum, an American sculptor and portraitist who was the founder of the Silvermine art colony more than a century ago. His barn in Wilton became a gathering place for the growing number of artists in the area.
 Today, the Silvermine Guild Arts Center inhabits a cluster of buildings on five nearby acres in New Canaan that include five exhibition spaces and the Silvermine School of Art. 
 At Silvermine's core is its Guild of Artists, currently made up of 356 members. Artists are selected biannually by a jury of peers based on the proficiency, power and relevance of their work. ''They have to be actively engaged in being an artist,'' said Jeffrey P. Mueller, who became the center's gallery director last July. ''They have to be developing concepts and building bodies of work that they want to exhibit.'' 
 Ranging in age from 20s to 80s, members, most of whom live within a 50-mile radius of Silvermine, pay $175 in annual dues and are required to volunteer 12 hours a year. They are entitled to apply for participation in solo and group shows at the center, and to submit work to its online gallery, a resource for decorators, architects and art buyers. (The Guild receives a 50 percent commission on sales.)
 The work of many Guild members can be seen in the roughly 20 curated exhibitions mounted at the center each year. These include solo shows, a group show and, in January, an exhibition featuring the artists who were inducted into the Guild during the previous year. In the fall, the Guild hosts a triennial of national juried shows: Craft USA, the National Print Show and Spectra, a photography exhibition.
 Next month, the center presents its 60th annual ''Art of the Northeast'' exhibition, a juried competition open to any artist (not only Guild members) from New England, New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania. Mr. Mueller called the show ''the cornerstone of our exhibition calendar.''
 ''Over the years, 'Art of the Northeast' has brought together hundreds of great artists' work, coupled with a juror pool of some of the most renowned art world figures,'' he said, citing Clement Greenberg, Hilton Kramer and Marcia Tucker, all of whom were past jurors. This year's juror is Douglas Dreishpoon, the chief curator at the Albright-Knox Art Gallery in Buffalo. Nearly 9,300 entries were submitted by 434 artists; the selection process will be completed on April 29.
 Incorporated in 1922, the Silvermine Guild harks back to Mr. Borglum's day, when a group of local artists known as the Knockers Club gathered on Sundays to critique one another's work. Today, Knockers Club critiques continue monthly at Silvermine.
 For Roger Mudre, 55, a painter who is co-chairman of the Guild, the most valuable part of being a member is the sense of community the center provides. ''Unlike in New York, where you might work in a building with 20 other studios, when you're living in Connecticut, you have the same drives and ambitions, but you don't have the same community,'' he said. ''At the Guild, we exchange ideas, meet other people. Strong bonds are created. It's a source of friendship, inspiration and support.''
 To foster its commitment to the community, the center offers a lecture series throughout the year and opportunities to discuss the artwork on display. During each exhibition, there is an ''Artist Walk and Talk'' in the gallery, usually on a Wednesday at 12:30 p.m. Last month, the center held its first ''Art a la Carte'' program, a Friday evening discussion with Mr. Mueller and several artists from the current shows. At ''Art a la Carte'' events, held with every new exhibition, participants receive a 15 percent discount coupon for a post-discussion dinner at the Silvermine Market across the street.
 At the center's School of Art, established in 1924, about 4,000 students a year enroll in the hundreds of classes and workshops, like drawing, painting, sculpture, printmaking, photography, flame working, ceramics and jewelry making.
 ''We have children starting at age 2, and seniors, including an 83-year-old woman who does sculpture,'' said Anne M. Connell, 49, who has worked at the school for 21 years and became its director in 1996. ''Many of our students have been taking classes for as long as I've been here.''
 The center also runs a six-week summer arts camp for 5- to 17-year-olds.
 The major goals set forth in Silvermine's mission statement, adopted in the late 1990s, are ''to cultivate, promote and encourage growth through the arts; to showcase and serve artists; and to foster arts education and appreciation opportunities for the greater community.''
 ''We love our mission statement,'' said Pamela A. Davis, Silvermine's executive director. ''It's central to what we do.''
 The center's outreach arm is Art Partners, which brings curriculum-based art programs to under-resourced elementary, middle and high school students in Norwalk and Stamford. ''Our faculty members go into the schools with activities that integrate art into literacy, math or science,'' said Ms. Davis, 57. Started in 1992, Art Partners has served more than 10,000 children.
 The center's operating budget for the fiscal year 2008-9 is $2 million, Ms. Davis said. The largest portion of its revenue -- 65 percent -- comes from school tuition and outreach financing. About 25 percent is from donors, including the Connecticut Commission on Culture and Tourism, a major supporter, and fund-raising events.
 Silvermine's largest fund-raiser, its annual spring benefit, is scheduled on April 24. Called ''Moonlight and Magic,'' it will feature a live auction conducted by Guy Bennett from Christie's and a silent auction of more than 50 items, up from about 20 at last year's event, which raised $110,000. Another fund-raiser, ''Signed, Sealed and Delivered,'' sells postcard-size works for $50 each; it will be held in October.
 The remaining 10 percent of the center's income comes from the sale of art that is exhibited in the galleries and online. Silvermine has a professional sales staff that advises collectors on all aspects of buying art. The new Silvermine Flat Files, a space in one of the galleries, enables prospective buyers to examine unframed artwork.
 Over the course of a year, Ms. Davis said, at least 15,000 people pass through Silvermine's doors.
 ''Since the recession began in 2007, we've focused our attention on core mission areas, carefully watched expenses and sought to broaden our donor base,'' she said. ''We are fortunate to have a loyal following of collectors, members and students. It's reassuring. It says we're doing something of value.''
 ''Art of the Northeast,'' May 8 to June 5 at Silvermine Guild Arts Center, 1037 Silvermine Road, New Canaan. Gallery hours: Tuesday to Saturday, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sunday, 1 to 5 p.m. Opening reception and awards presentation: May 8, 6 to 9 p.m. ''Art a la Carte'' discussion: May 29, 6:30 to-7:30 p.m. For more information: silvermineart.org or (203) 966-9700. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: WORKSHOP: A class at Silvermine Guild Arts Center. Below, Pamela A. Davis, the center's executive director, with Jeffrey P. Mueller, its gallery director.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JUDITH PSZENICA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); SCULPTURE (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); JURY TRIALS (88%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUFFALO, NY, USA (77%) NORTHEAST USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



472 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; VOWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1170 words

HEADLINE: Dixie Feldman and Jeffrey Laite

BYLINE: By ABBY ELLIN

 BODY:
AS a setting for romance, the rolling thunder of a subway car, careening through the depths of Manhattan, is not high on the lists of most New Yorkers. But that's where love found Sarah Feldman and Jeffrey Laite one morning in January 2007. 
 Ms. Feldman, known as Dixie, was in the middle of a heartbreak-induced depression when she left her Midtown apartment and took a downtown R train. Having just ended a 23-year exclusive relationship, she was determined to show the universe that true love hadn't eluded her. So she set aside the mountains of self-help, philosophy and metaphysics tomes she had collected and headed to SoHo to buy lingerie at Agent Provocateur.
''It was an act of faith, spending lots of money on fancy lingerie that I was sure no one would ever see,'' said Ms. Feldman, who is 46 and works in New York as the senior editorial director for The N, a digital cable network aimed at preteenagers. 
 As she entered the train, she noticed a man standing and reading ''History of Philosophy, Volume IX.'' That impressed her. 
 ''I infer that people who read philosophy are people who think about life and wonder about it and just don't take everything at face value,'' she said. ''I like that in a person.'' 
 After silently willing him to look her way (he did not), she finally gathered the courage to ask him about the book. Mr. Laite, now 48, and she began chatting about whether reading philosophy had actually changed their lives. (She said yes; he was unsure). When he noted that there was a Monty Python ditty, ''The Philosophers' Song,'' she sang it aloud. 
 Soon her stop came, and she suddenly faced a problem: should she stay and chat, or exit the train? She chose the latter, but just as the doors snapped shut she called out her e-mail address and said, ''If you have any more book recommendations, let me know.'' 
 She bought lingerie, but spent the rest of the day kicking herself for her hasty exit. 
 The redheaded Ms. Feldman equally intrigued Mr. Laite, a confirmed bachelor who said he had not been in a serious relationship ''since the first Gulf War.'' When they met, Mr. Laite, a freelance project coordinator for the banking industry, was heading home to Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, and was not thinking about romance. He was not unhappy being single; he simply figured this was how it was going to be and filled his days working, reading, going to movies and concerts and seeing friends. 
 Still, he Googled her that night and found a photograph of her holding one of her birds (she lives with four parrots and two dogs in her one-bedroom apartment). ''I wanted to continue the conversation,'' he said, and e-mailed her the names of his favorite books, including ''Mere Christianity'' by C. S. Lewis and ''Zen Mind, Beginner's Mind'' by Shunryu Suzuki. 
 They struck up a correspondence and discovered their shared affinity for swing music. In one exchange, Ms. Feldman mentioned that she was listening to a recording of Gene Krupa's and Buddy Rich's famous 1952 drum battle, adding, ''Buddy so wins!'' 
 ''That might have been the first time I thought we would have more than a friendship,'' Mr. Laite said. Still, he did not ask her out. ''I wanted to be sure this was serious,'' he said. ''At my age, you don't want to waste your time or anyone else's.''
 Dana Laite confirmed his brother's caution: ''My father asked me if I thought Jeff was dating, and I said, 'He's just conserving his energy until he meets the right one.' ''
 Soon, Ms. Feldman's and Mr. Laite's e-mail exchanges became flirtatious. At one point she told him of a bad work experience she'd had and, ''I immediately wanted to reach out and make her feel better,'' he recalled. ''The relationship was becoming important to me.''
 In late February he asked her out for pancakes. In agreeing to meet him, Ms. Feldman listed some of her harrowing potential deal-breakers: ''I can't drive, I can't cook, I have four parrots, and upon opening a box of Pop-Tarts I will always eat them all, immediately.'' 
 Each was nervous. Ms. Feldman thought of canceling a hundred times (her friends would not let her), and Mr. Laite showed up at 10 a.m. bearing not flowers but a stress ball. But the ease with which they fell in with each other surprised them both -- so much so that Ms. Feldman found herself putting her head on his shoulder as they strolled along the street. 
 At the end of their breakfast date -- 24 hours later -- Ms. Feldman asked Mr. Laite what state, other than New York, he would he want to live in. ''Well, what state are you in?'' he replied. 
 She swooned.
 The depth of their feelings tickled each of them, because on the surface they are opposites. Mr. Laite lives his life largely in books and movies and has a ''spartan routine that would put a Samurai to shame,'' said Ms. Feldman, whose apartment is the color of Pepto-Bismol, with a pink chandelier shaped like a giant octopus, expensive art commingled with paint-by-numbers paintings and a vast array of vintage memorabilia.
 They dated for about three weeks before the word ''love'' popped up. Three months later they took a trip to Las Vegas. On the plane Mr. Laite looked at her and realized that they would be married. ''Not planned, or hoped or wished for, but realized as a fact,'' he said. ''She's smart, she's funny, she puts up with my nonsense. She puts me at ease more than anyone else I've known. She makes me feel that I'm good for her.''
 It took him a year to propose, which he did on his birthday the following June. 
 Still, their marriage will be decidedly nontraditional since the economy thwarted their plans to buy a two-bedroom co-op.
 ''I am a big believer in the man-cave, and my one-bedroom apartment is like Liberace and Carol Channing had a baby,'' she said. ''Jeff's been a bachelor for 25 years or so -- to be married is already kind of jarring.'' They will maintain separate residences and spend weekends together.
 They were married March 29 at Providence, a restaurant in Midtown Manhattan, which was decorated with all sorts of kitschy memorabilia, most of it culled from the bride's private collection. The wedding had a ''party like it's 1929'' theme, Ms. Feldman said. ''A soulful era of contrasts: innocence and sin, optimism and cynicism, soft hearts and hard times.'' The approximately 90 guests, were encouraged to dress in period costume and they posed for mug shots. Then, a 1930's-style fedora perched on his head, Mr. Laite stood with his bride before Jen Laskey, a Universal Life minister, and recited his vows in gangster-ese: ''You make me smile with my heart.''
 Commenting on the bride -- her tattoos winking out from her vintage-style wedding gown, her hair piled high like Lucille Ball -- Lisa Beebe, a colleague of Ms. Feldman's, said, ''She has a look that's very brash, but she's the sweetest, gentlest person.''
 ''I see beyond the nerd in him, he sees beneath the gaudy in me,'' the bride said. ''For the first time in my life, Jeff makes me feel fully seen, fully accepted, fully loved.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NEW YORK, MARCH 29: At the gangster-themed wedding, a mug shot for the crime ''marriage in the first degree.'' Above, the bride's dress.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); LINGERIE (74%); TWEENS MARKET (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2009



473 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1377 words

HEADLINE: About That Advance ..

BYLINE: By MICHAEL MEYER. 
Michael Meyer's book, ''The Last Days of Old Beijing,'' comes out in paperback in May.

 BODY:
''In the old days,'' the novelist Henry Bech, John Updike's fictional alter ego, once said, ''a respectable author never asked for an advance; that was strictly for the no-talents starving down in the Village.''
 Since then, Washington Square rents have soared, and writers of fair and ill repute alike seek advance payment for their books. Once minuscule, some advances have escalated into the millions, like the $5 million Scribner paid last month for Audrey Niffenegger's second novel, ''Her Fearful Symmetry.'' News of that deal may have seemed odd coming shortly after the chief executive of Simon & Schuster, Scribner's parent company, announced that because of declining revenue the house would be ''watching every penny.'' Indeed, in the latest of a string of eulogies for the book industry as we know it, Time magazine fingered advances as part of the ''financial coelacanth'' of publishing's business model, doomed to disappear like brick-and-mortar bookstores. 
 Yet despite the economic downturn, and the fact that 7 out of 10 titles do not earn back their advance, the system doesn't seem to be going away anytime soon. In recent interviews, a dozen New York-based publishers and agents told me, more or less, ''Publishers have to keep buying books,'' and ''They have to bid for the best books'' -- which in large part means those that will sell. 
 Advances are seldom specified authoritatively. Amounts are coyly described like cigarette brands -- the ''mid-fives,'' the ''low sixes,'' the ''mild sevens.'' In the preface to ''A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius,'' Dave Eggers broke form by telling the reader he received $100,000 for the manuscript, which -- after his detailed expenses -- netted him $39,567.68. 
 Advance envy is common. ''Writers who can't recall their Social Security number can say to the penny how much of an advance their nemesis received,'' Elissa Schappell, a fiction writer and co-editor of the anthology ''Money Changes Everything,'' said in an e-mail message. To an outsider, the numbers can seem arbitrary, even absurd. ''No one ever says of an advance, 'That's exactly what that book deserves,' '' Schappell said. ''Yep, a coming-of-age first novel involving drug addiction and same-sex experimentation is worth $25,000.''
 As a payment to be deducted from future royalties, an advance is a publisher's estimate of risk. Figures fluctuate based on market trends, along with an author's sales record and foreign rights potential, though most publishers I talked to cited $30,000 as a rough average. In standard contracts, the author receives half up front, a quarter on acceptance of the manuscript and a quarter on publication, though that model is changing, said the literary agent Eric Simonoff, whose clients include James Frey and Jhumpa Lahiri. ''Now we see advance amounts being paid in thirds, fourths and even fifths,'' Simonoff said in an interview. ''For a writer dependent on those funds, that's not an advance, it's a retreat.''
 The numbers can sound much bigger than they are. Take a reported six-figure advance, Roy Blount Jr., the president of the Authors Guild, said in an e-mail message. ''That may mean $100,000, minus 15 percent agent's commission and self-employment tax, and if we're comparing it to a salary let us recall (a) that it does not include any fringes like a desk, let alone health insurance, and (b) that the book might take two years to write and three years to get published. . . . So a six-figure advance, while in my experience gratefully received, is not necessarily enough, in itself, for most adults to live on.''
 The novelist Walter Kirn agrees. ''A low-six-figure advance has allowed me to work at less than minimum wage for three years,'' he told me. ''Perhaps that's for the best; a large advance might create a disinclination to do anything other than play blackjack in Las Vegas. When I hear these large, publicized advances, it feels like watching the casino play around me.'' (Weep not for Kirn, however; he phoned me from the set of the film adaptation of his novel ''Up in the Air,'' starring George Clooney.)
 The question of what to pay which authors has confounded publishers at least since a stationer agreed to give Milton $:5 for the right to sell ''Paradise Lost.'' Joseph Conrad often begged his agent for more money and once asked to be advanced ''a fountain pen of good repute.''
 But the current culture of blockbuster advances really took shape in the 1970s, when ''hardcover publishing was becoming research and development for mass-market paperbacks,'' said Peter Mayer, who started the trade paperback division at Avon Books and is now publisher of Overlook Press. ''It was the hardcover houses who drove the increases by selling paperback rights.'' 
 In 1971, for example, Viking sold paperback rights to ''The Day of the Jackal'' to Bantam for 36 times the $10,000 hardcover advance it had paid its author, Frederick Forsyth. ''Agents realized that they should be the ones holding auctions for their authors and get advances more in line with the anticipated total value of their books,'' Georges Borchardt, who brokered the hardcover rights, said in an interview. (Full disclosure: Borchardt, who is my agent, got me $50,000 for my first, nonfiction book.)
 In the 1980s and '90s, big money also started taking hold on the literary end. Agents like Andrew Wylie succeeded in fetching celebrity-size advances for canonical authors -- Norman Mailer, Philip Roth, Salman Rushdie -- on the strength of their backlists and sales over time. Before then, the biggest advances went to ''disgraced politicians and failed novelists,'' Wylie said in an interview. Not that everyone was happy about the litterateur's shift in fortunes. In 1995, Martin Amis drew the kind of anger reserved these days for derivatives traders when he left his longtime agent for Wylie, who sold Amis's novel ''The Information'' for the then outlandish sum of half a million pounds, or nearly $800,000. 
 Today, such figures are hardly unusual. Jonathan Safran Foer's first novel, published in 2003, is said to have fetched $500,000. More recently, Foer's brother Joshua reportedly got $1.2 million for a book about memory competitions.
 But some say that authors grabbing for the brass ring can risk not just ridicule and envy, but their careers. ''It used to be that the first book earned a modest advance, then you would build an audience over time and break even on the third or fourth book,'' Morgan Entrekin, the publisher of Grove/Atlantic, said in an interview. ''Now the first book is expected to land a huge advance and huge sales. The media only reports those, not the long path of writers like John Irving, Richard Ford, Anne Tyler and Toni Morrison. The notion of the 'first book with flaws' is gone; now we see a novelist selling 9,000 hardcovers and 15,000 paperbacks, and they see themselves as a failure.''
 At PublicAffairs, an independent house specializing in current events, advances are as good as capped, said its founder, Peter Osnos. Osnos paid an average advance of $40,000 for PublicAffairs' four New York Times best sellers in 2008, including Scott McClellan's ''What Happened,'' sums greatly augmented by royalty payments when the books hit it big. ''If the market says you need to pay $10 million to acquire a title, no one requires a publisher to pay it,'' he said in an interview. ''You're not going out of business if you don't pay that money.''
 Today, some publishers are experimenting with low or no advances. In exchange for low-five-figure advances, the boutique press McSweeney's, founded by Eggers, shares profits with its authors 50-50, as does the new imprint Harper Studio, which offers sub-six-figure advances.
 As for Henry Bech, Updike -- whose own advances were reputed to be modest -- never let him take money up front. But Bech couldn't entirely avoid the commercialism engulfing publishing. He turned in his final manuscript to his longtime publisher, Vellum Press, which had been sold to a supermarket chain that peddled it to an oil company, which foisted it off on a shale-and-lumber conglomerate. ''It was like being a fallen woman in the old days,'' Updike wrote. ''Once you sold yourself, you were never your own again.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PAUL SAHRE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); LITERARY AGENTS (78%); ROYALTIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BOOK PUBLISHING (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); PARENT COMPANIES (74%); HOLDING COMPANIES (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); TRENDS (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); BOOKSTORES (56%); EXECUTIVES (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (50%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



474 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: He Doesn't Let Money Managers Off the Hook

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
EVERY once in a while, if only for sanity's sake, it is wise to leave our bankrupt era behind and seek out a bit of wisdom from a moral authority. It's a challenging exercise, given that so many formerly stellar reputations are now shipwrecked and that all those once-smart guys and gals have been reduced to bull-market geniuses. 
 And yet there are a few voices of reason and integrity left in this upside-down world. One is John C. Bogle's. He is the founder of the Vanguard Group, an author and an investor advocate. With almost 58 years in the money management business, Mr. Bogle has kept his reputation intact. That alone sets him apart. 
 But Mr. Bogle is also worth talking to because he is a thinker, a sort of financial philosopher. And earlier this month he lectured at Columbia University about, not surprisingly, the financial crisis and its causes. What he said was illuminating.
 In his talk, he cited the usual suspects: borrowers, lenders, securitizers, regulators and Wall Street traders. But he also identified one group that hasn't been singled out for shame: the institutional money managers that allowed the nation's financial companies to amass enormous risks on their balance sheets and pay gigantic compensation based on false profits. The big funds let this happen without uttering a word. 
 ''When I read the causes of the recent unpleasantness, I haven't seen one single person who has said that the owners of these corporations, including the banking corporations, didn't seem to give a damn about how they were being run,'' Mr. Bogle said in an interview last week. ''We own all this stock but we pretty much do nothing.''
 That ''we'' he talks about really refers to those in charge of our retirement accounts, pensions and savings: mutual funds and professional money management firms that, as institutional investors, control 70 percent of the shares of large public companies today. 
 Such an outsize stake means that the institutions wield great power and influence over corporate America. Yet, as Mr. Bogle points out, few institutions have played an active role in board structure and governance, director elections, executive compensation, stock options proxy proposals or dividend policies at the companies they own. 
 ''Given their forbearance as corporate citizens,'' Mr. Bogle said, ''these managers arguably played a major role in allowing the managers of our public corporations to exploit the advantages of their own agency.'' 
 INDEED, while many still believe that the American way of investing makes ours an ownership society, Mr. Bogle says we live in an agency society, one in which we rely on agents -- mutual fund managers, pension fund managers -- to make our investment choices for us. 
 An ownership society was an accurate depiction of where this country was 50 years ago, Mr. Bogle says. Not today. 
 And he says that the trust we have placed in these agents is undeserved. In his view, the agents have failed to serve their clients -- mutual fund shareholders, pension beneficiaries and long-term investors; instead, the agents have served themselves. 
 Consider fees. Charges levied on mutual fund investors are much higher than those that the identical firms exact on pension clients, for example. The three largest money managers, Mr. Bogle pointed out, charged an average fee rate of 0.08 percent to pension customers. This compares with 0.61 percent charged to fund shareholders. 
 Money managers also haven't done the kind of due diligence that might have protected their investors from titanic losses. ''How could so many highly skilled, highly paid securities analysts and researchers have failed to question the toxic-filled, leveraged balance sheets of Citigroup and other leading banks and investment banks?'' Mr. Bogle asked.
 Keep in mind that these failures have occurred in spite of the Investment Company Act of 1940, which states that ''mutual funds should be managed and operated in the best interests of their shareholders, rather than in the interests of advisers.'' 
 In the face of all this, Mr. Bogle suggests that we force our agents to relearn what being a fiduciary means. A fiduciary, these managers seem to have forgotten, acts for the sole benefit and interest of another. We need to replace the agency society with a fiduciary society, he argues.
 To achieve this, Mr. Bogle says, the government must apply a federal standard of fiduciary duty to institutional money managers. This would force them to use their stock holdings as a cudgel, to demand that directors and executives of corporations honor their responsibilities to their owners. 
 ''We need Congress to pass a law establishing the basic principle that money managers are there to serve their shareholders,'' Mr. Bogle said. ''And the second part of the demand is that fiduciaries act with due diligence and high professional standards. That doesn't seem to be too much to ask.''
 Some money management firms are publicly traded themselves, and Mr. Bogle says that those firms offer an added layer of deep and serious conflicts because executives running them try to serve two masters: their shareholders and their fund clients. 
 Such conflicts can be resolved only by separating the money management units from the larger, publicly traded firms, Mr. Bogle said. Under such a plan, the Deutsche Bank Group, for example, would spin off DWS Investments, its mutual fund unit, or Sun Life of Canada would divest itself of MFS Investment Management. 
 And with a fiduciary law in place, Mr. Bogle believes, money managers would be far more responsible about corporate citizenship than they are now. 
 ''The funds should demand with all their voting power that the companies they own are putting the interests of their shareholders first,'' he said. ''This would have implications for executive compensation, nominating directors, and other corporate governance matters.''
 Mr. Bogle doesn't think that the mutual fund industry will rush to embrace his idea. The powerhouses in the business have battled fiercely against attempts to shine sunlight on their practices or rid their operations of conflicts. 
 But as our current financial crisis has made clear, there are significant problems in the structure of the mutual fund business, and now is the perfect time to solve them. 
 ''This will create a lot of opposition, but it is not a regulatory solution, it is a principles-based solution,'' Mr. Bogle said. ''We would gradually develop a series of decisions about how these things fit into the overall fabric of investment management. Is it easy to articulate? No, but is the principle easy to understand? Absolutely. Shareholders come first.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John C. Bogle, the founder of the Vanguard Group, is also an investor advocate.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(pg. BU2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PENSION FUNDS (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (74%); SECURITIZATION (67%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (65%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); STOCK OPTIONS (63%)

COMPANY: VANGUARD GROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



475 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: Where You Bring Your 'A' Game and Your Networking Skills

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

DATELINE: HOBOKEN, N.J. 

 BODY:
 There were worse places to be on Good Friday than the weekly Recession Soccer gathering at Frank Sinatra Park on the Hoboken waterfront, the towers of Manhattan glimmering just across the Hudson. 
 True, probably because of the holiday, there wasn't a huge turnout -- a few ringers needed for the three-on-three game, compared with the 12 people who showed up at the previous game.
 Still, the rain held off, the temperature was semi-springlike, the field with its new artificial turf was perfect, and one could ponder ball and goal, past and future and the vagaries of the job market all while getting in a little exercise. 
 If bad things go on long enough, they create their own rhythms and routines, hence Ian Sacs's idea for Recession Soccer, a game for the unemployed and underemployed as the economic meltdown melts on.
 In October, Mr. Sacs, 33, was laid off from his job in transportation engineering. Looking around Hoboken, he realized he was hardly the only one out of work, and began thinking of ways for people to connect. His solution was the soccer game, part therapy, part exercise, part networking. He posted a message on Craigslist, e-mailed some friends and waited to see who would show up.
 ''I knew there had to be other people who needed to take a break from looking at Monster.com and sending out resumes,'' he said. 
 The first week, in the dead of winter, brought out four people. It grew to six, then more, and he figures the spring weather and the continuingly sluggish job market will bring out more still. ''I'm hoping we're growing because of better weather and the word getting out, not because many more people are being laid off,'' he said.
 So on Friday, the players included Michael L. Diegnan, who had been laid off as senior broadband producer at NBC Sports and was previously a senior multimedia producer for Major League Baseball. 
 Jonathan Almeida, another player, seemed to have a similarly marketable skill as a consultant who works with banks to combat money laundering, but the banks are cutting back even on things they need to do.
 One of the ringers was Dawn Zimmer, a member of the City Council who is running for mayor of Hoboken. Others in recent weeks have included people who have worked in finance, restaurants, computer consulting and on a stage crew.
 The players tend to be relatively young, most without children and more or less able to withstand the economic storm.
 Still, if they're not the people living in motel rooms or cars, most say that tough times are tough times whenever you're laid off. Mr. Sacs said he and his wife, who still has her job in market research, always lived frugally, being careful not to run up credit card debt. But with one income rather than two to pay the bills, they decided to put their condo on the market, only to find no takers. She's pregnant for the first time, and they're hoping to take advantage of the government program to help people lower their mortgage payments.
 ''My situation isn't nearly as severe as many people, I know that,'' he said. ''But psychologically, it's been very rough, and we've had to make major changes in our lifestyle. We've completely cut our budget for going out with friends and to restaurants to practically nothing. There's a lot of stress with everything.''
 He has begun getting freelance work, and there are some small upsides. There's something to be said for being able to play soccer on a midday Friday in this spectacular setting. The game became slightly famous when some Swedish journalists found out about it online and wrote about it in a Swedish newspaper. ''Maybe we'll all get jobs in Sweden,'' Mr. Sacs said.
 And there are lessons in hard times than can be learned just by hanging out. Everyone at the park, it seems, has a story about the job market. Denis Danatzko, who is working on a documentary about the soccer game, was laid off long ago from his financial services job and is trying to build a videography business.
 ''I enjoy it,'' he said. ''My wife thinks it's crazy.''
 Leo Pellegrini, who runs the youth travel soccer program in Hoboken, said people were worried about layoffs expected at his firm, which he declined to name. 
 It's the season of rebirth -- religious, personal, meteorological. It's no longer winter, but not quite spring. Maybe, as President Obama said, there's a glimmer of hope in the economy, and maybe it's just a few errant embers in a cold wind. No one knows where we go from here, but on Good Friday at Frank Sinatra Park, they came out to kick a ball, enjoy the view and hope spring brings better things.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: After Ian Sacs, center, was laid off, he came up with the idea for soccer games at Frank Sinatra Park in Hoboken, N.J., so that people could connect. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (91%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EASTER SEASON (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); SPORTS (78%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); EMPLOYMENT (75%); ENGINEERING (72%); BASEBALL (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); MARKET RESEARCH (69%); BROADBAND (66%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (60%); CITIES (60%); MAYORS (60%); CITY GOVERNMENT (60%); LAYOFFS (55%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (50%); PERSONAL DEBT (50%); MONEY LAUNDERING (50%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (64%); MONSTER WORLDWIDE INC (57%); CRAIGSLIST INC (55%)

TICKER: MWW (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (64%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (64%); NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (57%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



476 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: Funds That Aim To Conquer The Zigzags

BYLINE: By TIM GRAY

 BODY:
IF nothing else good comes from the bear market, it does offer a chance to re-examine investing orthodoxies. 
 As a result, style-based investing -- the idea that a fund manager should pick an investing strategy and stick with it -- has come under scrutiny from people who note that holding, say, only small-capitalization stocks over the last year would have been disastrous. A manager might have beaten her benchmark, but her shareholders would have still lost a lot of money. 
 In response to this sort of sentiment, companies like Putnam Investments, Dreyfus and Natixis Funds have rolled out absolute-return funds, which aim to make money regardless of the market's zigzags. These funds typically can skitter among investing styles and asset classes in pursuit of gains. When growth stocks soar, they might grab those. If gold futures sprint, they might jump to them. They might even park much of their shareholders' money in cash. 
 Not all analysts see these funds as better than ones that adhere to a style or sector. Making money by jumping around often requires predicting the right time to dump one sort of holding and gather another. This is called market timing. ''There have been studies asking whether fund managers can time the market,'' said Adam V. Reed, a finance professor at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. ''And the literature says that, on average, they're not able to do it.''
 Putnam Investments in Boston has bet big on absolute-return funds. In January, it introduced four -- Absolute Return 100, 300, 500 and 700. They aim to beat inflation by one, three, five and seven percentage points, respectively. So if inflation averaged 1 percent annually over three years, the 700 fund would aim for a return of 8 percent a year. 
 The funds sprang partly from a realization that many investors wanted to limit losses, not just outpace the stock or bond markets, said Rob A. Bloemker, co-manager of the new funds. 
 Moreover, a style-based approach can distort a fund manager's motivation, he said. With other funds that he has run, Mr. Bloemker recalled celebrating as his shareholders suffered. ''The market would go down 4 percent, and I'd be down 3 percent,'' he said ''But I'm high-fiving everybody. I was supposed to outperform a benchmark, and I got compensated well for that. But the client still lost 3 percent.'' 
 By trying to beat inflation, Mr. Bloemker and the other co-manager, Jeffrey L. Knight, aim to avoid schadenfreude. ''We define risk as losing money,'' Mr. Bloemker said. 
 Putnam devised the 100 fund as an alternative to money market funds, and the 300 fund as an alternative to bond funds. They buy fixed-income securities, though the managers are permitted to choose among everything from Treasuries to junk bonds and may shop worldwide. The 500 and 700 also invest in stocks, commodities and real estate investment trusts.
 All four are permitted to buy derivative securities like swaps, futures and options. Fancy derivatives, along with excessive debt, have been blamed as fueling the current financial crisis. But Mr. Bloemker said Putnam's funds would rarely buy anything exotic.
 ''Ninety-nine percent of the derivatives we use will be very basic,'' he said. 
 Alan J. Marcus, a finance professor at Boston College, called Putnam's approach ''hedge fund lite,'' pointing out that hedge funds have used flexible strategies with mixed results. 
 Absolute-return funds, with their ''go-anywhere'' approach, he said, may be the way to go if investors think that managers can guide them to consistent gains. 
 Still, he noted, wise investors can have bad years: for example, the stock of Berkshire Hathaway, the company of Warren E. Buffett, fell about 30 percent in 2008. But in terms of Berkshire's long-term success, Professor Marcus said, ''my gut feel is that there aren't that many Warren Buffetts around.'' 
 Laura Pavlenko Lutton, associate director of mutual fund analysis at Morningstar, said that unless they thought the funds could perform consistently well, most investors would do best to buy 5 to 15 low-cost funds sold by several companies. 
 ''That provides diversification among managers and fund shops'' as well as asset classes, she said. 
 The Putnam managers didn't bristle at the hedge fund comparison. Hedge funds have some advantages over the typical mutual fund, they said. Besides flexibility, hedge funds typically levy performance-based fees, which can align the interests of customers and managers. Putnam's fees will rise when the funds beat their benchmarks but fall when they do not. 
 Unlike hedge funds, Putnam's offerings, which carry expense ratios of 1.25 percent to 1.65 percent (which include a base management fee), provide frequent public reports on their holdings and allow shareholders to cash out at any time. Hedge funds, however, often impose ''lockups'' on their investors, binding them to a fund for a specified period. 
 JEFF TJORNEHOJ, research manager at Lipper, compared absolute-return funds with balanced funds that alter their asset allocations to exploit movements in markets, an approach that was more common a generation ago. 
 Absolute-return funds are ''a throwback strategy but using modern financial technology,'' he said, adding that they hark back ''to the era of the money manager looking at the entire market and saying, 'Where's the best opportunity?' '' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rob A. Bloemker, left, and Jeffrey L. Knight are co-managers of the absolute-return funds that Putnam Investments introduced in January.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BOND FUNDS (78%); BONDS (78%); FUTURES (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); GOLD MARKETS (73%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: NATIXIS SA (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NORTH CAROLINA (54%)

TICKER: KN (PAR) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



477 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; BITES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 429 words

HEADLINE: Northampton, Mass. Local Burger and Fries

BYLINE: By NICK CZAP

 BODY:
Blessed with rich, productive nearby farmland and a supportive community, restaurants in western Massachusetts have long emphasized local meat and produce on their menus. And while these venues tend toward the upscale, a new entrant is applying locavore logic to a somewhat unexpected model: the burger joint. 
 Local Burger and Fries dispenses flame-broiled burgers and related items from its kitchen in a vintage brick building in downtown Northampton. It gets much of its humanely raised beef, including a dry-aged variety, from ranches in nearby Easthampton and Brimfield. (Acknowledging the realities of the growing season, a disclaimer on the menu states that produce and products from area farms will be used ''whenever possible.'') 
 The three-month-old restaurant is a fraternal affair. Chris Igneri -- a veteran of Mesa Grill and Odeon in New York, and Indigo in San Francisco -- and his brother Jeff run the front and back of the house, respectively. Another brother, Steven, formerly an electrician, mans the fry station. 
 When the Igneris made their move, it was not without a certain amount of trepidation. In addition to economic conditions, there was a cultural issue: As Chris Igneri put it, ''we were a little nervous with all the vegetarians up here.'' But with crowds arriving soon after the spot opened, their fears may have been unfounded. The food is very likely a factor. 
 The Valley Farm beef burger ($5.99) is robust, yet clean, the meat succulent without being drippy. Out of consideration for the herbivore crowd, Local also offers two non-meat options: the Northampton burger ($5.49), a savory house-made patty of mushrooms, roasted red peppers, corn and other vegetables, topped with a bright tzatziki dressing; and a juicy bomb called the Amherst burger ($5.79), two grilled portobello mushrooms larded with roasted red peppers and crumbled blue cheese. 
 The sides ($1.79 to $3.99) were similarly satisfying: the hand-cut fries, fine and crisp; the onion rings, in golden pillows of flavorful beer batter; and on a Southern note, fried pickles, assertively crunchy with a briny tang. The sweet-potato fries, though somewhat limp, were aided by a flight of house-made condiments, including a compelling maple-Dijon mayonnaise. 
 This spring, the restaurant plans to add local artisanal cheeses to the menu. There is also talk of opening a branch in nearby Amherst. A reporter's relations in that town greeted the news with enthusiasm. 
 Local Burger and Fries, 16 Main Street, Northampton, Mass.; (413) 586-5857; www.localburgerandfries.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY NANCY PALMIERI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (88%); AGRICULTURE (78%); MEAT FREE DIETS (78%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); CHEESE (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



478 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 397 words

HEADLINE: Sorting Out Their Goals, and Options

BYLINE: By KATE STONE LOMBARDI

 BODY:
Danny Casarella
 AGE 17, senior
 HOMETOWN Ossining, N.Y.
 HIGH SCHOOL Archbishop Stepinac High School, White Plains
 APPLICATIONS 8
 Danny Casarella didn't spend much time worrying about getting accepted to college. Paying for it is another matter. 
 Danny has maintained a 3.9 grade point average at Archbishop Stepinac High School in White Plains. 
 He played defensive tackle for the football team and is editor of the yearbook. Danny, who lives in Ossining, is also a Life Scout, a Boy Scout rank earned through extra leadership positions, service projects and merit badges.
 He applied to eight colleges: Boston College, Northeastern, Fordham, Iona, SUNY Geneseo, SUNY Binghamton, SUNY Buffalo and Maryland. 
 Danny was rejected by Boston College and wait-listed by Geneseo. Binghamton wait-listed him for admission for the fall of 2009, but guaranteed him admission for the fall of 2010. As of the first week of April, he hadn't yet heard from Maryland. He was accepted at the other four schools.
 Now it's decision time, and Danny is weighing the attractiveness of programs and campuses against the money available to help pay his way. Originally, Northeastern was his top choice, but the university has not offered any money. Danny qualified for a federal loan of $5,500, but tuition and other costs at Northeastern are more than $48,000 a year. The state schools are cheaper -- tuition runs about $5,500. SUNY Buffalo offered $2,500. 
 His current first choice is Fordham. He visited the campus recently and was highly impressed. 
 ''I've always had a very Roman Catholic background,'' Danny said. ''Going to church while I am away at school is something I really want to do. At Fordham, I loved the Jesuit feel.''
 Fordham has offered him $5,600 a year, but tuition and other costs average close to $50,000. Danny has applied for several scholarships, and the outcome will determine his decision. 
 He has had several frank talks about finances with his parents: Dan, an electrician, and Patricia, a nurse. They explained that most of Danny's college fund was invested in stocks and much was lost in the recent economic downturn. 
 The Casarellas are refinancing their house to help pay for Danny's college expenses.
 ''Like all parents, they always tell me to go where I want to go,'' he said. ''But I really don't want to be a burden on my family.''
 KATE STONE LOMBARDI 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TUITION FEES (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); RELIGION (89%); STUDENT EXPENSES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON COLLEGE (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



479 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3265 words

HEADLINE: A Google Whiz Searches for His Place on Earth

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL

DATELINE: MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. 

 BODY:
Where's Sanjay? 
 The question comes from one of dozens of engineers around a crowded conference table at Google. They have gathered to discuss how to build easy-to-use maps that could turn hundreds of millions of mobile phones into digital Sherpas -- guiding travelers to businesses, restaurants and landmarks. 
 ''His plane gets in at 9:30,'' the group's manager responds.
 Google is based here in Silicon Valley. But Sanjay G. Mavinkurve, one of the key engineers on this project, is not. 
 Mr. Mavinkurve, a 28-year-old Indian immigrant who helped lay the foundation for Facebook while a student at Harvard, instead works out of a Google sales office in Toronto, a lone engineer among marketers. 
 He has a visa to work in the United States, but his wife, Samvita Padukone, also born in India, does not. So he moved to Canada.
 ''Every American I've talked to says: 'Dude, it's ridiculous that we're not doing everything we can to keep you in the country. We need people like you!' '' he said.
 ''The people of America get it,'' he added. ''And in a matter of time, I think current lawmakers are going to realize how dumb they're being.''
 Immigrants like Mr. Mavinkurve are the lifeblood of Google and Silicon Valley, where half the engineers were born overseas, up from 10 percent in 1970. Google and other big companies say the Chinese, Indian, Russian and other immigrant technologists have transformed the industry, creating wealth and jobs.
 Just over half the companies founded in Silicon Valley from the mid-1990s to the mid-2000s had founders born abroad, according to Vivek Wadhwa, an immigration scholar working at Duke and Harvard. 
 The foreign-born elite dating back even further includes Andrew S. Grove, the Hungarian-born co-founder of Intel; Jerry Yang, the Chinese-born co-founder of Yahoo; Vinod Khosla of India and Andreas von Bechtolsheim of Germany, the co-founders of Sun Microsystems; and Google's Russian-born co-founder, Sergey Brin. 
 But technology executives say that byzantine and increasingly restrictive visa and immigration rules have imperiled their ability to hire more of the world's best engineers. 
 While it could be said that Mr. Mavinkurve's case is one of a self-entitled immigrant refusing to live in the United States because his wife would not be able to work, he exemplifies how immigration policies can chase away a potential entrepreneur who aspires to create wealth and jobs here. 
 His case highlights the technology industry's argument that the United States will struggle to compete if it cannot more easily hire foreign-born engineers.
 ''We are watching the decline and fall of the United States as an economic power -- not hypothetically, but as we speak,'' said Craig R. Barrett, the chairman of Intel. 
 Mr. Barrett blames a slouching education system that cannot be easily fixed, but he says a stopgap measure would be to let companies hire more foreign engineers.
 ''With a snap of the fingers, you can say, 'I'm going to make it such that those smart kids -- and as many of them as want to -- can stay in the United States.' They're here today, they're graduating today -- and they're going home today.''
 He is opposed by staunch foes of liberalized immigration and by advocates for American-born engineers. 
 ''There are probably two billion people in the world who would like to live in California and work, but not everyone in the world can live here,'' said Kim Berry, an engineer who operates a nonprofit advocacy group for American-born technologists. ''There are plenty of Americans to do these jobs.''
 The debate has only sharpened as the country's economic downturn has deepened. Advocates for American-born workers are criticizing companies that lay off employees even as they retain engineers living here on visas. But the technology industry counters that innovations from highly skilled workers are central to American long-term growth.
 It is a debate well known to Google, and it is a deeply personal one to Mr. Mavinkurve. 
 An Eye on America
 Sanjay Mavinkurve (pronounced MAY-vin-kur-VAY) was born in Bombay to working-class parents who soon moved to Saudi Arabia.
 He thought everything important in life was American -- from Baskin-Robbins and Nike Airs to the Hardees's and Domino's in the food court at the shopping mall. When in the car, he and his older brother played a game, naming all the things they could see that came from the United States.
 ''I know this sounds romantic, but it's true: I always wanted to come to America,'' said Mr. Mavinkurve, lanky, with bushy hair and an easy smile. ''I admired everything in the way America portrayed itself -- the opportunity, U.S. Constitution, its history, enterprising middle class.''
 When he was 14, he and his brother were accepted at Western Reserve Academy, a private school in Cleveland, and received scholarships. During his senior year, Mr. Mavinkurve finished near the top of his class, ran cross-country and track, and scored 1560 out of 1600 on the SAT.
 Next stop: Harvard. His freshman year, he won the prize for best essay written in French, a comparison of books by Annie Ernaux. His friends described him as social but with a quiet, determined work ethic. He took the toughest classes, and to make money he took a job cleaning toilets in the dorm.
 He remained patriotic; on his dorm wall, he hung an American flag his brother had purchased at Fort McHenry in Baltimore, where ''The Star-Spangled Banner'' was written.
 But he knew he could lose his immigration status after he graduated and his student visa expired. So he decided to major in computer science, which he understood to be in demand, and entered a four-year program for a master's degree. 
 In 2003, his final year, he and three friends decided to build a Web site where college students could connect. Mr. Mavinkurve wrote the computer code. Eventually, the team disbanded, although some of its work evolved into Facebook. He had helped create the foundation for a product that has become a national sensation.
 He started at Google in August 2003, as a product manager on the teams that developed Google News and the Google toolbar, then worked on the look and feel of the video search, and on the early versions of Google Maps for cellphones. He developed a reputation for helping design the way the products look, and making them simple to use.
 Still, he had ample reason to worry about his visa status, given the limits on how many visas are issued for skilled immigrant labor.
 It is a category whose significance has been growing since the 1920s, when politicians and business executives started recognizing the value of skilled immigrants. After World War II, companies began actively recruiting scientists, among them Nobel Prize winners, from around the world. 
 The emphasis on skilled labor was codified in the Hart-Celler Immigrant Act of 1965, which said that for 20 percent of immigration spots, candidates with certain skills would get preference to stay indefinitely, though that 20 percent also included the family members of those skilled immigrants. 
 (At the time, 74 percent of visas were given to people to be reunited with family members here, and 6 percent for political refugees from the Eastern Hemisphere.) 
 Reflecting the growing importance of technology -- and responding to industry lobbying -- in 1990 Congress set aside 65,000 temporary work visas, known as H-1B visas, for skilled workers. The visas, which are sponsored by companies on behalf of employees, permit three years of work, with an automatic three-year extension.
 The limit was raised twice as the technology sector boomed, to 115,000 in 1999 and to 195,000 in 2001. But those temporary increases were not renewed for 2004, and the number of H-1B visas reverted to 65,000. (There are an additional 20,000 H1-B's for people with graduate degrees from American universities.) 
 Since 2004, there has been a growing gap between the number of H-1B visas sought and those granted, through a lottery. In 2008, companies made 163,000 applications for the 65,000 slots. Google applied for 300 of them; 90 were denied. 
 In 2004, Mr. Mavinkurve was one of the lucky ones. ''You can be very proud,'' said the congratulatory e-mail message he received from an immigration lawyer at Google. 
 Good fortune followed at Google. In honor of the country that made it possible, on June 14, 2004, Flag Day, Mr. Mavinkurve made a laser print of an American flag and taped it to a white board in a Google hallway. The flag remains.
 When Google went public that August, Mr. Mavinkurve was on his way to becoming a multimillionaire. 
 ''I remember quantifying: for each dollar the stock goes up, I make more than my mother and father make together in a whole month at work,'' he said. 
 Indeed, recent immigrants like those at Google have been successful. 
 ''The thing distinctive about this generation, and I think unprecedented, is that they are coming with the highest level of skills in the leading industries,'' said AnnaLee Saxenian of the school of information at the University of California, Berkeley. 
 She added that this was acute in Silicon Valley because of its entrepreneurial culture. 
 ''You don't see immigrant success at any other place in the U.S. at anywhere near the same scale,'' she said.
 The Guy With the Answer
 The role Mr. Mavinkurve played in Google's success was on stark display in early 2007, when the company's map-making team faced a problem that even the best and brightest could not solve. The team met in Winnipeg, one of many conference rooms at Google headquarters named for foreign cities, like Algiers, Tunis and Haifa.
 International tributes take other forms; over cubicles in one building hang flags from dozens of countries. The cafeteria, where much of the fare is ethnic, includes Indian and Chinese food stations.
 These touches are appropriate. Of Google's 20,000 workers, 2,000 were born abroad and work on temporary visas, while numerous others (the company would not disclose how many) have become American citizens or been granted permanent residency, the so-called green card status.
 The work force is international, and so is the company's market. With the mobile phone, Google believes it can expand in places where reaching the Internet over computers is difficult, and create advertising-supported versions of maps and other services so consumers can effectively use the services free, exchanging not money, but attention. 
 But back in late 2006, maps produced by the service were taking too long to download and appear on phones. As customers waited for the maps to form, they racked up huge bills from cellphone providers, which at the time were charging for every minute or every byte of data transferred. 
 Enter Mr. Mavinkurve, who floated an alternative: cut the number of colors in each map section to 20 or 40 from around 256. The user would not see the difference, but the load times would be reduced 20 percent.
 Mr. Mavinkurve used a rare combination of creativity, analysis, engineering and an understanding of graphics to find a solution that had eluded the rest of the team, said Mark Crady, a manager in the maps group.
 ''He's one of the best U.I. guys I've ever seen,'' Mr. Crady said, referring to user interfaces. ''Google Maps for mobile reflects Sanjay.''
 Many innovators in Silicon Valley come from overseas; 42 percent of engineers with master's degrees and 60 percent of those with engineering Ph.D.'s in the United States are foreign-born. 
 Foreigners also spur innovation by broadening understanding of consumers abroad. For instance, on the advice of Chinese-born workers, Google dotted its mobile maps for China with fast-food restaurants, which locals use as navigational landmarks. 
 When Google cannot get visas for people it wants to hire, it seeks to accommodate them in overseas offices, like the bureaus in Britain and Brazil from which map-team members attend meetings via video conference. 
 That work-around presents a number of drawbacks, one of which is especially apparent when one worker is in California and a colleague is in India.
 ''It's 11 hours to Hyderabad,'' Peter Norvig, director of research for Google, says of the time difference. ''We do video conferences where we're up late and they're up early. Maybe a video conference is as good as a formal meeting, but there are no informal meetings. As a result, we lose the pace of work, and we lose trust.''
 The larger risk is employees growing unhappy working at a distance, or foreign companies recruiting them. 
 For his part, Mr. Mavinkurve, in Toronto, typically talks with colleagues via video conference, e-mail or instant message. But he does fly twice a month to headquarters and once a month to Britain, his life a whirlwind of time zones and virtual interaction.
 For Google and Mr. Mavinkurve, working here would be better. The trouble is, he fell in love.
 Stuck North of the Border
 He sits at a rooftop pub in Toronto, drinking Canadian amber beer. His wife, Ms. Padukone, 27, sips sangria. Evident between them is a respect, and slight emotional distance -- understandable given their brief history together.
 In 2006, while working for Google in Mountain View, Mr. Mavinkurve saw his future wife's photo on the cover of a newsletter published by his Indian ethnic community, the Konkani. She was attending college in Singapore. He found her pretty, so he e-mailed her.
 ''For three months, we sent messages back and forth -- but regularly,'' she said.
 ''I hate talking on the phone,'' he explained.
 They arranged to meet while Mr. Mavinkurve was in Singapore during a flight layover on his way to India. They met for two hours, and connected. 
 They were engaged in January 2007 in India, their second meeting. They married there in 2008.
 Like first-generation immigrants throughout American history, Mr. Mavinkurve has deep ethnic ties but is quickly assimilating. His wife is no different. But visa rules preclude her from working in the United States unless her husband gets a green card.
 That process can take two years. So they live in Toronto, where she recently landed a job in finance. 
 Mr. Mavinkurve and his wife get little sympathy from Mr. Berry of the Programmers Guild, a nonprofit group with a volunteer staff that lobbies Congress on behalf of American-born high-tech workers. 
 To Mr. Berry, 50 -- who lives in Sacramento, where he was born -- it is unfathomable that Google, which receives one million resumes a year, cannot find enough qualified Americans. Further, he says immigrants depress wages. 
 By law, H-1B workers must be paid prevailing wages, but there are conflicting studies on whether some employers actually pay less when they control the fate of the sponsored workers. Even some of the supporters of allowing in more skilled immigrants say the H-1B system is flawed because it gives employers so much power over employees.
 As the recession deepens, many people, including members of Congress, have criticized companies like Microsoft and Intel for laying off Americans while retaining visa holders. Google says it will cut 350 workers this year.
 Mr. Berry says his skills and education -- a bachelor's degree in computer science from California State University, Sacramento -- are denigrated by an industry that asserts that the best talent comes from overseas, via Ivy League schools. He worries about the employability of his children, who are studying engineering at top colleges, the University of Southern California and California Polytechnic State University.
 Mr. Berry, for his part, works at a major technology company he declines to name because his employment agreement precludes him from talking about his employer when in his advocacy role.
 He does not believe that skilled immigrants are essential to innovation. In fact, he argues the opposite. ''In my experience,'' he said, ''foreign software programmers are less likely to step out of the box and present alternatives to management.''
 His arguments have caught the attention of some on Capitol Hill. ''Not all our own people are able to get good jobs right now,'' said Senator Jeff Sessions, Republican of Alabama and one of the members of Congress who oppose temporary work visas.
 Mr. Sessions favors broad immigration reform that puts even greater emphasis on admitting people with skills. He even wants to ask visa applicants to take a scholastic aptitude test. 
 But he opposes temporary workers, whom he argues have incentive to work for less and return to their countries to share what they have learned. This puts him at odds with tech companies. 
 ''They need to step up and look at what's in the national interest,'' he said. 
 Google estimates that it spends about $20 million a year on its immigration efforts -- including lobbying, administration and fees to a law firm. Microsoft, while it would not disclose expenses, probably spends more. Its in-house immigration team numbers 20 lawyers and staff members.
 On the political front, the tech industry lobbies Congress through an organization called Compete America, which includes titans like Intel, Microsoft, Google and Oracle. 
 ''The next generation of Google engineers are being turned down,'' says Pablo Chavez, Google's senior policy counsel. ''If a foreign-born engineer doesn't come to Google, there is a very good chance that individual will return to India to compete against us.''
 At the rooftop pub, Mr. Mavinkurve and his wife both express some anger. He thinks America should embrace him, given his contributions and taxpaying potential. After Google went public, he paid more than $200,000 in federal taxes on his income from salary and, mostly, sales of his shares, just in one year.
 He misses interaction with colleagues. It hinders efficiency, slows work. He is physically drained from travel. He is frustrated that he cannot put down roots in America, and maybe start his own company, because he cannot leave Google, his visa sponsor.
 He says he feels, on one hand, great gratitude that America gave him extraordinary opportunity. But he says he fulfilled his side of the bargain by striving and succeeding. ''Dude, I love this country,'' he said. 
 But he doesn't feel loved back: ''My devotion is unrequited.''
 To Stay or to Go
 On each of Mr. Mavinkurve's twice-monthly visits to the United States (he keeps a room not far from Google), he meets with two friends at the Red Mango frozen yogurt shop on University Avenue in the heart of Palo Alto. Over scoops of green tea yogurt, they brainstorm for their next venture. 
 But he is not sure he can start a company -- at least in America. Unless he gets his green card and his wife can work, he would be the only breadwinner, risking his savings, and he says they would be unhappy. 
 ''Quitting Google means saying goodbye to my green card,'' he said. 
 If America will not have him, he might have to stay in Canada. The proof is on the wall of the two-bedroom high-rise apartment he shares with his wife -- who is pregnant -- and his parents, who have moved in with them. On the living room wall is a Canadian flag.
 ''Quality stitching,'' he said, fingering it.
 Mr. Mavinkurve, who once hung American flags in his dorm room and then in Google's hallway, still loves America. But the Internet-era immigrant, who moves so quickly between worlds, cannot decide where to land. 
 Where is Sanjay? Even he is not sure where he belongs.
 ''I'm not sure I want to go back,'' he said of the possibility of moving back to the United States. ''I'm not sure I can.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 23, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about immigration policies that are hindering efforts by technology companies to hire foreign-born engineers misstated the birthplace of Jerry Yang, co-founder of Yahoo. He was born in Taiwan, not China. The article also misstated the Hungarian-born Andrew S. Grove's role in the start-up of the Intel Corporation. He was brought in by Robert N. Noyce and Gordon E. Moore to operate the company at its founding in 1968; he was not a co-founder.
An article on April 12 about immigration policies that are hindering efforts by technology companies to hire foreign-born engineers overstated the number of Google employees who were born abroad and work at the company on temporary visas. The number ranges from 1,200 to 1,800; it is not 2,000.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sanjay Mavinkurve of Google lives in Canada because his wife can't get an American work visa. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EROS HOAGLAND FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
Google's home base in Mountain View, Calif., is a corporate United Nations, where 1 in 10 employees is on a temporary visa and more are from overseas. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EROS HOAGLAND FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
The Mountain View office celebrates Google's global ambition and work force. Work rooms are named for foreign cities, like Navrongo in Ghana. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EROS HOAGLAND FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Even though Google sponsored a work visa for Sanjay Mavinkurve, he lives in Toronto with his wife, Samvita Padukone, and his parents. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM ROSS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A20) CHARTS: BRAIN GAIN: A flood of skilled immigrants have moved into better-paying jobs in the United States. The high-tech industry says they are critical to keeping the nation competitive.
RELYING ON IMMIGRANTS: Jobs dominated by immigrants include many low-skilled categories. But the list has also come to include high-skilled jobs, and the number of high-paid immigrants is growing rapidly.
COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES
ROOM AT THE TOP (Sources: Census
''Higher Education, Innovation and Growth'' by Giovanni Peri, 2007
''American Made: The Impact of Immigrant Entrepreneurs and Professionals on U.S. Comptetitiveness'' by Stuart Anderson and Michaela Platzer, 2006
''The Ethnic Composition of U.S. Inventors'' by William R. Kerr, 2006
''America's New Immigrant Entrepreneurs'' by Vivek Wadhwa, et al., 2007, Kaufman Foundation
 Foreign Labor Certification Data Center) (pg.A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (75%); FOREIGN LABOR (75%); RESTAURANTS (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (72%); JOB CREATION (68%); PUBLIC POLICY (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (57%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (94%); INTEL CORP (57%); FACEBOOK INC (57%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (94%); INTC (NASDAQ) (57%); FB (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (94%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (52%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (52%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (52%)

PERSON: SERGEY BRIN (58%); VINOD KHOSLA (55%); JERRY YANG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (87%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); EARTH (91%); ONTARIO, CANADA (87%) UNITED STATES (98%); CANADA (94%); INDIA (92%); GHANA (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



480 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: Anarchy on Land Means Piracy at Sea

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. KAPLAN. 
Robert D. Kaplan is a national correspondent for The Atlantic and a senior fellow at the Center for a New American Security.

DATELINE: Stockbridge, Mass. 

 BODY:
 PIRACY is the maritime ripple effect of anarchy on land. Somalia is a failed state and has the longest coastline in mainland Africa, so piracy flourishes nearby. The 20th-century French historian Fernand Braudel called piracy a ''secondary form of war,'' that, like insurgencies on land, tends to increase in the lulls between conflicts among great states or empires. With the Soviet Union and its client states in Africa no longer in existence, and American influence in the third world at an ebb, irregular warfare both on land and at sea has erupted, and will probably be with us until the rise of new empires or their equivalents. 
 Somali pirates are usually unemployed young men who have grown up in an atmosphere of anarchic violence, and have been dispatched by a local warlord to bring back loot for his coffers. It is organized crime carried out by roving gangs. The million-square-miles of the Indian Ocean where pirates roam might as well be an alley in Mogadishu. These pirates are fearless because they have grown up in a culture where nobody expects to live long. Pirate cells often consist of 10 men with several ratty, roach-infested skiffs. They bring along drinking water, gasoline for their single-engine outboards, grappling hooks, ladders, knives, assault rifles, rocket-propelled grenades and the mild narcotic qat to chew. They live on raw fish.
 The skiffs are generally used to launch attacks on slightly larger crafts, often a fishing dhow operated by South Koreans, Indians or Taiwanese, taking the crews prisoner. In turn, they use the new ship to take a larger vessel, and then another, working up the food chain. Eventually, they let the smaller boats and crews go free. In this way, over the years, Somali pirates have graduated to attacking oil tankers and container ships; the bigger the vessel, the higher the ransoms, which the pirate confederations can then invest in more sophisticated equipment.
 As Braudel suggested, there is nothing new here. Piracy has been endemic to the Indian Ocean from the Gulf of Aden to the Strait of Malacca, and particularly so after the Western intrusion into these waters, beginning with the Portuguese in the 16th century. Pirate groups, sometimes known as ''sea gypsies,'' tended to escalate in number and audacity as trade increased, so that piracy itself has often been a sign of prosperity. The Moroccan traveler Ibn Battuta, who was the victim of pirates off western India in the 14th century, informed us that commercial ships in the Indian Ocean of his day traveled in armed convoys as a defense. Slightly earlier, Marco Polo described many dozens of pirate vessels off Gujarat, India, where the pirates would spend the whole summer at sea with their women and children, even as they plundered merchant vessels.
 The big danger in our day is that piracy can potentially serve as a platform for terrorists. Using pirate techniques, vessels can be hijacked and blown up in the middle of a crowded strait, or a cruise ship seized and the passengers of certain nationalities thrown overboard. You can see how Al Qaeda would be studying this latest episode at sea, in which Somali pirates attacked a Maersk Line container ship and were fought off by the American crew, even as they have managed to take the captain hostage in one of the lifeboats.
 So we end up with the spectacle of an American destroyer, the Bainbridge, with enough Tomahawk missiles and other weaponry to destroy a small city, facing off against a handful of Somali pirates in a tiny lifeboat. This is not an efficient use of American resources. It indicates how pirates, like terrorists, can attack us asymmetrically. The challenge ahead for the United States is not only dealing with the rise of Chinese naval power, but also in handling more unconventional risks that will require a more scrappy, street-fighting Navy.
 In a sense, America needs three navies; yet, as this pirate crisis reveals, it may have only two. It has a blue-water force for patrolling the major sea lines, thus guarding the global commons. It packs enough precision weaponry on its warships to project power on land against adversaries like North Korea and Iran. But it still does not have enough of a sea-based, counterinsurgency component to deal with adversaries like Somali pirates and Iran's Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps Navy. (The latter's force features speedboats loaded with explosives hidden in the many coves of Iran's coastline, which could ram ships on suicide missions.) 
 The Navy has plans to build 55 new Littoral Combat Ships to deal with this deficiency. Yes, these fast, maneuverable ships have low drafts and are thus suited for many different kinds of unorthodox missions close to shore. But the oceans are vast, and ships cannot be in two places at once. Without sufficient numbers of them, it's hard to believe that they will make much of a difference. Defense Secretary Robert Gates, in his recent budget statement, indicated that only a few of these ships will be built at first, even as he endorsed the whole program.
 In recent years the American public has been humbled by the limits of our military power in dirty land wars. But navies have historically been a military indicator of great power. That a relatively small number of pirates from a semi-starving nation can constitute enough of a menace to disrupt major sea routes is another sign of the anarchy that will be characteristic of a multipolar world, in which a great navy like America's -- with a falling number of overall ships -- will be in relative, elegant decline, while others will either lack the stomach or the capacity to adequately guard the seas.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JON HAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARITIME PIRACY (91%); HISTORY (90%); SOMALI PIRACY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MARINE VESSELS (89%); MARINE SHIPPING (89%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (74%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (72%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); ORGANIZED CRIME (68%); FIREARMS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (58%) INDIAN OCEAN (94%); WEST INDIA (79%); GUJARAT, INDIA (57%) SOMALIA (94%); AFRICA (94%); INDIA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



481 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; DESIGN; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: At VW, the Italian Accent Gets Stronger

BYLINE: By PHIL PATTON

 BODY:
WHEN Walter de'Silva, design director of the Volkswagen Group, unexpectedly broke into Italian while speaking to the press at the Detroit auto show last January, it was a sign. As he did at Audi, Mr. de'Silva would be giving a more romantic look to the Teutonic geometry of Volkswagen.
 The design language Mr. de'Silva is bringing to VW can be seen this week at the New York auto show in the form of a redesigned Golf and its sportier derivative, the GTI. Both cars go on sale in the United States in the fall. 
 The change of direction came suddenly, when Martin Winterkorn was made chairman of VW's management board in January 2007. To add consistency and boldness to the company's products, he brought in Mr. de'Silva, the son of an architect, born outside Milan, who had won respect for his reinvention of Audi's design and for his earlier work at SEAT, VW's Spanish subsidiary, and at Alfa Romeo. 
 Mr. de'Silva laid out the elements of Audi's recent design language with a show car called the Nuvolari in 2003. Those elements included an upright grille, inspired by racecars from the 1930's and now seen on Audis like the A5 and S5 Cabriolets that made their United States debuts here on Wednesday. 
 In taking over the design chief post from Murat Gunak, who had trained as a designer of theater and opera sets before working at Peugeot and Mercedes-Benz, Mr. de'Silva pushed the restart button. He decreed, in effect, that VW design would proceed as if Mr. Gunak's contributions -- which included large chrome bibs on the faces of Jettas and Passats -- had never happened.
 Mr. de'Silva halted development of four major models, including the Golf, the Scirocco sport coupe, the Tiguan crossover and the four-door coupe that became the CC -- the last car just two weeks before it was to be shown to the public. ''We will create the iconic cars of the future,'' he boldly stated. 
 Among his responsibilities, Mr. de'Silva supervises design for other brands of the VW Group, including Bentley and Lamborghini. He picked Klaus Bischoff to supervise the design of Volkswagen-brand vehicles directly and brought in Flavio Manzoni, who had worked for him at SEAT and served at Fiat. 
 The new look, which first emerged in a design study called the Up that was introduced in September 2007, reshuffles the company's historical design DNA, Mr. Bischoff said in an interview at the auto show. It was the first of the so-called New Small Car family. The Up was conceived as a restatement of the Beetle for the new millennium. 
 The new corporate face was rendered in the Scirocco facelift; the CC lost a homely egg-crate grille. 
 The Golf shows the new VW face, with a low air intake and a thin upper grille. It has a more pronounced, angular high shoulder and character line to give it a lower and wider look. The shapes are fuller and angled. 
 This is the sixth generation of the Golf, first called the Rabbit in this country and again recently for a short time. Each new generation at first seems little different from its predecessor -- except when seen side by side. 
 Under Hartmut Warkuss, its design director until 2003, Volkswagen styling celebrated its Teutonic origins and the spare modernist tradition expressed in Braun radios and coffee makers, reference points for the neomodern simplicity of the iPod. Freeman Thomas and J Mays, now both with Ford, worked under Mr. Warkuss. ''He used to say, 'Put a little more Braun in it,''' Mr. Thomas said. 
 But the same language can seem cold and impersonal. Mr. Bischoff said that cars need more expressiveness. 
 Volkswagen has a history of going to Italians when it wanted to improve its design. In 1949 the company talked to Pininfarina about redesigning the Beetle. An advertisement Volkswagen ran in 1960 declared: ''Some time ago we called in a world famous Italian body designer and asked him what changes he would recommend in the design of the Volkswagen.'' The only suggestion was to enlarge the car's rear window.
 When it wanted to build a sportier car based on the Beetle, Volkswagen hired the Italian coachbuilder Ghia, producing the Karmann Ghia. And ultimately to succeed the Beetle it went to Giorgetto Giugiaro, whose memorable designs include the Maserati Ghibli and the DeLorean DMC-12. The result was the original Golf of 1974, which established the shape of the quintessential front-drive econobox. 
 At the United States debut of the Golf and the GTI last week, Stefan Jacoby, the president and chief executive of Volkswagen of America, said that because the first Golf was designed by an Italian, the company once again turned to an Italian designer, Mr. de'Silva, for the new generation. He called the design ''simple, universal and unmistakable.'' 
 The first-generation Golf was succeeded by new models that maintained the characteristic form through a steady evolution. The current model, shown in Paris last October, went on sale in Europe in January. The six generations of the Golf have cumulatively outsold the Beetle -- in all, more than 26 million cars. 
 The face of Mr. Giugiaro's original generation serves as inspiration for the latest car, Mr. Bischoff said. The fourth generation provided the pattern for the rear or C-pillar shape. The designers tried to take the best elements of earlier versions of the car.
 Volkswagen is riding comparatively high these days, with less of a sales decline than some of its Japanese or American rivals. It is building a new factory in Chattanooga, Tenn., that Mr. Jacoby said would create 2,000 jobs. 
 Many visitors to the auto show won't see much different in the Golf or in the GTI, which is the fun model with a turbocharged engine, black and red honeycomb grille and telephone-dial wheels.
 The new design language is spoken more fluently in the Concept BlueSport, which Mr. de'Silva was introducing to the public in his flurry of Italian in Detroit. The compact diesel-powered Roadster rehabilitates other elements of VW's past designs. Those elements include the toylike geometries seen on the New Beetle as well as details like bold projecting fenders and the front-rear symmetry of headlights and taillights that are quite similar in size. 
 It accents the new language with humor, but the goal is the same as with the Golf. Mr. Manzoni's phrase for the ideal works as well in English as in Italian: ''clear design for a complex world.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BLUE SKY: Walter de'Silva at the introduction of the Volkswagen Concept BlueSport roadster in Detroit last January.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
EVOLVED: The GTI, above left, and Scirocco, above, were both revised when Mr. de'Silva took over. Left, VW Up design study.
 TRENDSETTER: The Audi Nuvolari concept of 2003.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DENIS BALIBOUSE/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW CAR MODELS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); SPORTS CARS (72%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (70%)

COMPANY: VOLKSWAGEN AG (93%); AUDI AG (92%)

TICKER: VOW3 (FRA) (93%); VKW (LSE) (93%); NSU (FRA) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



482 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 228 words

HEADLINE: Reducing the Estate Tax

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Guarding the Family Fortune'' (editorial, April 8) and ''The Forgotten Rich'' (editorial, April 2): 
 You say that only ''America's wealthiest families'' will benefit under a proposal to permanently raise the unified credit by $1.5 million and reduce the death tax rate by 10 percentage points.
 The very rich already employ the best accountants and lawyers to help plan for, or avoid paying, the death tax. But many small-business owners and farmers cannot. They earn relatively low profit margins and are considered ''wealthy'' by the government only because they own expensive equipment or land. 
 Small-business owners generate up to 80 percent of all jobs in America. Wouldn't it be better in a recession to leave more resources in the hands of those who create jobs and help drive economic growth? The Times considers that to be ''swill.'' 
 You cite a claim that reducing the death tax rate would reduce charitable giving. Really? Would people be more inclined to give to a charity if the government allowed them to keep more of their money? And despite your charge that allowing Americans to keep more of their money would drive up the deficit, the best way for the government to reduce debt is to reduce spending and promote economic growth. 
 Jon Kyl Washington, April 8, 2009
 The writer is the assistant Republican leader in the Senate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESTATE TAX (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); FAMILY (78%); CHARITIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); CHARITABLE GIVING (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); JOB CREATION (73%); WRITERS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%)

PERSON: JON KYL (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



483 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; MUSIC; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1558 words

HEADLINE: Keeping It Real: Rescuing Forgotten Verismo

BYLINE: By ANTHONY TOMMASINI

 BODY:
FINDING a replacement for Brunnhilde on short notice, or for any number of daunting roles that only a handful of people in the world can sing properly, is a nightmarish prospect for an opera company. But imagine having to find a replacement tenor to sing the punishing title role of Pietro Mascagni's ''Piccolo Marat.'' Never heard of it? Not many operagoers have.
 ''Il Piccolo Marat'' had a sensational 1921 premiere in Rome. A rescue drama and ill-fated-love story set in the river city of Nantes at the height of the French Revolution, it is among the many forgotten works of Italian opera's verismo era. From the 1890s to the 1920s opera composers in Italy could hardly keep pace with the public demand for melodically plush, hot-blooded and gritty musical dramas. Verismo means realism, and these operas offered true-to-life (sometimes true-to-lowlife) depictions of everyday people. 
 This period, dominated by Puccini, produced a sizable number of enduring works, starting with Mascagni's one-act wonder, ''Cavalleria Rusticana.'' Its runaway success at its 1890 premiere in Rome essentially inaugurated the verismo movement. 
 Yet dozens of verismo operas that followed, often acclaimed at their openings, have languished for decades. They have a tireless champion in Duane D. Printz, a former soprano and the founding director of Teatro Grattacielo, a scrappy organization devoted to uncovering worthy operas from this once-thriving era. 
 Among its diverse activities Teatro Grattacielo presents a yearly concert performance of a neglected verismo opera in New York. On Monday night at Avery Fisher Hall, to celebrate its 15th anniversary, the group will present the North American premiere of ''Il Piccolo Marat,'' with soloists, chorus and orchestra, conducted by David Wroe.
 But for a couple of weeks the project was threatened. Arnold Rawls, a rising tenor scheduled to sing the title role, withdrew in mid-March because of an illness in his family. It was a pretty safe assumption that there were no tenors around who knew the role, so Ms. Printz had to search for someone willing to learn it. 
 Two weeks ago she lined up Richard Crawley, another young tenor, and the show was on. Ms. Printz sounded relieved during a recent phone interview. For such an ardent defender of verismo, she offered what Puccini lovers might consider a heretical view about why she has focused on neglected works. ''Audiences are tired of 'Boheme' and 'Tosca,' '' she said. ''Companies should be more adventurous. Nobody does these other verismo operas, and they are so good.''
 Over the years Ms. Printz has given New Yorkers rare opportunities to hear neglected operas like ''L'Arlesiana'' by Francesco Cilea, ''La Wally'' by Alfredo Catalani and ''Zaza'' by Ruggero Leoncavallo, who is best known for ''Pagliacci,'' written in the aftermath of ''Cavalleria.'' The two works have long been a favorite double bill around the world, including at the Metropolitan Opera, where a revival of Franco Zeffirelli's production just ended.
 Several of the works Teatro Grattacielo has uncovered have proved to be surprisingly effective and impassioned entertainments. I was particularly impressed by a 1925 Riccardo Zandonai opera, a swashbuckling tale of love and salvation in rural Sweden called ''I Cavalieri di Ekebu.'' At the very least, the piece shot to the top of my list of favorite opera titles. 
 Though these neglected operas and the beloved works of Puccini have long been grouped under the banner of verismo, that term is used too broadly. In the decades after Italy was united in 1860 the aristocratic class gradually gave way to an emerging population of merchants and bourgeoisie. By the 1880s verismo had taken root as a literary movement extolling naturalism. Leading writers like Giovanni Verga encouraged their colleagues to give voice to peasants and workers, to adopt a objective, nonmoralizing narrative stance and to depict life as it really was, with winners and losers. 
 Naturalism fired the imaginations of composers as well. But as the pianist and author Alan Mallach explains in his informative book ''The Autumn of Italian Opera: From Verismo to Modernism, 1890-1915,'' published by Northeastern University Press in 2007, Italian opera during the 1870s and '80s was in a creative crisis. 
 The field had long been long dominated by Verdi, a national hero. But for all his genius Verdi was viewed as bound to a tradition that had its roots in bel canto. The rebellious composers born in the 1850s and '60s, among them Puccini, Mascagni, Giordano and Leoncavallo, called the Giovane Scuola (Young School), were enamored of contemporary French opera and fascinated by Wagner. 
 Even when bleakly portraying the downtrodden, Verdi maintained an elevated stance. His operas, Mr. Mallach writes, would be ''largely incomprehensible without the presence of an underlying moral order'' that typically leads characters to do the right thing by the end, whatever the dismal consequences. 
 The verismo movement in literature pointed to an uncompromising new path for opera. Mascagni, the son of a baker, took the first step with ''Cavalleria Rusticana,'' based on a play by Verga. 
 Set in a Sicilian village in the 1880s, the opera tells of Turiddu, a young peasant back from a stint in the army, who has reignited a love affair with the alluring villager Lola, though she is now married to Alfio. Santuzza, a young peasant woman whom Turiddu has seduced in revenge for Lola's marriage, is determined to claim him. Santuzza tells Alfio of his wife's affair. The men duel, Turiddu dies, Santuzza is grief stricken, and the villagers are horrified, though not too horrified. This is life, after all. Fool around, and you may pay a price. Then again, you may not. 
 Mascagni's score pulses with lyrical ardor and lush orchestral writing. The opera takes place in the village square as an Easter service is being held. The pacing is taut. You could argue that the opera lightens its punch with evocations of local color, complete with folk serenades. And what village church in Sicily could have assembled such a huge choir to sing the elaborate Easter odes Mascagni gives us here? 
 Still, without these musical touches the dramatic intensity might have become unbearable. Here was a compellingly real musical drama. Audiences had never seen anything like it, and other composers wanted in on the action.
 Mr. Mallach argues that after an initial burst of activity only a limited number of subsequent works from the period truly hewed to the verismo credo. Puccini's grim one-act ''Il Tabarro,'' a love triangle ending in a revenge killing, is surely one. A more complicated example is ''La Boheme.'' This tale of freewheeling bohemians has its tough side. In the face of Mimi's declining health Rodolfo realizes that he has no means of grappling with her illness. So he cops out. Still, Puccini also wanted to pull in audiences with depictions of Parisian nightlife, youthful high jinks and love-at-first-sight romance. 
 By the dawn of the 20th century, as Italy lurched toward economic and social crisis, Mr. Mallach writes, the opera audience ''was looking less for grim naturalism than for stories into which they could escape, containing characters with whom they could identify'' or ''costume operas set in exotic places or historic times.'' ''Madama Butterfly'' comes to mind. 
 Still, whatever you call these operas, it must have been exhilarating to take part in a popular art form driven by fervor for new work. You can poke at the conservatism of the Italian composers ofthat time, when elsewhere Stravinsky and Schoenberg were instigating revolutions. But as Teatro Grattacielo's productions over the years have suggested, these operas were well-made, crowd-pleasing works. The cultural climate that produced them would not be matched until the cinema came along. Just as we look back and recognize the skill and style that went into the silent films cranked out by Hollywood, or the screwball comedies of the 1930s, the verismo operas championed by Teatro Grattacielo have their own kind of sophistication.
 For a year or so the group's financing took a hit, Ms. Printz said, further complicated by being displaced from Alice Tully Hall, its favored performance space, during the hall's renovation. But things are back on track, she said. And tickets are selling for ''Il Piccolo Marat.'' ''This thrilling opera had 50 curtain calls at its premiere,'' she said. It went on to productions beyond Italy from Paris to Sao Paolo.
 Ms. Printz suggested that these vibrant operas fell into disrepute among critics and composers in the decades following World War II when contemporary music was increasingly dominated by ''the academic composers,'' as she put it, who were ''really writing for each other.'' Mascagni, she said, ''wrote for audiences.''
 Mascagni never quite equaled the early success he had with ''Cavalleria Rusticana.'' And by 1921 he was a compromised figure in Italian cultural life who allowed himself to be embraced by the Fascists. ''Il Piccolo Marat,'' his 14th opera, was to be his comeback work, and he wanted it to shatter people. 
 ''It does not speak, it does not sing, it shouts!'' Mascagni wrote to friend in 1919 while composing the score. ''Do not look for melody or refinement, there is only blood!''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, ''Cavalleria Rusticana'' at the Metropolitan Opera. Middle, also at the Met, Salvatore Licitra and Maria Guleghina in ''Il Tabarro.'' Above, Teatro Grattacielo's concert performance of ''Zaza'' at Alice Tully Hall in 2005, with Aprile Millo (center). (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARTY SOHL/METROPOLITAN OPERA
KEN HOWARD/METROPOLITAN OPERA
 HIROYUKI ITO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPERA (94%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (72%); MUSICAL THEATER (72%); ANNIVERSARIES (69%); INTERVIEWS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (86%) UNITED STATES (86%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ITALY (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



484 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 224 words

HEADLINE: ON NYTIMES.COM

DATELINE: A slide show of work by Martha Cooper 

 BODY:
-- known as Kodakgirl -- whose photographs have chronicled subway graffiti and urban art for decades.
 nytimes.com/thecity 
 SLIDESHOW: PENTECOSTAL FIRE
 A visit to the Bronx parish of the Redeemed Christian Church of God, where Pastor Daniel Ajayi-Adeniran, at left, preaches a fiery form of Pentecostalism.
 nytimes.com/magazine
 AUDIO: AT THE AUTO SHOW
 At the 2009 New York International Auto Show, consumers have mixed views about the industry. 
 nytimes.com/autoshow
 Opinion
 100 Days
 How to End a War
 Bringing troops home from Iraq may require President Obama to be like Ike, writes Jean Edward Smith. The blog also features a new interactive timeline, with audio, documents and photos of the notable early moments of five presidencies.
 nytimes.com/100days
 VIDEO: SIGNS OF WEAR 
 In Palm Beach
 Palm Beach, Fla., may have lost more money per square mile than any other town because of the economy and Bernard L. Madoff's Ponzi scheme.
 nytimes.com/business
 AUDIO: IMMIGRANTS' VOICES
 Four skilled immigrants with H-1B visas -- a physicist, a designer, a doctor, and an architect -- share their experience of working in America.
 nytimes.com/immigration
 AUDIO: ART IN THE EVERYDAY
 Jean Shin, an artist who finds art in severed pant legs, castoff pill bottles and other recycled objects, discusses her body of work.
 nytimes.com/design

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARTHA COOPER
 FINLAY MACKAY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); RELIGION (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CHRONOLOGIES (85%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (76%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (76%); FOREIGN LABOR (72%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); PONZI SCHEMES (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%); BERNARD MADOFF (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



485 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: Emerging Markets, Setting a New Pace

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
THERE is a natural order to stock market chaos. When investors panic, they often sprint away from emerging markets first and return only at a dawdling pace, after a global rebound is well under way.
 Everything went according to plan last year. Many markets in the developing world lost far more than half of their value, compared with a 38.5 percent decline in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index.
 In the first quarter this year, however, emerging markets lost less as the decline continued and gained more in the recovery that began early last month. 
 Stock indexes in markets like China, Brazil and Russia ended the first quarter with double-digit percentage gains, although the weakness of some emerging-market currencies limited returns for American investors. The S.& P. 500, by contrast, fell 11.7 percent.
 The average emerging-market equity fund in Morningstar's database fell 1.7 percent in the period, compared with an 8.3 percent loss for the average United States general stock fund.
 Investment advisers caution against reading too much into the discrepancy. Stocks everywhere may be experiencing a dead-cat bounce, with ones in the developing world merely gaining a bit more altitude after their initial drubbing.
 ''Emerging markets really took it on the chin last year, so it isn't that much of a shock that they have been more resilient this year,'' said Ben Inker, head of asset allocation at GMO, a global investment management firm.
 But he and others contend that there is more to the rally. They take it as a sign of fundamental strength in emerging economies.
 Severe periods of underperformance in the past have been deserved, they say, and were not just a matter of risk aversion. This time around, emerging markets seem to be the strong link in an otherwise flimsy chain.
 ''Fundamentals are much better in parts of the emerging world than in the developed world,'' said Thomas Melendez, manager of the MFS International Diversification fund.
 ''Some would argue that some developed markets are bankrupt,'' he said. ''Emerging markets have very little debt at the government, company or individual level.'' 
 In other words, many emerging markets got stronger by getting smarter.
 ''Companies, for the most part, are pretty solid with strong balance sheets and lots of cash because they were being cautious in view of what happened in the past,'' said Mark Mobius, executive chairman of Templeton Asset Management. The same goes for governments, many of which have built up huge foreign-exchange reserves. 
 The lower debt and abundant cash mean that some of the larger developing countries are burdened with fewer financial and economic problems than more mature ones. That allows them to tackle their problems more aggressively. China is an oft-cited example.
 ''I still think there is a strong case for China doing better'' than other markets, emerging or mature, said Edmund Harris, manager of the Guinness Atkinson Asia Focus fund. By preventing banks from engaging in some practices that proved so disastrous elsewhere, the country ''has protected itself to some degree,'' he said.
 ''That provides a stable base through which China can stimulate its domestic economy,'' he added.
 JUST how much stimulation China needs is debatable. Josephine Jimenez, chief investment officer of Victoria 1522 Investments, notes that some economists predict 6 percent growth in Chinese economic output this year and that the government expects its efforts to support the economy to result in 8 percent growth. 
 Other developing countries will be hard pressed to match either number, but Ms. Jimenez expects growth in many of them to come in well ahead of what mature economies will attain. That growth comes cheap, in her view.
 ''I'm finding a lot of companies trading below their breakup value,'' she said, meaning that their market values are lower than what the companies' net assets likely would fetch in acquisitions.
 She prefers sectors like gold mining, telecommunications and food production. Her portfolio includes such holdings as Zhaojin Mining in China; Shoprite Holdings, a fast-growing retailer in such countries as Botswana and Madagascar; and Rainbow Chicken, which supplies four million broiler chickens a week in South Africa for a 30 percent share of the market.
 Mr. Mobius, at Templeton, also finds emerging markets extremely cheap. ''We're like kids in a candy shop,'' he said. ''Everywhere we turn, we're finding bargains.''
 He favors energy companies, including Petrobras of Brazil and PetroChina, and banks like the Industrial and Commercial Bank of China, China Construction and Banco Itau in Brazil.
 Mr. Melendez, the MFS fund manager, says he thinks that buying technology stocks is a way to capture a recovery in the global economy.
 ''If we do come out of this malaise, we'll probably see a replacement cycle, which would be good for parts makers,'' he said.
 South Korea is an especially good play on global growth, said Mr. Inker of GMO. But he reminds investors that most emerging markets, with their emphasis on commodities and manufacturing, amount to a bet on a stronger economy. 
 He does not know whether such a bet will pay off, but he likes the odds that the markets are offering.
 ''It helps to be priced for destruction,'' he said. ''It's never too much of a surprise when cheap stocks go up.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A worker at a PetroChina oil operation. The company is among the energy businesses that are favored by a specialist in emerging-market stocks.(PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); EMERGING MARKETS (92%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); CURRENCIES (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



486 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Automobiles; NEW YORK AUTO SHOW 2010 MERCEDES-BENZ ML450 HYBRID; Pg. 

LENGTH: 249 words

HEADLINE: 2 Modes in Search of Applause

BYLINE: By JERRY GARRETT

 BODY:
Introduced on Wednesday: 2010 Mercedes-Benz ML450 Hybrid
 Is it real? It is often said that the best Mercedes-Benz products aren't sold in the United States -- only in Europe. What does it mean when one is going to be sold only in North America? 
 What they said: ''Our ML450 Hybrid offers V-8 torque with 4-cylinder fuel economy,'' said Ernst Lieb, chief executive of Mercedes-Benz USA. ''That is 'responsible luxury' at the very highest level. And that is why the new ML450 Hybrid is the perfect extension to our family of S.U.V.'s.''
 What they didn't say: This is the latest -- and perhaps one of the last -- models to use the two-mode-hybrid technology developed jointly by BMW, General Motors and the former DaimlerChrysler. The two-mode S.U.V.'s introduced earlier by G.M. and Chrysler haven't sold well -- perhaps because they were priced some $10,000 more than other versions of already expensive vehicles. Interestingly, when the investors originally introduced the technology to skeptical inventors, a spy who was in the room told me, ''everyone stood up and applauded.'' So far, it seems, customers are not clapping.
 What makes it tick? A fuel-efficient V-6 and two electric motors integrated into the transmission; the whole system produces 335 horsepower and 381 pound-feet of torque. The economy rating is 24 m.p.g. highway and 21 m.p.g. city.
 How much, how soon? Should be in dealerships by year-end. No price was mentioned; one wonders why not.
 How's it look? Like any other ML.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HYBRID VEHICLES (78%); EXECUTIVES (56%)

COMPANY: MERCEDES-BENZ USA INC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423120 MOTOR VEHICLE SUPPLIES & NEW PARTS MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (58%); NAICS423110 AUTOMOBILE & OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (58%); SIC5013 MOTOR VEHICLE SUPPLIES & NEW PARTS (58%); SIC5012 AUTOMOBILES & OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



487 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: Sweetening the Pot For Home Buyers

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
THE economic stimulus package includes a tax credit for first-time home buyers of up to $8,000. But because so many of these prospective buyers still have difficulty coming up with down payments, the tax credit is expected to have only a limited impact in spurring housing sales. 
 What if someone found a way to essentially lend that $8,000 or so to buyers, who would then use the money for down payments or closing costs and repay the loan once they received the tax credit? 
 That, in fact, is the idea behind an initiative in Missouri that could find its way to other states in the coming months. 
 Yet even as some real estate industry groups express enthusiasm for the idea, some states, like New York, appear reluctant to finance such a program. 
 The New York State Builders Association recently lobbied the State of New York Mortgage Agency, or Sonyma, to adopt Missouri's strategy, or a variation of it.
 Philip LaRocque, the association's executive vice president, said that under his group's plan, the state would advance some or all of the tax credit to home buyers. The loan would essentially become a second mortgage, payable next year interest-free, when the federal government issues the credit. 
 ''You need to put that money in the hands of the buyer, especially first-time buyers, who need more help with closing costs,'' Mr. LaRocque said. 
 Missouri advances the money to those who take out first mortgages offered through the state's housing finance authority, though not mortgages from other lenders.
 Priscilla Almodovar, the chief executive of Sonyma, which provides mortgages for low- and moderate-income borrowers in New York , said that although the idea has merit, many of the agency's customers already qualify for its Closing Cost Assistance program, which offers home buyers $3,000 to $10,000 in aid for down payments, legal fees and other closing costs.
 Buyers in downstate New York -- New York City, Long Island and Westchester, Putnam and Rockland Counties -- can qualify for the aid if their prospective home costs $550,000 or less, or if their annual household income is below certain thresholds. (For families of four or more, the limit is $107,000.)
 But only buyers who are using a Sonyma loan are eligible for the closing-cost assistance, and right now Sonyma loans are about a half a percentage point higher than comparable loans available on the open market. 
 Sonyma loans, though, are available to borrowers who might not otherwise qualify for conventional mortgages, like those who have little money for closing costs and those with low household incomes. Down payments can be as low as 3 percent.
 George Leocata, a senior vice president of Sonyma's single-family program, said first-time borrowers who qualified for the loans and the closing cost assistance funds could still receive the $8,000 federal tax credit. 
 The Missouri loan program, Mr. Leocata said, has its own set of risks. For one thing, home buyers who receive money from the state may not be able to repay the loan.
 Just because filers qualify for tax credits, he said, does not guarantee that they will receive a tax refund. ''And if buyers don't get a refund, they won't be able to pay us back,'' he said. 
 Still, real estate industry executives say they remain hopeful that Missouri's program will find a following in other states. 
 Gregory Brown, an assistant vice president for government affairs at the National Association of Home Builders, said: ''A lot of states are trying to get through the technical aspects of this. I feel very confident they'll find a way to make it work.''
 To finance an initiative like this, Mr. Brown said, many states would have to issue mortgage bonds. ''That market right now is just very tight,'' he said. ''But state housing authorities are creative, and the federal tax credit doesn't expire until Dec. 1, so hopefully that'll be enough time for states like New York to find a way.''
 And why would home builders be so interested in programs that serve buyers of both new and existing homes? ''The reality is, there's such a huge inventory for existing homes; it's hard to build a house and sell it,'' said Mr. LaRocque of the New York Builders Association.
 ''So it works to our advantage to unload some of that inventory.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: Mortgage Rates shown in the New York region. (Source: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (88%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); FAMILY (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); SECOND MORTGAGES (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (68%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (68%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE BUILDERS ASSOCIATION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); MISSOURI, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



488 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 391 words

HEADLINE: Sorting Out Their Goals, and Options

BYLINE: By JOHN MOONEY

 BODY:
Victoria Scott
 AGE 17, senior
 HOMETOWN Newark
 HIGH SCHOOL Barringer High School
 APPLICATIONS 20
 Victoria Scott is loyal to her hometown of Newark, and to her state. But for higher education, she wants to consider colleges that will let her experience living somewhere else, like Virginia Union University in Richmond, or Morgan State University in Baltimore. 
 ''It's not that far away,'' she said. ''I want to go away and then come back to New Jersey.''
 Her mother, Brenda Scott, says not so fast. ''It will probably be more in New Jersey, due to the economics,'' she said. 
 Victoria was insistent. ''No, no, no.'' 
 But so was her mother. ''At the end of the day, we're the ones who have to pay,'' Ms. Scott said.
 Such is the frequent tug of war between child and parent, and this is being made tougher by hard times and the family's limited resources. 
 Victoria, the younger of Ms. Scott's two children, has a choice of more than a half-dozen colleges that have accepted her so far, including Rutgers and William Paterson Universities in-state and Virginia Union, Morgan State and the University of New Haven.
 She was expecting to hear any day from Smith and Spelman Colleges.
 ''For the longest time, I have wanted to go there,'' Victoria said of Spelman, which is in Atlanta.
 But with some resignation she said, ''It's going to be the school that offers me the most money.'' 
 Victoria attends Barringer High School in Newark, which has 2,000 students. Only a quarter of her classmates passed the state's graduation exam on the first try, and even fewer are likely to go on to four-year colleges.
 Victoria is the senior class president and is carrying a 3.4 grade point average. 
 Even though Barringer may not compare with high-achieving high schools, Victoria said she had strong and supportive teachers. 
 And Victoria has been outspoken in efforts to bring more opportunities to city students. She was a witness in court this winter in the latest chapter of the state's long-running school-financing case, Abbott v. Burke, testifying that her school and other urban schools like it need more money for economically disadvantaged students. 
 Now, with college ahead of her, Victoria said she is confident that she is ready. 
 ''I've done everything I can,'' she said. ''I feel I'm in the right place.''
 JOHN MOONEY 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (77%); TESTIMONY (65%); WITNESSES (65%); GRADES & GRADING (63%)

ORGANIZATION: MORGAN STATE UNIVERSITY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%) VIRGINIA, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



489 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; CHEERING SECTION; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: Spend $10,600 on the Yankees, Or for College or a Car?

BYLINE: By VINCENT M. MALLOZZI. 
E-mail: cheers@nytimes.com

 BODY:
With the celebrated arrival of Citi Field, I can barely afford to raise a family of Mets fans.
 But for me and my three sons, things could be a lot worse.
 After all, we could be Yankees fans.
 Now let's suppose the four of us wanted the best seats in the house across the street from the one that Ruth built. A single ticket for a premium Legends Suite seat, on the field level behind the dugouts and home plate, goes for $2,650. For me and the boys, that amounts to $10,600 to watch nine innings of Yankees baseball, or $1,177.77 per inning, if you're keeping score at home. That princely sum is three times as much as Ruth earned -- in his first full season with the Red Sox, $3,500 in 1915. 
 By contrast, the Mets' top ticket is $695. Can anybody here afford this game? 
 ''I think if anybody in any business had known where the economy was going to go, they would have done things differently,'' Hal Steinbrenner, the Yankees' general managing partner, told reporters before the team's first exhibition game at the stadium. ''There's no doubt that small amounts of our tickets might be overpriced.'' 
 Might be overpriced? 
 I enjoy singing ''Take Me Out to the Ballgame,'' but not to the tune of 10 grand, and although I can't manage like Stengel or Torre, I managed to put together a number of alternate entertainment lineups for anyone who may be thinking of other ways to spend that $10,600.
 For instance, instead of watching Yankees pitchers take opposing hitters to school on a given day, you could send a child to La Guardia Community College in Queens, at $1,400 per semester, to complete the bulk of a four-year degree. 
 Rather than watch Brett Gardner cruise center field, you can take a family of four on a weeklong Caribbean cruise -- according to Liberty Travel in Queens -- for roughly $1,250 apiece. 
 You would still have $5,600 left over, enough to buy a 2000 Cadillac DeVille (with 128,048 miles), being sold for $5,000 by Martin Cadillac in Englewood Cliffs, N.J. 
 You can travel to the Bronx for a day, or you could travel to Paris for a week, airfare, lodging and meals included, for about $8,000. You could take the remaining $2,750 and spend a week this summer at the Jersey Shore, according to an agent at Mancini Realty on Long Beach Island. You could get a place there, near the water, starting at $2,000, and you would still have enough money left to buy some Ball Park Franks and have one heck of a barbecue.
 And why spend $10,600 to see if Cody Ransom can fill A-Rod's shoes when you can buy four pairs of Gucci shoes, some serious black leather moccasins, for $595 apiece. With Mother's Day fast-approaching, toss in a pair of Gucci Iman triple-ankle strap platform sandals, for $1,275, and you would still have $6,000 to spare. 
 In our case, me and the boys could take our wardrobes up a notch by splurging on four checked sport coats at Barneys New York, which retail at $1,495 apiece. 
 Also, why watch the Bombers play at their new ballpark when you can stay home and put Panasonic 58-inch high-definition plasma televisions in each room? Best Buy sells them for $3,499.99 apiece.
 Autograph collectors like me can take $10,600 and buy a dozen baseballs signed by Alex Rodriguez (about $350 per ball), a dozen signed by Derek Jeter (about $300 a ball), and still have enough cash to get every other player on the 25-man roster to autograph an individual ball. 
 Last month, I really let the wrong pitch go by. Rather than invest $10,600 in three hours of baseball, I could have bought 10,600 shares of Citigroup stock on March 6. The share price has tripled. 
 There are a great many other ways to spend $10,600. You can spring for 14 Frederic Fekkai haircuts at $750 a pop, or treat yourself and 85 of your closest friends to orchestra tickets for ''The Lion King'' on Broadway ($121.50 per ticket on Broadway.com).
 Maybe one day, someone will make a movie about the skyrocketing costs of raising a baseball family, especially in Ruth's old neighborhood. They could call it ''The Bronx Is Burning a Hole in Our Wallets.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In the new Yankee Stadium, a premium Legends Suite seat, on the field level behind the dugouts and home plate, costs $2,650 a game. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC THAYER/REUTERS) CHART: SPENDING IT OUT OF THE PARK: You could pay $2,650 for one Yankees Legends Suite ticket or choose to spend that money elsewhere. Here are other options of approximately equal value. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); REAL ESTATE (77%); TRAVEL TICKETS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (75%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (68%); CRUISES (66%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (62%); AIR FARES (60%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: ALEX RODRIGUEZ (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



490 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1773 words

HEADLINE: Bolt Is Breaking Barriers And Taking On Obstacles

BYLINE: By JERE LONGMAN

DATELINE: KINGSTON, Jamaica 

 BODY:
As the world's fastest man, Usain Bolt has earned an honored place on the veranda of his aunt's house and bar in their remote hometown, Sherwood Content. Several posters of Bolt flank a photograph of Nelson Mandela, a clock embossed with the Lord's Prayer and a plaque featuring Big Mouth Billy, the novelty singing bass.
 ''She always makes me laugh,'' Bolt said of his aunt.
 It was a similar melding of the iconic and the playful that Bolt used to stun and charm 90,000 Olympic spectators in Beijing and a worldwide television audience last summer. While collecting three gold medals and three world records, he enjoyed himself immensely, pantomiming an archer drawing his bow and celebrating on the track with a dance called the Gully Creeper. 
 And now Bolt is hoping that his good-humored personality can be as transcendent as his speed, which produced records in Beijing of 9.69 seconds at 100 meters, 19.30 at 200 and 37.10 in the 4x100 relay.
 Not only does Bolt want to revitalize track, a sport experiencing international decline, and redefine the limits of speed, but by the 2012 Summer Games in London, or soon after, he wants to become the first track star to earn $10 million a year in prize money, appearance fees and endorsements.
 ''David Beckham, Tiger Woods, he's got to look at that being his target,'' Ricky Simms, Bolt's London-based agent, said, speaking more in terms of wide marketability than income. Track stars do not earn as much as top stars in more visible professional sports. Woods, for example, earns an estimated $100 million a year. A handful of top track stars, like Carl Lewis, Michael Johnson, Marion Jones and Maurice Greene, probably earned $5 million to $7 million at the peak of their careers.
 Because Bolt is only 22, he has a chance to participate in three Olympics. To become a surpassing figure, he will surely have to continue to win and set records, while avoiding injury and complacency and remaining free of the taint of doping.
 In this post-Olympic year, with the world track and field championships to be held in August in Berlin, Bolt is the sport's only megawatt drawing power. As such, agents and meet promoters said, he will command appearance fees of up to $200,000 for races, double what other top stars earn.
 His shoe contract with Puma is worth about $1.5 million a year, company officials said. He also has endorsements for Gatorade and Digicel, a Caribbean mobile phone company, which could put Bolt's 2009 income above $3 million. 
 But Bolt is from Jamaica, not the United States, where many Olympic sponsors have their headquarters. And he also came into greatness on the precipice of a worldwide recession. It remains to be seen whether he will ever realize his $10 million vision of licensing his image for video games, action figures and cereal boxes.
 ''I hope the guy can get it, but it's going to be a tough nut to crack,'' said Emanuel K. Hudson, a Los Angeles lawyer and agent for Greene, the 2000 Olympic champion in the 100.
 In an interview last Monday with international reporters, Bolt spoke candidly about his ambitions and the challenges of rekindling his motivation after such startling performances in Beijing.
 Bolt has decided that his drive would be to continue pushing the edge of human performance. His coaches speak of him potentially running the 100 in 9.5, breaking 19 seconds in the 200 and challenging the 400 world record of 43.18, held by Johnson, Bolt's idol.
 ''My main goal is to be a legend in my sport,'' Bolt, who is 6 feet 5 inches, said. ''You have to stay on top every year. You can't be fast this season and the next two not be there.''
 Appearances for his sponsors, post-Olympic celebrating and other distractions put Bolt behind in his early-season training, he acknowledged. He started poorly in his opening 100 last month in Spanish Town, Jamaica. Only a searing finish allowed him to match the wind-aided 9.93 run by a training partner, Daniel Bailey of Antigua.
 ''I didn't feel like myself,'' Bolt said.
 He went home infuriated, said Norman Peart, Bolt's manager. ''It was a wake-up call,'' Peart said, adding that in recent weeks Bolt had become more intent on training.
 On Monday, during a relatively easy workout, Bolt ran six repeats of 180 meters from 19.6 to 20.6 seconds, and appeared relaxed and confident.
 In noting that his countryman Asafa Powell, the former world-record holder in the 100, tended to ''freak out'' under pressure at major competitions, Bolt said he bided his time before races by playing video games and dominoes and by adopting this approach: ''If I'm the fastest man in the world, you're not going to beat me.''
 On and off the track, Bolt understands that he will now come under far greater scrutiny. Michael Phelps, the American swimmer who won eight gold medals in Beijing, learned this when he was photographed at a party with a marijuana pipe. The result was a three-month suspension and the loss of a commercial deal with Kellogg.
 ''That was stupid,'' Bolt said of Phelps's behavior. He acknowledged that he had also tried marijuana when he was younger and that Phelps might have felt peer pressure, but, Bolt added, ''You've got to know who you are and how famous and what you mean in the country.''
 Bolt now travels with two police officers, more to control overzealous fans than to protect him, one of the bodyguards said. He often sends his friends to run his errands; otherwise he will be routinely stopped and asked to sign autographs and pose for photographs.
 When in public, Bolt seems happy to oblige these requests. He attended the national high school track championships here with 25,000 others on April 4 and hugged children like the most seasoned politician. Still, he is fast only on the track; otherwise Bolt operates with his own unhurried rhythms. After the meet, he invited 2,000 people to a party at a local club, finally arriving at 2:30 a.m., dancing in a pair of sunglasses.
 At the championships, several athletes were inspired to match Bolt's theatricality, if not his speed. Ramone McKenzie won the 200 while wearing a Batman mask. McKenzie said Bolt had told him, ''Don't be like me; be better than me.''
 In Beijing, Bolt became the first Jamaican man to win the Olympic 100. (Donovan Bailey, a native of Jamaica, won the 100 for Canada at the 1996 Atlanta Games; Ben Johnson, another Jamaican-born athlete competing for Canada, had his 1988 gold medal stripped after testing positive for steroids.) Shelly-Ann Fraser also became the first Jamaican woman to win the Olympic 100 in Beijing.
 These accomplishments brought a sense of national pride and signaled that Jamaicans no longer have to attend college in the United States to become stars, track officials said. Youth participation, along with parental interest, is up considerably since Beijing, they said. At the high school championships, Dianne Johnson, 13, set an age-group record of 11.9 in the girls' 100; Jazeel Murphy, 15, won his division of the boys' 100 in 10.44.
 Bolt is ''an inspiration to the Jamaican people that we can produce greatness, we can be world beaters,'' said Ruel Reid, the principal of Jamaica College, a prep sprinting power.
 At the same time, Bolt's Olympic success has started a debate here about whether a developing nation can afford for its high schools and federal government to spend exorbitantly on sports development and stadiums.
 ''Until Jamaicans, the vast majority of Jamaicans, in every nook and cranny, can read and write, until proper health care, housing and food are available to all Jamaicans, the government cannot be expected to answer every call, or most of the calls, to pump so much of the people's money into sports,'' Tony Becca wrote last week in a column in The Gleaner, Jamaica's leading newspaper.
 Outside Jamaica, Bolt's stunning times have fueled another debate -- about whether his records are valid. He has never failed a drug test, but the devalued nature of sprinting is such that fast times now draw immediate skepticism. Three of the previous five Olympic men's 100 champions have tested positive for banned substances, and Jones has had her reputation disgraced.
 Noting that Bolt had only begun to run the 100 seriously in 2008, Lewis, a 10-time Olympic gold medalist, told Sports Illustrated's Web site last September that, ''For someone to run 10.03 one year and 9.69 the next, if you don't question that in a sport that has the reputation it has right now, you're a fool.''
 Those remarks still sting here. In rebuttal, sports officials note that Jamaica has been a sprinting power for 80 years. That its development system holds national championships even for elementary school children. That there are top-level coaches across the island. That Bolt has been an international star since age 15, when he won the world junior championship in the 200.
 Teddy McCook, general secretary of the Jamaican Olympic Committee, called Lewis ''an idiot.''
 Facing international pressure, Jamaica has begun an independent testing program. Even before that, Bolt said, he was tested 30 to 40 times last year, in and out of competition, by track and field's world governing body and by the World Anti-Doping Agency.
 Bolt's coach, Glen Mills, said Bolt was willing to be tested ''every day, every minute of the day.'' Questions about doping did not bother him, Bolt said, adding, ''I know I'm clean.''
 His fans desperately hope so.
 ''We're all praying,'' said Ian Andrews, the administrative manager of Jamaica's Institute of Sports. A positive drug test by any of its sprinting stars, Andrews said, ''would deflate the entire country.''
 For now, Bolt is being portrayed here in a more idealized light: a boy who learned to run on a rocky, rutted grass track in Sherwood Content, about 60 miles southeast of Montego Bay, then became an Olympic champion. A humble and responsible man who helps youths in his home district with fire extinguishers and computers, track shoes and weight-lifting equipment.
 On April 26, Bolt will attend a street carnival in Boston, where fans can race on a bike against a life-size cutout of him, attached to a rail, to try to match his 100-meter speed. In May, he will race 150 meters on a special track laid in the streets of Manchester, England. Next year, he plans to participate in a challenge between American and Jamaican sprinters. These events are designed to expand track's appeal in non-Olympic years and to raise Bolt's profile.
 ''There is a responsibility for me to help the sport,'' Bolt said. ''It's no problem. I want to have fun all the time. It's just going to be me being me.''

CORRECTION-DATE: April 19, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the track star Usain Bolt misstated the number of Olympic gold medals Carl Lewis won during his career. He won nine gold medals and one silver; he was not a 10-time Olympic gold medalist.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Usain Bolt, who won three gold medals at the Beijing Olympics, hopes to revitalize track and eventually earn $10 million a year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.SP1)
In Beijing, Usain Bolt broke world records in the 100 meters, the 200 (above) and as part of the 4x100 relay. His speed and theatricality have inspired young Jamaicans. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 KAREN FUCHS) (pg.SP8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); ATHLETES (89%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); OLYMPICS (89%); TRACK & FIELD (87%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (75%); SPONSORSHIP (75%); ARCHERY (75%); RECESSION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); SPORTS SPONSORSHIP (66%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (55%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

PERSON: TIGER WOODS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (87%); BERLIN, GERMANY (76%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%) CHINA (94%); JAMAICA (90%); GERMANY (76%); UNITED STATES (65%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (50%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



491 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: A Delicate Balance

BYLINE: By WALTER ISAACSON. 
Walter Isaacson, chief executive of the Aspen Institute, is the author of ''Benjamin Franklin: An American Life'' and ''Einstein: His Life and Universe.''

 BODY:
PLAIN, HONEST MEN
 The Making of the American Constitution
 By Richard Beeman
 Illustrated. 514 pp. Random House. $30
 We like to think of our nation's founders as men with unwavering fealty to high-minded principles. To some extent they were. But when they gathered in Philadelphia during the summer of 1787 to write the Constitution, they showed that they were also something just as great and often more difficult to be: compromisers. In that regard they reflected not just the classical virtues of honor and integrity but also the Enlightenment's values of balance, order, tolerance, scientific calibration and respect for other people's beliefs. On almost all issues that they faced -- with one very big exception -- this art of compromise served them well. As Benjamin Franklin, that ultimate Enlightenment sage, conveyed in both his actions and words at the convention, compromisers may not make great heroes but they do make great democracies. 
 Richard Beeman, a professor at the University of Pennsylvania who has taught and written about America's founding for 40 years, offers a scholarly yet lively account of the Constitutional Convention that emphasizes the craftiness and craftsmanship that went into each of the compromises. This saga has been often told, most recently in David O. Stewart's novelistic narrative ''The Summer of 1787,'' but Beeman's work is distinguished by a gently judicious tone that allows us to appreciate, and draw some lessons from, the delicate balances that emerged out of that passion-filled Philadelphia crucible. 
 The first major balance the framers had to strike was the extent to which they were going to retain a confederation of 13 sovereign states or create a true national government -- or concoct some magical combination of both. At the outset, Edmund Randolph of Virginia put forth a plan that, in Beeman's words, ''amounted to an entirely new conception of the fledgling American government, a revolutionary step that would render the governments of the individual states distinctly inferior to that of a new 'national' government.'' In the ensuing weeks, the convention diluted the sovereignty of the national government so that to some degree it was balanced by the sovereignty of the states in their own realms. Nevertheless, the principle remained that the national government's power came not from an agreement among sovereign states but from, as proclaimed by those wonderfully simple yet profound opening words, ''We, the people.'' 
 This balancing act led the delegates to face another: Should every state get an equal vote in the new national legislature or should their votes be proportional to their population? Beeman notes that ''James Madison believed from the outset that the fight to create a system of representative government in which ultimate sovereignty resided in the people of the nation as a whole rather than in the states would depend on creating a national legislature based on the principle of proportional representation.'' This created a power struggle between the big and little states. Eventually, it was resolved by the compromise of having a Senate with equal votes per state and a House of Representatives proportioned by population.
 That led to a third great compromise, one that would bedevil the nation for the next 75 years. If the apportionment was to be based on population, Southerners argued, then slaves should be counted. No one was proposing that slaves (or for that matter women) be allowed to vote; the question was whether they should count as part of a state's population. Madison, a slave owner from Virginia, proposed that slaves be counted, mainly because, according to Beeman, ''he wanted to send a clear signal to his more militant Southern colleagues . . . that the new national government need not threaten their interests.'' Northern opponents countered that such a provision would reward the increased importation of slaves. James Wilson of Pennsylvania proposed a purely mathematical compromise: slaves would be counted as ''three-fifths'' of a person for the purpose of calculating representation. In a document that was designed to ''secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity,'' it was a stark case of compromise becoming divorced from principle.
 One of Beeman's scholarly contributions is that he raises by a notch the role of South Carolina's Charles Pinckney, a man whose vanity and inflated claims of credit caused both contemporaries and later historians to give him less than his due. Most histories of the convention rely heavily on the famous notes taken by Madison, but he apparently could barely abide Pinckney and avoided recording much of what the South Carolinian said. On the day that Randolph proposed his plan for union, Pinckney offered an alternate plan, which Madison mentioned in two bland sentences and never described. As it turned out, Pinckney's version included much of what ended up in the final document -- including the idea of counting slaves as three-fifths of a person. He also helped to assure that the final document required all states, even ones that banned slavery, to return fugitive slaves to their owners.
 The framers were able to do all of this while assiduously avoiding use of the word ''slave.'' Clearly they were discomforted by the disjuncture between their principles and their pragmatism. Here Beeman seems almost too judicious. On the one hand he warns against presentism, the mistake of judging people of the past by the standards of the present; on the other hand he says that ''we cannot avert our eyes from the magnitude of the evil.'' Then, when it comes to the central question of whether it would have been possible to achieve a constitutional union without making such odious compromises, he hedges: ''Perhaps we should not overestimate the commitment of the lower South delegates to the union. We will of course never know.'' He is, of course, right that we will never know. But since he is in a far better position to make an assessment than we are, it would be nice to know what he believes. 
 Beeman's judiciousness, however, usually serves him well. He is able to avoid the overemphasis some historians place on the economic interests of the framers while still showing when they were motivated by parochial and personal concerns. For example, the Virginians shared with other Southerners the desire to protect slavery, but they were more willing to stop the importation of new slaves (thereby increasing the value of the ones they already owned) than were delegates from Georgia and South Carolina, where rice and indigo farming created a greater demand for them.
 More important, Beeman captures the nuances and complexities of the compromises that the framers made. Knowing when to stand firm on principle or when to find common ground with your fellow citizens is the most important, and also the most difficult, activity in a democracy. There's no simple formula for it. That is why it is so useful to have narratives, especially authoritative and readable ones like Beeman's, showing how the men who gathered that summer in Philadelphia struggled so hard, and in most cases so wisely, to get the balances right.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Signing the Constitution of the United States,'' painted by Thomas Pritchard Rossiter in 1878. (PHOTOGRAPH FROM MPI/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: Plain, Honest Men (Book); Plain, Honest Men (Book)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



492 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 512 words

HEADLINE: How Concerned Should Israel Be About Iran?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Those who got Iraq so wrong should read ''Israel Cries Wolf,'' Roger Cohen's April 9 online column about Iran, so they do not repeat their mistake. 
 Mr. Cohen dismisses the ''messianic apocalyptic cult'' view of Iran held by Israeli leaders. There may be similarities between rulers of Iran now and in the 1980s, when martyrdom was elevated to defend the country against Iraqi aggression, but the ruled are not the same. 
 Many who fought and died in that war were the children of mothers with little education who were raising eight or more children. The average rural mom today is much better educated and spends her time educating two children. 
 The standard of living has more than doubled since then, and the poverty rate has come down from 45 percent to less than 10 percent. 
 Mothers focused on the future of two children are rarely apocalyptic, let alone willing to lose one to martyrdom. If Israeli leaders believe otherwise, Iranian leaders do not.
 Djavad Salehi-Isfahani Blacksburg, Va., April 9, 2009
 The writer is a professor of economics at Virginia Tech.
 To the Editor:
 I share Roger Cohen's perception that dialogue with Iran is needed. I am even willing to accept Iran's claim of pacific purpose of its nuclear program, if only its leaders would lift the seal of secrecy surrounding that program.
 But I question the ''crying wolf'' label attached to Israel's obsession with Iran, unless it is confirmed that the incident in January involving the destruction of a military convoy carrying what appear to be Iranian-sponsored missiles from Sudan to Gaza never took place. 
 ''Crying wolf'' applies to false alarms. There are sufficient instances of real alarms that were tackled as needed to justify Israeli paranoia. 
 Peter Kessler Granite Bay, Calif., April 9, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Roger Cohen continues his useful series of columns on the Middle East. His most haunting comment, both for what it says and for the older history it calls to mind, is: ''A semblance of power balance is often the precondition for peace. Iran was left out of the Madrid and Oslo processes, with disastrous results. But that's a discussion for another day.''
 I would add that Germany was left out of the healing that followed World War I, with disastrous results. 
 Israelis and those who wish them (and the rest of humanity) well would do well to remember Versailles as well as the too-short tables at Madrid and Oslo.
 E. Daniel Larkin Merion Station, Pa., April 9, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Roger Cohen raises the legitimate question of when, if ever, Iran will be able to produce nuclear weapons. He also reasonably suggests that the United States should engage in negotiations with Iran on this issue, despite the fact that the Europeans have made no progress in such negotiations for several years. 
 But one might question why Mr. Cohen could not make these points without severely criticizing Israel and making the inflammatory suggestion that its leaders are attempting to manipulate American policy.
 Michael Gewirtz New York, April 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CULTS & SECTS (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (75%); POOR POPULATION (75%); WRITERS (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); WORLD WAR I (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); POVERTY RATES (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (75%) ISRAEL (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GERMANY (51%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2009



493 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1088 words

HEADLINE: Lost in Bernie's Shadow

BYLINE: By JOHN SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
I CANNOT stop thinking of Bernard Madoff's many, many victims.
 He confessed to defrauding so many people, and to have taken so much money -- by his own accounting, more than $50 billion worth. Elderly investors, widows, Holocaust victims, charities -- the list of the injured seems endless. 
 Anyone with a heart grieves for these people. But lately, the focus of my fretting has expanded to include yet another group of victims. I am also worried about the lesser scammers, people who now look like little wanna-Bernies. 
 Pity, for example, poor Andres Leonel Pimstein. Last month, Mr. Pimstein, a businessman in Miami, pulled down a 17-year sentence for a $50 million Ponzi scheme in which he told investors they would get a 36 percent return on the dollars they gave him; he said he was buying iPods wholesale in the United States and selling them at a high markup in Chile. 
 And you know what? Aside from his direct victims, nobody seems to care. Because at $50 million, Mr. Pimstein's take amounts to the kind of pocket change you might find under Bernie Madoff's sofa cushions. 
 What troubles me is the lack of attention for the kind of fraudsters who once ruled the front pages. The new guys' exploits are found, instead, on the vitamin pages -- you know, B12, D3 -- deep in the newspaper. 
 For lesser scammers like Mr. Pimstein, that's got to hurt. These are high achievers, people. Shouldn't we be worried about their self-esteem? Isn't America known just as much for its glorious tradition of scams and con men as for its industrial genius? Did we not give the world the word ''Ponzi?'' These people may not deserve our love, but attention must be paid. 
 Though we may be caring less, we're hearing a lot more about Ponzi schemes lately, perhaps because the scams tend to fall apart when markets drop. As Warren Buffett so memorably put it, ''You only find out who is swimming naked when the tide goes out.''
 Mr. Pimstein wasn't the only guy out there caught swimming without his shorts. There's Charles Nolon Bush of Port Orchard, Wash., sentenced last month to 30 years in prison for a mere $35 million scam. 
 He bought baubles like a $125,000-a-year suite at Safeco Field in Seattle and a mansion in Port Orchard that had a $400 gold shower drain. 
 Not very long ago, a $400 shower drain would have been enough of an intoxicating greed nugget to send financial reporters into paroxysms of scornful purple prose. But aside from the predictable howling from defrauded investors, the world responded, basically, with a yawn.
 The problem is ''m,'' as in the first letter of ''million.'' Bernie Madoff has made it necessary to scam people in sums counted with a ''b,'' for billions. And if you don't make 10 figures, well, you're a Ponzi piker. 
 In February, a United States District Court judge, Michael Davis, was quoted in The Star Tribune of Minneapolis as joking that a convicted Ponzi defendant, Jerry Lynn Watkins, had taken part in a $20 million scheme ''back when we thought that was a lot of money.'' 
 How must that make these guys feel? 
 (Even the S.E.C.'s charges against Robert Allen Stanford, accused of running an $8 billion swindle -- on a scale that would have been astonishing in the Before Madoff era -- are second rate now.) 
 It's not clear why anyone does bad things -- thinking that you can see inside a criminal's head is risky business. But once the money starts getting counted in Gates-ian numbers, can anyone really say that the only motivation is greed? Once you've stolen enough to have siphoned off $100 from every man, woman and child in the nation, isn't there a little more going on than a desire for gold bathtub drains? 
 There must be something else, said Eric Dezenhall, a crisis management consultant who has helped companies deal with the fallout from scandals and writes crime novels on the side. ''I have become convinced that the greed motive, while not totally irrelevant, is a cliche,'' he said. 
 ''The American dream used to be prosperity,'' he told me. ''Now it's celebrity.'' Much of it, he added, ''is the desire to be known as the genius of geniuses.'' 
 To Mr. Dezenhall, the thing that keeps at least some of the schemers going is that each sees himself as the biggest and baddest of them all. If you don't hit the magazine covers as a good guy, well, professional wrestling tells us there's plenty of attention for those who play bad guys as well. And now, he predicted, ''they'll never measure up.''
 Maybe we should find a way to punish these guys as if they are a really big deal -- for their sake. You know, perp walks, frog marching, public scorn, the works. 
 Sure, it might be a lot of trouble to go through the motions of parading them from their homes early in the morning in their underwear -- or, even better, in somebody else's -- but we need to think of them. We have to try. 
 But maybe this notion that they do it, at least in part, for the fame, suggests a silver lining. Will the fact that they can't possibly out-Madoff Madoff mean that some will stop trying? 
 Oh, how good it is to laugh again. 
 No, a Ponzi moratorium isn't likely, said Jack King, an official of the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers. Because, as he explained, economic crises create desperate people -- and desperate people are an easy mark. 
 When some Bernie-in-waiting begins offering a quick, guaranteed return, Mr. King predicted that ''more people are going to be falling for it -- they aren't reading the business pages. They think Bernie Madoff was hustling rich people, and good for him.'' And if a hustler knows anything, it's how to spot an opportunity.
 So it looks as if the cycle will go on, which is what cycles tend to do. And the answer might be for regulators, and what's left of American journalism, to keep an eye out and try to catch the next Madoff before another scam reaches into the billions.
 And it's up to the rest of us, too, to be a bit more wary and a little less greedy, to listen to the voices of buy-and-hold stability and to ignore the siren songs of churn, churn, churn and Too Good to Be True.
 My personal path to riches involves waiting for a million-dollar bonus. After all, am I so different from those now-infamous executives at A.I.G., who insist that they worked hard and didn't personally send their company deep into the tank? My industry might be doing a Thelma and Louise off the cliff, too, but it's not as if I punched the gas pedal.Besides, I really, really want one of those gold shower drains. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DANIEL VASCONCELLOS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PONZI SCHEMES (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); SENTENCING (74%); JAIL SENTENCING (74%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (90%); WARREN BUFFETT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHILE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



494 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 193 words

HEADLINE: Rally Continues Despite Fed's Warnings

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
The stock market rallied again, extending its gains for the fifth consecutive week. 
 Wells Fargo sent stocks soaring on Thursday, with a profit forecast of $3 billion in the first quarter, far above expectations. That upbeat earnings prediction for a company in the battered financial sector set off a surge in stocks around the world. 
 The economic picture remained gloomy, however, reflected in newly released minutes of the last Federal Reserve policy makers' meeting. Fed officials said that unemployment is expected to keep rising for many months, and that as jobs vanish, economic production is expected to keep falling. 
 In a sign of the problems afflicting even the bluest of blue-chip stocks, Moody's Investors Service downgraded the triple-A bonds of Berkshire Hathaway, the company run by Warren E. Buffett.
 For the week, the Dow Jones industrials rose 163.92 points, or 2.1 percent, to 8,083.38. The Standard & Poor's 500 index was up 14.06 points, or 1.67 percent, to 856.56. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 2.92 percent from 2.89 percent. Markets in the United States and much of the world closed for Good Friday. JEFF SOMMER

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); BONDS (73%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (53%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (92%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (70%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (56%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (92%); BRK.B (NYSE) (56%); BRK.A (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (56%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (56%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



495 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: Muni Funds, in Starring Roles

BYLINE: By JAN M. ROSEN

 BODY:
LONG cast by investors in supporting roles as the steady, old reliables in their portfolios, municipal bond funds have recently taken center stage, returning 4.7 percent in the last quarter, according to Morningstar. In contrast, taxable bond funds edged up 1.3 percent and stock funds lost an average of 8.3 percent. 
 ''Munis can be a fantastic addition to a broadly diversified portfolio,'' said Jason T. Thomas, chief investment officer of Aspiriant, a wealth management firm with offices in San Francisco and Los Angeles. 
 The municipal bond market is hardly risk-free, however. A report by Moody's Investors Service on Tuesday assigned a negative outlook to the creditworthiness of all local governments in the United States -- suggesting that many bond ratings could face downgrades. 
 Still, investment managers see some strong funds in the muni market. Because municipals are generally tax-exempt, they normally yield less than Treasury bonds. But today, muni yields exceed those of Treasuries ''all along the yield curve,'' Dr. Thomas said, making it an ''opportune time to buy muni funds.''
 He likes the Vanguard Short-Term Tax Exempt fund, which he called well managed with a low expense ratio. He also prefers Nuveen Intermediate Duration Municipal Bond and Vanguard High-Yield Tax-Exempt.
 Dr. Thomas, who previously worked at the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco and at Goldman Sachs, said that ''as markets return to normal, muni investors could see sizable capital gains.''
 What's more, President Obama's call to return the top individual income tax rate to 39.6 percent, its level before the tax cuts of 2001, could heighten demand for munis. The present top rate is 35 percent. 
 Before rushing to buy muni funds, however, note that some have been volatile. The Oppenheimer Rochester National Muni fund lost 48.9 percent last year, according to Morningstar, but gained 4.6 percent in the first quarter this year. 
 ''The muni market has become much more complicated,'' said Alexander Anderson Jr., a portfolio manager at Envision Capital Management in Los Angeles. ''It was a no-brainer. Now it is a tale of two muni markets.''
 Today, he said, the market contains not just high-quality bonds but also bonds issued for projects like hospitals, airports and stadiums, that investors fear may encounter trouble in depressed economic times.
 Another complicating factor is that many munis were rated AAA because they were insured. But in last year's market maelstrom, credit ratings of two of the big insurers, Ambac and MBIA, were downgraded, sending a chill through the market. 
 The biggest spoiler for investors seeking a haven, however, has been volatility in funds that scooped up munis dumped on the market by hedge funds late last year, when they unwound packages of bonds and borrowings known as tender option bonds.
 Lawrence Jones, in charge of fixed-income fund analysis at Morningstar, said the leveraged packages included high-quality, long-dated munis.
 In the market's plunge last year, when access to borrowing was severely restricted, the packages became untenable. ''Essentially, the packages had to be disassembled and the long-term munis were thrown on the market,'' Mr. Jones said.
 At the same time, many hedge funds and Wall Street firms had to sell assets to meet margin calls and make redemptions. The selling created a classic supply-demand imbalance, Mr. Jones said, and some bond mutual funds scooped up long-term munis at depressed prices. 
 ''An investor might think, 'Buy low now,' '' Mr. Jones said, ''but going forward there is a tremendous uncertainty.'' 
 As the Moody's report indicated, states and municipalities are under great pressure to balance budgets in a time of declining tax revenues, leading some investors to fear the possibility of downgrades and defaults. Such fears, coupled with a lack of liquidity, can depress muni prices. 
 Mr. Jones advised bond investors who want a traditional haven to turn to funds from Vanguard and Fidelity, both of which have low fees and ''robust credit market research staffs.'' 
 Another Morningstar analyst, John Coumarianos, who follows the American Funds family, said it ran its municipal bond funds ''in a straightforward fashion, avoiding derivatives and simply buying cash bonds.'' He added that its ''credit expertise bodes well for all three of its national muni funds.''
 He advised investors to look into the long-term history of funds and to avoid the more volatile ones.
 MANY investors buy state-specific funds because they offer exemption from state taxes, as well as from federal taxes. But in states like California, where foreclosure problems are acute and state revenues are under pressure, it can make sense to ''give up the state exemption,'' Mr. Anderson of Envision Capital said.
 A national bond fund offers more diversification, he added, and funds with holdings from highly rated states like Texas and many in the Midwest are attractive. 
 Alexander M. Grant Jr., manager of the RS Tax-Exempt fund, said investors should seek funds with holdings of high-grade issuers with good long-term records. 
 ''I'm in my own fund. I know what is in there,'' he said.
 For most investors, knowing what is in a fund's portfolio is the crucial issue to research before buying. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Citi Field, home of the New York Mets, is among many projects financed by municipal bonds.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM MCISAAC/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUNICIPAL BONDS (93%); BONDS (93%); MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); BOND FUNDS (92%); TAX LAW (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); YIELD CURVE (78%); BOND ISSUES (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); INSURANCE (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); EMPLOYEE DEMOTIONS (76%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (75%); CREDIT BUREAUS (75%); HEDGE FUNDS (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); BASEBALL (68%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (83%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (71%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (59%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (83%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



496 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: Fate of Estate Tax Imperils Obama's Ambitions

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

 BODY:
The death tax is the issue that simply will not die.
 Fifteen years after Republican strategists put Democrats on the defensive by sticking that pejorative label on the federal estate tax, Democrats are still struggling with how to handle the levy on assets left behind -- the one that conservatives portray as the Internal Revenue Service reaching beyond the grave.
 Studies show that the tax hits merely a sliver of wealthy American families. A proposal by President Obama would leave it at current levels, affecting only estates valued at more than $3.5 million for individuals and $7 million for couples. 
 But now some Democrats have joined Republicans to call for setting the threshold even higher, in a rebellion that could have important consequences not just for the future of the death tax but also for Mr. Obama's efforts to pay for his ambitious policy agenda.
 If that Republican-backed plan is approved, it could deprive Mr. Obama of about $100 billion for his initiatives on health care, energy and education when alternative sources of revenue are already dwindling. That prospect is plain outrageous to top Democrats, who see efforts to spare the wealthy as particularly ill-timed given the economic pain being experienced by many of lesser means.
 ''This isn't for the wealthy, this is for the super-wealthy,'' the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, said as the Senate took up the estate tax issue during its budget deliberations. ''Even in the best of times, there is no question that we could find a better use for an extra $100 billion.''
 But 10 Democrats, led by Senator Blanche Lincoln of Arkansas, defied Mr. Reid. They joined with Republicans to urge an increase in the value of estates exempt from the tax above the level backed by Mr. Obama (to $5 million for individuals and $10 million for couples) and a cut in the maximum tax rate (to 35 percent from the current 45 percent). 
 Unless Congress acts this year, the estate tax is scheduled to be repealed in 2010 for one year before snapping back to hit estates of $1 million or more in 2011 -- an odd sequence dictated by the tax cuts passed under President George W. Bush. 
 While nonbinding, the vote was a clear sign of Democratic division over the tax, with Ms. Lincoln arguing that it was devastating to family businesses that are a prime source of jobs in her state. 
 ''In a time when our government has handed out billions upon billions to failed Wall Street banks,'' she said, ''it is time we provide a little relief to our businesses on Main Street.''
 But critics say her estate tax proposal represents a giveaway to the rich since very few estates built around small businesses or farms -- always the poster children for repealing the estate tax -- would actually be subject to the tax.
 ''The real beneficiaries are indeed the same kind of people getting the big bonuses on Wall Street,'' said Robert Greenstein, executive director of the liberal Center on Budget and Policy Priorities.
 A new analysis by the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center estimated that only 100 farms and small businesses in the entire country would be subject to the estate tax under Mr. Obama's plan, a number that shrinks to 40 under the proposal Ms. Lincoln sponsored with Jon Kyl of Arizona, the No. 2 Republican in the Senate. A subsequent analysis by the center raised the prospect that there may be no farms or small businesses in Arkansas vulnerable to the tax.
 A few opponents of repealing the tax have suggested that Ms. Lincoln, who is up for re-election next year, is looking out for the heirs of prominent Arkansas family businesses like Wal-Mart and Tyson Foods. She dismisses the notion, saying such wealthy Arkansans have the personal resources to contend with the estate tax on their own.
 Ms Lincoln and her aides say she is instead acting on the concerns expressed by the owners of Arkansas businesses like timber firms and floral shops who worry that what they have worked to build and expand might have to be sold to pay the tax.
 And they may well believe that. Since discovering in the 1994 elections that the ''death tax'' had real resonance as a political issue, Republicans have pounded on the subject and won a steady escalation in the tax threshold, though they have been unable to secure its repeal. They miss no opportunity to continue the drumbeat.
 ''No one should have to visit the tax man and the undertaker on the same day,'' Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, said during the floor debate. ''It is the government's final outrage.''
 Republicans and other critics consider the estate tax to be fundamentally unfair, saying it represents double taxation since those who accumulated the assets had already paid taxes throughout their lifetime. And they say it presents severe legal and financial headaches for surviving family members.
 Advocates of retaining some level of an estate tax say it is simply a capital gains tax on investments that never previously changed hands. They see it as a legitimate effort to require some of the nation's most affluent families to share some of the rewards they have reaped.
 But they acknowledge that Republicans have already triumphed on the public relations front, turning the estate tax into a continuing hot-button issue for many people who could only hope that their heirs might someday have to pay it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESTATE TAX (95%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FAMILY (89%); TAX LAW (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); FAMILY COMPANIES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); APPROVALS (76%); CHILDREN (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); HARRY REID (58%); BLANCHE LINCOLN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



497 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: Funds That Found Glimmers of Hope

BYLINE: By TIM GRAY

 BODY:
THE second half of 2008 was so bruising and baleful in the stock market that few mutual fund managers managed to eke out gains. But in the first quarter of 2009, some managers again started to post positive numbers. 
 Two top-performing funds for the quarter -- T. Rowe Price New America Growth and Goldman Sachs Tollkeeper-- prospect among growth and technology companies. A third, Evergreen Diversified Income Builder, favors bonds but sifts through various sectors and asset classes in search of gains. 
 Going With the Odds 
 Joseph M. Milano, portfolio manager for the T. Rowe Price New America Growth fund, will consider any large- or mid-capitalization company that offers the promise of swelling earnings. The fund, with an expense ratio of 0.86 percent, returned 3.41 percent for the quarter. It lost 2.57 percent, annualized, over the five years ended March 31.
 ''I buy high-quality companies,'' Mr. Milano said. ''I've learned the hard way that the odds are more in your favor when you do that.'' He aims for businesses whose shares have been battered but whose underlying virtues remain. 
 Consider Whole Foods Market, his best performer in the quarter. ''I love the theme of natural food, and it's got great demographics,'' he said. ''I love the management. But the stock had gotten killed a couple of years ago.''
 Profit margins had shrunk, as management stretched for sales growth. ''Five years ago, you couldn't talk with them about operating margins,'' he said. ''Now margins are the first thing they want to talk about.'' 
 Just Be Patient
 Scott G. Kolar and David G. Shell, senior portfolio managers of Goldman Sachs Tollkeeper, stress keeping turnover low. Theirs was 23 percent at the end of 2008 -- meaning, in effect, that they held the average stock in their portfolio about four years. 
 They also concentrate their portfolio, holding only 31 stocks at year-end, compared with 188 for the average stock mutual fund, according to Morningstar. 
 ''The benefit of our long-term philosophy is that nothing changes in an economy like this,'' Mr. Kolar said. ''Don't get me wrong -- I take more aspirin. But our style or turnover doesn't change.''
 Even so, they'll jump when opportunity beckons. That happened with Apple in January. The company's stock slid when its chief executive, Steven P. Jobs, announced that he was taking a health-related leave of absence. 
 ''Steve Jobs is one of the greatest entrepreneurs in the country, but Apple will be fine,'' Mr. Kolar said. ''And when the market overreacts, we're going to be there. We owned some Apple, but it wasn't a meaningful position. When we get that kind of opportunity, we make it a meaningful position.''
 The stock soon rebounded, returning about 23 percent in the first quarter, contributing to Tollkeeper's 10.51 return. The fund, with an expense ratio of 1.44 percent, returned 1.26 percent, annualized, in the five years through March.
 The fund's name sprang from its managers' aspirations: They aim to own companies that, in a metaphorical sense, take tolls rather than build bridges. ''Bridge builders have to find a lot of capital and deploy it,'' Mr. Kolar said. ''We'd rather have somebody else build the bridge, and then we'll own the toll business.'' 
 To understand their approach, compare Blockbuster with Netflix, he said. Blockbuster built the video rental business, investing heavily in a national network of stores. Then Netflix, a top holding of Tollkeeper, arrived and tweaked the formula. It reduced the assets needed by operating via mail and the Internet and started taking a toll via customer subscriptions. 
 A Different Tack
 Like her competitors at Goldman Sachs, Margaret D. Patel, portfolio manager of the Evergreen Diversified Income Builder fund, favors low turnover in her fund's holdings -- an annual rate of 39 percent at the end of the first quarter. ''Low turnover is a better way to run money -- the reality of companies doesn't change that fast,'' she said.
 Ms. Patel has expertise in junk bonds, having run the Pioneer High Yield fund and its predecessor for nearly a decade before moving to Evergreen in 2007. Her Evergreen fund holds mostly bonds, but its mandate gives her flexibility to buy stocks, too, and to allocate assets among the types of securities as she sees fit. At the end of 2008, the fund held 17 percent stocks, 82 percent bonds and a tincture of cash. Junk bonds -- bonds whose credit quality is rated BB or lower by Standard & Poor's -- accounted for about 90 percent of the fund's debt holdings at that time.
 Ms. Patel is unusual among fund managers in her method of constructing her portfolio. Many managers stick with a particular style -- say, growth or value investing -- or a certain type of security.
 She begins by determining which economic sectors show the most promise. Then she tries to pick the most promising companies within them. Finally, she judges whether each pick's stock, bonds or convertible securities offers the best potential return.
 ''One thing we've seen in the last few years is that rigid rules and rigid allocations don't add value,'' she said. 
 Her eclectic approach paid off in the first quarter, as the institutional share class of her fund, with an expense ratio of 0.87 percent, returned 6.82 percent. It lost 2.8 percent, annualized, for the five years through March. (Evergreen also sells shares for individual investors.)
 Among her better-performing holdings in the quarter was Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold, up 56 percent. She has invested in both its stock and bonds. 
 ''They're very good stewards and have a very good performance record,'' she said. ''And they have a very diversified geographic base and a diversified portfolio of metals.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Margaret D. Patel of the Evergreen Diversified Income Builder fund believes ''rigid rules and rigid allocations don't add value.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT SPENCER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
David G. Shell, left, and Scott G. Kolar of Goldman Sachs Tollkeeper held just 31 stocks in the fund at the end of last year.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARITY ROKITA BECK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Joseph M. Milano of the T. Rowe Price New America Growth fund puts high value on a company's underlying strengths.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE RUARK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Faring Better in a Bad Market: Three funds that outperformed the overall market and their peer groups of stock funds -- in the first quarter.(Sources: Morningstar, Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); CONTUSIONS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); BONDS (76%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); WHOLE FOODS MARKET INC (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); WFM (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (55%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (55%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



498 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1467 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times, April 12, 2009

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 VITAL SUNNI ALLIES IN IRAQ FIND THEMSELVES BESIEGED 
 The Sunni Awakening Councils, the former insurgents who switched sides and helped improve security in Iraq, are increasingly their members either attacked by militants or militias, or arrested by the Shiite-dominated government. The developments have caused concern among some American military officers and diplomats. PAGE 6 
 NEW BID TO FIND MISSING AGENT
 Two years after Robert Levinson, a former agent for the Federal Bureau of Investigation, disappeared in Iran, American investigators are intensifying efforts to resolve his case. The efforts come at a delicate time in American-Iranian relations. PAGE 8 
 PASSION PLAY DRAWS MILLIONS
 Iztapalapa, a working-class community on the outskirts of Mexico City, holds a weeklong Passion Play that attracts more than two million people. PAGE 12 
 NATIONAL
 COLORADO SPRINGS JOURNAL
 Trying to Get an Idea Noticed
 Amid the Rush for Stimulus Money
 A Colorado counseling center with a growing number of military veterans as clients and patients is seeking federal stimulus money to buy a half-built, foreclosed apartment project. The veterans would complete the construction, and the group would sell the buildings, use the proceeds to buy another property and repeat the process. PAGE 14 
 JUSTICE GINSBURG REFLECTS ON ROLE
 At an Ohio symposium honoring her 15 years on the Supreme Court, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg defended the use of foreign law by American judges and suggested that torture should not be used even when it might yield important information. She also talked about her role as the only female justice on the nation's highest court. PAGE 14 
 New York
 OUR TOWNS
 Hoboken's Unemployed
 Kick the Recession Blues
 If bad things go on long enough they create their own rhythms and routines, hence Ian Sacs's idea for Recession Soccer, a weekly game on the Hoboken waterfront for the unemployed and underemployed. Mr. Sacs, 33, was laid off from his job in transportation engineering. PAGE 21 
 FROM STREET LIFE TO WRITING LIFE
 Joe Reddick was an 18-year-old drug dealer at the height of the crack cocaine epidemic, in 1986. Having published two gritty paperbacks under the pen name Joe Black while in prison, Mr. Reddick, now 40, is turning his attention back to writing. His literary career represents a striking transformation for someone who never read a book before being sent to jail. PAGE 21 
 OVER 5,000 STUDENTS BATTLE IT OUT
 The SuperNationals chess tournament, in Nashville, attracted almost 5,300 children from 45 states and Puerto Rico. PAGE 21
 obituaries
 MICHAEL STERN, 98
 A swashbuckling foreign correspondent, he filed some of the first dispatches from Rome as Allied forces entered the city, and, in his later career as a philanthropist, helped save the aircraft carrier Intrepid. PAGE 22 
 SPORTS
 SHOWING MATURITY AT AUGUSTA, THE VETERANS MOVE TO THE TOP
 This was supposed to be the year that the younger generation took the wheel at the Masters. But the older fellows wouldn't let go. Kenny Perry, 48, and Angel Cabrera, 39, are tied for the lead at 11-under-par 205. Perry is the oldest man to lead after 54 holes of a major championship. PAGE 1 
 BREAKING PAY BARRIERS
 Not only does Usain Bolt, the world's fastest man, want to revitalize track and redefine the limits of speed, he wants to become the first track star to earn $10 million a year in prize money, appearance fees and endorsements. PAGE 1 
 A ROAD LESS TRAVELED TO THE MAJORS
 When Brett Gardner was named the Yankees' center fielder, he became the latest example of a walk-on who could have an impact in the majors. PAGE 2 
 Week in Review
 GAY MARRIAGE SPREADS,
 And the High Court Hangs Back
 In the space of a week, the number of states allowing same-sex marriage has doubled, while California, despite a referendum banning the marriages, continues to vacillate on the issue. This sort of turmoil might amount to an invitation for the United States Supreme Court to step in, but there are all sorts of reasons the court is likely to keep its distance. PAGE 1
 CReME DE LA CAREERS
 For years, the hefty paychecks and social status on Wall Street proved irresistible to many of America's brightest college students, but with the finance industry at the center of the country's economic downturn, many are rethinking a career in it. So, what will the new map of talent flow look like? PAGE 1
 ANNUAL EPIDEMIC: 'FILING-PHOBIA'
 Call it fear of filing: people fail to file tax returns for years on end and squirrel away unopened letters from the I.R.S. And where some see fear, others see procrastination, or even subliminal rebellion. PAGE 3
 WHAT WE KNEW ABOUT PIRATES
 Last week's drama on the high seas, when Somali pirates attacked an American freighter in the Indian Ocean and took its captain hostage, mirror the Barbary Wars of 200 years ago. But the Barbary pirates' bravado became their demise -- something the Somalis might keep in mind. PAGE 4
 Editorial
 FIRST SHOWDOWN ON HEALTH CARE
 Republican senators are hyperventilating over the possibility that Democrats might try to pass health care reform with only a majority vote. Week In Review, Page 7
 END OF THE CLASH OF CIVILIZATIONS
 On his visit to Turkey last week, President Obama made important progress toward recalibrating America's relations with the Islamic world. Week In Review, Page 7
 COOL WAY TO LOSE WEIGHT?
 Intriguing research published last week suggests that turning the thermostat down to a chilly 61 degrees will not only conserve energy, it might conceivably help some people lose weight. Week In Review, Page 7
 Op-ed
 FRANK RICH
 If indeed the ''depression'' is over, as CNBC's irrepressible Jim Cramer says, what, if anything, have we learned? Week In Review, Page 8
 MAUREEN DOWD
 California is a state in a state of confusion. The Midwest trumps the West, as Iowa shows up its coastal compadre. Week In Review, Page 9
 THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
 Visitors can still see amazing biodiversity all over Costa Rica thanks to a unique system set up to preserve its cornucopia of plants and animals. Many countries could learn a lot from this system. Week In Review, Page 8
 THE PUBLIC EDITOR
 An Op-Ed article from last month about Bernard L. Madoff raised the old question of how much disclosure a newspaper owes its readers. Clark Hoyt takes a look. Week In Review, Page 8
 ANARCHY ON LAND, PIRACY AT SEA
 In an Op-Ed article, Robert D. Kaplan, a correspondent for The Atlantic, writes that piracy at sea is usually a result of political turmoil that can be resolved only on land, and that our Navy needs to rethink its strategy on shallow-water combat. Week In Review, Page 9
 Magazine
 Laureate of the Louche
 Frederick Seidel has been called crass, disturbing, a name-dropping, upmarket sinner. And that's what may make him America's greatest living poet. PAGE 24
 Arts & Leisure
 Dissecting the Dead
 The Grateful Dead was a 30-year ramble of touring. It continued after Jerry Garcia's death as the Dead, which is the name the band will play under during its sold-out reunion tour this spring and summer. PAGE 1 
 Sunday Business
 Feeling (Relatively) Poor 
 In a Gilded Beach Town
 Palm Beach has become so packed with wealth that calling someone a millionaire is an insult. Then a Palm Beach homeowner named Bernie Madoff beguiled his neighbors and pulled vast chunks of local money into his Ponzi scheme. Although Palm Beach shows signs of wear, ''poor'' is still relative. PAGE 1 
 SO BOTOX ISN'T JUST SKIN DEEP
 Over the last decade, Botox has become a synonym for erasing wrinkles, a kind of shorthand for the entire enterprise of cosmetic medicine. But doctors have injected it experimentally into muscles and glands all over the body, making it medicine's answer to duct tape, using it to treat chewing and swallowing problems, drooling, hair loss and pain from missing limbs. PAGE 1 
 Sunday Styles
 Idol Gossip
 The only thing standing between Adam Lambert, the contestant widely tipped as a favorite to win ''American Idol,'' and victory may be a question currently burning up the Internet: Can a contestant rumored to be gay win America's vote on a popular reality show? PAGE 1 
 Travel
 The American Outback
 This Grand Staircase-Escalante corner of southern Utah has been immortalized by novelists, photographers and in countless Hollywood westerns. And yet, it still qualifies as the best-kept secret in the West. PAGE 1 
 The Other Melting Pot of Dubai 7 
 Automobiles
 Carmakers Show a Brave Front
 If you listen closely at the New York auto show, you can almost hear the pent-up pressure beneath the optimistic speeches and inspirational displays of gleaming sheet metal: it is the sound of an industry holding its collective breath. PAGE 1 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); VETERANS (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (82%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (79%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); PRISONS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (77%); ARMED FORCES (77%); JAIL SENTENCING (77%); TOURNAMENTS (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); MILITARY VESSELS (72%); NAVAL VESSELS (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); BOARD GAMES (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (68%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (67%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (67%); LITERATURE (65%); JUDGES (65%); SOCCER (63%); COCAINE (61%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (61%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%)

PERSON: RUTH BADER GINSBURG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (79%) TENNESSEE, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); MEXICO (79%); PUERTO RICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



499 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: A Budget Weighed Down by Old Debt

BYLINE: By DUNSTAN A. McNICHOL

 BODY:
SINCE taking office in 2006, Gov. Jon S. Corzine has repeatedly warned of the dangers of New Jersey's ''credit card culture,'' as one administration after another has borrowed to pay the bills. 
 During the past 15 years, the state's debt has increased fourfold, to $35 billion from $8.1 billion. In the fiscal year beginning July 1, with the governor and lawmakers trying to balance the budget at a time when tax revenues are dropping, the payment due -- $2.9 billion -- on New Jersey's debt accounts for about a tenth of the governor's proposed spending plan. 
 Even though Mr. Corzine's proposed budget of $29.8 billion is smaller than the current fiscal year's budget of $33 billion, the debt payment will increase by $300 million. As a result, New Jersey taxpayers will spend more next year to repay old loans than they will on initiatives like property tax rebates and aid to cities combined. 
 ''We're in a dilemma, and it's eating up our whole way of life,'' said Assemblyman Joseph R. Malone III of Burlington County, the ranking Republican on the Assembly Budget Committee. ''It's either you stop or you go into bankruptcy. I don't know how you can continue like this.''
 Annual payments on outstanding loans have nearly doubled since 2003, State Treasury Department records show, even though New Jersey's overall budget has grown by 26 percent in that time. 
 R. David Rousseau, the state treasurer, said that many of New Jersey's current fiscal problems are the result of previous administrations shortchanging the pension system, borrowing heavily and diverting resources from funds like the unemployment account even when the state economy was in good shape.
 ''We got hit by an economic tsunami that engulfed us,'' Mr. Rousseau said. ''Our problem in New Jersey is we used the things in good economic times, which limits your options even more when you're in bad times.''
 The debt includes long-term loans for everything from highway and school construction to pension payments and the acquisition of open space. More than $4 billion of borrowed money was used to shore up state budgets between 2003 and 2005, meaning taxpayers will be making payments for another 26 years on loans that financed government services six years ago.
 In two appearances last week before legislative budget committees, Mr. Rousseau acknowledged that debt payments would mean sacrifices in other areas of the budget.
 ''We can't turn back the clock, but we can wonder aloud: How much easier would it be to retain critical services to vulnerable residents, education and public safety if we did not have that bill to pay in this budget?'' Mr. Rousseau said in prepared remarks to lawmakers.
 Mr. Corzine has long tried to warn lawmakers that constant borrowing would eventually cut into services.
 ''Not only does this reliance place an ever-growing burden on state residents and businesses,'' the governor said in the preamble of his 2007 state budget proposal, ''but debt payments essentially crowd out appropriations needed for education, health care, property tax relief and other key programs.'' 
 Two years ago, the governor proposed steep highway toll increases to raise billions of dollars to be used toward paying down the state's debt, but that plan collapsed in the face of widespread opposition. 
 The potential for loan payments to ''crowd out'' other budget priorities, as Mr. Corzine put it, came into sharp focus this year, with a historic plunge in revenues from state income tax returns resulting in his trimming state spending by about 10 percent.
 With debt service payments essentially unassailable, the governor turned elsewhere for savings.
 He has proposed cutting property tax rebates by $539 million. He declined to deposit $500 million into the state's Unemployment Insurance Trust Fund -- setting the stage for a $370 million business tax increase in July. And he is seeking $400 million in savings from public employee furloughs, wage freezes or layoffs.
 But many of Mr. Corzine's cost-cutting strategies will add to future state budget expenses.
 For instance, he has proposed cutting payments to the state pension funds so sharply that an actuarial firm that reviewed the largest of the pension accounts questioned earlier this month whether the retirement system could survive.
 ''We do have concern about the fund being able to meet its long-term obligation,'' Scott F. Porter, an actuary with the firm, Milliman, told trustees of the New Jersey Teachers' Pension and Annuity Fund when he presented his annual update on the financial condition of the fund.
 Similarly, the Unemployment Insurance Trust Fund, which covers the cost of weekly benefit checks to New Jersey's growing ranks of the unemployed, has been overdrawn since March, and is on track to have a deficit of $1.6 billion by July 2010.
 Mr. Corzine's proposed budget assumes the state will borrow another $2 billion for school construction and transportation improvements, adding millions to future years' debt service costs. 
 Assemblyman Malone agreed that the high debt payments leave state officials with few good options, but he suggested one:
 ''You cannot give everything to everyone all at the same time, and it has to stop,'' he said. ''You have to stop borrowing, no matter how worthy the cause is.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); GOVERNORS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (76%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (76%); TAX LAW (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); PROPERTY TAX (71%); TAX RELIEF (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



500 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1293 words

HEADLINE: We're Still the One

BYLINE: By MICHAEL BESCHLOSS. 
Michael Beschloss is the author, most recently, of ''Presidential Courage.''

 BODY:
POWER RULES
 How Common Sense Can Rescue American Foreign Policy
 By Leslie H. Gelb
 334 pp. Harper/HarperCollins Publishers. $27.99
 Leslie Gelb recalls in this fluent, well-timed and sometimes provocative book that during the Jimmy Carter years, he privately implored his boss, Secretary of State Cyrus Vance, to give a speech demonstrating ''that the administration did, in fact, have a foreign policy.'' To Gelb's distress, Vance replied, ''Policy is baloney.'' 
 Most presidents and secretaries of state wouldn't put it so bluntly, but history suggests that more than a few would privately side with Vance. Even presidents who start out with a distinct foreign policy strategy can find themselves overtaken by unexpected events or their own preoccupations. When Lyndon Johnson took office in 1963, he hoped to achieve a detente with the Soviet Union, but his insistence on prosecuting the war in Southeast Asia siphoned off so much of his international capital that by the end of his term, he was reduced to pleading with the Russians for a last-ditch summit meeting in Leningrad. (The answer was no.) George W. Bush in 2000 pledged a modest foreign policy, but after the 9/11 attacks he ordered the invasion of Afghanistan, raised the notion of pre-emption to a doctrine and ultimately used that declaration to justify a long, unpopular war in Iraq.
 Other presidents have gotten elected on deceptive promises that belie their private intentions or expectations. Dwight Eisenhower, one of the most honest men and sophisticated strategic thinkers ever to be president, bowed to the aggressive wing of the Republican Party and pledged while campaigning in 1952 to roll back Soviet Communism in Europe -- although as the recent commander of Western forces on that continent, Ike of all people knew that this was a fantasy at the time. In 1960, John Kennedy vowed to increase defense spending in order to correct a Soviet ''missile gap'' that (as he had substantial reason to know) did not exist. 
 Gelb, a former New York Times columnist and past president of the Council on Foreign Relations, persuasively argues that the most effective presidents try to fashion a coherent strategy, explain it forthrightly to the public and resist the temptation to be distracted by sudden opportunities and crises. Others have made this point before. (See, for instance, John Lewis Gaddis's landmark history ''Strategies of Containment,'' which shows how six presidents fought the cold war.) But Gelb's treatment is distinctive, adorned with astute historical examples and reminiscences from his own high-level service in Johnson's Pentagon and Carter's State Department. It is filled with gritty, shrewd, specific advice on foreign policy ends and means that will be especially useful for a new president and secretary of state without deep experience dealing with the world (although the bulk of the book was clearly written before the world economic calamity of the past months). In the spring of 2009, as Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton make their first moves on the world's proscenium, Gelb's ruminations are welcome and stimulating.
 The author wishes to reclaim the middle ground in the debates over American foreign policy between the two parties, toward both of which he feels ''a bit surly.'' At the start of his extended analysis of world power, he complains that ''the core meaning of power has been lost, or even worse, hijacked by various liberals and conservatives,'' who ''repeatedly corner our leaders into making commitments they cannot fulfill,'' as well as groups like ''America's premature grave diggers'' and ''the world-is-flat globalization crowd,'' presumably led by Gelb's successor on the Times Op-Ed page, Thomas L. Friedman. 
 Gelb insists that power ''is what it always was -- essentially the capacity to get people to do what they don't want to do, by pressure and coercion, using one's resources and position. . . . The world is not flat. . . . The shape of global power is decidedly pyramidal -- with the United States alone at the top, a second tier of major countries (China, Japan, India, Russia, the United Kingdom, France, Germany and Brazil), and several tiers descending below. . . . Among all nations, only the United States is a true global power with global reach.'' 
 One can learn much from Gelb's book without being persuaded by everything he writes. He shows special scorn for what Joseph Nye of Harvard has called ''soft power.'' Gelb contends that ''persuasion, good values and leadership won't -- by themselves -- cause foreign leaders to do your bidding. . . . To me, soft power is foreplay, not the real thing.'' This might understate the importance, for instance, of American support for the ''good'' Western values of human rights, democracy and market economics that emboldened millions of Eastern Europeans in 1989 to revolt against Soviet hegemony.
 Gelb may also underestimate both the value and the importance of mass citizen involvement in American foreign policy. For example, had Johnson trusted his exquisite political instincts and consulted a few more Americans outside the Eastern professional diplomatic establishment, he might have realized how unsustainable his war in Vietnam would turn out to be if he failed to win it cheaply and quickly. Gelb's chapter about domestic political influences on top foreign-policy makers is excellent on think tanks, cable TV and lobbies but does not discuss the mass influence of the Internet. (The chapter takes no serious note of blogs, except to mention that some think-tank analysts write them and to praise some bloggers for reading government documents.) In fact, future historians may well conclude that one of the most formidable forces in mobilizing opposition to George W. Bush's adventure in Iraq was the widely read liberal blog Daily Kos.
 Some readers may be surprised when Gelb praises the ''genius'' of Nixon and Henry Kissinger after Johnson's presidency, when ''American power was drowning in Vietnam,'' in letting ''the victim drown slowly while they steered the world's attention in another direction. . . . Whether by design or not, they dragged out the Vietnam War, perhaps hoping for victory, but not expecting one, and made their main focus the ushering in of the most active and wide-ranging period of high-wire, high-stakes diplomacy in American history.'' As a man sensitive to the complexities of political morality, Gelb might well have noted here that this interpretation of Nixon's approach may not seem quite so heroic to, for instance, the families of the tens of thousands of Americans who perished in Southeast Asia under Nixon's watch. 
 None of this detracts from the general importance of Gelb's book. His plea for greater strategic thinking is absolutely right and necessary. The campaign of 2008 was but the latest instance of a presidential contest (like 1952 and 1964, to name only two) when the debate over foreign affairs was underdeveloped and the election mandate for the new president in foreign policy was strong but underdefined. That campaign and the months that followed have demonstrated that Barack Obama's inclination is to approach problems with a calm and steady concentration on long-term strategy. Thus, as he copes with domestic and world problems whose magnitude and range exceed those facing most American commanders in chief, he would no doubt benefit if someone should slip ''Power Rules'' into his evening reading. President Obama won't, by any means, concur with all of Gelb's meditations or policy recommendations, but he will surely agree that -- especially in world affairs and especially at this moment -- a president or secretary of state should consider strategy to be anything but baloney. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MATT DORFMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN POLICY (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); ARMS RACE (78%); COLD WAR (78%); WRITERS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); IRAQ WAR (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (63%); DEFENSE SPENDING (62%)

COMPANY: HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%); JOHN LEWIS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

TITLE: Power Rules (Book); Power Rules (Book)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



501 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Demi In Des Moines?

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD. 
Nicholas D. Kristof is off today.

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
 California's having an identity crisis.
 Once the West Coast glowed with prosperity and was the harbinger of hip new things. Now it's in the grip of recession and repression. California's cool has been stolen by, of all places, Iowa.
 White-bread, cornfed, understated Iowa was the first state to ratify the black rookie Barack Obama and has usurped the role everyone thought California would play as a leader in the fight to give gays the right to marry. 
 Now it's flyover country that's starting high-flying trends. 
 The mayor of Des Moines, Frank Cownie, called the San Francisco mayor, Gavin Newsom, to leave him a message about the Iowa Supreme Court decision.
 ''That caught me, candidly, by surprise, proverbially flat-footed,'' Newsom said in an interview at City Hall. ''It was around April 1st, so I thought, honestly, it was an April Fool's joke.''
 It seemed so topsy-turvy.
 ''It's pretty extraordinary,'' the Irish Catholic mayor said, in an office filled with Kennedy memorabilia and the ghosts of the Harvey Milk-George Moscone murders. ''Now you have four states that are legally sanctioning same-sex marriage, and New York and California are not among them. Who could have predicted that?''
 The Dream Factory is being left in the dust by the Field of Dreams.
 Matt McCoy, an openly gay Iowa legislator, was so excited by the court's unanimous decision that he posted a video inviting everyone, ''gay and straight,'' to come get married and settle in Iowa.
 Max Mutchnick, the co-creator of ''Will and Grace,'' who married the entertainment lawyer Erik Hyman in Beverly Hills just days before Proposition 8 passed last November -- theirs is among the 18,000 or so marriages now in legal limbo -- was tickled by the idea of Iowa as the new California.
 ''Will we see David Geffen rollerblading in the Des Moines skywalk?'' Mutchnick mused. ''Will paparazzi chase after farmers looking for candid shots? Will Ashton and Demi be BlackBerrying friends from their corner table at Applebee's? Will there be a new line of Kiehl's products for goats?''
 Mutchnick, who is raising twin girls with Hyman, frets that President Obama may be behind the country on this issue, and that the Obamas do not have enough gays around them.
 ''If more homosexuals were in the Obamas' lives,'' the writer said, ''there is no way Michelle would have worn a twin set when she met the queen.''
 Newsom is running for governor, even though his cause foundered, and he may have trouble wooing those blacks and Latinos who supported Prop 8. He doesn't like the image of California reeling backward and ''becoming the first state in U.S. history to use the Constitution to strip people's rights away.''
 The dashing mayor, now 41, was a pariah at the 2004 Democratic convention because some Democrats thought his operatic parade of gay marriages had helped W. and Karl Rove buzz the base and eke out a victory against John Kerry.
 Over what he called a ''Vitamin V'' vodka at the St. Regis hotel here, Newsom's predecessor, Willie Brown (who prefers Jerry Brown for governor and thinks Newsom should run for lieutenant governor) disputed this, laughing: ''You think John Kerry lost because Gavin Newsom married people? No way! It was because he was on that sky-diving piece of equipment. Wind-surfacing. He was wind-surfacing all over the world.'' 
 Newsom said he hasn't sat down with Barney Frank, who warned the mayor to win approval in court before issuing marriage licenses, but that he had reconciled with Dianne Feinstein, who said Newsom had pushed the issue ''too much, too fast, too soon.''
 While he says he doesn't like being a chew toy for Ann Coulter, Bill O'Reilly and the religious right, or getting ugly Twitter messages or obscene gestures from people at airports, he asserts that his brazen approach in 2004 made it harder for Democrats ''to speak from both sides of their mouths to justify their position that separate is equal,'' and caused a ''softening'' in discrimination.
 ''People watched and saw a human face,'' he said. ''They saw somebody who looked like their next-door neighbor and said, 'That's not the person with chaps in the big gay parade.' '' 
 He said he has been rereading Martin Luther King's ''Letter From Birmingham Jail'' and feels he needs to ''do more, now and better.''
 ''If we didn't do it in 2004, do you think the party would have wanted us to do it in 2006 during the midterm elections to take back Congress?'' he said. ''God forbid. 2008? Well, it's another presidential year. And now people are saying 2010? That's another critical year to hold Congress, and we've got statehouses across the nation. 2012? Another presidential year. 2014? Another Congressional year. Wait does almost always mean never. That was Dr. King's point.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); MARRIAGE (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (79%); INTERVIEWS (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (75%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (75%); GOVERNORS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); LAWYERS (67%); APPEALS (54%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (50%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (50%); ROLLERBLADING & ROLLERSKATING (50%)

ORGANIZATION: IOWA SUPREME COURT (56%); DREAM FACTORY (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%); DAVID GEFFEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DES MOINES, IA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%) IOWA, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



502 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1700 words

HEADLINE: Community Organizing Never Looked So Good

BYLINE: By SARA RIMER

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass. 

 BODY:
 QUINN RALLINS, 23, graduated magna cum laude last year from Morehouse College with a dual major in international studies and Spanish. This spring, Mr. Rallins is finishing his master's degree in comparative social policy at Oxford. He has analyzed research for the Rand Corporation in England, led workshops in Malaysia for Amnesty International and founded an organization to help orphans in the Dominican Republic. 
 His next step? Top financial and technology companies and nonprofit groups have expressed interest in hiring him. Even in this economy, he has options. 
 But Mr. Rallins wants to be a community organizer -- just like the world's most famous one, Barack Obama. 
 Mr. Rallins says he hopes to win a job with PICO, a national faith-based organization. He is applying for a position in Brockton, Mass., an industrial city battered by the state's highest foreclosure rate, the loss of most of its major manufacturing jobs and dwindling state resources. Starting annual salary is about $35,000. 
 ''My mentor at Morehouse says that at the end of the day, it's not about how much money you make, it's about the lives you've impacted and the stories you have,'' Mr. Rallins said. 
 He is not alone. 
 A job that has not been all that alluring to college graduates is in resurgence, according to leading community organizers and educators. Once thought of as a destination for lefty radicals committed to living lives of low pay, frustration and bitter burnout, community organizing is now seen by many young people an exciting career. 
 With their jobs, students envision helping communities address urgent issues -- economics or the environment, education or social justice -- while developing leadership skills. And these jobs, students say, can actually lead to ... well, you know. 
 ''Community organizing has become cool,'' said Marshall Ganz, who dropped out of Harvard in 1964 to join the civil rights movement in Mississippi and spent 16 years with Cesar Chavez and the United Farm Workers. Of course, a tough economy helps attract people to professions they might not have otherwise considered, as does a crusading time when Wall Street has become a symbol of greed, arrogance and irresponsibility.
 But the turnabout in popularity is still quite remarkable. Last fall, 200 people, the overwhelming majority of them in their 20s, applied for a single community organizing job at a PICO affiliate in San Diego County, said Stephanie Gut, a PICO director. The salary would be about $35,000 to $40,000, plus health benefits.
 In the past, there might have been 25 to 30 applicants for a job that involves developing grass-roots leaders in church congregations to work on a variety of social issues, Ms. Gut said. Although a sagging economy may have had something to do with the number, it couldn't account for all the interest. 
 Two years ago, 250 applied for 26 paid summer community organizing internships at the Center for Community Change in Washington. Last summer, there were 1,200 applicants for 65 paid internships and fellowships. 
 Colleges are also seeing more interest in courses along those lines. Peter Dreier, a politics professor at Occidental College, says he usually has 20 to 25 students in his community organizing class. So far, 42 students have registered for next fall.
 ''I haven't become any more popular as a professor,'' said Mr. Dreier, who directs the Urban and Environmental Policy Program at Occidental. ''So the increased enrollment must have something to do with the political climate, student interest in organizing and the impact of Obama.''
 Dr. Ganz, the veteran organizer, trained thousands of Obama campaign volunteers to organize communities and voters. 
 He sees the effect today. Three years ago, Dr. Ganz, who earned a doctorate in sociology and is now a lecturer at Harvard, taught 40 students in his community organizing class at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government. This year, 60 students are enrolled, with more wanting to get in. Three years ago, the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, began using Dr. Ganz's curriculum. It is now taught at the College of the Holy Cross, Providence College and Wellesley. And more institutions, like M.I.T. and Northwestern, are calling him. 
 Certainly, there is an Obama effect. Through his presidential campaign and in his memoir, ''Dreams From My Father,'' Mr. Obama managed to glamorize and, more important, explain community organizing. He wrote about meeting with people in their homes and churches, listening to their stories, the failures and small victories. 
 ''Before, you'd talk to young people about community organizing and they wouldn't have a clue what you were talking about,'' said Susan Chinn, a longtime community organizer who started the internship program at the Center for Community Change. ''Community-based organizations have not done a very good job of marketing this work to a broad swath of people across the country.''
 But they now have had a presidential campaign full of free advertising, and they want to capitalize. ''We tell them, 'Obviously there's a lot you can do with it,' '' said Robert Fisher, who teaches community organizing at the graduate school of social work at the University of Connecticut, Hartford. ''And now we have the punch line: 'Now you can be president.' ''
 Mr. Rallins of Morehouse College grew up on Chicago's South Side, where his father came of age in the Altgeld Gardens, the same housing project where Mr. Obama once worked as an organizer. And Mr. Rallins, who wrote about his ambition to persevere, achieve, serve and see the world in his essay, ''The Audacity of Hunger,'' seems well aware of the parallel and the potential. 
 Mr. Obama ''said it was the best education he ever had,'' Mr. Rallins said. ''Young people, they're looking for certain intangible skills. They see the experience Obama got from community organizing -- his concern, the way he relates with everyday people.'' 
 Mr. Rallins said he became committed to the job while working with other Morehouse students in New Orleans in the demolished Ninth Ward after Hurricane Katrina. 
 ''That's where my heart is right now,'' Mr. Rallins said. 
 Indeed, many idealistic students were drawn to organizing well before Mr. Obama began his presidential campaign. 
 Andrew Golis was 19 and had just finished his freshman year at Harvard when he joined Howard Dean's 2004 presidential campaign in New Hampshire. ''The Dean campaign, because of the war, and a lot of feelings of disillusionment, was attracting tons of young people,'' said Mr. Golis, now 25 and the deputy publisher of the Talking Points Memo, an online news site. ''Dean would run around saying, 'You have the power, reclaim the country.' ''
 Karen Hicks, the campaign director for New Hampshire, was trying to figure out what to do with all the college students she had working for her, Mr. Golis said. She brought in Dr. Ganz. ''Marshall taught us how to be organizers over a long weekend at some insanely hot yurt at a retreat center,'' Mr. Golis said. ''It was so cool. I was a 19-year-old idealistic kid -- and he was coming with his history, his ability to talk about the inspirational side of politics.'' 
 ''Marshall doesn't fit the baby boomer cliche -- the 'back when I was fighting the man, when I had long hair, when I was smoking pot,' '' Mr. Golis said. ''He's telling a series of stories about himself, about the work that he's doing.''
 And unlike the 1960s, many of thesestudents don't seem motivated by partisanship. Drea Chicas, 21, the daughter of Salvadoran immigrants, is a graduating senior at Occidental, where she has taken Professor Dreier's course and worked with teenage girls. 
 But politics? ''That to me is just a distraction,'' she said. ''When I'm with my girls, that's the last thing they have on their minds. They've seen their boys shot in their faces, violence against women. Democratic, Republican -- that's not even relevant.''
 In fact, talking to many of these young adults, the drive to become an organizer is part of their faith. Josh Daneshforooz, a 24-year-old graduate student at Harvard Divinity School, is taking Dr. Ganz's course on organizing at the Kennedy School, ''because I saw those principles in action in the hugely successful Obama campaign,'' he wrote in an e-mail message. 
 He wants to apply those principles, he said, to his group that he founded, the All Nations Education, a Christian group, organizing college students in the United States to help young people in the third world go to college. 
 Even as Dr. Ganz and others stir enthusiasm, the question becomes what will they do with all these newly interested organizers. Even as they emphasize that organizing can be a career, financing has always been tight and is not likely to improve as the recession drags on. For instance, PICO does not plan anytime soon to fill its job in San Diego that attracted 200 resumes.
 Rylan Truman, 27, will graduate this spring with a master's degree in social work, with a concentration in community organizing, from the school of social work in Hartford. ''I would like to be able to organize parents in low-income jobs around their children's schools,'' she said. 
 But she doesn't have a job. 
 ''My graduating now is poor timing because of the economic situation,'' she said. ''A lot of community organizing jobs are the first to get cut.''
 Even if these young adults became paid organizers, there is no guarantee that they will stick with it. They, like Mr. Obama, might eventually become frustrated about the lack of progress. After all, Mr. Obama himself left with few victories in his pocket, deciding that prospects for real change lay elsewhere.
 At PICO, Quinn Rallins is being recruited by Lew Finfer, a community organizer in Boston who years ago tried to persuade Mr. Obama, then a Harvard law student, to return to organizing. They talked over coffee in Harvard Square. Mr. Obama said no; he wanted to return to Chicago and get into politics.
 ''I'm glad he had a plan,'' Mr. Finfer said. ''And I'm glad I wasn't successful.'' 
 He hopes he has better luck with Quinn Rallins. That final interview is Monday night in Brockton. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE COMMITTED: Quinn Rallins, left, Josh Daneshforooz, Drea Chicas and Rylan Truman are following a career path that had been lightly traveled.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY JODY HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY GEORGE RUHE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.ST1)
ORGANIZATION MAN: Marshall Ganz leads a Harvard workshop.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. ST8)
 STARTING POINT: Barack Obama went from law school to lead a voter registration drive in Chicago.(PHOTOGRAPH BY OBAMA FOR AMERICA, VIA EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)(pg. ST9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (75%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (75%); FACTORY WORKERS (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); RELIGION (69%); FORECLOSURE (68%); CIVIL RIGHTS (68%); FARM LABOR (50%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (72%)

ORGANIZATION: AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) MALAYSIA (92%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (92%); ENGLAND (88%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



503 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; 4.12.09: THE WAY WE LIVE NOW; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: Richly Undeserved

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
David Leonhardt is an economics columnist for The Times and a staff writer for the magazine.

 BODY:
This is not the easiest time to be rich. Not so long ago, the image of American wealth was a heroic one, embodied by figures like Bill Gates and Jack Welch. Today it tends toward the corrupt or at least the hapless: Bernie Madoff, the traders at A.I.G., the former Lehman Brothers chief executive mocked on Capitol Hill, the General Motors chief executive fired by the White House.
 The economic problems of the wealthy have tracked pretty closely with their image problems. Stocks are way down, and the waning days of the 2009 tax season offer reason for one more headache: taxes on the rich won't stay this low for very much longer. In 2011 the Bush tax cuts will expire, and President Obama plans to also close various loopholes. As Peter Orszag, Obama's budget director, delicately says of the rich, ''We are asking them to pitch in a bit more.'' The current moment has the feel of an inflection point for the American wealthy, like the stock-market crash of 1929 or the election of Ronald Reagan in 1980. 
 But inflection points can be misleading. Even on the rare occasions when they occur, they often bring about less change than at first it seems. The mere fact of change is so startling that the magnitude of that change can become exaggerated. So it is with Obama's approach to the wealthy, especially on taxes. His agenda is a bold one in many ways. Yet his tax code would still look more kindly on wealth than Nixon's, Kennedy's, Eisenhower's or that of any other president from F.D.R. to Carter. And only part of the reason for this is widely understood.
 It's well known that tax rates on top incomes used to be far higher than they are today. The top marginal rate hovered around 90 percent in the 1940s, '50s and early '60s. Reagan ultimately reduced it to 28 percent, and it is now 35 percent. Obama would raise it to 39.6 percent, where it was under Bill Clinton.
 What's much less known is that those old confiscatory rates were not as sweeping as they sound. They applied to only the richest of the rich, because yesterday's tax code, unlike today's, had separate marginal tax rates for the truly wealthy and the merely affluent. For a married couple in 1960, for example, the 38 percent tax bracket started at $20,000, which is about $145,000 in today's terms. The top bracket of 91 percent began at $400,000, which is the equivalent of nearly $3 million now. Some of the old brackets are truly stunning: in 1935, Franklin D. Roosevelt raised the top rate to 79 percent, from 63 percent, and raised the income level that qualified for that rate to $5 million (about $75 million today) from $1 million. As the economist Bruce Bartlett has noted, that 79 percent rate apparently applied to only one person in the entire country, John D. Rockefeller.
 Today, by contrast, the very well off and the superwealthy are lumped together. The top bracket last year started at $357,700. Any income above that -- whether it was the 400,000th dollar earned by a surgeon or the 40 millionth earned by a Wall Street titan -- was taxed the same, at 35 percent. This change is especially striking, because there is so much more income at the top of the distribution now than there was in the past. Today a tax rate for the very top earners would apply to a far larger portion of the nation's income than it would have years ago.
 No one in the Obama administration or Congress has suggested taking rates back to their sky-high pre-Reagan levels. But a tax code that drew a sharper distinction between the upper middle class and the extremely wealthy, while keeping its top rate below, say, 50 percent, seems more conceivable. Last year, the House of Representatives passed a surtax on incomes above $1 million to pay for G.I. benefits. (It went nowhere in the Senate, where -- relevantly or not -- many members would be affected by such a tax.) Gene Sperling, now a top Treasury Department official, once raised a similar idea, to shore up Social Security.
 The argument against such increases is not insignificant. Conservative economists say that higher tax rates could damage the economy and ultimately be self-defeating, because they would give the rich an incentive to shift their pay into stock or other investments that are taxed less. And to some degree, such shifting would surely happen.
 But one economic lesson of the last couple of decades is that these responses are fairly modest. An academic study of the Clinton tax increases found that they caused corporate executives to exercise some stock options earlier than they otherwise would have. But the increases had no noticeable long-term effect. The executives didn't ask to be paid entirely in stock, and the economy boomed. Increasing taxes on the rich, in other words, has some unintended consequences, but it mainly has the intended ones: it raises revenue and reduces inequality. That study was written by Austan Goolsbee, a University of Chicago professor who later became the first economic adviser to a Senate candidate named Barack Obama. 
 Given the opposition that some of Obama's existing tax proposals have encountered, no grand new proposals are likely anytime soon. But there is a basic economic reality that will force taxes onto the agenda well beyond this year's budget fight. The federal government simply isn't raising enough money to pay for its obligations, Medicare being the biggest. Neither political party has yet come up with a plan to close the gap. Although a tax code that made finer distinctions would not close the gap all by itself, every dollar helps.
 For 30 years, the debate over taxes has been shaped by a faith that a flatter code is always better. There is little reason to believe that and every reason to believe that tax brackets, as well as tax rates, should be part of the coming debate. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA CRAIG-MARTIN) CHART: TAX POLL: Percentage of male, female, Republican, Democratic and Independent survey respondents in New York State who support raising the state income tax paid by people who earn more than $1 million a year.(Source: Quinnipiac University poll, February 2009) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); TAX LAW (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); BUDGETS (76%); GREAT DEPRESSION (67%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (52%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); BILL GATES (77%); JACK WELCH (72%); BILL CLINTON (72%); BERNARD MADOFF (57%); PETER ORSZAG (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



504 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; ON POLITICS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: What Polls Don't Tell About Gov. Rell

BYLINE: By Mark Pazniokas. 
E-mail: mpazniokas@comcast.net

DATELINE: HARTFORD 

 BODY:
 GOV. M. JODI RELL's approval ratings in her nearly five years as governor have fluctuated so little, they read like the temperature in Honolulu -- a low of 65, a high of 83 and an average in the 70s. 
 ''Nothing ever changes with her,'' said Douglas Schwartz, the director of the Quinnipiac University Poll, whose most recent findings showed that 72 percent of voters approved of the job that Mrs. Rell is doing.
 And in this volatile political and economic environment, that makes Mrs. Rell, 62, a phenomenon among governors grappling with shrinking state revenues and tough choices about what to cut.
 Just ask Jon S. Corzine in New Jersey, David A. Paterson in New York, Donald L. Carcieri in Rhode Island or Deval L. Patrick in Massachusetts. These governors have watched their stock plunge with the Nasdaq and the Dow. 
 Only 40 percent of New Jersey voters gave Mr. Corzine the thumbs up in a Quinnipiac poll last month, and Mr. Paterson got a 28 percent approval rating in the latest Quinnipiac poll in New York State. The others lie in between, wounded by fiscal struggles, a bad economy and an angry electorate.
 So how does Mrs. Rell, a Republican in a Democratic state, stay in favor with nearly 3 in 4 voters? Is it evidence of acumen or timidity? Or a bit of both?
 Among politicians, popularity is to be envied, but not always admired.
 ''Politicians of all stripes who maintain high approval ratings sometimes do so at the expense of doing anything hard, making any tough decisions,'' said Fergus Cullen, a Republican operative who leads a conservative public policy organization, the Yankee Institute.
 To Democrats, Mrs. Rell's popularity is a sign that she is a caretaker, not someone who will change the face of a state government that she decried in her budget address on Feb. 4 as ''layer upon layer of bureaucracy.''
 She said it was ''built so deeply and set so tightly that original goals have been crushed under the weight of permanency.''
 On Monday, her administration agreed in principle to a no-layoff pledge and retirement incentives for state workers in return for concessions on wages and health benefits.
 ''Change agents don't have high approval ratings,'' said State Representative David McCluskey, Democrat of West Hartford. ''Change agents are the ones who polarize people. She is not a risk taker. She is playing it safe.''
 In February, Mrs. Rell told voters Connecticut could get through the current fiscal crisis -- the state faces a budget shortfall of as much as $8.7 billion over the next two years -- without raising taxes.
 But the only reason her budget was balanced, according to the legislature's nonpartisan fiscal analysts, was that it relied on assumptions that understated the projected shortfall by more than $2 billion. 
 Mrs. Rell, who has not said if she will seek re-election next year, said her budget was based on the best information at the time, but she now acknowledges it is out of balance by at least $1 billion. The governor intends to negotiate with the Democratic-controlled legislature to close the gap.
 The legislature responded to the initial budget proposal by recommending a spending plan that would rely on cuts, borrowing and major tax increases. 
 ''She has been brilliant at backing other people into corners,'' said Mayor Dannel P. Malloy of Stamford, a Democrat who many expect to run for governor next year.
 Opponents and allies alike are hard-pressed to identify a broadly unpopular position Mrs. Rell has taken, other than a budget proposal in 2007 to provide more state aid for local education by raising the income tax by 10 percent. She abandoned the plan.
 ''I think the governor has proved to be very adept at watching the polls and staying ahead in the polls,'' said Secretary of the State Susan Bysiewicz, another likely Democratic challenger.
 Chris Cooper, the governor's spokesman, did not respond to the Democrats' criticism, though he said Mrs. Rell clearly had the trust of voters.
 ''People trust the governor's leadership in this fiscal crisis, because they see someone who is standing up for them,'' Mr. Cooper said. ''What they have not seen is a hidden agenda.''
 Mrs. Rell declined to comment for this article, but she has previously described her style as heavily reliant on instincts and common sense. Seldom does she speak in ideological terms or identify herself as a partisan.
 ''She doesn't have a real partisan identity,'' said Adrienne Fulco, the director of the public policy and law program at Trinity College.
 The governor endorsed John McCain for president shortly before the Connecticut primary in February 2008, but played no role in his campaign. Mrs. Rell skipped a McCain rally in Fairfield. She also was a no-show at the Connecticut Republican Party's one major fund-raiser, the Prescott Bush Dinner, in June.
 Today, Mrs. Rell and President Obama, who easily carried Connecticut, are each popular here. The difference is that almost all Democrats support the president and a majority of Republicans disapprove of him, while the governor's support varies only slightly among voters of all political stripes in the Quinnipiac poll.
 Ms. Fulco said the governor managed to transcend politics by casting herself as someone who would act sensibly in hard times.
 ''I think so much has to do with the persona,'' Ms. Fulco said. ''It's the way she speaks, the way she presents herself. She presents herself as an individual who is prudent, who weighs the argument from both sides.''
 Of course, Mrs. Rell's ability to float above the muck and mire of politics endlessly frustrates Democrats, who control two-thirds of the General Assembly and all the statewide offices aside from governor and lieutenant governor.
 Because Mrs. Rell was never regarded as a major political player during her 10 years as a state legislator or nine and a half years as lieutenant governor, her emergence as a colossus has been hard for many politicians to digest or explain.
 The Republican Party state chairman, Christopher C. Healy, said no one should try.
 ''You can't bottle it,'' he said. ''You can't copyright it. It started the day she took office. When she speaks, it comes off as honest and authentic.''
 John W. Olsen, the president of the Connecticut AFL-CIOand a former Democratic state chairman, said Democrats wrongly dismissed Mrs. Rell when she succeeded Gov. John G. Rowland, who was forced from office by a corruption scandal. Many politicians viewed her initial popularity as mainly an expression of relief that Mr. Rowland had quit instead of putting the state through what could have been a drawn-out impeachment process. 
 ''They thought she was a lightweight,'' he said. ''They did underestimate her. I think we all did.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: WELL LIKED: Gov. M. Jodi Rell wins high approval ratings in polls.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GEORGE RUHE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(CT2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); APPROVALS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); CONSERVATISM (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (66%)

PERSON: M JODI RELL (93%); DONALD CARCIERI (79%); DAVID PATERSON (78%); JON CORZINE (74%); DEVAL PATRICK (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (92%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



505 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 541 words

HEADLINE: Corzine Still Focused on Preschools

BYLINE: By JOHN MOONEY

 BODY:
IN a year of declining state revenues and steep cuts to many programs, Gov. Jon S. Corzine will not be able to fulfill his wish to bring all-day preschool to nearly every public school district in the state. But with help from the federal stimulus package, he is proposing to expand the program into more districts in New Jersey, one of the few states in the country even considering a growth in preschool this year.
 Using federal stimulus funds, and the $25 million Mr. Corzine set aside in his proposed budget last month, the state will be able to provide new preschool programs for as many as 7,000 children. What has yet to be decided is which districts will get the money for the all-day programs. 
 The governor signaled last week that it might be wiser, given the state of the economy and the state's budget, to focus the additional money on districts with the greatest concentrations of poverty.
 ''I think we should get started in those areas where there are heavy concentrations of at-risk kids,'' Mr. Corzine said at an appearance in Lodi. ''To me, that should be a priority. We know what happens when children start school prepared. They perform better not only at the start but throughout their careers.''
 The state already finances preschool in the 31 so-called Abbott districts that have a high a number of poor students. The new $25 million in Mr. Corzine's budget would match extra federal money that districts are to receive in federal Title I funds, meant for low-income students.
 The districts will decide if they want to spend that money on new preschools, and there is no guarantee the state will help in future years. 
 Rahway is among the 86 districts eligible for the new money, and the superintendent, Frank R. Buglione, said he planned to apply and use a portion of his extra $400,000 in stimulus money to provide all-day programs for 3- and 4-year-olds to another 75 children. The district now provides half-day preschool to about 130 4-year-olds.
 But Mr. Buglione said he worries about costs in subsequent years.
 ''What will we do after that? Will our taxpayers have to absorb it?'' he said. ''There are a lot of unknowns. We'll go into it, given the benefits, but I won't gamble millions of dollars.''
 State officials said guidelines are to go out this month that would explain the districts' obligations. The state would at least match the districts' contribution and could pay as much as two-thirds of the costs, they said. ''We're encouraging them to join and hoping the money will be an incentive,'' said Jacqueline Jones, an assistant education commissioner. 
 Nearly a dozen states are cutting back on preschool programs, according to the National Institute for Early Education Research at Rutgers University. In its annual nationwide report, the institute found a 23 percent increase in overall financing in 2008, and an additional 108,000 children served from the year before. Thirty-eight states provide state-financed preschool. But the institute also found that since the economy began its collapse, nine states have cut their programs, including New York, Florida, Texas and California. ''That's a lot of kids we are concerned about right now,'' said Steve Barnett, the institute's co-director.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (90%); CHILDREN (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (77%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%)

PERSON: JON CORZINE (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



506 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: Medical Helicopter Service Faces Big State Budget Cuts

BYLINE: By TRACY GORDON FOX

 BODY:
KURT Farmer was sure he was going to die. As he was driving to the grocery store on March 24, his car careened into a tree at 50 miles per hour. For four hours, he was trapped in the mangled vehicle in rural southeastern Connecticut, about a hundred yards from his home in Voluntown and more than an hour's drive from the nearest major trauma center. 
 Eighteen minutes after rescue workers finally freed Mr. Farmer from the wreckage, he was wheeled into Hartford Hospital's trauma center some 50 miles away, flown there by Life Star Helicopter, the state's only licensed medical helicopter service.
 ''If there was no Life Star, I don't think I'd be here,'' said Mr. Farmer, 28, an unemployed paper mill worker who, after two operations, is recovering from a broken arm and leg and fractures to his spine and neck. ''They saved my life.'' 
 Accident victims like Mr. Farmer may no longer be able to count on such quick transport to a faraway trauma center via medical helicopter if budget cuts proposed by Gov. M. Jodi Rell are approved. Governor Rell has suggested slashing $1.4 million to Life Star, or roughly 20 percent of its budget, which would mean grounding one of its two helicopters.
 The service is operated by Hartford Hospital, but will fly to any hospital in the state, and to hospitals in Rhode Island, Massachusetts and upstate New York. 
 ''Connecticut has three and a half million people in it, and it's the second richest state in the nation,'' said J. Kevin Kinsella, vice president of Hartford Hospital. ''Having an air ambulance is an essential service. If Hartford Hospital didn't provide it, the state would have to provide it.''
 Such a cut to the program's $7 million yearly budget would mean serving 40 percent fewer patients and stopping most emergency transports that are the farthest from Hartford, said Dr. Kenneth Robinson, director of Hartford Hospital's emergency department.
 Jeffrey R. Beckham, a spokesman for the state Office of Policy and Management, said his office had to look at priorities this year. He said Life Star was run by a private hospital with other sources of income.
 ''We're saying we are not in the position to spend the taxpayers' money to provide that extra,'' Mr. Beckham said. ''This is an extraordinary year for our state budget. We are coping with a drastic falloff in revenue. We have had to make some difficult decisions.''
 Since it began in 1985, Life Star has transported 23,000 patients, flying between 1,100 and 1,200 patients per year. The medically equipped helicopters can be called by either emergency medical workers at a scene or a hospital that needs a patient transported to another hospital. No call is turned down unless weather conditions do not permit flight.
 The service started with only one helicopter; 10 years ago, a second helicopter was added and stationed at the William W. Backus Hospital in Norwich to make the service more accessible to the fast-growing southern part of the state. That way, a helicopter is 20 minutes from anywhere in the state, hospital officials said. If the hospital has to ground one of the helicopters, Mr. Kinsella said, it would probably be the one stationed in Norwich. 
 In 2007 and 2008, the service responded to 482 calls involving accidents and traumatic injuries. It also responded to more than 1,000 emergency calls between hospitals, many of them for life-threatening heart attacks that required surgery.
 Some patients, their families and legislators said they were outraged that the Life Star program was being referred to as an extra even in a year as bad as this one, in which Connecticut officials are predicting a $667 million budget deficit. 
 ''I heard about it and I was like, 'Are you kidding me?' How can they possibly put a value on a life?' '' said Debra Moran of Preston, who credits Life Star helicopter with helping to save her 16-year-old son last summer. He was critically injured in an ATV crash in Ledyard, 55 miles from Hartford and the nearest trauma center. ''Would they say a respirator is too expensive and they are not going to have an I.C.U. anymore?'' she said.
 Mrs. Moran's son, Artie Moran III, was riding the ATV on Aug. 29, 2008, when the vehicle flipped over several times. He had major internal injuries; his liver had been cut in half.
 Artie had slipped into shock from internal bleeding by the time he arrived at Backus, a small community hospital. Realizing the extent of Artie's injuries, doctors decided to fly him to Hartford Hospital's trauma center.
 He stopped breathing three times, had surgery to repair his liver and spent a month in intensive care. He is now back in school for his senior year, and looking forward to attending a technical college.
 In July 2005 Christopher Perry was out for a Sunday drive while visiting his parents just over the Massachusetts border in northwestern Connecticut when he struck a granite wall at 55 m.p.h. He suffered a nearly severed aorta, the main artery leading to the heart, as well as a broken neck and fractures of the wrist, leg and ribs. He was flown from a small hospital in Torrington to Hartford Hospital, where he had two heart surgeries that saved his life.
 ''Until it happens to you, you can never, ever know what it means,'' Mr. Perry said. 
 Mrs. Moran and Mr. Perry, along with many other constituents, have written to their legislators asking that they restore the money to the budget to pay for the second helicopter.
 Legislators on an appropriations subcommittee recently recommended restoring the entire $1.4 million that was cut. But the full appropriations committee must still vote on financing the program, and the cuts will still be on the table until the final budget is approved.
 ''We decided this is a matter of life and death,'' said Senator Edith G. Prague, a Democrat from eastern Connecticut who is on the appropriations subcommittee. 
 Representative Elizabeth B. Ritter, a Democrat from southeast Connecticut, said she worried about ambulances trying to wind through traffic on Interstate 95 when there is a serious accident.
 ''Life Star eliminates those problems,'' Mrs. Ritter said. ''When you look at the usage pattern, those helicopters are busy.'' 
 Dr. Robinson said the program had little ability to generate more revenue because the rates of $9,000 per trip are set by the state. The service loses money, the hospital said, because the average Medicaid or Medicare reimbursement is half that fee, and Life Star does not charge other hospitals for its services.
 A mini-intensive care unit inside each of the two 41-foot helicopters is staffed 24 hours a day by a flight nurse and a respiratory therapist. They immediately begin treating a patient with the same equipment and medications found in a hospital emergency room, including a respirator and the so-called crash cart, with tools to revive patients who are in cardiac or respiratory arrest. 
 Mr. Farmer, who had never been in an accident before, said he never thought he would need a medical helicopter.
 ''There shouldn't be any budget issues with Life Star,'' he said. ''They should give them whatever they need. If they are not there, I don't want to think about what could happen to someone else.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: READY TO FLY: Rebecca Lange, a nurse with Life Star Helicopter, which transports critically ill patients, comforts a passenger before takeoff.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRADLEY E. CLIFT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(CT1)
 TRAUMA CALLS: A Life Star pilot heads to a briefing at Hartford Hospital, top. At an accident scene in March near Voluntown, right, Life Star personnel work on the victim, Kurt Farmer, before flying him to Hartford, more than an hour's drive away. ''They saved my life,'' Mr. Farmer said.PHOTOGRAPH BY BRADLEY E. CLIFT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(CT4) CHART: Getting to Help Quickly: Life Star Helicopter, which transports critically ill or injured patients to hospitals, is Connecticut's only licensed medical helicopter service. The map shows how many trips Life Star made to or from medical centers around the state in 2007 and 2008.(CT4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HELICOPTERS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); BONE FRACTURES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (90%); TRAUMA CENTERS (90%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); AMBULANCE & RESCUE SERVICES (76%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (76%); GOVERNORS (75%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (73%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (71%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (71%); PAPER MILLS (54%)

PERSON: M JODI RELL (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (91%) CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



507 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: That Rush to Beat the Market

BYLINE: By M. P. DUNLEAVEY

 BODY:
THE desire to beat the stock market is as American as baseball, apple pie and Warren Buffett. This urge to achieve better-than-average investment returns may have been subdued by the financial crisis, but it's still the core of many strategies.
 Unfortunately, it's very difficult -- for someone, anyone, even a black-box computer model -- to consistently perform better than the market. 
 In fact, numerous studies have shown that, despite investor willingness to pay higher fees and expenses for actively managed mutual funds, these funds rarely beat the market in the long term. Worse, the odds of being able to pick one of these outperforming funds are pretty dismal. 
 ''You can probably find a small number of actively managed funds that do very well,'' said Francis M. Vitagliano, director of retirement education at the Center for Retirement Research at Boston College. ''My problem, is that I don't know which ones are going to do well next year.''
 So why do many investors persist in paying for actively managed funds, when cheaper index funds are likely to deliver higher net returns over time?
 Some might attribute this behavior to the so-called Lake Wobegon effect, after the town in Garrison Keillor's radio series, ''A Prairie Home Companion,'' where ''all the women are strong, all the men are good-looking and all the children are above average.'' There is a well-documented human quirk to overestimate one's strengths -- and that of trusted advisers -- in the desire to be better, smarter and richer than ordinary. The trouble is that for investors, paying more for above-average returns may undercut profits. 
 Investors place much faith in the promise of managed funds, if the amounts invested are any kind of gauge. The total assets under management in the 7,495 actively managed funds are about $4.5 trillion, according to data from Morningstar; the 304 traditional index funds hold about $508 billion.
 Yet a recent study by Mark Kritzman, president of Windham Capital Management of Boston, found that the returns from actively managed funds, net of fees, expenses and taxes, would be lower than those of index funds over a hypothetical 20-year period. The study was published in the Feb. 1 issue of Economics & Portfolio Strategy.
 This study is one of many with similar results over the years, which raises the question: Why aren't index funds the top choice of investors?
 In part, people don't like the idea of being chained to a straight-up market return, said Mary Claire Allvine, a principal with Brownson, Rehmus & Foxworth, an independent advisory firm in Atlanta. ''Investors want to believe they have more control than they do,'' she said. 
 ''They always want to find an active manager who outperforms the market. But the chance that one manager can know something, and act on it consistently and more profitably than the rest of the market -- that hasn't proved to be sustainable.''
 Although investors often hear the caveat that ''past performance is no guarantee of future returns,'' many seem to believe the opposite. ''People tend to assume that a track record tells you something about the future,'' said Michael Edesess, chief investment officer of Fair Advisors, an investment company in Denver. ''But when it comes to the stock market, past history has no predictive value.''
 To be sure, many funds have beaten the market -- for a time. In past years, Mr. Kritzman said, you might have wanted to put money into investing legends like Long-Term Capital Management or Amaranth. ''But eventually they all blew up,'' he added.
 Myths and legends and misconceptions aside, a more powerful potential reason that so many investors stick with actively managed funds is that the fees associated with them may be poorly understood. 
 ''People don't realize how much active funds cost them,'' said Tamar Frankel, professor of law at Boston University School of Law. ''They might say, 'It cost 70 basis points, O.K.' But afterward they don't recognize that if it's charged every year, that's like compound interest. And if you keep a fund for 5 or 10 years, these fees matter a great deal.''
 Many investors may not realize what they are paying. Catherine Sullivan, a computer security specialist in New York City, said that when she picked the investments for her 401(k) plan several years ago, she was handed the customary literature, but it didn't seem clear enough. ''I didn't know I was being charged to purchase these things. The fees were completely opaque.'' 
 Now that Ms. Sullivan understands how these costs can eat into her returns, she has moved her money to less expensive funds, she said.
 Ms. Allvine says that she sees an ''investor maturation process'' with her clients. When people first come to her office, she said, ''We start with index funds, but many people say, 'What are we paying you for?' '' 
 Ms. Allvine recommends funds with better-than-average returns, but at some point, these picks are likely to underperform. When they do, clients often want new funds, a reflex that Ms. Allvine calls, ''the lane I'm not driving in is always moving faster.''
 Eventually, she says, ''they realize that picking a manager takes a lot of time and skill and persistence, and the sum total of all that effort doesn't put more into their bottom line.''
 At that point, she said, most investors come around to seeing the value of index funds. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Investors want to believe'' they are in control, says Mary Claire Allvine, an adviser.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK S. LESSER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); INDEX FUNDS (89%); BASEBALL (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (76%); RETIREMENT PLANNING (73%); CHILDREN (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON COLLEGE (56%)

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



508 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; CHECKING IN; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1082 words

HEADLINE: Washington Hotels Welcome the Attention

BYLINE: By FRED A. BERNSTEIN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
 AT a time when hotel operators nationwide are struggling, hoteliers in the nation's capital are struggling a bit less.
 Hotel occupancy in Washington was down in February 2009 from February 2008, but only by 1.9 percent, compared with 7.8 percent nationwide, according to Smith Travel Research. (In New York, the decline was 16 percent.)
 And for the week of March 15, Washington was the only major city where the three main measures of hotel vitality -- occupancy, daily room rate and revenue per available room -- were up from the same period in 2008, according to the firm. 
 David Fuller, the managing director of the Washington office of HVS, a hotel consulting company, attributed the market's strength partly to government largess. ''D.C. is where the money is right now,'' Mr. Fuller said. The bailouts and stimulus packages, he added, mean that ''Washington is going to be the financial center, as opposed to New York, for a while.''
 With the federal budget potentially burgeoning, he said, ''there are going to be a lot of people coming here, hoping to influence the process, saying, 'I want a piece of the pie.' ''
 Franck X. Arnold, the managing director of the Jefferson Hotel, now under renovation for a planned summer opening, said that with the new administration, ''there's a lot of meeting, a lot of lobbying going on.''
 And, it seems, a lot of ogling. Washington officials say they believe that the first summer of Barack Obama's presidency may bring a wave of tourists to Washington, some hoping to catch a glimpse of the first family. 
 Destination DC, the city's tourism bureau, has released an itinerary online for visitors who want to follow in presidential footsteps. (www.washington.org/visiting/browse-dc/sample-itineraries.) Restaurants on the itinerary include Ben's Chili Bowl on U Street and Equinox on Connecticut Avenue, where Michelle Obama celebrated her birthday after moving from Chicago.
 Maurice Harcum, who was working the cash register at Ben's, said that the president had been there exactly once, but that ''once was enough'' to bring a surge in business. ''On Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays, you can really see the difference,'' he said. 
 At the National Mall, Sarah McLewin, who was visiting Washington with classmates from Berea College in Kentucky, said she was particularly happy to be in town during the Obama era. ''It's really exciting to me to have an African-American president in office,'' she said.
 Of course, not all visitors to the capital spend money at hotels. Ms. McLewin was staying at a church-supported hostel. And even Victoria Isley, the senior vice president for marketing and communications for Destination DC, said her parents stayed in her apartment when they visited recently from North Carolina.
 Still, for visitors who patronize hotels, there are a number of new possibilities. Some reflect a trend toward hipper hotels in a city where lodgings tended to be conservative, said Caitlin McKenna, a project manager with HVS.
 The Dupont Hotel, a 327-room property on Dupont Circle, recently opened after a top-to-bottom renovation and was packed for much of early April. (Like most city hotels, the jump in occupancy was a result of visitors pouring into town to see the cherry blossoms.)
 The historic Hotel Washington, at 15th Street N.W. and Pennsylvania Avenue, is scheduled to reopen this summer as the city's first W hotel; according to its marketing materials, it will be where ''the congress of cool is in session.'' Among the attractions is a roof terrace with a view of the White House. The hotel is owned by the Dubai development company Nakheel.
 The Jefferson, a 99-room hotel a few blocks from the W, will also reopen this summer. After an extensive renovation, it will have a spa offering treatments ''inspired by botanicals from Thomas Jefferson's own farms,'' according to the hotel Web site.
 A Courtyard by Marriott, with 218 rooms, is nearing completion near the new headquarters of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms. The owners of the hotel participated in Marriott's diversity ownership initiative. 
 During their own pre-inaugural stay in Washington, the Obamas resided at the Hay-Adams, one of the city's priciest hotels.
 And yet the Obama era is marked by a turn away from conspicuous consumption, Mr. Fuller of HVS said. He said that people who used to stay at the Ritz-Carlton, where on a recent Sunday rooms started at $499, might now choose a less expensive luxury hotel like the Fairmont, where rates started at $375.
 Last year, Mark Gordon, who heads the United States hotel group at Cushman & Wakefield Sonnenblick Goldman, a real estate investment banking company, helped the owners of the Fairmont, the Westmont Hospitality Group of Ontario, refinance the property. ''The lender was a German bank that has not been in the hotel sector before,'' Mr. Gordon said.
 Mr. Gordon said the refinancing was made possible by the ''relative stability'' of the Washington market. ''The lenders we were speaking with realized the D.C. market had fundamentals that were unlike other markets in the U.S.,'' he said. 
 WASHINGTON, after all, is a government town, and government generally tends to weather economic downturns better than private industry. From March 2008 to March 2009, employment in the private sector fell 4.2 percent, while employment in the federal rose 1.9 percent, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
 There are around 46,000 federal job openings right now, according to the government employment portal, USAJobs.gov. About a third of them are in Washington. 
 Demand for hotel rooms tends to rise or fall with the number or people working in the city, Mr. Fuller said.
 ''If you're able to reasonably forecast employment,'' he said, ''you can forecast demand for hotel rooms.'' 
 On a few new hotels are planned to come on line after this summer. The planned Marriott Marquis Convention Center hotel, with nearly 1,200 rooms, has yet to break ground. And the site of the 1 Hotel, a planned ''eco hotel'' from the Starwood Capital Group, remains an empty lot, a year after construction was scheduled to begin. A Starwood spokeswoman said the hotel is expected to open in 2011.
 But a dearth of hotels in the development pipeline is good news for the owners of existing properties.
 If and when the recession ends, Washington hotels should do even better than their counterparts in other cities, Mr. Fuller said, ''because supply has been constrained.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A construction worker, top, installs an awning on what will eventually become a rooftop restaurant at a W Hotel in Washington (rendering above). The Dupont Hotel, on Dupont Circle, far left, recently opened after a top-to-bottom renovation. Left, an interior rendering of the Jefferson Hotel, which is being remodeled.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TOP AND FAR LEFT PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW COUNCILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 BELOW, THE JEFFERSON, WASHINGTON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (96%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (90%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); REVENUE PER AVAILABLE ROOM (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (77%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); BAILOUTS (74%); RESTAURANTS (73%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); LOBBYING (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%); MICHELLE OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



509 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; EVERYBODY'S BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: When a Cure Fights Itself

BYLINE: By BEN STEIN. 
Ben Stein is a lawyer, writer, actor and economist. E-mail: ebiz@nytimes.com

 BODY:
ALMOST every day, a few letters arrive, saying that a group in some city or town is about to have a ''tea party.'' 
 The gist, in case you haven't received any of these invitations, is that President Obama's taxing and spending plans are far too lavish. The United States will be burdened with immense debts, the protesters say. Taxes will be far too high for comfort, and we will decline as a nation. The tea parties are aimed at stopping all that.
 These tea parties strike me as off-base, in some respects, though they evoke a certain principle that rings true, or at least possibly true. 
 First, I don't quite get the taxation uproar. As far as I know, no new taxes of any size have been enacted. The only new tax I can spot immediately in front of us is the ''cap and trade'' levy on carbon emissions, which would be a tax on energy consumers. And even that, based on a questionable idea, doesn't seem imminent.
 When the recession ends, though, we will be facing very large budget deficits, even under the best projections. Unless the Federal Reserve is just going to print money -- usually a dangerous road to inflation -- how will we pay for government, except through taxes? And who has the money to pay, except the rich? So unless I am missing something, don't we have to tax the rich, defined in some sensible way?
 That's just arithmetic. I wish that lowering spending were an option, but it's not. Politicians talk about cutting spending and going through the budget, line by line, looking for waste. It never happens -- except that sometimes, the military budget is cut, which is the last thing we should cut in a world as dangerous as ours. And right now, over all, the military budget isn't being cut, although some programs are being reduced while others are expanding.
 So, I don't quite get the tea parties, although I do applaud citizen activism.
 But one aspect of the criticism of the Obama stimulus and spending proposals raises a legitimate concern. That is the fact that the proposals for more spending seem to be upsetting -- rather than encouraging -- many Americans. This connects directly with an important economic theory -- the theory of ''rational expectations,'' which holds, among other things, that if people in a free society expect to face a large financial obligation in the future, they will act rationally and save to meet that obligation, or at least try to do so. For example, if a young couple want to buy their first home, and they know they need a large down payment, they will save for it, if they can. 
 But this theory goes further. In some forms, it says that if citizens know that the government is running up an enormous debt, and if that debt has to be serviced, taxpayers will save more to pay off that debt or its service costs.
 Not all theories work well in practice, and certainly not all the time. This theory didn't seem to have a big connection with reality in the recent boom years. Americans spent a lot, and saved little even as the public debt mushroomed.
 Still, the theory of rational expectations seems to have some traction in downturns like this one. People anticipate worse times ahead, including possible unemployment, and they spend less and save more. This is typical of recessions and depressions. It is happening now. Spending is down and savings are rising rapidly. If many people feel that the government stimulus program is bad for them, that sentiment could lead to more savings and less spending -- the opposite of what we need today.
 Think of it this way: The stimulus program is like borrowing from our grandchildren, without their permission, so we can buy now. 
 If some of us want to help posterity, and help it survive the tsunami of debt, we might be more likely to save when our mood is low (as against the times when we are all happy and positive about the future). 
 Of course, we do not really know whether consumers in a downturn act out of rational expectations or simply out of fear. But even if the cause is just plain fear, restraint in consumer spending has a big effect. 
 Somehow, this restraint has to be eased. We have a master orator in the Oval Office. We can add this to his speech topics. Maybe he could even go to a tea party and speak soothingly.
 I'D like to bring up one more little bijou about the economic crisis. I read that Lawrence H. Summers -- wonderful guy, fine economist, former Harvard president, high-ranking economic adviser to Mr. Obama -- was paid about $5 million last year by a large hedge fund, D. E. Shaw. Some other high-ranking Obama advisers were also fantastically well paid by the finance sector. 
 Of course, this phenomenon didn't begin with this administration. The last Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., was the head honcho of Goldman Sachs and was paid hundreds of millions by it. (Yes, that's one of the banks that we as taxpayers supported with many billions, via the A.I.G. conduit.)
 I know people and I know money, at least the basics. If anyone thinks that a man who has had a taste of honey from Wall Street on that scale will ever really crack the whip on Wall Street, he's dreaming. Wall Street knows how to get its hooks into government. This is how the world works. Money talks. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PHILIP ANDERSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); RECESSION (76%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); BUDGET CUTS (71%); DEFENSE SPENDING (71%); EMISSIONS (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



510 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE MEDIUM; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1555 words

HEADLINE: The YouTube Presidency

BYLINE: By VIRGINIA HEFFERNAN

 BODY:
Barack Obama looks good on YouTube -- and on Joost, BarackTV, Eyeblast, DailyMotion, Hulu and nearly all the other online depots that play video of him. Sure, he comes off less well on Teleprompter President, a Web site devoted to Obama satire and bloopers. And several YouTube recutters made hay of the president's seeming slight of the Special Olympics during his appearance on ''The Tonight Show.'' But the president's overall virtuosity on the visual Internet is remarkable, and significant, as millions of people now behold, scrutinize and evaluate public figures chiefly in online video clips. 
 Playing well online is not simply a function of offline charisma. Unlike playing well on cable or on late-night talk shows, it takes not only performance skills but also an extensive personal production team. Having recognized the power of YouTube during the presidential campaign, when the BarackObamadotcom account uploaded more than 1,800 videos to the site, Obama now maintains an entire staff devoted to new media. Making your own videos pays off. Where a YouTube search for ''George Bush'' turns up mostly parody, TV news clips and gotchas (''George Bush idiot,'' ''George Bush shoe attack''), a comparable search for ''Barack Obama'' is stacked with videos approved and uploaded by the campaign or the administration. Users of YouTube may not recognize this. In the eclectic YouTube interface, all videos -- the parodies and the propaganda alike -- can simply looks like news.
 Among the clips recently uploaded by the administration are events like Obama's signing, on March 30, of a public-land-protections bill, an occasion that once might have appeared only on C-SPAN, if anywhere, with muffled sound and shuffling camerawork. In the hands of the Obama team, the video has Hollywood polish. Obama's rousing speech, which had a vaguely Tennysonian start (''winter's hardships are slowly giving way to spring, and our thoughts naturally tend to turn to the outdoors''), hardly dominated the front pages, but it made the ''front page'' of whitehouse, Obama's YouTube channel. There's always been intensive stagecraft in the American president's daily rounds. Now there's nonstop cinematography, too. 
 Since Obama was elected, the White House new-media-operations team has supplied YouTube with Obama's ''Your Weekly Address'' videos, among other clips. The channel is regularly among YouTube's most viewed and most subscribed. Beginning on Jan. 24, the president has appeared in various gilded White House parlors, speaking mostly about the economy. He eschews preamble, ''God bless America'' and other stock presidential rhetoric. In these clips, Obama usually starts with brisk optimism and then falls into a somber acknowledgment of the nation's straits. Other times he runs the bad-good news in reverse.
 Obama has been criticized by some, including Rush Limbaugh, for relying on teleprompters and electronic cue cards when speaking in public. But the extra diligence may now be necessary. For nearly everything he does -- bill-signing, urgent matters of statecraft, talk-show palaver -- a video record is produced and disseminated at high speed. Obama throws away no appearance, then; he's almost never caught winging it. He also seems shrewdly mindful that remarks he gives to small groups will find bigger and less predictable audiences online. In his regular YouTube videos, he can be seen first seeking his cue and a camera before holding his head high and maintaining an expression of amused alertness that would bedevil even the most determined digital editors looking later to recast it as anger, sorrow or fatigue. 
 Compare Obama with Bill Clinton in this respect. In a widely available video of Clinton's appearance at Davos in January, the former president looks solemn nearly to despair. In the room, among the eminences of the august World Economic Forum, this affect may have read as graybeard sagacity. But in the video, it's depressing. When Clinton mentions ''the subprime mortgage market and the securities that were issued out of it and the derivatives that were issued out of them,'' he falls into an etc.-etc. rhythm that brings to mind an old engine reluctant to turn over. Do I have to go through this again? Ripped from the high gravity of the live conference, Clinton in the video appears introverted, shambling and weary.
 We tend to assume that the proliferation of digital media must be coarsening American speech and behavior. In fact, the opposite seems to be true. The threat posed by video parodists appears to have turned public figures watchful and cautious, like people who affect polite reserve in crowds for fear of being mocked or mugged. In the midst of so much digital chicanery, celebrity comportment may grow steadily more formal. Last month, Madonna, no stranger to rambunctious talk-show appearances, posted a promotional talking-head video on YouTube; her level-gaze, perfect-diction style resembled Madeleine Albright's. This makes sense, as satirists handily exaggerate even the merest idiosyncrasies to grotesqueness. 
 While it's hard to knock this comeback of poise, something is lost when politicians must be always ready for their close-up and when that close-up is required to be as unrevealing as possible. The spontaneity, irreverence and emotionalism that used to thrive on cable news -- when Donald Rumsfeld, say, could be TV gold and Joe Biden regularly flaunted his bluntness -- is harshly treated on the Web, where politicians do best when they stand on ceremony. Figures like Biden and Lawrence Summers have tamped down their extravagant personae or have been kept from cameras altogether, lest any sign of personality be read as a ''gaffe'' or an ''outburst.'' In the recent past, a feisty vice president or administration official might have been expected to let loose at live events or on cable showdowns. Now any imagined gain that comes with a display of passion or indignation is assumed to be rapidly offset by pointed YouTube interpretations like ''Hillary Clinton: Liar'' or ''Has Dick Cheney Lost His Mind?''
 Obama and his video team seem to have understood this reality from the start. Though the campaign was game for some of the bus-riding, whistle-stop spiel, which requires improv and leaves room for rogue recordings and gotcha moments, it also made a point of feeding YouTubers a steady diet of carefully designed videos, a series of beautifully choreographed speeches and interviews, many heavy with applause that is hard to edit out. 
 And while Obama's campaign speeches weren't delivered expressly for YouTube the way Oval Office addresses are delivered for TV, the versions of those speeches millions of us saw were tailored to the site, with titles, omissions, crowd cutaways, highlight footage and a dozen other manipulations of sound and image that affected the impression they made. When Obama delivered his speech on race a year ago, the campaign uploaded, for example, its own version of the speech; it was cleaner and more elegantly produced than the CNN version, and it has been played more than 1.5 million times. 
 Every one of the president's weekly public-address videos is conspicuously labeled ''public domain,'' and commentary is welcome. Plenty of detractors weigh in. Name-calling -- ''socialist pig,'' ''fascist in chief'' -- jostles for space with praise (''Nice to have an articulate, intelligent, thoughtful president again''). In general, the effect is one of openness and inclusiveness, even as the shooting and spreading of the videos has been tightly controlled. As of this writing, no video has surfaced, for example, from a St. Patrick's Day White House event with the Irish prime minster, at which Obama thanked himself in an effort to parody an earlier teleprompter mishap. Could this be because his joke might be taken out of context by those who consider him the Teleprompter President? 
 The administration does take some risks with the videos it makes and releases. Last month, Obama delivered ''The President's Message to the Iranian People,'' a pointed address to Iran on the occasion of Nowruz, the ancient Persian new year celebration. The lovely video, in which Obama sent warm holiday wishes and expressed his admiration for the ''great civilization'' of Iran, was widely cited in the press as an ''olive branch.'' But whether the unilateral communication should really be seen as a diplomatic overture and not an ad for the president's cosmopolitanism wasn't clear. Days after the video appeared, Ali Larijani, the speaker of Iran's Parliament, withheld his thanks. ''Our problem with America is not an emotional problem that could be solved by sending congratulations,'' Larijani said. ''America must know that this is a complex problem that goes back 30 years.''
 When past politicians have been praised for their ''use'' of media, they're often seen as having deftly orchestrated an advantageous relationship with the press -- having somehow won them over, as democratic politicians might generally aim to do. Obama's team, in producing and distributing more video (by far) than any past administration, has not so much won over political journalists as led the pack to become the new media on the White House beat. Does that strike anyone as unsettling? 
 Post a Comment at The Medium 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVIN VAN AELST
 TOWN HALL PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT OLSON/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); FILM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); INTERNET VIDEO (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (76%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); MEDIA CONVERGENCE (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); SPECIAL OLYMPICS & PARALYMPICS (71%); OLYMPICS (56%); CINEMATOGRAPHY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SPECIAL OLYMPICS INTERNATIONAL (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2009



511 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: With Shoppers Pinching Pennies, Some Big Retailers Get the Message

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
IN real estate, the saying goes, the golden rule is location, location, location. For retailers in a recession as severe as this one, it is value, value, value.
As shoppers remain reluctant to open their wallets, stores are still scrambling to adjust advertising and marketing strategies to play up the value aspects of what they sell. Even as retail sales data for March suggested improving results at some chains, consumers are hesitating to buy much beyond groceries, gasoline, vitamins and candy.
Much of the focus on value defines the term in a way that will resonate with choosy shoppers. Value can mean more than low prices, but with unemployment high -- and consumer confidence low -- many are fixating on cost. 
--
That is reflected by a change in approach at Home Depot, which introduced a campaign by the Richards Group in Dallas that carries the theme ''More saving. More doing.'' The theme replaced one used since 2003, ''You can do it. We can help.''
Similarly, J. C. Penney, whose campaign carries the theme ''Every day matters,'' recently added phrases to its ads like ''Style, quality and price matter.'' The Penney creative agency is Saatchi & Saatchi in New York, part of the Publicis Groupe.
And Whole Foods Market is promoting the lower prices of its private-label brand, 365 Everyday Value, in regional ads with headlines like ''Sticker shock, but in a good way'' and ''No wallets were harmed in the buying of our 365 Everyday Value products.'' The campaign is by the Watsons, an agency in New York.
Target, the discount retailer, began running a value campaign on April 5 in newspapers in 19 major markets. The headlines asked, ''Why pay more for more?'' The campaign, created internally at Target, seeks to explain the value proposition within the longtime ad theme, ''Expect more. Pay less.''
''For you, more might be all about getting that designer skirt for less than anyone could ever imagine,'' one ad said, adding: ''Or grabbing a few more fresh ingredients with one less stop on the way home. Maybe it means bringing home more prescriptions for your family on less of a budget.''
The newspaper campaign came after TV commercials that for the first time included prices for items sold in Target stores. The commercials, by Peterson Milla Hooks in Minneapolis, carry the theme ''A new day. New ways to save.''
The newspaper campaign will continue through the month, said Michael Francis, executive vice president and chief marketing officer at the Target Corporation in Minneapolis. In May, Target plans to end the newspaper ads as well as the ''New ways to save'' spots, he added, and replace them with ''a whole new articulation'' of the promise inherent in the ''Expect more. Pay less'' theme.
Before the recession, Target ''fell into a trap,'' Mr. Francis said, and was ''not doing as much as we should have been doing'' with the ''Pay less'' part of the theme.
As the principal Target rival, Wal-Mart Stores, made hay with ads carrying the theme ''Save money. Live better,'' ads for Target played up the stylishness of merchandise or featured the designers behind its apparel and home furnishings.
'' 'Expect more' is the true differentiating play for Target if Wal-Mart owns price,'' Mr. Francis said. ''The right price is only the beginning of the conversation.''
The coming campaign will be created by the internal Target team, he added, along with Peterson Milla Hooks; another Target advertising agency, Wieden & Kennedy, in Portland, Ore.; and AKQA in San Francisco, the Target digital agency. Plans call for video, print and online ads as well as events and social marketing.
When Target reported last week its results for March, sales in stores open at least a year -- a measure that indicates vitality in retailing -- had fallen 6.3 percent compared with March 2008. But that decline was not as steep as expected.
''Same-store sales are not where we want them to be,'' Mr. Francis said, ''but we're gaining market share'' from department stores and specialty retailers ''in our key categories'' like beauty products and house wares.
If a retailer of basics like Target is struggling, imagine the challenges facing a jewelry retailer. Helzberg Diamonds, part of Berkshire Hathaway, is trying to stay the course, continuing to advertise and even opening stores in new markets.
--
A campaign to begin on Monday includes a commercial offering free pearl earrings, worth $25, at the new stores.
Despite the recession, ''I can tell you love still exists out there,'' said Joyce Hrinya, senior vice president for marketing at Helzberg in Kansas City, Mo.
Still, ''in the current economy, just getting folks in is the goal,'' she added.
Helzberg is pursuing ''a value-price philosophy,'' Ms. Hrinya said, defined as everyday low prices with selected sales in stores and online (helzberg.com).
Value also means ''a terrific experience in the store,'' she added, as customers encounter knowledgeable employees.
Helzberg is increasing its direct and database marketing, Ms. Hrinya said, to ''talk to our customers and folks who look like our customers, demographically and psychographically.'' Its advertising, which takes a humorous, colloquial tack -- ''If you're going to hide it,'' a billboard displaying a ring advises nervous men, ''remember where'' -- is created by Barkley, also in Kansas City, Mo.
''Right now, people are rethinking every purchase, from an impulse item at a grocery store to a high-ticket item like jewelry,'' said Brian Brooker, chief executive and chief creative officer at Barkley. ''We're trying to help people overcome anxiety so they'll go ahead with the purchase.''
''We don't want to lose our momentum, no matter what the economy's doing,'' he added. ''It's important to be out there, even when times are tough.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Target's newspaper advertisement, left, explaining its ''Expect more, pay less'' philosophy. A Wal-Mart ad tries to win customers by stressing savings, and Helzberg Diamonds tries a humorous billboard. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOP RIGHT, BETH HALL/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); RECESSION (90%); PRINT ADVERTISING (89%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); PRIVATE LABELS (78%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); MARKETING STRATEGY (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (77%); RETAIL SALES (73%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (72%)

COMPANY: TARGET CORP (85%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (84%); SAATCHI & SAATCHI WORLDWIDE (55%); WHOLE FOODS MARKET INC (54%); PETERSON MILLA HOOKS (51%)

TICKER: TGT (NYSE) (85%); PUB (PAR) (84%); WFM (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (85%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (85%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (54%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2011



512 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: In Performance, Students Voice Pain

BYLINE: By ANNE BARNARD

 BODY:
Standing in a circle, in a windowless classroom near an on-ramp to the Queensboro Bridge, two dozen high school students chanted in unison. Their accents revealed their origins: Honduras, Ghana, Albania, Vietnam. 
 What are we, why are we, where are we going? 
 Why are we leaving, what are we doing? 
 Then, rapid-fire, they spoke the lines they had first uttered in a classroom discussion about displacement and emigration but now were molding into art.
 ''We had to leave; the rebels took over!'' declared Stephanie Saint-Val, from Haiti. 
 ''We left the city for the desert,'' Hadeel al-Hindawi, from Iraq, said more shyly. 
 ''You don't know my struggle, you haven't a clue,'' proclaimed Sandup Sherpa, from Nepal, who had just dazzled the class with his break dancing.
 Stephanie's family fled machete-wielding attackers during a 2004 coup. Hadeel's father was shot in the face in Baghdad because he worked as a translator for the United States military. Sandup's father, a legislator, was targeted for assassination by Maoist rebels and now lives in Elmhurst, Queens, selling cellphones.
 Leading the recent rehearsal at the International High School at LaGuardia Community College was Judith Sloan, a performance artist and oral historian with a fountain of red hair. She has spent a decade documenting immigrants' stories and teaching teenagers to transform their experiences into theater -- mainly in Queens, which, with 167 nationalities and 116 languages, was deemed the nation's most diverse county in the 2000 census.
 Ms. Sloan's art and teaching cross-pollinate: She uses immigrant stories that she and her husband have compiled -- dozens of them are included in a 2003 book, ''Crossing the Blvd'' -- to demonstrate how to shape narrative and to get students talking about their lives. And the students flood her with new material. 
 As she helps the students compose the performance they will present in May, she is also coming full circle with a new work of her own. ''Yo Miss! Teaching Inside the Cultural Divide,'' which she performs with musical collaborators, re-enacts and riffs on her experiences teaching teenagers from myriad worlds: refugee camps, struggling neighborhoods, prisons. It is a performance about performances, a story containing many stories. 
 And suddenly, ''Yo Miss!'' has another mission: To raise money to keep the story going. Facing a shortfall of about a quarter of the high school program's $45,000 budget for this year, Ms. Sloan has earmarked a chunk of the proceeds from her show to finance the workshop.
 In one ''Yo Miss!'' vignette, a patchwork of sentence fragments conveys Ms. Sloan's jitters as she travels upstate to teach teenagers in a detention center for the first time: ''Snow. Rolling hills. Country homes. Farms. Prison. Boys from New York City. Fresh air. Barbed wire. Sky.''
 The workshop at the International High School, run by EarSay, Ms. Sloan's nonprofit group, is just one of countless cultural programs across the country that are facing cuts.
 To cope, Ms. Sloan gave up her teaching pay, found volunteers to help, and even plans to seek financing from the hip-hop artist Nas, who grew up partly in the Queensbridge housing project near the school.
 The New York State Council on the Arts was given $48.5 million in this year's state budget to support cultural groups and projects, but midyear budget cuts brought the allocation down to $39.5 million. Next year's budget raises financing to $42.4 million --still below pre-recession levels.
 Small community groups are most vulnerable to budget cuts, said Lynn Lobell, managing director of the Queens Council on the Arts, who funnels city financing to arts projects like flamenco theater and Chinese opera. But they are vitally important to developing neighborhoods, she said. 
 And they help in less tangible ways.
 The International High School is a public school for students with limited English proficiency who have been in the United States less than four years. Many are refugees whose education has been interrupted by war and displacement. 
 For them, Ms. Sloan's workshop does more than fulfill their arts requirement: students say it helps them work through experiences that are hard to discuss in any language. 
 Stephanie, 18, brought Haitian zouk -- joyous dance music that she said ''releases pain'' -- to be woven into the performance, along with patriotic Albanian hip-hop and Arabic pop. That meant sharing something positive about Haiti, even as she talked about hiding from rebels, unable to leave the house, and missing school. 
 For Hadeel, 15, the performance helped explore feelings of loss. ''I have a new life, and it's fun, but I lost a lot,'' she said: friends, her neighborhood, the habit of wearing a headscarf.
 Ms. Sloan and her husband, Warren Lehrer, founded EarSay in 1999, and learned to listen to stories of trauma through ''Crossing the Blvd,'' for which they interviewed dozens of immigrants along Queens Boulevard, the borough's main thoroughfare. The stories became not only the book but continuing performances and museum exhibits that have toured the country and become part of curriculums for high schools, medical residents and college oral history classes. 
 On Sunday, as part of the city's Immigrant Heritage Week, Ms. Sloan will be performing pieces from ''Crossing the Blvd'' and ''Yo Miss!'' at UnionDocs, a documentary arts center in Brooklyn.
 At the high school workshop, Chenits Pettigrew, a hip-hop artist who goes by the name Chen Lo, had compiled the students' thoughts into a spoken-word performance, part poetry, part rap. He asked each student to perform the line that meant the most.
 Sandup, 14, said speaking his lines made him proud. ''It feels like I'm telling the public how I've been struggling,'' he said.
 He pointed to a favorite line: ''My homeland screams, 'Don't forget me!' My new life says, 'Come and get me!' '' 
 ''I don't want to forget,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Judith Sloan, second from left, with, from left, Luis Vasquez, Stephanie Saint-Val, Belkissa Doumbia and Idi Canko. Below, Ms. Sloan in a solo performance. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); IMMIGRATION (87%); FUNDRAISING (78%); DISPLACED PERSONS (76%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); COUPS (75%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (75%); HISTORY (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (73%); THEATER (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); BUDGETS (70%); REFUGEES (69%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (61%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (51%); CENSUS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (76%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) GHANA (92%); ALBANIA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (76%); HAITI (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2009



513 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; PIEDMONT JOURNAL; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: Houses, Decked Out For a Sale, Are Robbed

BYLINE: By PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN

DATELINE: PIEDMONT, Calif. 

 BODY:
The Sunday open house is a sure sign of spring, a seasonal ritual in which marble-countered kitchens, light-filled master suites, spectacular rear gardens and closets galore are decorated to perfection to draw buyers.
 It is a common ploy here and elsewhere to have professional decorators ''stage'' unoccupied homes that are on the market with borrowed furnishings and appointments to help fetch top dollar, especially now that real estate sales have wilted like a week-old flower arrangement.
 But along with fragrant jasmine and wisteria in bloom, there is caution in the air here. The same painstaking efforts to attract buyers have also attracted thieves. 
 An unusual wave of burglaries has hit unoccupied houses for sale in this affluent 1.8-square-mile bedroom community in the hills east of Oakland, and it is testing the forced cheerfulness of real estate agents who are already reeling. Last weekend, two staged houses were burglarized in nearby Orinda, a wealthy suburb, robbed in the morning hours before planned afternoon open houses.
 ''It's brazen,'' said D. J. Grubb, the president of the Grubb Company, a real estate agency based in Oakland. ''These are highly aesthetic crimes. The thief seems to be someone with very good taste, somebody who knows that mauve is out.''
 In Piedmont, the discriminating criminals have made off with bath linens, dressers, upholstered chairs and sofas, table lamps, mirrors and end tables (not to mention the flat-screen televisions). In perhaps the most perplexing incident, the perpetrators stole high-end bed linens, a duvet cover and a metal bed frame from a master bedroom -- but left the matching dust ruffle. 
 ''They were clearly interrupted,'' said Martha Holstlaw, an agent with Pacific Union, another real estate firm. 
 Last month, the Police Department in Indio, in Southern California, arrested three people accused of breaking into about a dozen houses for sale in Indio, Indian Wells, Palm Desert and Rancho Mirage. The police recovered about $250,000 worth of stolen goods, including televisions, jewelry, artwork and golf clubs. 
 ''Property crimes are going up in the bad economy,'' said Benjamin Guitron, the public information officer for the department.
 A spate of 13 crimes also took place this year in Kent, Wash., between Seattle and Tacoma, in which two people are awaiting trial on charges of trafficking in stolen property, said Larry Meyer, a detective with the Seattle Police Department. 
 Marti Reeder, a real estate agent in Kent who had a client lose a diamond tennis bracelet, said: ''Their racket was going into open houses. You want buyers to get a feeling for the house. But this was very creepy and invasive.''
 Although the modus operandi has not been uniform, the five Piedmont houses burglarized so far showed no signs of forced entry, said George Phifer, a detective with the Piedmont Police Department. In two instances, Detective Phifer said, the thieves appeared to have cased the homes during open houses and surreptitiously unlocked a window for future access. The other crimes involved the use of cutting tools to remove lockboxes on the doors. 
 ''Notice the nice new brass hardware,'' said Sandi Klemmer, an agent with Pacific Union, showing off the front door of a 1950s contemporary home whose door handle had been removed by thieves to get the key out of the lockbox.
 The airy home she was showing -- at a reduced price of $975,000 -- still exhibited the tell-tale signs of staging. To create an idealized decor in an unoccupied house, stagers tend to use new furniture and appliances, without the slightest flaw, and have a penchant for accessories like fake hors d'oeuvres and fantasy shopping lists (''Pick up Champagne, French tulips and cream puffs'').
 Bonnie Pearson, a stager based in Emeryville, estimates that she lost $11,000 worth of furniture and accessories in two Piedmont robberies, Ms. Klemmer's listing among them. Included in the designer booty were silk apricot throw pillows, a damask bedspread, two paisley linen armchairs and a pedestal dining table with upholstered circle-backed chairs. ''It's devastating,'' Ms. Pearson said. ''I don't just buy things off the shelf.''
 Ms. Holstlaw, like many of her pearl-wearing, flat-shoed colleagues here, has been harboring conspiracy theories. ''You go online and you can tell if a house is staged,'' she said. ''There's nothing personal in it. In real life, everyone's knickknacks don't all blend.''
 Katherine Cooper, an agent for the Grubb Company, said a $3.5 million owner-occupied house in Upper Piedmont, with ornate stucco scrollwork and freshly snipped hedges, was burglarized last month. ''In the old days, there was an exclusivity getting into these houses,'' Ms. Cooper lamented. ''Now we've made it a Sunday afternoon sport.'' 
 The Oakland Association of Realtors, which has more than 1,000 members and includes Piedmont and Emeryville, sent out an e-mail bulletin last week encouraging ''heightened vigilance,'' said Judy Rix, the office supervisor. Among the tips: let neighbors know that no one is authorized to take property out of a house, and consider an alarm system to thwart the use of ''bump keys,'' a burglary tool illegal in California.
 The police chief in Orinda, William French, said thieves there drove a stolen truck, indicating that they were more savvy criminals. ''They don't have a trained eye,'' Chief French said. ''They're not interior designers. They're crooks.''
 In Piedmont, real estate agents presiding over newly mulched gardens and gleaming granite countertops have begun changing time-honored ways of doing business by putting up ''Do Not Disturb Occupant'' signs -- even though there is not one -- and forgoing open houses in favor of showing by appointment only. For the most elite properties, ''for sale'' signs are vanishing.
 In the gracious living room with bay windows, Ms. Holstlaw confronted the new realities, ever so politely. ''Could you sign my guest book, please?'' she said sweetly but firmly to absolutely everyone who wandered in.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Prospective buyers at an unoccupied home in Piedmont, Calif., that was burglarized after it had been outfitted with furnishings to make it more attractive. Linens, dressers and sofas have been stolen in a wave of burglaries at unoccupied houses in the area. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HEIDI SCHUMANN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); BURGLARY (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); PROPERTY CRIMES (89%); POLICE FORCES (88%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (87%); TENNIS (77%); SPORTS (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (76%); RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY (74%); GOLF (72%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); TACOMA, WA, USA (77%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2009



514 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 480 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Auctions Set for This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week includes Monday's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of four-week bills on Tuesday. 
 At the close of the New York cash market on Thursday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 0.18 percent and the rate on the six-month issue was 0.38 percent. The rate on the four-week issue was 0.13 percent.
 The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
 TUESDAY
 Waukee, Iowa, Community School District, $50 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive. 
 WEDNESDAY
 Albuquerque School District, $124.7 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 Renton, Wash., School District, $86.3 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive. 
 ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
 Beaumont, Tex., Independent School District, $116.6 million of school building revenue bonds. Southwest Securities.
 Butler County, Pa., Hospital Authority, $75 million of hospital revenue bonds for Butler Health System Project. BB&T Capital Markets.
 City and County of Denver, $72.9 million of excise tax revenue refunding bonds. Morgan Stanley.
 City of Richmond, Va., $146.5 million of public utility revenue bonds. Morgan Stanley.
 City of Stamford, Conn., $54.1 million of general obligation refunding bonds. Morgan Keegan.
 Clear Creek Independent School District, Galveston County, Tex., $65.9 million of unlimited tax school building revenue bonds. Merrill Lynch.
 Florida Muni Power Agency, $175 million of revenue bonds for All-Requirements Power Supply Project. Merrill Lynch.
 Fort Bend County, Tex., $73.5 million of limited tax and refunding bonds. Loop Capital Markets.
 Jacksonville Electric Authority, Florida, St. Johns River Power Park System, $65.4 million of debt securities. J.P. Morgan Securities.
 Maine Health and Higher Educational Facilities Authority, $117.9 million of revenue bonds for Bowdoin College. Barclays Capital.
 Milan, Mich., Area School, $50 million of debt securities. Raymond James & Associates.
 Municipal Improvement Corporation of Los Angeles, $56.8 million of lease revenue bonds. Citigroup Global Markets.
 Municipal Improvement Corporation of Los Angeles, $52 million of lease revenue bonds. Siebert Brandford Shank.
 Oregon Trail School District 46, $105.9 million of debt securities. Seattle-Northwest Securities.
 State of New Jersey, $398 million of certificates of participation. Citigroup Global Markets.
 State of North Carolina, $400 million of capital improvement limited obligation bonds. Banc of America Securities.
 Turnpike Authority of Kentucky Economic Development, $153.2 million of debt securities. Goldman Sachs.
 University of Minnesota, $80 million of debt securities. Wells Fargo Brokerage Services.
 Wisconsin Health and Educational Facilities Authority, $135 million of revenue bonds for Pro Health Care. Piper Jaffray.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (96%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); DEBT FINANCING (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (87%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); HOSPITALS (72%); HEALTH CARE (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (72%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); EXCISE TAX (70%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (70%); TAX LAW (70%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (70%); RIVERS (65%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (73%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); JACKSONVILLE ELECTRIC AUTHORITY (54%); RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES INC (53%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (53%); SEATTLE-NORTHWEST SECURITIES CORP (52%); PIPER JAFFRAY COS (51%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (73%); JPM (LSE) (73%); 8634 (TSE) (73%); GS (NYSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%); PJC (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (73%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (73%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (73%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (78%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2009



515 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: Commander Says U.S. Still on Schedule to Leave Iraq

BYLINE: By R.M. SCHNEIDERMAN

 BODY:
Despite a recent spate of attacks, the United States will leave Iraq on schedule, the top American commander in Iraq said on Sunday. 
 Appearing on CNN's ''State of the Union,'' Gen. Raymond T. Odierno said that he would continue to monitor the situation on the ground, but that overall violence in Iraq remained at its lowest levels since just after the United States began the war in March 2003. 
 ''If we believe that we'll need troops to maintain a presence in some of the cities, we'll recommend that,'' he said. ''But ultimately it will be the decision of Prime Minister Maliki.'' 
 When asked by John King, the host of the show, what the chances are -- on a scale of 1 to 10 -- that the United States would leave Iraq on schedule by the end of 2011, General Odierno said, ''I believe it's a 10.'' 
 President Obama has said that American soldiers will leave Iraq's major cities by June 30 and that all United States. troops will withdraw from the country by the end of 2011, a timetable agreed to by both countries. 
 In Baghdad on Saturday, a suicide bomber killed 13 members of the Sunni Awakening Councils, the erstwhile groups that have helped quell violence across the country. In Mosul on Friday, a bomber killed two Iraqi policemen and five American soldiers. 
 On Sunday, a roadside bomb killed another American soldier. Last week, a series of cars bombings in Baghdad killed at least 33 people. 
 Nine Americans have been killed in March, the lowest number of deaths since the United States, along with a multinational force, invaded Iraq in 2003. Yet the recent attacks have brought attention to the country's persistent violence and the lasting tension between the Awakening Councils and the Iraqi government. They have also called into question whether reduced levels of violence can be maintained after an American military withdrawal. 
 On Easter morning, there was no overarching themes to the Sunday talk shows, whose subjects included the state of the economy, the issue of marijuana legalization and the American ship captain, Richard Phillips, who was being held captive by Somali pirates.
 On ABC's ''This Week,'' Rick Warren, the pastor and author of ''The Purpose-Driven Life,'' was scheduled to address seemingly contradictory statements he has made about whether he supported Proposition 8, a measure that banned gay marriage in California.
 Just moments before interview, however, Mr. Warren canceled, citing exhaustion.
 In a video newsletter he sent out to members of his congregation last fall, Mr. Warren said: ''We support Proposition 8. And if you believe what the Bible says, you need to support Proposition 8.''
 Yet on ''Larry King Live'' earlier this month, Mr. Warren said: ''I am not an anti-gay, or anti-gay marriage, activist. Never have been. Never will be. During the whole Proposition 8 thing I never once went to a meeting, never once issued a statement, never once even gave an endorsement in the two years prop 8 was going. The week before the vote, somebody in my church said, 'Pastor Rick, what do you think about this?' And I sent a note to my own members that said: 'I actually that believe marriage is really -- should be defined -- that that definition should be say between a man and a woman.' And then all of sudden out of it, they made me something that I really wasn't.''
 In December, President Obama selected Mr. Warren to give the invocation at his inauguration in a move widely seen as a peace offering to conservatives. Mr. Warren, a prominent evangelical leader, has been vocal about the need for Christians to do more to combat global poverty, AIDS, genocide and climate change. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); EASTER SEASON (71%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (71%); RELIGION (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); SOMALI PIRACY (65%); DECRIMINALIZATION (65%); WRITERS (60%); MARRIAGE LAW (60%); DRUG LIBERALIZATION (50%); CANNABIS (50%); MARRIAGE (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%)

PERSON: RAY ODIERNO (73%); NOURI AL-MALIKI (54%); BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2009



516 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: Accounts, People & Miscellany

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Accounts
 MillerCoors -- a joint venture of SABMiller and Molson Coors -- pared its agency roster by reassigning duties for major beer brands with spending estimated at more than $200 million. The creative duties for Miller Lite, which had been handled by the New York office of Bartle Bogle Hegarty, were awarded to Draft FCB, Chicago, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies. The shift gives Draft FCB the creative assignments for the two largest MillerCoors brands, Coors Light and Miller Lite. Draft FCB also creates campaigns for Coors Banquet beer. 
The creative duties for Miller Genuine Draft, MGD 64 and Keystone were awarded to Saatchi & Saatchi, New York, part of the Publicis Groupe, which creates campaigns for Miller High Life. Miller Genuine Draft and MGD 64 had been handled by the Chicago office of Y&R, part of the Young & Rubicam Brands division of WPP, and Keystone had been handled by Draft FCB. The changes eliminate Bartle Bogle and Y&R from the MillerCoors creative roster. Also, the creative assignment for another brand at Draft FCB, George Killian's Irish Red, was shifted to Jacobson Rost, Sheboygan, Wis., which creates campaigns for Leinenkugel's and Henry Weinhard. There were also changes in assignments involving retail promotional duties for several brands, which involved the dismissal of one agency, Upshot, Chicago, and the reassignment of its duties to Arc, Chicago, part of Publicis; the Chicago office of Digitas, also part of Publicis; and the Integer Group, Lakewood, Colo., part of the Omnicom Group. 
 Vonage, Holmdel, N.J., named two Omnicom Group agencies in New York to handle its creative and media accounts. The assignments, with spending estimated at more than $130 million, had previously been handled by various agencies on a project basis. TBWA/Chiat/Day, part of TBWA Worldwide, will handle the creative account and PHD will handle the media account.
 Bridgestone Corporation, Toyko, awarded a global brand campaign to the Berlin office of DDB Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group. DDB is among several agencies that create campaigns for Bridgestone tire brands in different countries; others include the Richards Group, Dallas, for the United States. The global brand campaign will begin running next month in markets like China, Europe, Japan and the United States. Spending was not disclosed.
 Duane Reade, New York, chose DeVito/Verdi, New York, as its agency of record, to handle duties that include advertising, creative development, public relations, media planning and buying, event marketing and so-called guerrilla marketing. The company, which operates 250 drug stores, had not been working with an outside agency; its ad spending last year was estimated at less than $2 million.
 Catalyst:SF, San Francisco, was selected as the digital agency of record for Del Monte Foods, San Francisco. Spending was not disclosed. The assignment had been handled by the San Francisco office of Agency.com, a unit of the Omnicom Group, was not disclosed.
 Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, Wash., consolidated its worldwide direct marketing account at Wunderman, part of the Young & Rubicam Brands unit of WPP. The assignment had been divided between Wunderman and MRM Worldwide, part of the McCann Worldgroup division of the Interpublic Group of Companies, with Wunderman handling most of the tasks. Spending was not disclosed. Microsoft attributed the consolidation to cutting costs.
 People
 Steve Ridley, chief executive for the Americas at Kinetic, based in New York, was named global chief operating officer, a new post, as part of a reorganization as Kinetic, an agency specializing in outdoor advertising, moves its headquarters to the United States from London. David Payne, chief executive for the Kinetic operations in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, based in London, will move to the United States and succeed Mr. Ridley as chief executive for the Americas. Eric Newnham, global chief executive at Kinetic, will temporarily assume Mr. Payne's duties as a successor to Mr. Payne is sought.
 Miscellany
 Enfatico, a stand-alone agency conceived 16 months ago by WPP to serve the Dell account, was folded by WPP into the Young & Rubicam Brands division. Torrence Boone, chief executive at Enfatico, who had reported directly to Martin Sorrell, chief executive at WPP, will now report to Peter Stringham, chief executive at Young & Rubicam Brands. The progress of Enfatico has been followed closely by Madison Avenue since it was opened because of the size and scope of the start-up at a time when the advertising industry is struggling with the effects of the recession.
 National CineMedia, Denver, acquired 100 percent of the senior secured debt of IdeaCast, Chicago, which specializes in video advertising shown in sites outside the home like health clubs, hotels and airlines. Financial terms were not disclosed. National CineMedia, which acquired a minority stake in IdeaCast in 2007, ''is in the process of restructuring'' IdeaCast, said Kurt Hall, president and chief executive at National CineMedia, so that IdeaCast becomes ''a separate subsidiary'' of his company. The goal is to complete the reorganization in early May, Mr. Hall said.
 GSI Interactive, King of Prussia, Pa., part of GSI Commerce, acquired the Silverlign Group, Campbell, Calif., for undisclosed terms. Silverlign will operate as a stand-alone unit of GSI Interactive, led by its founders, Randy E. Basso, president, and Tim Kain, executive creative director.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); BEER & ALE (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); BRANDING (89%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (89%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); EVENT MARKETING (73%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); SALES PROMOTIONS (65%); TIRES (62%)

COMPANY: OMNICOM GROUP INC (95%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (91%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (84%); BRIDGESTONE CORP (81%); MOLSON COORS BREWING CO (74%); TBWA/CHIAT/DAY INC (65%); MICROSOFT CORP (60%); SABMILLER PLC (58%); SAATCHI & SAATCHI WORLDWIDE (57%); VONAGE HOLDINGS CORP (54%); DEL MONTE FOODS CO (50%)

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (95%); IPG (NYSE) (91%); PUB (PAR) (84%); 5108 (TSE) (81%); TAP (NYSE) (74%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (60%); SOSAB (JSE) (58%); SAB (LSE) (58%); VG (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (95%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (95%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (95%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (81%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (81%); NAICS424810 BEER & ALE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (74%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (74%); SIC5181 BEER & ALE (74%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (74%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (60%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (60%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (54%); NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (50%); NAICS311111 DOG & CAT FOOD MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2047 DOG & CAT FOOD (50%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (50%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); COLORADO, USA (77%); WISCONSIN, USA (75%); TEXAS, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); CHINA (76%); JAPAN (71%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2009



517 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1205 words

HEADLINE: In Boston, Paper's Peril Hits a Nerve

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
When local bloggers rallied last week in an online forum about how to save the embattled Boston Globe, readers offered loads of sympathetic advice and surprisingly little of the ''let 'em rot'' attitude that has colored so much debate over the future of newspapers.
 Ever since The New York Times Company threatened 11 days ago to sell or close The Globe unless it accepted deep cost cuts, Boston has been in a state of near shock. 
 Civic leaders and ordinary Bostonians alike -- particularly those old enough to remember a pre-Internet age, before free access to news on the Web siphoned away so many of the paper's readers -- have spoken out about the central role of The Globe in the life of a region that cares deeply about local culture and local politics and fashions itself as the higher education capital of the nation.
 ''I've been surprised at how well people understand that this would not be the same city without it, and not as good a city,'' said Paul Levy, the chief executive of Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, who organized the ''blog rally'' on The Globe. ''It's the only thing that can really hold institutions accountable.'' 
 Mayor Thomas M. Menino agrees, despite his share of run-ins with the paper.
 ''I have disagreements with The Globe, but what's good for Boston?'' he said in an interview. ''To have them not here would be a big hole in our life.''
 There has been much hand-wringing in the last decade as one Boston institution after another has faded away or passed into the hands of out-of-towners. 
 BankBoston, John Hancock insurance and Gillette were swallowed by much bigger companies with faraway headquarters. A group of non-New Englanders bought the Red Sox baseball team -- an organization close to a civic religion -- with the Times Company, which already owned The Globe, as a junior partner.
 In 2006, the Filene's department store chain ceased to exist, and its owner, Federated Department Stores, turned some stores into the Macy's banner -- another shadow cast by New York. But it did not convert the huge Filene's flagship store, leaving a vacant, hulking shell that still stands in the heart of downtown Boston. That blow had particular resonance for The Globe; Filene's was the paper's biggest advertiser.
 ''Boston is much less insular than it was 30 years ago,'' said Paul S. Grogan, president of the Boston Foundation, a philanthropic group. The city has long had a chip on its collective shoulder about where it stands in the world, ''especially any time you get New York into the picture,'' he said, and while that trait has faded greatly, losing local institutions does not help.
 Perhaps that is why, along with the desire to save The Globe, many Bostonians argue for local ownership, with a particular suspicion of answering to anyone in that bigger city on the Hudson. 
 One blogger advocated an arrangement similar to the community foundation that owns the Green Bay Packers football team. Several members of Boston's business elite have been rumored to be interested in buying The Globe, but none have confirmed it and most have denied it.
 At least a few local investors showed interest in buying the paper a few years ago, but that was before the newspaper business slid into its deep slump. 
 ''You have to have local ownership that wants to buy the paper,'' Mr. Menino said. ''It's questionable. I haven't heard of anybody.''
 Losing The Globe ''would rock the city psychologically,'' Mr. Grogan said. ''It doesn't square with the more confident, more worldly self-image that Boston has.''
 But that impact would split along generational lines, as it does between Julia Quinn and James Monti, strangers who rode side by side last week on a Red Line subway train.
 Ms. Quinn, a medical assistant in her 60s, said she read The Globe almost every day, though its politics were too liberal for her tastes. ''Boston's not a podunk town -- it's got to have a good paper,'' she said.
 Mr. Monti, an unemployed construction worker in his 20s, said he only occasionally picked up a paper, ''mostly to see how the Sox are doing,'' and was just as likely to find the news online. He shrugged off the prospect of losing The Globe, saying he could go elsewhere for information.
 The merits of budget cutting and local ownership are debated inside The Globe itself. Some Globe employees are angry that their paper has had several rounds of staff and budget cuts, while the flagship New York Times newspaper -- which is in better financial condition -- has more often been spared and some company executives have collected large salaries and bonuses. 
 But there is widespread agreement that, good ownership or bad, local or faraway, no company could absorb the losses The Globe has suffered without taking drastic action. Times executives told labor leaders last week that The Globe was on pace to lose $85 million this year. 
 At the Times Company's New England Media Group, comprised mostly of The Globe and its Web site, Boston.com, advertising revenue fell 18 percent last year, and executives said recently that it would drop faster this year. From 2004 to 2008, that segment of the company had a 33.7 percent decline in ad revenue, and The Globe's circulation fell 28 percent, to 324,000 on weekdays.
 Yet its news staff is still one of the largest in the country, at about 340 people, though it is down almost 40 percent from its peak, and the paper has dropped some of the sections it once printed.
 The company has called for greater sacrifice by The Globe's more than 200 mailers than other major labor groups at the paper. The Globe has reported that, according to their union, the company wants the mailers to accept a 25 percent pay cut and the elimination of a lifetime job guarantee that covers most of them. 
 In addition, the union said, the company would stop contributing to mailers' pensions and sharply reduce what it pays for their health care, among other cuts.
 Measured by readership, Boston.com is a smashing success, with an average of 5.2 million unique visitors a month last year, according to Nielsen Online. The Globe ranks 14th in daily print circulation among American newspapers, but sixth in online audience, an imbalance that reflects how heavily wired its highly educated market is.
 Dan Kennedy has spent a good part of his career analyzing The Globe, first as a media columnist for the Boston Phoenix, an alternative weekly, and then as author of a blog, Media Nation. But he said no source of local news could come close to taking The Globe's place, including its longtime rival, the much smaller Boston Herald.
 Just as Boston has become less insular over the last generation, so has The Globe generally become a better paper, less cozy with the city's political establishment, said Mr. Kennedy, an assistant professor at Northeastern University who also writes for The Guardian.
 ''The Globe can set the agenda for the region, bring focus on a story, in a way that nobody else can, and we need that,'' he said.
 But Mr. Kennedy said that last year, when he taught a freshman journalism class at Northeastern, ''one of the things that really struck me was these students had basically no experience reading a newspaper of any kind.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Boston Globe is being asked to make deep cost cuts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVEN SENNE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.B1)
 A pressman for The Boston Globe, Joseph A. Doherty, checks sample newspapers. The Globe ranks 14th in daily print circulation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN BLANDING/THE BOSTON GLOBE) (pg.B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (91%); DEPARTMENT STORES (88%); RETAILERS (84%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); BASEBALL (66%); PHILANTHROPY (60%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (84%); MACY'S INC (68%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (53%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (84%); M (NYSE) (68%); BAC (NYSE) (53%); BAC (LSE) (53%); 8648 (TSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (68%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (68%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (97%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (97%); NORTHEAST USA (73%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2009



518 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BIG CITY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: $80,000 for Year Off From Law? She'll Take It!

BYLINE: By SUSAN DOMINUS. 
E-mail: susan.dominus@nytimes.com

 BODY:
This year may be a disastrous one for the global economy, but it's shaping up to be one of the best that Heather Eisenlord has enjoyed in a good long while. Granted, that might not be saying much: For the past five years, Ms. Eisenlord has been an associate at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, a notably grueling place for a lawyer to work. 
 But even by more stringent standards of fun, the coming year looks pretty good. Ms. Eisenlord, 36, who works in Skadden's banking group, will be buying a plane ticket that will take her around the world for a year, and she's been stocking her apartment in Brooklyn with Lonely Planet travel guides. 
 Although she's not yet sure exactly what she'll be doing on her trip, she has some ideas. She would like to teach English to monks in Sri Lanka and possibly help bring solar power to remote parts of the Himalayas. She'll probably hit 10 to 15 destinations around the world, most likely practicing not-for-profit law wherever she can be helpful.
 The best part of all: Skadden is paying her about $80,000 to do it.
 For a sixth-year associate at a New York law firm, $80,000 isn't exactly competitive pay. But for someone cruising around the world, doing good wherever she sees fit and, let's face it, probably hitting a beach or two, the pay is excellent.
 Only in a financial world turned upside down would an arrangement like this one make sense. Looking to cut costs like everyone else, but not prepared to lay off employees, Skadden has chosen instead to offer all of its associates -- about 1,300 worldwide -- the option of accepting a third of their base pay to not show up for work for a year. (So far, the partners have no equivalent arrangement.)
 The company is helping associates find pro bono work, and is encouraging them to do so. But the lawyers could also spend the year catching up on every episode of ''Top Chef'' that they missed during the boom years, or traveling around the world, ''all of which is O.K. by us,'' said Matthew Mallow, a partner at the firm. Other firms have adopted similar strategies, but Skadden's program is unusual in that it has no pro bono requirements.. 
 As of Friday, about 125 associates had expressed interest. ''I think it's fair to say that the numbers are in excess of our expectations,'' Mr. Mallow said. 
 Only at a corporate law firm would the managers underestimate employees' interest in taking a year off from the grind for what most of America would consider a small fortune. 
 Not everyone could cover monthly living expenses on a third of one's pay, and naturally some skeptical lawyers grilled the partners about job security. If there are layoffs in a year, they wondered, is it really possible that the lawyers who'd been defending trees in British Columbia wouldn't be disadvantaged, compared with the lawyers who'd been slaving away on contracts in Midtown?
 Not only were the lawyers assured that their time away wouldn't hurt them; in some ways it would be protective: If there are layoffs while they are away, they will be immune. 
 So far, the majority of the lawyers are looking for worthwhile legal work, Skadden says, to keep them as competitive as possible; but yes, some will take the year off to spend time with their children or look after a sick relative. Someone's planning to wrap up his Ph.D., someone else is looking into legal work for a news organization, and another associate will be joining Ms. Eisenlord on her round-the-world adventure. 
 Ms. Eisenlord says she fully intends to go back to Skadden after her trip, and will be eager to return to the work she loves and the co-workers she admires. It's possible that after a year teaching monks English, installing solar panels in the Himalayas and working on human rights in developing nations, she will come to the conclusion that there is no more fulfilling life than the one she has spent in corporate law.
 But maybe she will have some kind of revelation. If there is any silver lining to this financial catastrophe, it's that business as usual has come to a grinding halt. Sometimes it takes getting thrown out of the office to notice there is a life outside. 
 Already, Ms. Eisenlord seems to be making some sort of transition. Has she been getting any work done lately as she anticipates this thrilling new trip?
 ''No comment,'' she said. 
 Spoken like a lawyer -- but a lawyer on the verge.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 15, 2009

 CORRECTION:
The Big City column on Monday, about an arrangement at the Manhattan law firm Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom in which associates can take a year off at one-third pay, referred imprecisely to the firm's efforts to cut costs. Although it is not planning to lay off any associates, it has in fact laid off some employees -- including secretaries, support staffers and staff lawyers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Heather Eisenlord's firm has offered leave to cut costs, and she is planning a trip abroad. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGAL SERVICES (89%); LAWYERS (89%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (77%); PRO BONO LAW (76%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); TRAVEL TICKETS (70%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (69%); SOLAR ENERGY (53%)

COMPANY: SKADDEN ARPS SLATE MEAGHER & FLOM LLP (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (94%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); HIMALAYAS (71%) UNITED STATES (79%); SRI LANKA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2009



519 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: Rescue Revives Debate Over Arming Crews

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER; Scott Shane contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: HONG KONG 

 BODY:
A spate of attacks on ships off Somalia and the rescue Sunday of an American captain held hostage by pirates have reinvigorated a long-simmering debate over whether the crews of commercial vessels should be armed.
 While the arming of merchant vessels was commonplace for centuries, it faded in recent decades because of ship owners' concerns about liability and the safety of their sailors.
 Despite repeated problems with pirates in the Strait of Malacca between Indonesia and Malaysia and now in the waters of the Arabian Sea, ship owners worried that their crews would be killed instead of held for ransom if the crews tried to defend themselves and failed.
 But the expanding range and seafaring skills of Somali pirates are prompting some experts to start calling for changes. The killing by United States Navy sharpshooters of three Somali pirates during the rescue on Sunday of Richard Phillips, the American captain of the container ship Maersk Alabama, has further raised the stakes, with at least one Somali pirate on shore threatening vengeance on the next American seafarer captured. 
 Barry Parker, a shipping consultant in New York and former ship broker, predicted that an international agreement would be drafted to allow captains to keep firearms and distribute them to crew members during times of potential danger from pirates. International rules pushed through by the United States after the attacks on Sept. 11, 2001, authorized captains to monitor maritime security in their vicinity and maintain their vessels at elevated levels of vigilance in response to dangers.
 If that antiterrorism system were expanded to include piracy and ships were armed, Mr. Parker said, captains could be authorized to take greater measures. ''The captain declares there's some elevated level and they open up the gun locker,'' he said.
 But many ship owners, including those with vessels that regularly ply the waters off East Africa, remain deeply reluctant to allow any weapons on their ships, said Matthew Flynn, a shipping consultant in Hong Kong who works closely with ship owners in Asia and East Africa.
 ''I'm not sure people are convinced at all it's going to make ships or crews safer,'' he said.
 Arthur Bowring, the managing director of the Hong Kong Shipowners Association, said that if ships carried weapons, they might draw attacks around the world from people seeking to steal the weapons.
 Ship owners also do not want crews to be armed because few merchant sailors have combat training and because pirates with deep pockets from ransom payments will always be able to buy larger weapons than ship owners in any maritime arms race, said Mr. Bowring, who is also the chairman of the labor affairs committee of the International Shipping Federation, a trade group representing employers.
 ''If we arm our crews with light machine guns, they can probably buy heavy machine guns,'' Mr. Bowring said. ''And if we buy light rocket launchers, they can buy heavy ones.'' The answer to piracy, he said, was better law enforcement ashore.
 Most ports severely restrict vessels from having weapons on board, and changing those regulations in each country would be difficult, Mr. Flynn said. The United States Coast Guard has been especially wary, fearing that the weapons could be used for terrorist attacks.
 Because a commercial vessel might stop in a dozen countries during a voyage, it would be hard for it to carry weapons if any port along the route forbade that, Mr. Flynn said.
 International regulation of shipping has shifted heavily away from the countries that register vessels and toward the local and national governments at the ships' ports of call. This has made it even more complicated to come up with common international standards, because so many countries are involved.
 Protecting tankers from pirates is especially difficult. They are a favorite target in Asia and Africa because they are relatively slow moving and may carry valuable cargo like gasoline and diesel, which are easily unloaded and resold.
 Accidental fires are a constant worry for tanker crews, which train for them constantly. A tanker crew that is exchanging gunfire with pirates could run the risk of igniting vapors from the cargo, or the cargo itself, shipping executives have said.
 Several safety features that have become widespread during the past decade could help lessen the danger from pirate attacks, ship security experts said.
 For instance, large freighters are now required to carry devices that continuously transmit their position, a precaution that may reduce the risk of collision as well as make it easier for naval forces to keep track of the ships. Also, many commercial vessels are equipped with a panic button on the bridge that the officer on duty can hit at any time to start automatically broadcasting a distress call with the vessel's location and description.
 Sailing through the Strait of Malacca on a moonless night aboard a small tanker six years ago, Fong Chung-chen, the tanker's chief officer, recalled how he had hit the panic button and watched as pirates giving chase in a small boat left immediately, having heard the call on their radio. ''All of them were squatting, coming very close in masks and full black body suits'' until the distress call went out, he said.
 Because it is often easiest to board a vessel from the stern, where the wake provides relatively calm water for a pirate boat, crews in piracy-prone waters have also for many years sprayed water from fire hoses down the stern and kept fire axes at hand to sever any grappling hooks used by the pirates.
 John S. Burnett, who was himself attacked by pirates in 1992 and wrote the book ''Dangerous Waters: Modern Piracy and Terror on the High Seas,'' said piracy currently poses an irresistible economic temptation to Somali fishermen, increasing their earnings from perhaps $50 a month to many thousands of dollars.
 ''Poor fishermen know now that hijacking ships is far more lucrative than hauling up a half-empty fishing net,'' Mr. Burnett said in a telephone interview from Zurich. The Internet, he said, has ensured that word of the success of some pirates in collecting large ransoms has spread to the entire fishing community, whose livelihood has already been threatened by overfishing. 
 Preventing commercial shippers from paying ransoms is almost impossible, he said, because shipping officials are determined to avoid violence. ''The ship companies don't want blood on the decks, so they pay,'' Mr. Burnett said. 
 He said the rash of piracy in the strait near Indonesia in the 1990s had been ended by a combination of measures. They included increased patrols, partly by an Indonesian fleet modernized with American and Japanese financial support, a crackdown on piracy by the Indonesian government and the use of technology like radar and drones, he said. 
 He said he hoped the attention given to Captain Phillips would cause more attention to be focused on piracy and other crew members being held, but warned against the use of military force. Because of Somalis' resentment of foreign incursions, Mr. Burnett said, ''any boots on the ground would be a fight to the death.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE VESSELS (92%); SOMALI PIRACY (91%); MARITIME PIRACY (90%); HOSTAGE TAKING (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (89%); NAVIES (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); SHOOTINGS (78%); ARMED FORCES (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); FIREARMS (71%); MILITARY TRAINING (71%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); SOMALIA (94%); EASTERN AFRICA (92%); HONG KONG (91%); AFRICA (90%); MALAYSIA (79%); ASIA (79%); INDONESIA (57%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2009



520 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 364 words

HEADLINE: 391 Percent Payday Loan

 BODY:
It seems like just a little loan, a few hundred dollars in advance of payday. But at an interest rate of $15 per $100, that little loan gets big in a hurry. And if another loan is needed -- which sometimes happens, since the last payday loan took so much pay -- total costs can soon exceed the amount borrowed in the first place. 
 Payday loans -- advances that are to be repaid on payday -- are so burdensome and so pernicious that in 2006 Congress effectively banned them for military families. Given all the problems workers face right now, Congress should extend this protection to everybody. Unfortunately, some members are pushing an ersatz reform that would allow payday operators to charge what amounts to an annual percentage rate of 391 percent.
 Luis Gutierrez, chairman of the House Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Credit, argues that the bill would improve the payday rates in the 35 states with only minimal controls over payday loans. His bill is supported by many people in the lending industry, many Republicans and some consumers. 
 This regressive bill is even backed by some members of Congress who should know how these loans prey on needy people. New York bans payday loans. But New York's Gregory Meeks argued in a hearing on the bill that it would provide ''options'' for people who, in earlier times, ''would come back without a limb'' if they failed to repay loan sharks on the street. 
 Others have argued that without these miniloans, people would bounce checks, incurring average costs of $27 or more per overdraft. The overdraft fees that some banks charge are scandalous and deserve more Congressional scrutiny. That does not mean an industry that makes $50 billion a year in loans should be touted as an alternative. 
 A better option is already in place in some states and for the military -- keeping short-term or small loans under a 36 percent annual interest rate, which is high enough. Representative Maxine Waters, a Democrat from California, assessed the Guttierez bill correctly when she said: ''We've got to resist any attempt to make it look as if we are cracking down, when in fact we are opening the door to more abuse.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHECK CASHING SERVICES (93%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); MILITARY DEPENDENTS (70%); SCANDALS (68%)

PERSON: LUIS V GUTIERREZ (55%); MAXINE WATERS (55%); GREGORY W MEEKS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2009



521 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: Swan Song for a Music Store and Clubhouse

BYLINE: By DANIEL J. WAKIN

 BODY:
A crossroads of maestros and tyros, the venerable Joseph Patelson Music House in Manhattan has been like a living room for the classical music world. 
 For more than six decades its shelves bulged with the fruit of Mozart and Bach, Stravinsky and Strauss, to be plucked by shoppers who wore its wooden floors black and sought counsel from expert and sometimes cantankerous sales clerks.
 Yes, you know it is coming: Goodbye, Patelson's.
 Marsha Patelson, the daughter-in-law of the founder, said she planned to close the store and sell its home, an 1879 carriage house that sits a baton's throw across 56th Street from the Carnegie Hall stage door. It is falling victim to a transfigured world, in which the power of digital retail has made places like used bookshops, record stores and sheet-music dealers little more than quaint relics. 
 Nowadays numerous Web sites offer sheet music for sale, either by mail or download. Publishers like G. Schirmer sell directly online. Other sites provide free downloads for works in the public domain.
 Ms. Patelson said the store had been losing money for years. ''I put everything into it, my heart and soul,'' she said, as well as a large amount of her own money. ''I feel badly, but on the other hand the reason this business is going is because people stopped buying much here.'' 
 Ms. Patelson has no specific closing date, she said, but will shut the store by the end of April after selling off as much stock as she can. ''It's like trying to put a final date on your life,'' she said.
 At the store the atmosphere is sad and lonely. The holdings are a shadow of what they once were. On the wooden shelves heavy cardboard dividers with composer and work names written neatly in felt-tip pen line up with little music between them. Sales clerks murmur comforting words to patrons. ''Yeah, I know, it's the end of an era,'' one of them, James T. Bonkovsky, told a telephone caller one day last week. ''I'm so sorry,'' the woman on the other end of the line was heard to say.
 Mr. Bonkovsky referred her to Frank Music on West 54th Street, one of the few remaining serious stores for classical music in Manhattan. The Juilliard School bookstore at Lincoln Center is the other main outlet.
 It would have been hard to study music seriously in New York without knowing Patelson's. Its wares can be found on the shelves of countless musicians in the city. Parents buy Suzuki books at Patelson's for their beginning string players. Auditioners can find the first flute parts for, say, all the Beethoven symphonies. Members of orchestras visiting Carnegie Hall from around the world pour in during rehearsal breaks.
 The pianist Garrick Ohlsson said he stopped by at the end of last month to pick up an extra copy of some Beethoven sonatas, and heard the news. ''I was shocked and devastated,'' he said.
 ''I've been going there since I was a teenager,'' Mr. Ohlsson, 61, added. ''They probably sold music to Moses and the pharaohs. Patelson's was always there and always reliable.''
 The store's official history says shoppers have included Isaac Stern, Aaron Copland, Beverly Sills, Van Cliburn, Kurt Masur and countless other musical luminaries. The list also includes show business figures and pop performers: Michael Jackson, Bette Midler, Frank Sinatra, Paul McCartney, Kevin Kline.
 Philip Mealey, who worked at Patelson's from 1962 to 2007 and was close to the founder, said he often conversed with Maria Callas. ''Once we had Woody Allen, Mia Farrow and Diane Keaton in the store at the same time,'' he said. But above all, he added, the store was a ''musician's oasis.''
 Many of the clerks over the years have worked for several decades and have had serious musical credentials. One was a composer who occasionally tried to push his own music on shoppers. Some patrons found the sales help rude and overbearing, Mr. Mealey said, ''but they never left the store without an answer.''
 The death of Patelson's is also a New York family story.
 The business has its origins in 1920, when Ernest Cook opened a discount music shop on Cooper Square, according to the store history. In 1929 he hired an 18-year-old student from City College as a clerk: Joseph Patelson. Cook died 10 years later, bequeathing the business to Patelson. Patelson bought the present building, where he moved the store in 1947, living in a small two-bedroom apartment upstairs with his wife, Nell. 
 Patelson was a stickler for proper dress and punctuality, and even gave prospective clerks music tests, Mr. Mealey said. Patelson stayed up late pricing inventory and had a broad knowledge of music. 
 His son, Daniel, was more interested in painting, photography and race car driving, but Joseph pressed him to enter the business, Mr. Mealey and Ms. Patelson said. Daniel met his future wife, Marsha, while she was browsing in the piano trio section. They married in the upstairs apartment in 1984. 
 Joseph Patelson died in 1992, and Daniel took over. The store began its decline then, Mr. Mealey said. Daniel was good-hearted, he said, but not as focused on the business as his father. 
 Then in 2004 Daniel, 56, died of esophageal cancer. A grieving Ms. Patelson, a conservatory-trained cellist who taught in public high schools, was thrust into ownership knowing little about business. 
 Friends urged her to sell the shop, she said in an interview in the family apartment, still filled with old furniture, Joseph Patelson's upright piano and a small pump organ. But she persisted. 
 ''I did it not for the money but because I needed to keep the shop open for people'' and for the Patelson legacy, she said. ''It meant a lot to me too.'' Like her father-in-law, Ms. Patelson said, she turned down large offers for the building. 
 She added regular live performances, other merchandise and workshops. She also fought off Internet pirates who stole the Patelson name, and let go a 40-year-veteran manager whose salary she said she could not afford. Intimate knowledge of the business went with him. 
 Since the recession hit, the business has been ''beyond repair,'' she said. She is planning to sell the building, a doll house on a block of high rises. 
 Ms. Patelson said her son, Michael, a college student, had stayed away from the shop since his father's death because of the emotional associations. But he has been working there in recent weeks to help wind down the business. She is happy about that.
 ''He sees how important this place is,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Marsha Patelson at Joseph Patelson Music House.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C1)
 The exterior of Joseph Patelson Music House on West 56th Street in Manhattan, far left, and some of the wares inside, above. Left, Joseph Patelson, the founder of the store. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ABOVE AND FAR LEFT, CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES)(C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (91%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); MUSIC STORES (90%); BOOKSTORES (89%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); CLOSINGS (75%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (73%); USED MERCHANDISE STORES (70%)

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2009



522 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 513 words

 BODY:
BANKRUPTCY PLAN FOR G.M. The government is directing General Motors to prepare for a fast ''surgical'' bankruptcy filing by a June 1 deadline, if it becomes necessary, people with knowledge of the plans said. 
 CHINA SLOWS BOND BUYING China, which has lent vast sums to the United States, sold bonds heavily in January and February before buying again in March, according to its central bank. [B1.]
 VERY LOCAL NEWS As newspapers sputter, a number of start-up companies are creating so-called hyperlocal news sites that cull local content from government data, blogs and news media. [B1.]
 MAGAZINES WEIGH NEW PRICES Most magazine subscriptions cost less than a dollar an issue, but with advertising falling, publishers are assessing whether they can charge more without losing subscribers. [B1.]
 DEFENDING THE GLOBE The threat of a shutdown or a sale of The Boston Globe has brought together civic leaders and residents, speaking out about the paper's role in the region. [B1.]
 GAMING SHAKE-UP AND MORE Will Wright, the creative spirit behind Spore, left, is leaving the video game maker Electronic Arts; a top scientist at Nvidia captures people's attention; new technology will let cable companies feed programs onto your home network. Bits. [B4.]
 CHARGING FOR NEWS? Consumers used to roaming freely across the Web in search of news and opinion may soon find themselves being asked to register at newspapers' sites and, in some cases, to fork over a credit card number. The Media Equation: David Carr. [B1.]
 STUDYING JUNK BONDS Junk bonds appear to be exposing the excesses of the credit boom. What creditors recover after company defaults is heading below 20 percent of face value, and that is in line with recovery rates in other downturns. Breaking Views. [B2.]
 DEFINING THE DOWNTURN With the economic troubles bringing new and perplexing terms, like ''collateralized debt obligations'' and ''wraparound mortgage,'' the timing was right for the new American Heritage Dictionary of Business Terms. [B5.] 
 TV AND BRANDING Bravo, which has never been shy with product placement, is developing products based on its popular programs, including ''The Real Housewives'' franchise and ''Top Chef,'' that will be promoted on the air and sold on its Web site. [B3.]
 STREET PAPERS Nonprofit newspapers produced and sold by homeless people in dozens of American cities are flourishing even as the deepening recession endangers conventional newspapers. [B5.]
 ONLINE-ONLY VOTE The Magazine Publishers of America is asking readers to choose their favorite print ad, but they won't do it in print. The contest is strictly on the Web. [B5.]
 PITCHING LOW PRICES As spending remains tight, retailers are adjusting their marketing strategies to play up the value aspects of what they sell, and many are fixating on cost alone. Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [B6.]
 BANK MAY SELL OFFICESHSBC Holdings may sell three of its signature office buildings, including its world headquarters at Canary Wharf in London, to raise cash as it tries to avoid a bailout from the British government. [B7.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); PRINT ADVERTISING (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (76%); PRODUCT PLACEMENT (75%); CABLE INDUSTRY (75%); WEB SITES (75%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (74%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (74%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (74%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (74%); MARKETING STRATEGY (74%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); COLLATERALIZED DEBT OBLIGATIONS (72%); RETAILERS (71%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (70%); COMPANY STRATEGY (70%); RECESSION (69%); CITY LIFE (68%); COMPUTER GAMES (67%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (66%); STARTUPS (56%); HOMELESSNESS (50%)

COMPANY: ELECTRONIC ARTS INC (82%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); NVIDIA CORP (55%)

TICKER: EA (NASDAQ) (82%); GM (NYSE) (58%); NVDA (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (82%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (55%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2009



523 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: M.T.A. Rescue Plan May Hinge on Highway Spending, and Republican Support

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN

 BODY:
Almost from the beginning, Republicans have criticized the push to have the State Legislature pass a financial rescue plan for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority because it ignored another gaping hole in transportation spending: financing for a statewide highway and bridge-building program. 
 Those complaints have taken on a new urgency as the rescue plan has floundered in a narrowly divided State Senate, which is controlled by Democrats who acknowledge that passing the plan may require Republican support. 
 ''To just ignore the highway, road and bridge plan and go to trying to negotiate a schedule for a new M.T.A. capital plan was just not the right thing to do,'' said Senator Thomas W. Libous, a Republican from Binghamton who is the ranking minority member on the Senate Transportation Committee. 
 But he acknowledged that finding money for the road program during a deep recession could be every bit as problematic as solving the transportation authority's fiscal woes. 
 ''The need is going to be huge,'' Mr. Libous said, referring to the money for the highway program. The Senate is the main stumbling block to helping the ailing authority; Gov. David A. Paterson and Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver have already endorsed a rescue plan.
 The dispute centers on separate five-year capital spending programs for the New York City metropolitan area's mass transportation system and the state roadway network, both of which expire within the next 12 months. 
 In the past, the Legislature has generally allotted equal amounts to roads and transit. 
 That has ensured support from both parties and all areas of the state: The city is seen as benefiting most from the transit money, while upstate areas rely heavily on roadway spending. 
 But that pattern was broken last year when Mr. Paterson chose to seek a financial rescue for the authority first. 
 The rescue plan was primarily intended to be a stable source of financing for the authority's next capital program, which is to run from 2010 to 2014. 
 The program is expected to cost about $28 billion, much of that borrowed through the sale of bonds. It would pay for big-ticket items like new trains and buses; the renovation of subway stations and signal systems; and major projects, like the Second Avenue subway line. 
 The rescue plan would also help the authority deal with the crisis affecting its operating budget, which pays for the day-to-day expenses of running trains and buses. To help close a deficit of at least $1.2 billion, the authority is planning to raise fares and tolls by 20 to 30 percent and enact deep cuts in service.
 The rescue plan would eliminate most of those service cuts and trim the fare increase to about 8 percent. 
 It would also raise money through a tax on payrolls in the 12-county region served by the authority and tolls on East and Harlem River bridges. 
 Mr. Paterson and Mr. Silver both support the plan, but in the Senate, where Democrats have a narrow 32-to-30 majority, a group of city Democrats has blocked the toll proposal while a group of suburban Democrats has opposed the payroll tax.
 That has led to appeals for support from Republicans, who have largely sat on the sidelines as Democrats bickered. Republicans have pointed to the lack of a corresponding highway and bridge program and have also said that they have been left out of negotiations about a rescue plan. 
 ''If you brought in the bridge and highway program, that would help it become a bipartisan issue, as it's been in the past,'' said Robert D. Yaro, president of the Regional Plan Association, a civic policy and planning group. He said allowing the capital programs to lapse would cost the state tens of thousands of jobs. ''This is a pretty fundamental economic issue for the whole state,'' he said. 
 An estimate last year said a new highway program would cost $26 billion, though its final price would probably mirror that of the authority's program. It would pay for general roadway upkeep, like repaving and the installation of new signs and traffic signals, and also for larger projects, like the construction of bridges and roads. 
 The road and transit programs receive some funds from the federal government, with the rest coming through the sale of bonds. 
 Borrowing costs for the current highway program are paid out of a trust fund financed largely by gasoline-related taxes and motor vehicle registration and licensing fees. But that fund is running out of money, and to pay for the next five-year program more financing will have to be identified -- possibly by substantially increasing the same taxes and fees that supply the trust fund. 
 That will not be an easy task during a recession and will almost certainly ignite a public debate that could be just as rancorous as the one raging over the transportation authority rescue. 
 An early proposal for a new five-year highway program written last year estimated that the state would have to inject an additional $5 billion into the highway trust fund over the course of the program -- with more needed to pay debt service in following years.
 Meanwhile, the Transport Workers Union, which represents transit workers, began running television and radio ads last week taking aim at the three Republican senators from New York City, claiming that Republican inaction was endangering the transit system. 
 The three senators, Frank Padavan from Queens, Martin J. Golden from Brooklyn and Andrew J. Lanza from Staten Island, all disagreed strongly with the ads, saying they had never been invited into discussions with Democrats on the rescue.
 ''Sure, I would want to get involved, but we've been premeditatively kept out of it,'' Mr. Padavan said, adding that he would support a payroll tax but saw bridge tolls as problematic. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Republicans say financing for roadwork has been ignored in Albany. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALAN ZALE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (90%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CITIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (89%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); RECESSION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (60%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (57%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2009



524 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: ON NYTIMES.COM

 BODY:
A Reggae Lion Roars In the Bronx
 The Wackie's label, trademarked with its Rastafarian image of a lion with a dreadlocked mane, was one of the earliest reggae record pressers in the United States. A slide show of images of the producer Lloyd Barnes in his hand-built studio on White Plains Road in the North Bronx. 
 nytimes.com/nyregion
 City Room
 Neighborhood Snapshot
 W. Franc Perry, chairman of Community Board 10 in Harlem, has begun seeing signs that the boom years have given way to recession. As part of New York on Less, a series about how New Yorkers are coping with the economic downturn, a profile of Mr. Perry, a slide show and statistical analysis give insight to the area. 
 nytimes.com/cityroom
 ASK ABOUT CITY HISTORY
 This week, Michelle and James Nevius, the authors of ''Inside the Apple, A Streetwise History of New York City,'' will be answering questions about the history of the island from Henry Hudson's arrival in 1609 to the present. If you've ever walked by a building and wondered about its origins, or if a historic event really took place where you think it did, or any other little-known fact, they will know the answers. 
 nytimes.com/cityroom
 AUDIO: SONGS FROM 'YO MISS!'
 Audio clips from the coming performance by a Queens artist, Judith Sloan, focusing on the voices of immigrant high school students.
 nytimes.com/nyregion
 OVERNIGHT SENSATIONS
 Live blogging and multimedia features from the 24-Hour Musicals, an annual event in which four new musicals will be written, cast, rehearsed and performed in a single day. 
 nytimes.com/theater
 SLIDESHOW: SPACE AND MATERIAL
 Photographs of works by the Swiss architect Peter Zumthor, the recipient of the 2009 Pritzker Prize for architecture, the profession's highest honor. 
 nytimes.com/design
 AUDIO: CRITICS' CHOICE CDS
 Audio clips from artists with new releases this week, including Rascal Flatts, Smokie Norful and the Juan MacLean. 
 nytimes.com/music
 ASK THE TIMES
 Andrew Rosenthal, the editorial page editor, will be answering questions from readers. Questions may be sent to askthetimes@nytimes.com 
 nytimes.com/asktheeditors
 SLIDESHOW: WITNESSES TO A CHANGING WAR
 Afghanistan has long been a land of invisible but understood boundaries. The men of Company C of the First Battalion, 26th Infantry, are a bridge from the older war to a fight that stands to become more hopeful as units push into longstanding Taliban sanctuaries outside of the Afghan government's control. 
 nytimes.com/world
 Opinion
 Stanley Fish
 Conscience vs. Conscience
 Revoking the Provider Refusal Rule raises the question of whether we understand what ''conscience'' really means.
 nytimes.com/thinkagain

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 TYLER HICKS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WILD CATS (89%); MUSICAL THEATER (87%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (87%); LITERARY CRITICISM (74%); WRITERS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); THEATER (70%); TALIBAN (64%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (55%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (50%); HIGH SCHOOLS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2009



525 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1290 words

HEADLINE: Longer Periods of Unemployment for Workers 45 and Older

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO

 BODY:
When Ben Sims, 57, showed up earlier this year for a job interview at a company in Richardson, Tex., he noticed the hiring manager -- several decades his junior -- falter upon spotting him in the lobby.
 ''Her face actually dropped,'' said Mr. Sims, who was dressed in a business suit befitting his 25-year career in human resources at I.B.M.
 Later, in her office, after several perfunctory questions, the woman told Mr. Sims she did not believe the job would be ''suitable'' for him. And barely 10 minutes later, she stood to signal that the interview was over.
 ''I knew very much then it was an age situation,'' said Mr. Sims, who has been looking for work since November 2007, a month before the economic downturn began. 
 The recession's onslaught has come as Mr. Sims and many others belonging to the baby boom generation remain years from retirement. But unemployed baby boomers, many of whom believed they were still in the prime of their careers, are confronting the grim reality that they face some of the steepest odds of any job seekers in this dismal market. 
 Workers ages 45 and over form a disproportionate share of the hard-luck recession category, the long-term unemployed -- those who have been out of work for six months or longer, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. 
 On average, laid-off workers in this age group were out of work 22.2 weeks in 2008, compared with 16.2 weeks for younger workers. Even when they finally land jobs, they typically experience a much steeper drop in earnings than their younger counterparts. 
 Older workers do hold some advantages, though. Many have avoided layoffs in this recession, and government statistics show that people 45 and older currently have a lower unemployment rate than younger workers. 
 Alicia H. Munnell, director of the Center for Retirement Research at Boston College, said companies were often reluctant to lose the experience of older workers, many of whom also have protections that often come with age and seniority. 
 Recent data, however, have shown that the advantage is deteriorating. ''If you are old and have a job, you are less likely -- albeit less less likely than in the old days -- to be fired,'' Dr. Munnell said.
 The unemployment rate in March for workers ages 45 and over was 6.4 percent, the highest since at least 1948, when the Bureau of Labor Statistics began tracking unemployment on a monthly basis.
 But once older workers lose their jobs, Dr. Munnell said, ''then it's horrible.'' They have a much harder time finding work again than younger job-seekers do, and statistics appear to show that it is harder for them in this recession than in previous ones. During downturns in 1982 and 2001, workers ages 45 and over were unemployed an average of 19 weeks and just under 17 weeks, respectively.
 Many out-of-work baby boomers have despaired as they wonder whether to trim their resumes to avoid giving away their decades of work experience, or to dye their hair.
 More of them are now choosing to fight back. Age discrimination complaints were up nearly 30 percent in the 2008 fiscal year over the year before, according to the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, and that period ended just before the worst of the recession began.
 But the vast majority of those complaints involved layoffs. Discrimination in hiring is often almost impossible to prove. 
 ''Especially in this day and age when you apply online, you're not even told why you can't get past the first screening,'' said Laurie McCann, a senior lawyer with the AARP Litigation Foundation. 
 Mr. Sims, in Texas, was so incensed by how he was treated that he tried to call the company's chief executive but was unable to get through. He never seriously considered filing a formal complaint.
 ''I know enough about H.R. procedures and H.R. situations,'' he said. ''It would have never gone anywhere.'' 
 Assessing just how pervasive age discrimination is in the job market is difficult. Certainly, older workers believe that it is rampant -- an AARP survey in 2007 of workers ages 45 to 74 found that 60 percent said they had seen or experienced age bias. 
 Joanna N. Lahey, an economics professor at Texas A&M University, conducted a study published in 2005 in which she sent out 4,000 resumes on behalf of hypothetical job-seeking women ranging in age from 35 to 62 for entry-level jobs at companies in Boston and St. Petersburg, Fla. She changed only the applicant's high school graduation year, an age indicator. Dr. Lahey found that workers under 50 were more than 40 percent more likely to be called for an interview.
 Older workers often accumulate knowledge specific to their companies that helps protect them from layoffs, Dr. Lahey said. But that background is often less useful to other employers. 
 Older workers must also battle stereotypes about their energy and adaptability, as well as the reality that their health care costs are higher.
 The oldest baby boomers have already begun retiring. But with retirement accounts plunging in value, more older workers than ever are trying to stay in the work force. And some unemployed boomers, frustrated after months of fruitless searching, have concluded that their only option is to turn their backs on successful careers and start over at much lower pay. 
 Jonathan Steinberg, 53, a former marketing executive, has been out of work for more than two years. With a resume that includes an undergraduate degree from Yale and an M.B.A. from New York University, he had a career on a steady upward progression. His most recent position was senior vice president for communications and marketing at a large organization for the care of the elderly, where he was paid about $170,000 a year. 
 But after applying for more than 100 jobs and getting few responses, he is now exploring work as a paralegal or a teacher. He believes that his age and experience make for slim odds of landing even a junior-level marketing position at this point. 
 ''I've got one to send to college next year, with two more behind her,'' Mr. Steinberg said of his children. ''I can't continue to wait for good news on the old job front.''
 Ron Higgins, 52, is one of about 100 former employees of the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory near San Francisco who filed an age-discrimination complaint against the laboratory after a round of layoffs last May. 
 The laboratory had promised to lay off workers with less seniority first, he said. But Mr. Higgins, who was a painting supervisor and had worked at the laboratory for more than two decades, believes he was picked because of his age. He pointed out that he cost the company more than many of his younger colleagues, with his salary climbing to about $80,000 a year and full medical benefits due to him in retirement if he continued working until he was 65.
 Since being laid off, Mr. Higgins, who has two children in high school, said he had applied for countless jobs and had gotten only one interview, for a janitorial job with a school district. Once again, he said, he believes his age is to blame.
 ''They're saying, 'Wait a minute, this guy is almost done working,' '' Mr. Higgins said.
 After running through his severance pay and retirement savings, Mr. Higgins and his wife, who runs a struggling printing business from home, have now fallen two months behind on a risky mortgage on a home they bought in 1999. They had already been having trouble keeping up with their house payments before Mr. Higgins was laid off and now have $40,000 in credit card debt. They recently got a notice in the mail that the bank would begin foreclosure proceedings in 30 days.
 ''Sometimes I just break down and start crying,'' he said. ''I can't do anything about my situation.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ben Sims, at the Valley Ranch Public Library in Irving, Tex., says he faces age discrimination. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALLISON V. SMITH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A14) CHARTS: CHALLENGES FOR OUT-OF-WORK BABY BOOMERS: but a higher proportion of their unemployed have been out of work for more than 6 months ... Workers over 45 have lower unemployment rates ... ... and, historically, a higher proportion of workers who lost their jobs earn less in new jobs. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (pg.A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (93%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); OLDER WORKERS (89%); STATISTICS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (88%); BABY BOOMERS (88%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2009



526 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: In the End, the Nets' Minimal Expectations Were Proved Accurate

BYLINE: By JONATHAN ABRAMS

DATELINE: EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 

 BODY:
At season's onset, Nets Coach Lawrence Frank listed a rather short pecking order. It included Vince Carter and Devin Harris, and was later expanded to include the rising rookie Brook Lopez. The remaining players would decide their fate through individual play, although the team's collective future hung in the balance.
 As the season unraveled, no further amendments were needed. 
 The Nets defied early-season predictions, hovering near break even long enough to harbor notions of a playoff berth. Those aspirations faded as the season dissolved into a series of missed opportunities: a failure to execute in crucial moments, a failure to establish a home-court advantage in a lame-duck arena, and a failure to overcome injuries. 
 The Nets (33-47) exhaust their home schedule against the Charlotte Bobcats on Monday night, and the season Wednesday against the Knicks. They will miss the playoffs for a second consecutive season, leaving Frank's future with the team in question. The number of losses is their most since 2000-1, when they finished with 56. 
 That mediocrity preceded an overhaul engineered by the Nets' president, Rod Thorn, that led to two Eastern Conference championships and a string, broken last season, of six consecutive playoff appearances. 
 Thorn and General Manager Kiki Vandeweghe are in the midst of another rebuilding effort that they hope will end in similar success after jettisoning Jason Kidd and Richard Jefferson last year.
 The seeds for the future were planted with the trades of Kidd and Jefferson. The team braced for a long season, yet remained teasingly close to a playoff spot. Its fate was sealed when Harris, averaging career highs of 21.5 points and 6.9 assists a game, sustained a shoulder injury that limited him in the stretch run. 
 After ending the first half with a 19-22 record, the Nets have gone a 14-25.
 ''Everybody was pretty happy with the way those things were going, and what transpires is your expectation level goes up,'' Thorn said.
 The Nets were one of four teams in the conference that did not win a majority of their home games. Attendance dipped at Izod Center. The organization still seems confident of a proposed move to Brooklyn, although the Atlantic Yards project has been continually stalled by legal and financial obstacles. The Sports Business Journal recently reported that the Nets lost $27.8 million last year and were in danger of losing sponsors for the planned arena. 
 On the positive side, Harris blossomed as an offensive player, and Lopez became a post threat and is a contender for rookie of the year. Carter played superbly and nurtured the young players, helping them remain focused even after they were eliminated from playoff contention, as evidenced by Saturday's victory over the 58-win Orlando Magic. 
 ''I just want the mentality to be as a professional to finish your job,'' said Carter, who is averaging 20.8 points and 5.1 rebounds. 
 The moments that occasionally raised expectations were few, interspersed with meltdowns and losses to inferior teams. The Kidd deal brought dividends in Harris. The trade that sent Jefferson to the Milwaukee Bucks for Yi Jianlian and Bobby Simmons saved money and gave the Nets some youth and experience. 
 Their season-long mantra, Frank said, was to serve ''multiple masters'' in developing Yi, and the rookies Lopez, Ryan Anderson and Chris Douglas-Roberts, while remaining competitive. 
 ''To me, from a disappointment standpoint, is the fact that this group will not be able to taste the playoffs,'' Frank said. ''Especially for the young guys we have, it would have been very, very nice, if they could have gotten a taste of it.''
 A young team predictably yielded unpredictable results.
 ''When you perform sometimes and you play hard sometimes, you get a mediocre season, and that's where we are right now,'' guard Keyon Dooling said. 
 The Nets enter a period of reflection and will have to decide whether to retain Frank, who has one season left on his contract.
 With more than five seasons at the helm, Frank is the longest-tenured coach in the conference. Frank said the decision was out of his hands, then spoke of coaching in general. 
 ''We just do our jobs, we love what we do and we're all evaluated at the end of the year,'' Frank said. 
 This summer, player movement may be restricted by a sagging economy, which will probably result in a shrinking payroll. Thorn said he would probably home in on improving the team's defense, which was prone to matador-type lapses. 
 In trying to trim payroll, the Nets fielded calls from teams interested in Carter during the season and will again listen to offers. His age (32) and remaining salary ($33.6 million over the next two years) will be deterrents.
 The Nets will again head to the N.B.A. draft lottery. And they will again try to develop players while remaining competitive. 
 ''It's headed in the right direction,'' Vandeweghe said. ''You always want to win games, but this year was not our year to go to the championship, and we realize that.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The high-priced veteran Vince Carter, left, has limited trade value. Devin Harris grew as an offensive player this season.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN LANE/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPORTS (89%); BASKETBALL (89%); SPORTS INJURIES (77%); SPORTS BUSINESS (77%); SPORTS AWARDS (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (69%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (69%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS (86%); CHARLOTTE BOBCATS (56%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (78%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (78%); NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2009



527 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: Extra, Extra! Homeless Lift Street Papers, And Attitudes

BYLINE: By JANIE LORBER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Newspapers produced and sold by homeless people in dozens of American cities are flourishing even as the deepening recession endangers conventional newspapers. At many of them, circulation is growing, along with the sales forces dispatched to sell the papers to passers-by.
 The recession has hardly been a windfall for these street papers, most of which are nonprofits that survive on grants and donations as well as circulation revenue. But the economic downturn has heightened interest in their offbeat coverage and driven new vendors to their doors. 
 ''It's a low barrier. You walk in, get a job, and turn around that afternoon and start earning money, as opposed to being one of 150 people waiting in line for one waitressing job,'' said Joanne Zuhl, managing editor of Street Roots in Portland, Ore. The paper's monthly sales have increased to 16,000 from 11,000 in a few months, while the number of people selling the paper has jumped to nearly 100 from 60.
 Circulation of Seattle's paper, Real Change, neared 72,000 in December, its highest level. And at The Denver Voice, 117 people attended sales training sessions in February alone. 
 Paper managers and their vendors say the job provides a special freedom, a sense of personal responsibility that helps homeless and impoverished people build the confidence they need to rejoin the mainstream work force. Each vendor's success rides on his own innovation and gumption.
 At Street Sense in Washington, the paper's executive director, Laura Osuri, said that in recent months ''higher quality'' vendors -- newly needy, and not quite so down-and-out -- have helped push papers out the door faster than ever.
 At twice-weekly training sessions held in one of several small rooms the paper rents from the Church of the Epiphany, L. Morrow, an old hand, uses role-playing to teach salesmanship.
 ''Say good morning to everyone. Wake them up,'' Mr. Morrow said during a recent session. ''Be vocal, brother. If you are standing there like a statue, you're not going to get paid.'' 
 The publications, which once employed mainly the chronically homeless, offer a survival strategy for those who, for the first time, are checking into shelters, relying on friends' couches or struggling to pay rent.
 In the last six months, the Portland paper, like others around the country, has started to see a new type of vendor -- chefs, park rangers and construction workers who have lost stable jobs or crucial part-time work as the economy crumbled. 
 Often, the papers' managers said, new vendors have high school diplomas or even college degrees. Now, in a year when several traditional newspapers have closed, they sell street papers to make ends meet while they look for employment.
 Kevin Bynum lost his carpentry job and employer-provided housing in mid-December. The news came suddenly, amid a heavy snowstorm just before Christmas that forced him into a long line for beds at a rescue mission in Portland.
 ''As soon as the snow melted, I pretty much decided I needed to figure out a way to get some money in my pocket,'' said Mr. Bynum, who has been selling Street Roots since January. ''It's definitely turned my life around. It's not really a handout. It's helping someone help themselves.''
 Mr. Bynum says that if he works 10 hours every day, he can sell nearly 200 papers a week at $1 a copy. Each paper costs him 25 cents, leaving him with a couple of hundred dollars in profit, including some fairly large tips he gets from repeat customers. In off-peak hours, he drops resumes at restaurants and bookstores, but the help-wanted signs are rare. 
 Even in this economic climate, most papers reported a steady flow of contributions. Real Change in Seattle had an increase in donations and ''tremendous donor loyalty'' in 2008, said Timothy Harris, the paper's executive director and founder.
 Street papers' coverage of poverty seems to have attracted interest lately, said Serge Lareault, chairman of the International Network of Street Papers and editor of L'Itineraire in Montreal.
 But in Washington, Street Sense has struggled to meet the elevated demand. Donations to support its work have dropped nearly 25 percent below last year's level, forcing the paper to switch to cheaper paper and even to consider raising the price vendors pay for each copy, to 35 cents from 25 cents. 
 For many vendors, Street Sense has done more than fill wallets. The paper has allowed them to develop a community of customers and colleagues as well as marketable skills. 
 Jeffery McNeil, who started selling Street Sense nearly two years ago, now has frequent bylines. In a recent issue, he wrote about the sales strategy -- a bit of show biz, a little luck, a suit and plenty of time studying Google maps -- that made him one of the paper's top vendors. He says his goal is to begin a street paper in Baltimore, where the recession has increased homelessness.
 Carlton Johnson, another vendor here, came to write poetry and make some extra cash. Soon he was producing graphics, designing pages and selling advertisements.
 ''Out of it, I just got so much more,'' said Mr. Johnson, who is self-publishing a book of 100 poems. ''It's become like a string of pearls.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: L. Morrow sells Street Sense, a newspaper distributed by the homeless, in Washington
he also offers sales advice at twice-weekly workshops for others. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Kevin Bynum, a jobless carpenter, sells Street Roots in Portland, Ore. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRIAN LEE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMELESSNESS (91%); SALES FORCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); RETAILERS (90%); SALES & SELLING (89%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); SALES TRAINING (77%); SALES MANAGEMENT (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (71%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (90%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) OREGON, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2009



528 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: China Cuts Bond Buys From U.S. And Others

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: HONG KONG 

 BODY:
Reversing its role as the world's fastest-growing buyer of United States Treasuries and other foreign bonds, the Chinese government actually sold bonds heavily in January and February before resuming purchases in March, according to data released during the weekend by China's central bank.
 China's foreign reserves grew in the first quarter of this year at the slowest pace in nearly eight years, edging up $7.7 billion, compared with a record increase of $153.9 billion in the same quarter last year. 
 China has lent vast sums to the United States -- roughly two-thirds of the central bank's $1.95 trillion in foreign reserves are believed to be in American securities. But the Chinese government now finances a dwindling percentage of new American mortgages and government borrowing.
 In the last two months, Premier Wen Jiabao and other Chinese officials have expressed growing nervousness about their country's huge exposure to America's financial well-being.
 Chinese reserves fell a record $32.6 billion in January and $1.4 billion more in February before rising $41.7 billion in March, according to figures released by the People's Bank over the weekend. A resumption of growth in China's reserves in March suggests, however, that confidence in that country may be reviving, and capital flight could be slowing.
 The main effect of slower bond purchases may be a weakening of Beijing's influence in Washington as the Treasury becomes less reliant on purchases by the Chinese central bank. 
 Asked about the balance of financial power between China and the United States, one of the Chinese government's top monetary economists, Yu Yongding, replied that ''I think it's mainly in favor of the United States.''
 He cited a saying attributed to John Maynard Keynes: ''If you owe your bank manager a thousand pounds, you are at his mercy. If you owe him a million pounds, he is at your mercy.''
 Private investors from around the world, including the United States, have been buying more American bonds in search of a refuge from global financial troubles. This has made the Chinese government's cash less necessary and kept interest rates low in the United States over the winter despite the Chinese pullback.
 There have also been some signs that Americans may consume less and save more money in response to hard economic times. This would further decrease the American dependence on Chinese savings.
 Mr. Wen voiced concern on March 13 about China's dependence on the United States: ''We have lent a huge amount of money to the U.S. Of course we are concerned about the safety of our assets. To be honest, I am definitely a little worried.''
 The main worry of Chinese officials has been that American efforts to fight the current economic downturn will result in inflation and erode the value of American bonds, Chinese economists said in interviews in Beijing on Thursday and Friday.
 ''They are quite nervous about the purchasing power of fixed-income assets,'' said Yu Qiao, an economics professor at Tsinghua University.
 Economists said there was no sign that the Chinese government had deliberately throttled back its purchases of overseas bonds to punish the United States for pursuing monetary and fiscal policies aimed at stimulating the American economy. 
 While those policies may run a long-term risk of setting off inflation, they also may benefit China if they rekindle economic growth in the United States and thereby revive China's faltering exports.
 The abrupt slowdown in China's accumulation of foreign reserves instead seems to suggest that investors were sending large sums of money out of mainland China early this year in response to worries about the country's economic future and possibly its social stability in the face of rising unemployment.
 Evidence of such capital flight included a flood of cash into the Hong Kong dollar. Mainland tourists were even buying gold and diamonds during Chinese new year holidays here in late January.
 China's reserves have soared in recent years as the People's Bank bought dollars on a huge scale to prevent China's currency from appreciating as money poured into the country from trade surpluses and heavy foreign investment. But China's trade surpluses have narrowed slightly as exports have fallen, while foreign investment has slowed as multinationals have conserved their cash.
 Jun Ma, a Deutsche Bank economist in Hong Kong, predicted that China's foreign reserves would rise only $100 billion this year after climbing $417.8 billion last year.
 Some economists contend that slower growth in Chinese foreign currency reserves is not important to the economic health of the United States, even though it may be politically important. In the first quarter, instead of the Chinese government sending money out of the country to buy foreign bonds, Chinese individuals and companies were buying many of the same bonds.
 ''The outflow would mostly end up in the U.S. anyway,'' even if China is no longer controlling the destination of the money, said Michael Pettis, a finance professor at Peking University, in an interview on Thursday.
 Heavy purchases of Hong Kong dollars by mainland Chinese residents early this year also have the indirect effect of helping the United States borrow money. The Hong Kong government pegs its currency to the American dollar, and stepped up its purchases of Treasury bonds this winter in response to strong demand for Hong Kong dollars.
 But China's economy appears to be bouncing back from the global economic downturn faster than its trade partners' economies. If that proves true, the result could be an increase in imports to China while its exports recover less briskly. This would limit trade surpluses and leave the People's Bank with less money to plow into foreign reserves.

GRAPHIC: CHART: CUTTING BACK: Quarterly growth in China's foreign reserves, mainly invested in Treasuries and other American bonds, has slowed significantly. (Source: Chinese Central Bank) (pg.B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); BANKING IN CHINA (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); STATISTICS (77%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (77%); INTEREST RATES (68%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (65%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); PEOPLE'S BANK OF ZANZIBAR (55%); PEOPLE'S BANK OF ELKTON INC (55%); PEOPLE'S BANK & TRUST CO (55%); PEOPLE'S BANK OF VIRGINIA BEACH (55%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%)

PERSON: WEN JIABAO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (58%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2009



529 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 193 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC DATA Reports will include retail sales for March, the Producer Price Index for March and business inventories for February (Tuesday); the Consumer Price Index for March, industrial production and capacity utilization for March and the Federal Reserve beige book (Wednesday); housing starts for March, the Philadelphia Fed manufacturing index for April and existing-home sales for March (Thursday); and the Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment index (Friday). 
 CORPORATE EARNINGS Earnings season picks up pace, with reports coming from CSX, Goldman Sachs, Intel, Johnson & Johnson and Philips Electronics (Tuesday); Abbott Laboratories and AMR (Wednesday); Biogen Idec, Gannett, Google, Harley-Davidson, JPMorgan Chase, Nokia and Southwest Airlines (Thursday); and Citigroup, General Electric, Mattel, Media General and Sony (Friday).
 BERNANKE SPEAKS The Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, gives a lecture on the financial crisis at Morehouse College in Atlanta (Tuesday). Mr. Bernanke also speaks to the Fed's community affairs conference in Washington (Friday). 
 TAX DAY Wednesday is the deadline for filing income tax returns.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (92%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INVENTORIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (84%); HOUSING STARTS (79%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); EXISTING HOME SALES (74%); RETAIL SALES (73%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (70%); INCOME TAX (70%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); ABBOTT LABORATORIES (71%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (71%); BIOGEN IDEC INC (70%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); KONINKLIJKE PHILIPS ELECTRONICS NV (ROYAL PHILIPS ELECTRONICS) (57%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); INTEL CORP (57%); GOOGLE INC (56%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%); ABT (SWX) (71%); ABT (NYSE) (71%); ABT (LSE) (71%); ABL (FRA) (71%); JNJ (NYSE) (71%); BIIB (NASDAQ) (70%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); PHIA (BIT) (57%); PHIA (AMS) (57%); PHG (NYSE) (57%); GS (NYSE) (57%); INTC (NASDAQ) (57%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (56%); GNE (PAR) (56%); GEC (LSE) (56%); GE (SWX) (56%); GE (NYSE) (56%); LUV (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (71%); NAICS541720 RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT IN THE SOCIAL SCIENCES & HUMANITIES (70%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2009



530 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1284 words

HEADLINE: Plan to Change Student Lending Sets Up a Fight

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN; Jonathan D. Glater contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The private student lending industry and its allies in Congress are maneuvering to thwart a plan by President Obama to end a subsidized loan program and redirect billions of dollars in bank profits to scholarships for needy students. 
 The plan is the main money-saving component of Mr. Obama's education agenda, which includes a sweeping overhaul of financial aid programs. The Congressional Budget Office says replacing subsidized loans made by private banks with direct government lending would save $94 billion over the next decade, money that Mr. Obama would use to expand Pell grants for the poorest students.
 But the proposal has ignited one of the most fractious policy fights this year.
 Because it would make spending on Pell grants mandatory, limiting Congressional control, powerful appropriators are balking at it. Republicans say the plan is proof that Mr. Obama is trying to vastly expand government. Democrats are divided, with lawmakers from districts where lenders are big employers already drawing battle lines. 
 At the same time, the private loan industry, which would have collapsed without a government rescue last year, has begun lobbying aggressively to save a program that has generated giant profits with very little risk. 
 ''The administration has decided that it wants to capture the profits of federal student loans,'' said Kevin Bruns, executive director of America's Student Loan Providers, a trade group that is fighting Mr. Obama's plan.
 To press its case, the nation's largest student lender, Sallie Mae, has hired two prominent lobbyists, Tony Podesta, whose brother, John, led the Obama transition, and Jamie S. Gorelick, a former deputy attorney general in the Clinton administration.
 For lenders, the stakes are huge. Just last week, Sallie Mae reported that despite losing $213 million in 2008, it paid its chief executive more than $4.6 million in cash and stock and its vice chairman more than $13.2 million in cash and stock, including the use of a company plane. The company, which did not receive money under the $700 billion financial system bailout and is not subject to pay restrictions, also disbursed cash bonuses of up to $600,000 to other executives. 
 Sallie Mae said that executive compensation was lower in 2008 than 2007 and that the stock awards were worthless in the current market. 
 Critics of the subsidized loan system, called the Federal Family Education Loan Program, say private lenders have collected hefty fees for decades on loans that are risk-free because the government guarantees repayment up to 97 percent. With the government directly or indirectly financing virtually all federal student loans because of the financial crisis, the critics say there is no reason to continue a program that was intended to inject private capital into the education lending system. 
 Under the subsidized loan program, the government pays lenders like Citigroup, Bank of America and Sallie Mae, with both the subsidy and the maximum interest rate for borrowers set by Congress. Students are steered to the government's direct program or to outside lenders, depending on their school's preference. 
 Private lenders say they still provide valuable service, marketing, customer relations, billing, default prevention and collection of delinquent loans. The lenders say the budget savings could be achieved without ending their role and are pushing to keep the current system in place, including an arrangement approved by Congress last year by which they are paid to originate loans but can then resell them to the government. 
 Martha Holler, a spokeswoman for Sallie Mae, said the company wanted a compromise. ''To be clear, there are those who are fighting to preserve the historic financing structure for federal student loans,'' she wrote in an e-mail message following up on a telephone interview. ''Sallie Mae is not among them. In fact, we support constructive alternatives that would generate a similar level of taxpayer savings to achieve the administration's important goals.''
 Lenders are also emphasizing the jobs they provide. 
 Sallie Mae's chief executive, Albert L. Lord, held a town-hall-style meeting last week at the company's loan center in Wilkes-Barre, Pa., with two Democrats, Senator Bob Casey and Representative Paul E. Kanjorski, to announce the return of 2,000 jobs that were sent overseas in 2007. 
 Mr. Lord, in his opening speech, insisted that Mr. Obama's proposal offered new opportunities, but he said he would fight to keep the current system mostly intact. 
 ''We can either meet or beat the budget savings that are in the president's budget with the exact same system that we have got working now with maybe a few tweaks,'' he said. 
 But to preserve a profitable role for private lenders and still achieve Mr. Obama's savings seems extremely difficult if not impossible.
 Last year, to keep education financing from drying up, Congress expanded the government's role, including the repurchase of loans, which Sallie Mae and some other lenders say should be mandatory going forward. 
 ''When you add that all up, a very legitimate question to ask is why do we even need private lenders,'' said Representative Timothy H. Bishop, Democrat of New York and a former provost of Southampton College. 
 For Mr. Bishop and many other education advocates, Mr. Obama's plan to expand the existing direct loan program used by more than 1,500 schools is obvious and long overdue.
 But the administration has a fight on its hands. 
 ''The president's proposal,'' Representative Allen Boyd, Democrat of Florida, said in a floor speech, ''could be detrimental to thousands of employees who serve in the current student loan industry throughout this country, 650 of which are located in Panama City, Florida.'' 
 In some states, student loans are administered by quasi-governmental agencies that benefit the same as private lenders. To appeal to these states, the administration has proposed $500 million a year for financial literacy programs and other services the agencies provide. 
 Political opposition may be harder to overcome. 
 Representative Howard P. McKeon of California, the senior Republican on the education committee, said Democrats should not cut out private lenders. ''A government-run, one-size-fits-all program is not the answer,'' he said.
 But some lawmakers have no sympathy for an industry now kept afloat by taxpayers. 
 ''If the banks complain that they are getting cut out,'' said Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, ''too bad.''
 At the Wilkes-Barre event, Mr. Lord of Sallie Mae acknowledged his industry's reliance on the government. ''I don't see private capital financing student loans, certainly any time soon,'' he said. 
 Even as lenders fight the president's plan, Sallie Mae and others are bidding for work that will remain if it is adopted -- contracts for loan servicing and other back office operations. 
 The president's plan would use the money from direct lending to help increase Pell grants and make them mandatory, with annual increases tied to inflation, providing a much-needed measure of certainty for students. That would limit Congressional control over the grants, an idea appropriators are not keen on, but the White House and Congressional leaders say they are open to negotiation.
 Anticipating a ferocious legislative battle, Representative George Miller, Democrat of California and chairman of the education committee, is weighing all options. 
 ''Chairman Miller's priority is to make our federal student loan programs as reliable, sustainable and efficient as possible for students, families and taxpayers,'' his spokeswoman, Rachel Racusen, said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (90%); LOBBYING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); GRANTS & GIFTS (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (70%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); SLM CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (57%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); SLM (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (54%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2009



531 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 853 words

HEADLINE: Should Online Scofflaws Be Denied Web Access?

BYLINE: By ERIC PFANNER

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
Is Internet access a fundamental human right? Or is it a privilege, carrying with it a responsibility for good behavior?
 That is the question confronting policy makers as they try to bring Internet access to the masses while seeking to curb illegal copying of digital music, movies and video games.
 The United States Congress held hearings last week on the growing problem of piracy, which the American entertainment industry says accounts for the loss of $20 billion a year in sales. Several lawmakers vowed to increase scrutiny of international markets where piracy is widespread. 
 But if events in Paris last week are any indication, legislative solutions will not be easy. French lawmakers rejected an antipiracy plan championed by President Nicolas Sarkozy, where the Internet connections of people who ignored repeated warnings to stop using unauthorized file-sharing services would have been severed.
 Mr. Sarkozy said he planned to reintroduce the measure, but public opinion is solidly against the idea of cutting off Internet users, and many politicians -- not just in France but across Europe and elsewhere -- are listening. 
 Last month, in a pre-emptive strike, the European Parliament adopted a nonbinding resolution calling Internet access a fundamental freedom that could not be restricted except by a court of law.
 New Zealand recently suspended a law under which Internet service providers would have been required to crack down on illicit copying. And in Britain, years of discussion between content owners, Internet providers and the government have failed to produce a plan to curb piracy. 
 ''There's increasing understanding that broadband is fundamental to basic economic and social participation,'' said Sacha Wunsch-Vincent, an economist at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development who studies information technology. ''Some people wonder whether this is consistent with cutting off Internet connections.''
 Content owners have sometimes had more luck with the courts, winning a series of rulings against accused pirates. They are hoping for another favorable decision this week when the front lines of the antipiracy fight shift to a courtroom in Sweden.
 On Friday, a judge in Stockholm is expected to rule on whether four people connected with a popular file-sharing service, the Pirate Bay, are guilty of criminal violations of copyright law. If so, they could face as much as two years in prison.
 But both sides have indicated that they would appeal any decision against them, and the Pirate Bay has said that it could keep operating the service from another country.
 Meanwhile, new ways of sharing copyrighted material are gaining popularity on the Internet.
 Even as French lawmakers prepared to vote on Mr. Sarkozy's proposal, the Pirate Bay was offering a new service aimed at foiling both that plan and other efforts to track down file sharers. The site charges users 5 euros a month, or about $6.60, for technology capable of hiding a computer's Internet address.
 The system was developed to counter a new law in Sweden that makes it easier for the authorities, going through the courts, to obtain the Internet addresses of suspected copyright violators.
 Since that law took effect on April 1, Internet traffic has fallen by more than a third, suggesting less unauthorized file sharing, which is estimated to account for as much as half of all Internet traffic.
 David Price, head of piracy intelligence at Envisional, a company based in Cambridge, England, that helps movie studios and other clients monitor copyright violations on the Internet, said that while file sharing by peer-to-peer networks appeared to be leveling off globally, sites that offered alternatives to downloading, like streaming of pirated movies, were growing fast.
 Pirates are also turning to file hosting services like RapidShare, which allow users to upload files too big to e-mail. Others can then download them from RapidShare.
 RapidShare, based in Cham, Switzerland, is widely used for legitimate purposes -- for advertising agencies wanting to show campaigns to clients around the world, for example -- and is password-protected, limiting public access. But music and movie pirates can get around this by posting the lists of available songs or films, along with the passwords, on outside message boards.
 In several rulings, German courts have sided with GEMA, a German royalty-collection organization, in its complaints that RapidShare facilitates piracy and needs to do more to prevent it. But RapidShare, which is appealing the latest ruling, says that it removes copyrighted material at the owner's request, and its chief executive, Bobby Chang, say it is ''only an infrastructure provider, not a publisher.''
 Tim Kuik, director of Brein, a Dutch antipiracy organization, says there is a paradox in the way the public views copyright online and offline.
 ''If you put 200 VCRs in your garage and start making and selling copies of films, you will get a visit from the police,'' he said. ''If you do it from a Web site, everybody says, 'Hey, freedom of information' ''.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); COPYRIGHT (89%); ONLINE PIRACY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (78%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (77%); COPYRIGHT LAW (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (72%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (72%); JUDGES (71%); JAIL SENTENCING (65%); BROADBAND (64%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (55%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (88%); STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPE (92%); SWEDEN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2009



532 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; ON PAR; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: My Swings With Annika

BYLINE: By BILL PENNINGTON

 BODY:
A few minutes into my private golf lesson with Annika Sorenstam, she paused, and with a bewildered look asked: ''Is that how you always swing, Bill?''
 How do you answer such a question? Especially when it's posed by one of the world's great golfers?
 I considered: ''Well, in fact, Annika, I usually swing much worse.''
 Or, ''I'm not sure there's anything in my swing that 'always' happens.'' 
 But Sorenstam, who is much too polite and gracious to let anyone linger in awkward silence, quickly finished her thought.
 ''I mean, your knees are swaying forward,'' she said, demonstrating as she talked. ''You just don't look very comfortable. Relax, you can make this shot.''
 I was attempting the long greenside bunker shot, about 70 yards, otherwise known as the hardest shot in golf. And Sorenstam was right, I wasn't comfortable or relaxed.
 For the past few days at the Masters, we have watched the best golfers in the world, and if you marveled at their peerless precision on television, I can assure you that in person, it is no less remarkable.
 But there are ways for the average golfer to relate and learn from these golfing gods, and I'll use my recent experience with Sorenstam as an example.
 First, let me say that a year ago, we began the weekly On Par golf package of articles and online videos at NYTimes.com to provide a place for recreational golfers to congregate and participate in a discussion about the sport. We resume the series with this installment. During my winter sabbatical, I want you to know that I've been in the golf trenches doing the hard, backbreaking work of searching for insights.
 Take my days last month basking in the warm Florida sun, receiving instruction and shooting videos at the Annika Golf Academy outside Orlando.
 ''Get out of the bunker,'' Sorenstam finally said after I flubbed a few attempts at hitting the green from 70 yards. ''Let me show you.''
 She had not been expecting to hit any balls in this session. When she greeted me that morning, she was in flip-flops and talked about how she hadn't warmed up or hit balls in a while. The day before, she had made worldwide news when she announced she was pregnant with her first child.
 But suddenly, in a flash, she was going to show me how to hit the hardest shot in golf.
 After taking a two-second pause to set herself, Sorenstam swung her sand wedge three times at three balls. She barely contacted the sand as she picked each one clean, depositing each shot no more than 8 feet from the pin. Then she apologized for such poor results, since, after all, she hadn't warmed up.
 My response was different: ''That was ridiculous. How did you do that?''
 Sorenstam smiled.
 ''People think too much about the sand in the bunker,'' she said. ''Yes, on short sand shots you slide the club through the sand. But when you're farther away, just take your normal swing as if the ball were on grass. If you had a 70-yard shot from the fairway, you could do it, right? So take a practice swing on the grass beforehand, then get into the bunker and use that same swing.''
 I said, ''It's not that easy for us regular people.''
 She replied, ''Train your brain.''
 Then came one of the chief revelations of the day. I asked, ''How many times have you practiced this shot?''
 Sorenstam answered: ''Oh, I don't know. Thousands of times.''
 That reminded me of a familiar story Sorenstam tells. On a rainy day when she was a young teenager in her native Sweden, she called her father and asked him to pick her up early at the golf course. When she got in the car, her father saw that other young golfers were still on the range practicing in the rain.
 ''When we were inside the car,'' Sorenstam said, ''my father turned and said, 'You know Annika, there are no shortcuts to success.' ''
 So it's about practice, fitness, diet, perseverance and devotion to the game?
 ''It is,'' she said. ''But amateur golfers can make themselves much better if they would free their minds on the golf course and just try to execute each shot simply. Don't complicate something you could do easily if you were playing alone.''
 Case in point No. 2 came a short while later.
 We were just off a green chipping uphill to a flagstick 30 yards away. We were doing a video instruction tip, and I used a sand wedge to loft the ball near the hole. Sorenstam stepped up next and urged me to hit a bump-and-run shot from the same spot with a 7-iron instead. She then demonstrated.
 But on the first try, her ball settled about 6 feet from the hole and a foot farther away than my attempt.
 ''Nice job,'' she said, quickly adding, ''Let's do it again.''
 We did five more takes for the video, each of us trying to hit it close. Sorenstam, eyes narrowing, nearly sank every ball she struck. She hit the flagstick a couple of times, and no shot stopped more than 2 feet from the hole.
 Suffice to say, my ball was never inside hers again.
 ''So you're telling me that was simple?'' I said.
 ''It was simple,'' Sorenstam replied. ''I used a putter stroke with that 7-iron and aimed a little more left after I saw the break in the green. Very simple.''
 But what about that look of determination I saw in her face?
 ''Determination helps, yes,'' she said, laughing. ''But not tense determination. Focus is good, but take a deep breath and believe in yourself. Relax, it's a game.''
 We headed to a tee box to take some swings with the driver. Sorenstam said she might even have to warm up for that. It was a beautiful spring day with lush green fairways all around. I couldn't help thinking how lucky we all are to play this game.
 The economic times are tough. But 18 holes on a municipal golf course, where a vast majority of American golf is played, costs an average of about $35. Breathe in the fresh air; get some exercise. We have it good.
 In those few minutes on the tee, I stood there as Sorenstam hit one perfect drive after another, marveling at the smooth tempo of her movements, the athleticism and the power. Finally, I couldn't resist.
 I had a question.
 ''Is that how you always swing, Annika?'' I said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bill Pennington trying one of golf's hardest strokes, a long bunker shot.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GARY BOGDON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (93%); ATHLETES (89%); INTERNET VIDEO (66%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (65%)

PERSON: ANNIKA SORENSTAM (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (72%) FLORIDA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2009



533 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1464 words

HEADLINE: Formerly Joyous, Black Voters Waver on Support for Paterson

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS CONFESSORE; Angela Macropoulos contributed reporting.

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
When Gov. David A. Paterson met recently with a group of mostly black legislators, he got an earful. They wanted to know his strategy for recovering from his disastrous first year. They complained that their constituents were furious over Mr. Paterson's cuts to hospitals and schools, and that his administration had failed to consult with them on important issues.
 It fell to the Rev. Al Sharpton, a Paterson confidant at the meeting, in late March, to make peace. Better communication was needed, Mr. Sharpton said, but he added that lawmakers should stand behind Mr. Paterson -- especially now. 
 ''The thing that the governor had to deal with is, there was only one story getting out, and that was negative -- even in the African-American community,'' Mr. Sharpton recalled. 
 In a sign of just how far Mr. Paterson's fortunes have fallen, the governor now faces growing doubts from a group that has been among his most loyal: black elected officials, clergy members and voters.
 It is a remarkable turnaround for a man whose ascension to the governor's office just over a year ago set off a swell of pride and joy in black communities. Mr. Paterson became New York's first black governor and, along with Deval Patrick of Massachusetts, is one of only two in the country. 
 Days after his elevation, Mr. Paterson was welcomed at a rally in Harlem, which he had represented for years in the State Senate, with standing ovations and cries of, ''We love you, David.'' 
 The disappointment expressed by some black voters in interviews appears distinct from the more dominant critique of Mr. Paterson as ineffective and lacking in focus. They cited Mr. Paterson's efforts to remake himself as a moderate, fiscally conservative politician, a break from his beginnings as a liberal Democrat and defender of social programs.
 As a result, the enthusiasm many African-Americans once felt has evaporated. 
 According to a Quinnipiac University poll released last week, fewer than half of black voters in the state approve of how the governor is handling his job, down from two-thirds last summer, reflecting a broader decline among his core constituencies, including Democrats and New York City voters. 
 ''To be below 50 percent among any group is bad,'' said Maurice Carroll, director of the university's polling institute. ''But there's no way a black governor can get re-elected when he's below 50 percent among black voters. That's desperation time.''
 Mr. Paterson has embarked on an aggressive effort to shore up his standing among black voters and combat what some of his friends and advisers see as overly negative press coverage of the governor. 
 In recent weeks, Mr. Paterson has spoken frequently at black churches, and as part of a broader media blitz is appearing more often on black and ethnic radio shows. Last Monday, he began an economic stimulus tour -- a Santa Claus-like week spent announcing projects that will be paid for with federal stimulus aid -- at a Harlem community center, where he announced $253 million in grants for low-cost housing.
 ''He has strategically started to move to the parts of his base that have had some questions on him,'' Mr. Sharpton said.
 As he has confronted the state's deepening financial crisis, Mr. Paterson has pushed for deep cuts to government programs that directly affect black constituents. Last fall, he reluctantly vetoed a bill that would have provided landlords with tax breaks in exchange for removing lead paint -- a bill he had once co-sponsored -- declaring that it would cost too much. And during the recent budget negotiations, he engaged in a bitter battle with powerful health care unions, whose membership is predominantly black and Hispanic, over further budget cuts.
 ''I hear a lot of complaints,'' said Michelle Wooten, who owns a hair salon along a shopping promenade in Albany that draws a mostly black clientele. ''They feel like he's not working for them, for the people.''
 Geoffrey Malcolm, the manager of the Front Page Urban Bookstore in Albany, said that Mr. Paterson ''went against his word on schools.''
 ''He cut a lot of programs,'' Mr. Malcolm said. ''Where does that money go?'' 
 Many expressed sympathy for Mr. Paterson's position, saying he was bearing the brunt of public anger over lost jobs, the grim economy, and budget cuts that were to some extent unavoidable. But others suggested that the governor had alienated some black voters through his own political and policy priorities.
 ''There is some letdown from people who were so proud of his ascension,'' said Charles Barron, a New York City Council member from Brooklyn. ''People have to realize that when we invest our aspirations in you, we expect more. We expect better.''
 Now Mr. Paterson is returning, in effect, to his roots. He won a major victory -- and plaudits from black civic leaders -- for reaching an agreement with the Legislature to overhaul stringent drug sentencing laws enacted during the 1970s, which had been widely denounced as overly punitive. This month a task force that Mr. Paterson created will report major progress, according to administration officials, in increasing the number of minority- and women-owned financial firms involved in underwriting New York's debt offerings.
 On Saturday, Mr. Paterson traveled to Freeport, on Long Island, to attend the swearing-in of the village's first black mayor, Andrew Hardwick. Speaking to an enthusiastic and largely black crowd, Mr. Paterson basked in the day's spirit and seemed eager to rekindle the sense of possibility that accompanied his arrival in the governor's office last year.
 ''Growing up on Long Island, as I did, the idea of an African-American mayor of the Village of Hempstead -- where I grew up -- and the Village of Freeport, one of the places where I would like to come a lot, in this period of time seemed impossible in that day,'' Mr. Paterson said.
 ''For me,'' he added, ''the most exciting moment in this era in history is that the sons and daughters of people who came to this country in chains now have a chance to set it free.''
 For Mr. Paterson, returning to his base holds obvious rewards but also risks. Strong support among black voters -- and a united front among prominent black elected officials -- would make it far harder for other Democrats to run against the governor in next year's primary. That is particularly true for the most likely contender, Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo, who spent years repairing his reputation with the black political establishment after his ill-fated 2002 run against H. Carl McCall, the first black Democratic nominee for governor in New York.
 But Mr. Paterson must also take note of his potential competitors in a general election, like Rudolph W. Giuliani, the former New York City mayor. In the coming few months, the governor will be prodded by black lawmakers to take sides on controversial issues like prison reform, housing and mayoral control of the city's public schools, and positions that resonate with black voters may prove less popular among the broader electorate. 
 ''It will be important for the governor to demonstrate that his presence in office will benefit black and Latino communities on the issues that are important to these voters,'' said Assemblyman Hakeem Jeffries, a Brooklyn Democrat. 
 Some allies disputed the idea that Mr. Paterson's black support had dissipated significantly. Others dismissed the drop as the result of unfair -- even biased -- press coverage, or the tough television ads that some unions broadcast to fight the governor's budget cuts.
 ''I think the polls are not reflecting David's standing in the community,'' said Hazel N. Dukes, president of the New York State Conference of N.A.A.C.P. Branches.
 That feeling is also shared by some of Mr. Paterson's inner circle and longtime friends. Earlier this year, his wife, Michelle Paige Paterson, urged friends and allies of Mr. Paterson to write letters to New York City newspapers to protest their coverage of her husband. 
 But Mr. Paterson himself appears to be proceeding on the assumption that he has a problem that needs solving. He made two appearances recently on KISS-FM's ''Open Line'' (98.7), a popular radio talk show, to field questions from listeners.
 And one Sunday in March, Mr. Paterson made appearances at three of the largest and most influential black churches in New York City -- Greater Allen A.M.E. Cathedral in Jamaica, Queens, Abyssinian Baptist Church in Harlem, and the Christian Cultural Center in Canarsie, Brooklyn.
 ''I think he wanted to touch base with the community,'' said the Rev. A. R. Bernard, the pastor of the Christian Cultural Center. ''He wanted to make his pitch as governor. He talked about what he's doing, and what he'd like to see happen.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. David A. Paterson, left, who grew up on Long Island, swore in Andrew Hardwick as mayor of Freeport, in Nassau County, on Saturday. With them was Mr. Hardwick's wife, Cherie. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN DUNN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); RACE & RACISM (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); INTERVIEWS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (67%); CONSERVATISM (67%); RELIGION (67%); LIBERALISM (67%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (93%); AL SHARPTON (76%); DEVAL PATRICK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2009



534 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: Tea Parties Forever

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
This is a column about Republicans -- and I'm not sure I should even be writing it.
 Today's G.O.P. is, after all, very much a minority party. It retains some limited ability to obstruct the Democrats, but has no ability to make or even significantly shape policy.
 Beyond that, Republicans have become embarrassing to watch. And it doesn't feel right to make fun of crazy people. Better, perhaps, to focus on the real policy debates, which are all among Democrats. 
 But here's the thing: the G.O.P. looked as crazy 10 or 15 years ago as it does now. That didn't stop Republicans from taking control of both Congress and the White House. And they could return to power if the Democrats stumble. So it behooves us to look closely at the state of what is, after all, one of our nation's two great political parties. 
 One way to get a good sense of the current state of the G.O.P., and also to see how little has really changed, is to look at the ''tea parties'' that have been held in a number of places already, and will be held across the country on Wednesday. These parties -- antitaxation demonstrations that are supposed to evoke the memory of the Boston Tea Party and the American Revolution -- have been the subject of considerable mockery, and rightly so. 
 But everything that critics mock about these parties has long been standard practice within the Republican Party.
 Thus, President Obama is being called a ''socialist'' who seeks to destroy capitalism. Why? Because he wants to raise the tax rate on the highest-income Americans back to, um, about 10 percentage points less than it was for most of the Reagan administration. Bizarre.
 But the charge of socialism is being thrown around only because ''liberal'' doesn't seem to carry the punch it used to. And if you go back just a few years, you find top Republican figures making equally bizarre claims about what liberals were up to. Remember when Karl Rove declared that liberals wanted to offer ''therapy and understanding'' to the 9/11 terrorists?
 Then there are the claims made at some recent tea-party events that Mr. Obama wasn't born in America, which follow on earlier claims that he is a secret Muslim. Crazy stuff -- but nowhere near as crazy as the claims, during the last Democratic administration, that the Clintons were murderers, claims that were supported by a campaign of innuendo on the part of big-league conservative media outlets and figures, especially Rush Limbaugh.
 Speaking of Mr. Limbaugh: the most impressive thing about his role right now is the fealty he is able to demand from the rest of the right. The abject apologies he has extracted from Republican politicians who briefly dared to criticize him have been right out of Stalinist show trials. But while it's new to have a talk-radio host in that role, ferocious party discipline has been the norm since the 1990s, when Tom DeLay, the House majority leader, became known as ''The Hammer'' in part because of the way he took political retribution on opponents.
 Going back to those tea parties, Mr. DeLay, a fierce opponent of the theory of evolution -- he famously suggested that the teaching of evolution led to the Columbine school massacre -- also foreshadowed the denunciations of evolution that have emerged at some of the parties. 
 Last but not least: it turns out that the tea parties don't represent a spontaneous outpouring of public sentiment. They're AstroTurf (fake grass roots) events, manufactured by the usual suspects. In particular, a key role is being played by FreedomWorks, an organization run by Richard Armey, the former House majority leader, and supported by the usual group of right-wing billionaires. And the parties are, of course, being promoted heavily by Fox News.
 But that's nothing new, and AstroTurf has worked well for Republicans in the past. The most notable example was the ''spontaneous'' riot back in 2000 -- actually orchestrated by G.O.P. strategists -- that shut down the presidential vote recount in Florida's Miami-Dade County.
 So what's the implication of the fact that Republicans are refusing to grow up, the fact that they are still behaving the same way they did when history seemed to be on their side? I'd say that it's good for Democrats, at least in the short run -- but it's bad for the country.
 For now, the Obama administration gains a substantial advantage from the fact that it has no credible opposition, especially on economic policy, where the Republicans seem particularly clueless.
 But as I said, the G.O.P. remains one of America's great parties, and events could still put that party back in power. We can only hope that Republicans have moved on by the time that happens. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); POLITICS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%); STATISTICS (68%); TERRORISM (60%)

PERSON: KARL ROVE (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2009



535 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1764 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: April 13, 2009

 BODY:
International
 CULTURAL WARFARE 
 On Russia's Screen
 A lush $20 million film adaptation of the book ''Taras Bulba'' was rolled out recently at a jam-packed premiere in Moscow. Financed in part by the Russian Ministry of Culture, the film is a work of sword-rattling patriotism that moved some viewers to tears. It is also a salvo in a culture war between Russia and Ukraine's Western-leaning leadership. The film's heroes are Ukrainian Cossacks, but they fight an enemy from the West. PAGE A6 
 INDIA'S URBAN ELITE JOINING POLITICS
 In India, unlike in the United States, voter participation rates in wealthy city neighborhoods tend to be lower than the national average. Two out of three Indians still live in the countryside, where turnout is consistently higher. Having written off politics as a crass and irrelevant ritual for at least a generation, India's urban elite is beginning to reconsider its role and take the plunge. 
 PAGE A7 
 SRI LANKA ORDERS HALT TO FIGHTING
 Having rebuffed international appeals to protect civilians trapped in a war zone in its northeast, the Sri Lankan government on Sunday ordered a two-day ''pause'' in fighting. PAGE A7 
 MEXICANS PROTEST OFFICIAL'S RECORD
 Frustrated women's groups are challenging the recent appointment of Mexico's ambassador to Canada, Francisco Barrio Terrazas, for what they say was his negligence as governor in dealing with the murders of young women in Ciudad Juarez that drew global attention more than a decade ago, and that continue today. PAGE A9 
 POPE DELIVERS EASTER MESSAGE
 Pope Benedict XVI celebrated an Easter Mass before thousands of faithful in Saint Peter's Square, meditating on death and rebirth just days after a devastating earthquake killed nearly 300 people in central Italy. PAGE A9 
 Moldovan Mayor Reaches Crowd A9 
 SHIITE POLITICAL PRISONERS PARDONED
 The king of Bahrain, which is located between Saudi Arabia and Iran, has pardoned 178 Bahraini detainees charged with security offenses, including two prominent Shiite opposition leaders whose arrest sparked regular protests that often ended in violent clashes between Shiite demonstrators and the police. PAGE A10 
 OBAMA'S RELATIVE DENIED A VISA
 President Obama's half brother was denied a visa to return to Britain after giving a false name to the police last year when accused of an attempted sexual assault, according to British newspapers. PAGE A10 
 NATIONAL
 BENEFITS FOR SOME DISABLED
 Are Delayed by State Layoffs
 The nation's top Social Security official says that benefits for tens of thousands of people with severe disabilities are being delayed by furloughs and layoffs of state employees around the country. State officials have announced furloughs, layoffs and hiring freezes to help balance budgets battered by the recession. PAGE A11 
 LONGER JOBLESSNESS AT 45 AND UP
 Unemployed baby boomers are confronting the grim reality that they face some of the steepest odds of any job seekers in this dismal market. Workers age 45 and over form a disproportionate share of the long-term unemployed: those who have been out of work for six months or longer, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. PAGE A11 
 TESTING A BAN ON DROOPING PANTS
 In Riviera Beach, Fla., a beachfront town 70 miles north of Miami, the ''saggy pants'' look, with trousers slung low enough to reveal a generous swath of boxer shorts, has been illegal since July. Now, the office of the Palm Beach County Public Defender is challenging the ordinance on constitutional grounds. PAGE A12 
 The Caucus
 Health Care Cautions
 From a ghost of health care debates past comes this caution for Team Obama and Congressional Democrats: Think smaller, seek less, and don't fail. The advice comes from Richard A. Gephardt, a former Missouri congressman and a major figure in Democratic politics in his 28 years in the House and the leadership of the Democratic caucus. PAGE A12 
 Town Fears School Bell Silence A13
 NEW YORK
 FATE OF TRANSIT RESCUE PLAN
 May Hinge on Highway Spending
 As Senate Democrats struggle to pass a spending plan for mass transit in the New York City area, Republicans see an opening to secure dollars for highway and bridge work, which tends to be of more concern to upstate constituents. Republicans say financing for roadwork has been ignored in Albany. PAGE A15 
 OBITUARIES
 MANNY OQUENDO, 78
 A Latin band leader, timbale player and percussionist, he was an expert with the tipico Cuban rhythmic style and later infused it into Latin jazz. PAGE A19 
 BUSINESS
 CHINA CUTS BOND BUYS
 From U.S. and Others
 Reversing its role as the world's fastest-growing buyer of United States Treasuries and other foreign bonds, the Chinese government actually sold bonds heavily in January and February before resuming purchases in March, according to data released by China's central bank. PAGE B1 
 Technology
 On Penalties for Piracy
 Is Internet access a fundamental human right? Or is it a privilege, carrying with it a responsibility for good behavior? Those are the questions confronting policy makers as they try to bring Internet access to the masses while seeking to curb illegal copying of digital music, movies and video games. PAGE B4 
 Advertising
 Pitching Low Prices to Shoppers
 As shoppers remain reluctant to open their wallets, stores are still scrambling to adjust advertising and marketing strategies to play up the value aspects of what they sell. Much of the focus on value defines the term in a way that will resonate with choosy shoppers. PAGE B6 
 MEDIA
 NEWSPAPERS PUSH
 To Get Out of a Corner
 Faced with an ad market that no longer supplies enough revenue to meet costs, many newspapers are considering putting up pay walls on their Web sites, long anathema in Internet culture. David Carr, The Media Equation. PAGE B1 
 NEWS WITHOUT NEWSPAPERS
 A number of Web start-up companies are creating so-called hyperlocal news sites that let people zoom in on what is happening closest to them, often without involving traditional journalists. The sites collect links to articles and blogs and often supplement them with data from local governments. PAGE B1 
 BOSTON FEARS LOSS OF PAPER
 When local bloggers rallied last week in an online forum about how to save the embattled Boston Globe, readers offered loads of sympathetic advice and surprisingly little of the ''let 'em rot'' attitude that has colored so much debate over the future of newspapers. PAGE B1 
 MAGAZINES MAY RAISE PRICES
 As they consider the decline in advertising and the success of magazines that have increased their prices recently, some magazine publishers are wondering whether they can raise their prices without losing subscribers. PAGE B1 
 MORE BUY HOMELESS PAPERS
 Newspapers produced and sold by homeless people in dozens of American cities are flourishing even as the deepening recession endangers conventional newspapers. The economic downturn has heightened interest in their coverage. PAGE B5 
 Sports
 ACCEPTING THE BLAME
 For a Costly Mistake
 The Mets' Daniel Murphy, a converted infielder who was moved to left field, beat himself up for a costly error that turned out to be the difference in a 2-1 loss to the Florida Marlins. The error negated seven sparkling innings from the Mets' Johan Santana, who threw 13 strikeouts. ''Inexcusable,'' Murphy said. ''Johan threw the ball really well and deserved a lot better than that.'' PAGE D1
 INJURY COULD END FAVORITE'S CAREER
 Old Fashioned, who was once the favorite to win the Kentucky Derby, sustained a fracture in his right knee during the Arkansas Derby, an injury that could end his career. The injury is not considered life-threatening. PAGE D2
 CATCHING UP TO THE COMPETITION
 It's not clear where -- or even if -- Florida State's Michael Ray Garvin will be selected in the upcoming N.F.L. draft, and he wasn't even invited to the league's predraft combine. But he has caught the attention of scouts with his blistering speed. Garvin, a cornerback who also has an All-American track record, was one of the top kick returners in the nation last year, and is probably the fastest player in this year's draft. PAGE D2
 DEVOTION ETCHED IN STONE
 Mets fans spent hundreds of dollars to have their devotion to the Mets etched into the 18,000 bricks in front of the main entrance to Citi Field. Some of the engravings are earnest declarations of love, while others are just inscrutable. PAGE D3 
 ROYALS RALLY AGAINST YANKEES
 The Yankees headed into the eighth inning against the Kansas City Royals nursing a one-run lead. But they opted to go deeper into their bullpen instead of going to Mariano Rivera, who just returned from shoulder surgery; and the Royals rode the Yankees' shaky pitching to rally to a 6-4 victory. PAGE D3
 CONCERNS OVER PLAYER'S REHAB
 The St. Louis Cardinals' general manager, John Mozeliak, planned to discuss with Troy Glaus his admission to federal authorities that he used steroids in 2003 and 2004 while recovering from injuries to his right shoulder. Mozeliak said that he was concerned about Glaus because he was recovering from another injury to the right shoulder. PAGE D4
 EVERYTHING GOING THEIR WAY
 The Cleveland Cavaliers head into the N.B.A. playoffs after their best season ever, and a chance to gain home-court advantage throughout the playoffs. It's the team's clearest-ever path to the N.B.A. championship, and everything is pointed in their favor -- especially having LeBron James, who should be the N.B.A.'s most valuable player. William C. Rhoden, Sports of the Times. PAGE D8
 Editorial
 THE NEXT GUANTaNAMO
 The Obama administration is basking in praise for its welcome commitment to shut down the American detention center at Guantanamo Bay. But it is acting far less nobly when it comes to prisoners held at a larger, more secretive military detention facility at Bagram Air Base in Afghanistan. PAGE A18
 Op-Ed
 PAUL KRUGMAN
 Republicans have become embarrassing to watch. But the G.O.P. looked as crazy 10 or 15 years ago as it does now. That didn't stop Republicans from taking control of both Congress and the White House. And they could return to power if the Democrats stumble. PAGE A19
 ROGER COHEN
 American realism is essential if relations with Iran are to improve. PAGE A19
 WHEN TO RETIRE A JUSTICE
 Many believe incorrectly that Supreme Court justices and other federal judges enjoy life tenure. In an Op-Ed article, Paul D. Carrington, a professor at Duke University Law School, argues that justices have a duty to retire when they are no longer fit to work full time. PAGE A19

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); POLITICS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (88%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (87%); EASTER SEASON (86%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (85%); LAYOFFS (83%); BABY BOOMERS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (77%); SLUM DWELLINGS (75%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); PARDONS (72%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (71%); MURDER (69%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); VOTERS & VOTING (69%); SEX OFFENSES (66%); EARTHQUAKES (62%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (61%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (60%); RECESSION (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); DISABLED PERSONS (60%)

PERSON: POPE BENEDICT XVI (71%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); INDIA (93%); UKRAINE (93%); MEXICO (92%); SRI LANKA (92%); BAHRAIN (92%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); HOLY SEE (74%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2009



536 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: Official Says State Cuts Are Delaying U.S. Benefits

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The nation's top Social Security official says benefits for tens of thousands of people with severe disabilities are being delayed by furloughs and layoffs of state employees around the country.
 The official, Michael J. Astrue, the commissioner of Social Security, said Sunday that ''governors are hurting their own states, their own citizens, and increasing the backlog of claims'' by furloughing workers who make disability decisions.
 ''The states' response is completely illogical,'' Mr. Astrue said. 
 State officials have announced furloughs, layoffs and hiring freezes to help balance budgets battered by the recession. 
 Claims are evaluated by state employees, but the federal government reimburses states for the salaries of those employees and pays the full cost of benefits for people found to be disabled. 
 ''We pay the full freight,'' Mr. Astrue said. ''States do not save any money when they furlough or lay off these employees. They only delay payments to disabled citizens who rely on the monthly benefits.''
 The cutbacks come as disability claims are rising because of high unemployment, the weak economy and the aging of the baby boom generation.
 The Social Security Administration expects nearly 3 million new disability claims this year, up from 2.6 million in 2008. Each month the agency pays $12 billion in disability benefits to more than 13 million people. 
 Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California, a Republican, cited ''an unprecedented fiscal crisis'' in ordering state employees to take off two days a month without pay through June 2010.
 Dr. C. Richard Dann, a California state employee who reviews claims for benefits, said, ''Claimants are not getting the service they are supposed to get.'' 
 Dr. Dann said he had to take off every other Friday. ''I can review about 20 disability cases a day, and I am off two days a month,'' he said. ''So I do 40 fewer cases a month.''
 Aaron B. McLear, a spokesman for Mr. Schwarzenegger, said: ''The governor has not made exemptions to the furlough order because he believes that the state government needs to cut back, just as every California family and business is doing. We hope the furloughs have a minimal effect on state services, but understand that services very well may suffer.''
 Mr. Astrue has expressed ''grave concern'' over such personnel actions in letters to governors, including Jon Corzine of New Jersey and David A. Paterson of New York, both Democrats, and Mr. Schwarzenegger.
 In a letter to New York employees last week, Mr. Paterson said he intended to lay off 8,700 state workers by July 1.
 Peter E. Kauffmann, a spokesman for Mr. Paterson, said, ''The governor is aware of the concerns raised by the Social Security Administration and will act carefully.'' 
 The Social Security system is so clogged with disputed disability claims that some people wait years for hearings. The stimulus bill signed by President Obama in February provided $500 million to ''reduce the backlog of disability claims.''
 But the impact of such spending could be offset by state cutbacks. In a report last month, Patrick P. O'Carroll Jr., the inspector general of the Social Security Administration, said that at least five states accounting for 15 percent of all disability cases -- California, Connecticut, Maryland, Massachusetts and Oregon -- had decided to furlough some disability workers, freeze hiring or impose other restrictions. Social Security officials said about 10 other states were taking or considering similar actions. 
 The agency said it was looking for ways to avoid the delays. The federal government could, for example, take over work performed by the states, but such a change could probably not be made without action by Congress.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); DISABLED PERSONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); BUDGETS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (67%); BABY BOOMERS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (55%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (77%); DAVID PATERSON (74%); JON CORZINE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2009



537 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: Health Care Cautions, From One Who Knows

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
From a friendly ghost of health care debates past comes this caution for Team Obama and Congressional Democrats:
 Think smaller. 
 Seek less.
 Don't fail.
 The caution comes from Richard A. Gephardt, a former Missouri congressman and a major figure in Democratic politics in his 28 years in the House and service as party leader. He put health coverage for all Americans at the center of his 2004 presidential bid, calling it ''the moral issue of our time.''
 Now Mr. Gephardt says universal or near-universal coverage cannot pass this year -- and he is urging the White House to defer that goal until it enacts cost-saving reforms in health care delivery. Otherwise, he argues, the new president risks the same losing argument about paying for expanded coverage that stymied President Bill Clinton 15 years ago. 
 Leading Democrats have balked at Mr. Obama's initial financing idea, curbing tax deductions for high-income Americans. Republicans have attacked another alternative, taxing employer-provided health benefits, since Mr. Obama criticized a proposal to do that last fall by Senator John McCain of Arizona.
 ''I feel so much now like deja vu all over again,'' said Mr. Gephardt, who now lobbies for corporate America on issues including health care. Universal coverage ''is absolutely imperative, and it needs to be dealt with. But the way to get to it is to show that we can deal with some of these problems first.''
 Challenge of Costs
 His concern has ample precedent. Fights over financing have doomed every attempt to enact national health insurance since Franklin D. Roosevelt's presidency.
 The Obama administration's strategy for avoiding another failure has been to cast health reform as part of America's economic recovery. Addressing Congress in February, Mr. Obama framed the challenge as controlling ''the crushing cost of health care'' for businesses, government and patients.
 Yet even if cost arguments woo the political center, coverage for the 46 million uninsured remains paramount for liberals and organized labor as the House and the Senate begin pursuing their goal of final action this year.
 Representative Ron Kind, a Wisconsin Democrat who serves on the Ways and Means Committee, insists that Congress must address cost and coverage ''on parallel tracks.'' Indeed, Mr. Kind sees savings from ''system delivery reform,'' like improved approaches to preventive care and treatment of chronic diseases, as the way to pay for expanded coverage.
 It remains unclear how much savings those esoteric-sounding steps will yield, and how quickly. Advocates say the uncertainty only fuels arguments for expanding coverage, through a new public insurance plan or subsidies for private insurance.
 If health reform does not accomplish that, Drew Altman of the Kaiser Family Foundation said, average Americans ''are just going to look at that and say, 'What exactly did you do?' ''
 Mr. Altman agrees with Mr. Gephardt on this much: Resistance from conservative Republicans and misgivings among moderate Democrats will make achieving health reform much tougher than some supporters currently assume from the size of Democratic majorities in Congress and Mr. Obama's approval ratings. 
 ''This is as good an opportunity as we've ever seen,'' he said, but ''it's really going to require some very strong presidential leadership.''
 A Possible Fallback
 One old friend links Mr. Gephardt's assessment to his lucrative new career as a lobbyist. ''He's advising a lot of big corporations,'' said Tom Buffenbarger, president of the machinists' union. ''All he's hearing is costs.''
 The labor leader, who backed Mr. Gephardt's 2004 presidential bid, said surrendering expanded coverage as a principal goal would be politically disastrous.
 ''I want to cover everybody with quality health care, and then we'll figure out a way to make it cost-effective,'' Mr. Buffenbarger said. ''If the Democrats can't offer up leadership and concrete action, they're in deep jeopardy.''
 One potential fallback for the White House would extend coverage to most of the uninsured, but with only a spare package of benefits. Advisers say Mr. Obama, who has often spoken of his mother's anxiety over health bills as she suffered from terminal cancer, will not yield expanded coverage without a fight. 
 A fight could hold Democrats together whatever the final outcome.
 ''If the president and Congress can't do it all,'' said Geoff Garin, a Democratic pollster, ''the rank and file will want to know they tried their best and made real progress in moving the ball down the field.''
 According to Mr. Gephardt, incremental additions of coverage for children or low-income workers may be the most Congress can muster to complement cost containment. But better to build confidence by pocketing those gains, he said, than to insist on more drastic, immediate steps and face a dispiriting repeat of the Clinton-era fiasco he experienced up close as House majority leader.
 ''It may be that I was damaged from that experience,'' he said. But ''to get to the end zone, you have to get to the 50-yard line first.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); LOBBYING (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (76%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (73%); CHRONIC DISEASES (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (73%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (67%); LABOR UNIONS (67%); FOUNDATIONS (61%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); RON KIND (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2009



538 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 519 words

HEADLINE: Banks Lift Broad Market, but Dow Falls

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index and Nasdaq rose on Monday as bets that major banks will post reassuring quarterly results drove a run-up in financials, offsetting uneasiness about the fate of General Motors.
The Dow, however, slipped after Boeing said cuts in output of widebody planes and lower-than-expected airplane prices would hurt first-quarter profit, sparking caution about the economy's health and the corporate earnings season just under way. 
Banking sector optimism followed surprisingly upbeat preliminary quarterly results from Wells Fargo last week.
After the bell, Goldman Sachs surprised investors by posting its quarterly results a day early and announced a $5 billion public offering of common equity. Goldman's stock ended the regular session up nearly 5 percent at $130.15.
Shares of JPMorgan, due to post results on Thursday, rose almost 3 percent to $33.70, while Bank of America gained 15.4 percent to $11.02. Citigroup, whose results are expected on Friday, soared 25 percent to $3.80. The KBW Bank index climbed 8 percent, while the S.& P. financial index added 4.8 percent.
''The market is cheering, not so much that the banks are on the mend, but that they are not going to die,'' said Les Satlow, portfolio manager of Cabot Money Management in Salem, Mass. ''These are banks that are clawing their way back, literally from the brink of extinction. My view is that a key crisis phase of this economic downturn is behind us.''
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 25.57 points, or 0.32 percent, to 8,057.81. The S.& P. 500-stock index gained 2.17 points, or 0.25 percent, to 858.73. The Nasdaq rose just 0.77 of a point, or 0.05 percent, to 1,653.31.
The banking sector's health has been a major worry since fallout from the financial crisis led the federal government to pump billions of dollars into institutions like Citigroup, which surprised Wall Street last month when it said it was profitable in January and February.
That optimism has fed a monthlong recovery of the stock market from 12-year lows hit in early March. Since setting a bear market closing low on March 9, the S.& P. 500 has risen 27 percent.
On Nasdaq, the bright spot was Express Scripts, up 15.5 percent at $56.81, after the company agreed to buy WellPoint's NextRx subsidiaries for $4.68 billion.
A brokerage raised its 2009 profit view for Wal-Mart, which lifted its stock 1.7 percent, to $51.53.
But Boeing finished the day as the Dow's biggest drag after the aircraft maker's gloomy outlook. The stock tumbled 5.1 percent to $37.15.
The prospect of bankruptcy for G.M. was another negative weight after the Treasury Department directed the struggling automaker to prepare for a bankruptcy filing by June 1 despite the company's contention that it could reorganize outside court. G.M. slid 16.2 percent to $1.71.
Interest rates were lower. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 17/32, to 99 2/32, and the yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, was at 2.86 percent, down from 2.92 percent late Thursday.
Following are the results of Monday's Treasury auctions of three- and six-month bills:

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow minute by minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg) Chart details line graph.
 The Favorite 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); AIRCRAFT MFG (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (72%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (90%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); BOEING CO (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%); WELLPOINT INC (51%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (90%); JPM (LSE) (90%); 8634 (TSE) (90%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (58%); WLP (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (90%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (90%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2011



539 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: WellPoint Sells Its Pharmacy Benefits Division to Express Scripts for $4.7 Billion

BYLINE: By REED ABELSON; Duff Wilson contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The price may be right, but the deal WellPoint announced Monday to sell its pharmacy benefits business to Express Scripts for nearly $4.7 billion may not prompt other big health insurers to consider doing likewise.
 Some other medical insurers that also own pharmacy benefit operations say they are unlikely to try cashing in on those businesses. Aetna, for one, said Monday its pharmacy unit was a crucial part of its ability to offer employers a complete array of benefits. And Cigna and the UnitedHealth Group said they were not currently considering the spinoff of their pharmacy units. Express Scripts, based in St. Louis, would become the second-largest pharmacy benefits manager as a result of its agreement to acquire WellPoint's NextRX business for $4.675 billion. The deal is expected to close during the second half of 2009.
 The deal would enable Express Scripts to leapfrog CVSCaremark and become second only to the industry leader, Medco Health Solutions in administering pharmacy benefits. 
 Analysts generally praised the deal as benefiting both companies, giving Express Scripts a leg up in what is a very competitive market and WellPoint a generous price for a unit that represents only a fraction of its business. Under the proposed deal, WellPoint would receive a price equal to almost a quarter of its overall stock market value for a business that generates just 10 percent of its profits. Investors also pushed the stock prices of both companies up on the news. Shares of Express Scripts rose $7.64, or 15.5 percent, to $56.81. Shares of WellPoint rose $3.24, or 8 percent, to $43.58. 
 Charles Boorady of Citi Investment Research and Analysis said the combined entity would have processed about 774 million prescriptions last year, compared with the 506 million Express Scripts handled alone. Medco Health Solutions, the leader, handled about 796 million prescriptions, while CVS Caremark, which would fall to No. 3, processed about 755 million. 
 In a note to investors, Mr. Boorady predicted Monday that other big medical insurers might consider following WellPoint's lead. The UnitedHealth Group, Aetna and Cigna all have their own pharmacy operations. .
 ''We expect the obvious benefits of this transaction to customers and shareholders should prompt other managements to create value'' through similar actions, he said. 
 The proposed deal underscores the much higher valuations investors are placing on the pharmacy benefit business, compared with health insurers, said Les Funtleyder, who oversees the health care investment strategy for Miller Tabak in New York. 
 Insurers, whose stocks have been depressed by the difficult economy and visions of health reform, have price-to-earnings ratios in the single digits, he said, but the pharmacy benefit managers tend to command ratios in the teens. 
 ''The valuation is very compelling,'' said Angela Braly, the chief executive of WellPoint, who said her company had sought a buyer after determining the unit would grow more quickly if it were not part of a health insurer. She also said she believed Express Scripts, with its greater focus, would be able to achieve lower costs. 
 But the debate over whether it makes the most strategic sense for health insurers to own these business has not been settled. ''I don't think there has been a definite answer,'' Mr. Funtleyder said. 
 As part of the deal, Express Scripts will also enter a 10-year contract with WellPoint to provide pharmacy benefit services to the health plan, and Ms. Braly said that employers would still be able to have their medical and drug costs managed in an integrated fashion. 
 While conceding that ''scale and size have importance,'' George Paz, the chairman and chief executive of Express Scripts, said the deal with WellPoint would also benefit his company by providing access to an increasing pool of customers. 
 WellPoint is ''a fast-growing, acquisitive company,'' he said. ''We see their growth as part of our growth.'' 
 Analysts said the larger entity might not be significantly more effective in negotiating lower prices from drug companies, but that the overall operating efficiencies and scale would be an advantage. ''Express Scripts sees a world where size matters,'' said Erik Gordon, a business professor at the University of Michigan. 
 Express Scripts may also have an opportunity to increase the profitability of the business, according to analysts, by converting more of WellPoint's customers to mail order and by using less expensive generic drugs.
 Some health plans have said owning their own pharmacy benefit businesses is a vital part of their strategies. Cigna, for example, said it had no plans to spin off its pharmacy business because it represented ''a key component of our integrated approach to health care,'' according to a statement. 
 UnitedHealth also says it has no plans to abandon its pharmacy business. While it relies on an outside company, Medco Health Solutions, to provide drug benefits for much of its commercial insurance customers, it has its own pharmacy benefits management company for much of its Medicare beneficiaries. ''UnitedHealth Group's strategy continues to focus on investing in our P.B.M. -- Prescription Solutions -- to fully realize its strong growth potential in serving both internal and external customers,'' the company said.. 
 Aetna said that it while it would always ''explore options that may provide value to our customers and shareholders,'' it considered the business ''an important component of our integrated value proposition.'' Given the profitability of the pharmacy businesses and the strategic fit that they may have within a health insurer's broader business, few experts expect a flock of similar deals. ''It's a question of how much lemming behavior they have in the industry,'' said Edward F. X. Hughes, who teaches pharmaceutical business at Northwestern University. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Angela Braly, the chief executive of WellPoint, said Express Scripts, with a tighter focus, might be able to lower costs.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACY BENEFITS (94%); INSURANCE (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); PHARMACIES (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); HEALTH CARE (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%)

COMPANY: EXPRESS SCRIPTS HOLDING CO (92%); CIGNA CORP (91%); WELLPOINT INC (90%); CVS CAREMARK CORP (84%); UNITEDHEALTH GROUP INC (58%); MEDCO HEALTH SOLUTIONS INC (56%); CITIGROUP INC (55%)

TICKER: ESRX (NASDAQ) (92%); CI (NYSE) (91%); WLP (NYSE) (90%); CVS (NYSE) (84%); UNH (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (55%); C (BMV) (55%); 8710 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (92%); NAICS424210 DRUGS & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (91%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (84%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (84%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (58%); NAICS524292 THIRD PARTY ADMINISTRATION OF INSURANCE & PENSION FUNDS (56%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (56%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%)

PERSON: ANGELA BRALY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2009



540 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; INSIDE ASIA; Pg. 

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: Growth Spreads From China's Coast

BYLINE: By ALAN WHEATLEY. 
Alan Wheatley is a Reuters columnist.

DATELINE: SHENZHEN, China 

 BODY:
Like a spreading ink blot, messy and uneven, economic growth is seeping inland from the coastal provinces that have been in the vanguard of China's phenomenal growth over the past 30 years.
 The shift, which has rough parallels with America's westward migration in the 19th century, has the potential to narrow the noxious income gap between China's vast, neglected interior and a relatively well-off seaboard that has hitherto attracted most of the investment by the Chinese government and foreign companies.
 The company Steve Smith works for is part of the ink blot. The company, Measurement Specialties, a maker of sensors used in everything from cars to pacemakers, recently acquired a small firm in Chengdu, the capital of Sichuan Province. 
 Mr. Smith, general manager of Measurement Specialties' Asian headquarters in Shenzhen, is already thinking of moving some noncore, labor-intensive operations to Chengdu. Pay there is about 80 percent of that in Shenzhen, which abuts Hong Kong and is one of China's richest cities. He also said he saw the possibility of more sourcing for his company's worldwide operations using Chengdu as a base. The experience of thousands of companies like Measurement Specialties buttresses the case that the inland could turn out to be one of the next wellsprings of China's economic growth.
 ''Although shrinking global demand will affect consumer confidence in export-oriented coastal regions, the majority of consumers in interior regions will be much less vulnerable to the slowdown in exports and property markets,'' said Qu Hongbin, chief China economist for HSBC.
 Consider some recent statistics:
 Urban fixed-asset investment in eastern China rose 15.4 percent in the first two months from a year earlier; in central and western China, it surged 34.3 percent and 46.7 percent, respectively, according to the National Bureau of Statistics.
 Business confidence in the west was much stronger than in the east in the first quarter, according to statistics office surveys released last Thursday.
 ''The distribution of scores is a reflection of growth potential identified by businesses,'' said Sherman Chan, an economist at Moody'sEconomy.com in Sydney. ''Robust development in the past decade was concentrated in the east, leaving large untapped opportunities, mainly in the western and central areas.''
 So it is that the fastest-growing part of China has been resource-rich Inner Mongolia. Between 2003 and 2008, the region enjoyed average growth of 19.7 percent a year.
 Mainly rural provinces like Inner Mongolia, where agriculture accounts for more than 70 percent of total employment, certainly have a lot of ground to make up. The ratio of urban to rural income per person rose in China to a record level of 3.3 in 2007, government figures show.
 Worried by the yawning wealth gap, Beijing introduced a ''Go West'' development policy in 1999 that has gathered momentum since President Hu Jintao took power in 2002. Both Mr. Hu and Prime Minister Wen Jiabao cut their teeth running poorer inland provinces.
 Apart from spending more on rural infrastructure and subsidies, the current leadership has abolished the centuries-old agricultural tax, made compulsory education free in the countryside and set up a rural medical insurance scheme.
 Recently, the central government has allowed local governments to issue bonds for the first time and has given the western and central provinces bigger quotas than those in the east.
 ''China has been rather timid since it started its reforms about taking measures to reduce the income gap, but now we're seeing policies starting to come through,'' said Yolanda Fernandez-Lommen, an economist with the Asian Development Bank in Beijing.
 To sustain the trend, she said, a fundamental overhaul of budgetary procedures was needed so more cash flows from Beijing could support provinces unable to meet social spending needs.
 Despite the challenges, some economists are confident that recent trends can be sustained. Based on the rousing start to a three-year plan to subsidize the purchase by country folk of major appliances like refrigerators, Glenn Maguire, a Societe Generale economist, calculated that 600 million home appliances worth 1.6 trillion yuan, or $230 billion, could be sold in rural China by 2012. 
 Over all, rural consumption should add 2.5 percentage points to growth every year between now and then, he said.
 ''We can now legitimately claim that the dawning of a vast legion of first-time purchasers of household durable goods is here,'' Mr. Maguire wrote in a recent note to clients.
 If he's right, Beijing will have killed several birds with one stone: finding an outlet for surplus manufacturing capacity, stoking domestic consumption to make up for the collapse of exports, and narrowing the gap between China's coastal haves and inland have-nots.
 But what about China's traditional engines of growth in places like Shanghai and Shenzhen? The evidence, again fragmentary, suggests that economic theory is working in practice: richer cities are shedding basic manufacturing to concentrate on higher-value activities.
 For example, Intel, the biggest semiconductor maker, said in February that it would close a plant in Shanghai to consolidate chip assembly and testing operations in Chengdu but would keep its headquarters and a research and development center in Shanghai. And Whirlpool said last week that it would close a washing machine factory in Shanghai, eliminating 600 jobs, but would keep its regional headquarters in the city.
 Mr. Smith is thinking along the same lines. Measurement Specialties is expanding at a 30 percent clip in the domestic market, making up for the evaporation of exports, and he said that Shenzhen was still a good choice for a technology company like his.
 ''We're definitely not the lowest-cost place in the world or in China, but it's a very attractive place from an engineering and product development standpoint,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEASURING & CONTROL DEVICES MFG (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); STATISTICS (88%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); COASTAL AREAS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (70%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); SOUTH CHINA (93%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (92%); SICHUAN, CHINA (90%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (88%); EAST CHINA (79%); NEI MONGOL, CHINA (73%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2009



541 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; EXPERIENCE NECESSARY; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: A Legal Advocate for Social Justice

BYLINE: By RALPH BLUMENTHAL

DATELINE: A lawyer for the dispossessed 

 BODY:
tenants in neglected buildings in the Bronx, auto shops in Willets Point fighting city eviction, credit-card holders dunned by debt buyers, and Chinese-food delivery workers and nannies demanding, at least, minimum wage -- that's Harvey Epstein. As community development director at the Urban Justice Center in the financial district, Mr. Epstein, 42, who has 20 years in social causes, leads a staff of 20 lawyers, paralegals and researchers who provide free counsel to groups helping low-income people with legal problems. 
 The roots of activism: I had a social studies degree from Ithaca College, but teaching jobs were hard to come by. I got a job running a homeless shelter in Hempstead, Long Island. After a year, it was burned down -- by one of the residents, unfortunately. I worked for a foster care agency in the South Bronx. That was not for me. I didn't have the skill set. I was overwhelmed by the system. I saw lawyers all the time who could really help people. I went to CUNY Law School in Flushing and started working at Queens Legal Services, then Legal Aid. Instead of helping one family not get evicted, I would use lawyering as an aggressive tool to help the lives of low-income people. 
 Office decor: That's a photo of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., who has a photo of Gandhi behind him. That's me on a front page of The Daily News at a rally to renew the rent laws in 1997. I got good coverage that day.
 Behind the battles over housing: These companies bought buildings for way too much. Now they're trying to push out rent-regulated tenants. Some property owners are walking away, but some are trying to upgrade their buildings. We can help them figure out what kind of government programs are available.
 Other issues: Some baby sitters get $2 an hour. Some immigrants from the Philippines work 50 and 60 hours a week and still don't make the $7.15 minimum wage. No overtime if they work more than 40 hours. We're also doing debt-defense against predatory lending practices. Maybe you charged $200 on a Macy's card and forgot about it. Eight years later, you have a $6,000 judgment against you, or maybe you're not the same Mary Smith. We'll represent people in those cases. 
 What he pays his baby sitter: More than the minimum wage. We pay her on the books. I get a tax advantage, and the reality is, it's the right thing to do.
 Best thing he's learned: To operate quickly, to gather facts quickly.
 Why he does it: I'm going to be 75, hopefully, one day, and looking back on my existence on the planet. Hopefully, I will have saved thousands and thousands of lives.
 His housing situation: We have a three-bedroom co-op at Fourth Street and Avenue A, my wife and I -- she's a lawyer with a union. It's economically and racially diverse. Our kids have friends that are Japanese, French and Arabic. They all play the same games. 
 Rules for living: I compost, I use reusable bottles. I do yoga. 
 What's on his iPod: I'm too old for an iPod. But I got a Facebook.
 Why he wears an earring in each ear: I've had them since college. It seemed normal. I used to have more. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZZANE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGAL AID (90%); EVICTION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (89%); MINIMUM WAGE (89%); LANDLORD & TENANT LAW (79%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (79%); RENT CONTROL (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOMELESSNESS (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); OVERTIME (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); LAWYERS (77%); PARALEGALS (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (76%); PREDATORY LENDING (73%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (72%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (71%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (69%); FOSTER CARE (68%)

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); PHILIPPINES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2009



542 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Lessons From the Pirate Drama

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Navy Rescues Captain, Killing 3 Pirate Captors'' (front page, April 13): 
 At a time when we are questioning what has happened to our values as Americans, when doubt abounds about our national character and when vitriol is rampant, it is time to reflect on two shining examples of reassurance. 
 The actions of two civilian captains, Chesley B. Sullenberger III and Richard Phillips, remind us that courage, integrity and selflessness exist in great measure in our country. The calm response of the administration and the professionalism of the men and women of our Navy and other government departments give lie to those who were eager to find fault with any of them. 
 As we take pride in the actions of our fellow Americans, including the crew of the Maersk Alabama, we ought also to reflect that we are a better people when we stand with one another rather than merely oppose. We also ought to note that patience and intellect achieve tangible results while bluster and bravado are empty stagings.
 Thanks to all involved in both successful outcomes, on the Hudson and the high seas, for reaffirming the highest ideals of humanity and the best that is America.
 Lawrence Rosencrantz Portland, Ore., April 13, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Rescue Revives Debate Over Arming Crews'' (news article, April 13):
 In light of the recent increase in pirate attacks, I think that arming crews makes sense. The economics of piracy is not the same as that of drug gangs, against whom violence can become a deadly arms race. 
 Outgunning ships is the pirates' source of income, not how they protect it. 
 Pirates would not be able to finance their purchases if their success rate drops dramatically (and occasionally they are killed). Then we need to fix the problem of Somalia, and beyond that, Africa.
 Jesse Hoff Swarthmore, Pa., April 13, 2009
 To the Editor:
 To deter the growing problem of piracy, we might adopt an example from World War II, when crossing the Atlantic was made hazardous not by ragtag bands of pirates but by Hitler's U-boats and other lethal Nazi efforts to block shipping. 
 In the wartime situation, convoys were formed to protect trans-Atlantic traffic. Although it might be inconvenient, a modern convoy system could be cost-effective in halting piracy along the Somali coast and in the Indian Ocean.
 Doug Giebel Big Sandy, Mont., April 13, 2009
 To the Editor:
 It is getting a bit tiresome hearing how difficult it is to patrol such an enormous stretch of ocean for imminent pirate attacks. Capt. Richard Phillips's rescue, by Navy Seal snipers, points the way to the only sensible solution: Embed special forces units on ships at risk of pirate attack. 
 Highly trained and well-equipped units could easily cope with Somali pirates as they approach or board these vessels. Armed drones deployed in coordination with such units could eliminate the boats supporting the pirates. 
 Why patrol vast oceans looking for pirates when the pirates will oblige by coming to us?
 Andrei Moskowitz New York, April 13, 2009
 To the Editor:
 If our satellites can zoom in and monitor North Korea's rocket launching pad, why can't the various countries of the world take turns using their satellites to monitor any possible pirate ships leaving Somalia? When a possible pirate ship appears headed toward a commercial ship, the commercial ship can be warned. 
 The nearest military ship can be arranged to be nearby if a pirate ship poses a threat. We must do something to prevent the taking of additional hostages for ransom, or it will never end.
 Gary Reeder Bellefontaine, Ohio, April 13, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Anarchy on Land Means Piracy at Sea,'' by Robert D. Kaplan (Op-Ed, April 12): 
 As our experience with the Barbary States and as Israel's history show, one can make peace with a state, but no one knows how to make peace with a nonstate actor, be it in the Indian Ocean or in Tora Bora. 
 As long as failed states are permitted to fester, they will harbor threats to the rest of the world.
 We may not like the states that emerge in such places, but it is not for us to choose their governments. What we cannot tolerate is a haven for criminals beyond the reach of law.
 Barry Levine Lafayette, Calif., April 13, 2009

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY J.D. KING) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MARITIME PIRACY (89%); SOMALI PIRACY (89%); NAVIES (78%); MILITARY VESSELS (78%); WORLD WAR II (78%); ARMED FORCES (73%); MARINE SHIPPING (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); GANGS (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (55%) OREGON, USA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); SOMALIA (93%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2009



543 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: Doors Closing at Hotels

BYLINE: By MARTHA C. WHITE

 BODY:
Hotels have been struggling for months as businesses and individuals cut back on travel. But what was a bad situation is likely to turn worse as a rapidly growing number of hotels -- including many high-end and luxury properties -- are forced into bankruptcy or foreclosure in coming months.
 Jim Butler, a hotel industry lawyer, said those who manage distressed hotel loans have told him that their workloads have jumped tenfold in recent months. 
 ''Things seem to be accelerating,'' Mr. Butler said, and predicted that before the recession is over, the number of hotels in bankruptcy or foreclosure could rise above the 2,000 or so reached in the industry's last big downturn in the 1990s. 
 The names on the front of the troubled hotels are well-known management companies like Ritz-Carlton and InterContinental. But the owners of the hotels are investment groups, wealthy individuals or companies that specialize in lodging and are generally little-known outside the industry. 
 Many owners took out loans to finance new construction or renovations when hotel occupancy rates were up and credit was readily available -- just the opposite of the situation now, as those short-term loans are coming due.
 But it is the management companies that risk damage to their reputations since theirs are the featured names. 
 Guests, too, can be affected if a hotel is financially troubled. Even at high-end properties, in-room electronics and linens may be older or show more wear, and items like coffee or fresh flowers in the lobby may be eliminated. 
 ''Hotels are doing things like closing the restaurant two nights a week or having the nightclub only open one or two nights a week,'' said Molly Vincent, vice president of a destination and event management company in Las Vegas. 
 In some cases, guests may not even notice what they are lacking. If a hotel stops a project to add flat-screen TVs halfway through installation, for example, a traveler is not likely to know that. 
 Sometimes, quite literally, travelers can be left out in the cold. Steve Collins, president of a meeting site selection firm, had booked a 30-person leadership retreat at the Daufuskie Island Resort & Spa in South Carolina last November. When his group arrived, unaware of any financial problems faced by the hotel, they found that their reservations for a group of high-end, private condos had been replaced with standard room bookings.
 ''At that point, there was no option to cancel or move,'' Mr. Collins said. His group stayed, but suffered poor housekeeping and food service, effects of the distressed property's staff cutbacks. Two months later, in January, the hotel's owners filed for bankruptcy and by March, the property was closed. 
 Unfortunately, that experience may be repeated, industry experts say, as hotels, especially luxury ones whose numbers grew rapidly, fall behind on their debt payments. 
 ''Luxury is just getting killed,'' said Bobby Bowers, senior vice president for operations at STR Global, a company that monitors and researches hotel performance. While occupancy and therefore room rates are down at every level of hotel, the drop is more pronounced at the higher end. 
 Since these hotels have greater fixed operating costs because of their extra services and larger staffs, they need higher occupancy rates just to break even. This is compounded by what many analysts have called the ''A.I.G. effect,'' as companies worry about public or regulatory scrutiny if their employees stay at lavish properties or hold events there. 
 Although the troubled economy has hit hotels across the country, some areas have it tougher than others. MGM Mirage and Harrah's Entertainment own 19 casino hotels on the Las Vegas Strip. Harrah's delayed construction on a hotel tower and has been able to refinance its debt over a longer period to reduce its payments. MGM recently sunk $200 million into CityCenter, a mixed-use project under construction, after its development partner skipped a payment. Other Las Vegas properties are struggling, too. The Ritz-Carlton, Lake Las Vegas spent much of 2008 in Chapter 11 and was bought last month by its third owner in just over a year. 
 In Scottsdale, Ariz., two upscale properties entered foreclosure in January after being open for less than six months, and the historic Greenbrier Resort in West Virginia filed for Chapter 11 last month after losing $35 million in 2008. In Chicago, plans for a 200-room Shangri-La hotel were scrapped.
 Hotel managers embrace the phrase ''business as usual'' when talking about operating under the pall of bankruptcy or foreclosure. 
 Unfortunately, even if travelers paid top dollar in expectation of fine dining, solicitous service and high-end amenities, they have little recourse if their stay does not live up to their expectations. Alexander Anolik, a lawyer and author of ''Traveler's Rights: Your Legal Guide to Fair Treatment and Full Value,'' says guests can try bargaining down the room price, but there is no legal or industry standard for reimbursing travelers for curtailed or closed amenities. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Like many luxury hotels, the Daufuskie Island Resort on Daufuskie Island, S.C, has shut down.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN MORTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (94%); FORECLOSURE (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (89%); LODGING (79%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (79%); BUILDING RENOVATION (79%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (79%); RESTAURANTS (79%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); SPECIAL EVENT PLANNING (76%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (74%); RESORTS (74%); LAWYERS (73%); CLOSINGS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (62%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2009



544 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: Electronic Health Records: Other Perspectives

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''Miles to Go on E-Health Records'' (editorial, April 2) is exactly right that money is the chief obstacle preventing more hospitals from adopting electronic health records. Long before the severe economic downturn, America's hospitals were struggling with shrinking reimbursements, limited access to capital, soaring medical malpractice costs and the swelling ranks of the uninsured. Though welcome and needed, stimulus funds devoted to electronic records will not change that fiscal reality.
 But money is far from the only challenge. Hospitals already on the path to functioning systems -- a process that can take as long as 10 years -- have deep concerns about meeting the technical and functional requirements to become eligible for stimulus payments and achieve the still-ambiguous ''meaningful use'' standard in the stimulus legislation. 
 Further, hospitals cannot meet the end goal of interoperability alone. It will require both federal guidance and the cooperation of the companies setting up the systems.
 If electronic health records are to become the rule rather than the isolated exception, Washington must demonstrate both patience and flexibility in helping hospitals overcome significant barriers to their adoption and use.
 Kenneth E. Raske President Greater New York Hospital Association New York, April 3, 2009
 To the Editor:
 ''Miles to Go on E-Health Records'' cites the financial incentives provided in the stimulus package for doctors and hospitals to adopt electronic medical records and highlights the need for interoperability. 
 I want to draw your attention to the financing that was also included in the recovery package for the National Institute of Standards and Technology to help establish standards that ensure interoperability and security of health information technology systems. (The institute played a similar role in the transition to online banking.) 
 The recovery package also includes provisions for training health care professionals to use the new systems. 
 Instead of being discouraged by the low rate of adoption of health information technology, I see an opportunity. Establishing the standards for interoperability and security will be more effective if it's done on the front end, before all doctors' offices have systems in place that can't talk to one another. 
 In the current system, the patient is the recordkeeper. Every appointment begins with questions about medical history. The quality of care the patient receives may depend on his (or his family's) ability to answer that question, including recalling detailed information about drug names and dosages. 
 As our population ages and we see more specialists, this problem will grow. Maintaining the status quo is not an option. The American public and our dedicated health care professionals deserve better.
 Bart Gordon Washington, April 2, 2009
 The writer is chairman of the House Committee on Science and Technology.
 To the Editor: 
 As a practicing emergency physician who has recently worked with both paper and electronic records, I'd like to point out that electronic records are not automatically advantageous. 
 Based on my experience, I believe that the various proprietary electronic records systems now available are too expensive and focus on reimbursement and other bean-counting endeavors to the detriment of patient care considerations.
 Americans should demand that the Obama administration and Congress force hospitals and other health care providers to use one nationwide electronic records system, for example, the one used by the Veterans Health Administration, or adequately explain why such a proposition would not work. 
 We need one single, free system for all health care providers, with a watchdog group to make improvements and oversee privacy and other concerns. This would be both relatively inexpensive and a unifying start to healing our fractured health care delivery system.
 Douglas Migden Seattle, April 3, 2009
 To the Editor:
 What is most striking about ''A Hospital Is Offering Digital Records'' (Business Day, April 6) is the accompanying photograph showing a surgeon reviewing EKG results with a patient. Is this worth the multimillion-dollar cost of the technology? Is there a mortality benefit?
 Dean Kross Pittsburgh, April 6, 2009
 The writer is a cardiologist.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAL RECORDS (96%); ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS (95%); HEALTH CARE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (94%); TELEHEALTH (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HEALTH CARE (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (75%); WRITERS (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (72%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (68%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (64%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%); INTERNET BANKING (50%)

PERSON: BART GORDON (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2009



545 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: A Masters Victory With Global Reach

BYLINE: By LARRY DORMAN

DATELINE: AUGUSTA, Ga. 

 BODY:
Another Masters is in the two books that count with major championships -- the record and the history books. And although the dogged victory by Angel Cabrera of Argentina might not have seemed like it in the hot rush of sudden death, it has the potential to be among the most historic of the 73 Masters contested.
 Like all things at the Masters, Cabrera's victory Sunday over Chad Campbell of Texas and Kenny Perry of Kentucky is best viewed in the context of history. In 1987, the last time a Masters was decided by a three-way playoff, the result was provincially popular while eliciting mostly shrugs from the worldwide audience. 
 Larry Mize, an Augusta native, dispatched the hugely popular Spaniard Seve Ballesteros on the first playoff hole, then hit Australia's Greg Norman, the Great White Shark, with the golf equivalent of a bang stick on the second, holing a pitch across the 11th green. This made for great television in the United States but did little to thrill the world.
 Now consider the impact of Cabrera, the rugged, powerful and galumphing native of Cordoba, Argentina. He hails from a country of 40 million people with a high literacy rate and roughly one cellphone per person, according to a 2007 survey. Like most global economies, Argentina's has its challenges but is a country ripe for golf expansion.
 And expanding the reach of the game is a priority for the people who oversee all the details of the best-run tournament in golf. 
 The Masters chairman, Billy Payne, spent a significant portion of his prepared remarks last week talking about the club's focus on the need to reach out to countries and regions that fit the profile for golf expansion. 
 At the moment, the primary focus is Asia. With the issuance of an invitation to the 2010 Masters for the winner of the Asian Amateur Championship in October, the Masters hopes to begin a trend.
 ''Through time, the Asian Amateur Championship will provide a way to measure the effectiveness of role-model creation on the growth of the game,'' Payne said, ''and if successful, as we hope and expect it will be, will cause us to seek similar partnerships and opportunities around the world.''
 The idea of being a role model is not one that instantly occurred to the newest Masters champion. When first asked about the effect the win might have on his home country, Cabrera replied, through an interpreter, ''I play for myself.''
 Something might have been lost in the translation, because he had a different reply the next time he was asked -- in the context of what his victory might do to help ease the memory of what happened to another Argentine, Roberto De Vicenzo, in 1968. De Vicenzo signed an incorrect scorecard that added a stroke to his total and cost him a playoff with the winner, Bob Goalby.
 ''First, De Vicenzo had bad luck,'' Cabrera said. ''He had a bad moment. It's not going to change what happened to him. This win, to take back to Argentina, it's going to help a lot with our game.''
 This Masters closed one era and opened another. After 52 years, Gary Player of South Africa, the original international winner of the Masters, said he would no longer compete in the event, which he won three times. 
 Player's legacy here is enormous. Consider that more than 20 years ago, Player spotted a young boy while playing golf in Cape Town.
 ''I looked out, and there was this little 5-year-old boy, no teeth in the front of his mouth, and he looked up and he said to me, 'Mr. Player, I love golf,' '' Player recalled. ''So I picked him up like this and I put him in my arms and I said, 'Man, give me a hug.' ''
 Player introduced that boy, Trevor Immelman, 29, at this year's Champions Dinner at the Augusta National clubhouse. South Africa, a country with about nine million more people than Argentina, had eight players in a field of 96 at this year's Masters. There was one other Argentine, Andres Romero. 
 This week in Cordoba, Cabrera will play in the Abierto del Centro, a big tournament he dreamed of winning when he was a child. After Cabrera won the United States Open in 2007, a huge crowd awaited his arrival at the airport and a parade was held in his honor.
 One day, in time, the winner of the Argentine Amateur may receive an invitation to the Masters. If and when that happens, it will be in large measure because of a man whose unusual gait caused him to be known affectionately as el Pato, the Duck. 
 He may want to consider another nickname. Duck does not quite have the ring of, say, Hawk or Tiger or Golden Bear.
 But now that he also wears a green jacket, el Pato may become a very popular moniker.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); AMATEUR SPORTS (89%); SPORTS (89%); GOLF (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (73%); TRENDS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); LITERACY RATES (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUGUSTA, GA, USA (91%) GEORGIA, USA (91%) ARGENTINA (94%); UNITED STATES (91%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2009



546 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
9 P.M. (13) CHILDREN OF THE TALIBAN In this ''Frontline/World'' episode, Sharmeen Obaid-Chinoy travels to Pakistan to investigate the increasing popularity of a new branch of the Taliban among the country's younger generation. ''Children are tools to achieve God's will,'' a Taliban recruiter says, boasting that some as young as 5 have been used as suicide bombers. Above, a boy at a refugee camp in Peshawar.
 11 A.M. (ABC) THE VIEW In ''Bank on the View,'' segments look at industries and areas that are hiring and not hiring in the current economy; resume mistakes people commonly make; and real experiences of current job seekers. 
 8 P.M. (13) DOCTORS' DIARIES In the conclusion of this documentary project, ''Nova'' checks in for the last time with seven doctors whose lives have been chronicled since their first day at Harvard Medical School in 1987.
 8 P.M. (ABC) ACCORDING TO JIM The series returns from hiatus and moves into a new time slot with this episode, in which Jim (Jim Belushi) runs into Victoria (Constance Marie), an old girlfriend, while he and Andy (Larry Joe Campbell) are eating at her new restaurant. Jim thinks Victoria wants him back, but it turns out that she wants Andy instead. Ouch. At 8:30 Jim joins the yoga class Cheryl (Courtney Thorne-Smith) attends after she starts waxing rhapsodic about her male instructor.
 8 P.M. (TCM) GONE WITH THE WIND (1939) In honor of Turner Classic Movies' 15th anniversary, it plays the first film it showed in 1994.
 8:30 P.M. (HGTV) HGTV'S TOP 10 Designers discuss attributes of the best rooms for conversation in this countdown of the most luxurious living rooms in America.
 9 P.M. (BBC America) LAST RESTAURANT STANDING Better luck next time: the least satisfied customers from previous weeks are invited back.
 9 P.M. (Discovery) DEADLIEST CATCH Alaska Week continues with this Season 5 premiere, in which the captains converge in Dutch Harbor, Alaska, for the opening of the 2008 king crab season, left. In a second season of ''Out of the Wild: The Alaska Experiment,'' at 10, nine amateur outdoor enthusiasts are given a crash course in survival -- including how to shoot a gun, skin an animal and start a fire without matches -- and then dropped in the state's interior with a map fragment and a few basic tools and told to walk home.
 9 P.M. (Fox) FRINGE A rescue mission planned by an animal-rights organization goes awry when a vicious beast -- one part lion, one part eagle -- is released and sets its sights on Charlie (Kirk Acevedo).
 9 P.M. (MTV) FROM G'S TO GENTS The bad boys from Season 2 reunite to talk about their transformations on the show, and their lives afterward. At 10 the winning freshly minted gentleman is announced. 
 10 P.M. (13) TAKING ROOT: THE VISION OF WANGARI MAATHAI ''Independent Lens'' follows Ms. Maathai, the Nobel Peace Prize laureate, in her quest to reconnect with her country, Kenya, and her culture by planting trees.
 10 P.M. (Bravo) THE REAL HOUSEWIVES OF NEW YORK CITY It's business as usual with the ladies: Ramona works on her skin-care line; LuAnn discusses her book with a writer; Bethenny promotes her food products; and Kelly toils over her jewelry in Los Angeles. Meanwhile, Simon tries to make Alex's birthday special. That must mean another shopping spree.
 10 P.M. (FX) RESCUE ME While waiting for his Section 8 hearing, Tommy (Denis Leary) takes an A.A. sponsor and starts a fight with Janet's new boyfriend (Michael J. Fox). Elsewhere, a French reporter interviews the men about 9/11, sending Teddy (Lenny Clarke) into a funk.
 10 P.M. (Sci Fi) W.C.G. ULTIMATE GAMER The players take on ''N.B.A. Live '09,'' and relationships grow strained. Spud Webb and Darryl Dawkins of the N.B.A. and Lisa Leslie of the W.N.B.A. are guest judges. 
 10 P.M. (Spike) DEADLIEST WARRIOR Computer-generated imaging helps envision a battle between a Viking and a samurai.
 10:30 P.M. (TBS) MY BOYS P. J. (Jordana Spiro) gets her own newspaper column. But was she rewarded for her writing -- or her looks? KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (91%); CHILDREN (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (76%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (73%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (70%); RESTAURANTS (70%); EMPLOYMENT (68%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (68%); MAMMALS (64%); FILM (63%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (60%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (60%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (56%); REFUGEES (56%); YOGA (50%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%); SHOOTINGS (50%)

COMPANY: HOME & GARDEN TELEVISION (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (53%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); PAKISTAN (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2009



547 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1257 words

HEADLINE: Stores Fade, But Names Get New Life

BYLINE: By AMY ZIPKIN

 BODY:
In the last year or so, a string of retailers have gone into bankruptcy -- Sharper Image, Linens 'n Things, Circuit City and Fortunoff among them. But while the stores have disappeared, their names live on.
 And the companies that have breathed new life into these brand names are, paradoxically, some of the same ones that had led the stores through their dying days -- the liquidators.
 Hilco Consumer Capital in Toronto, a division of the liquidator Hilco Trading Company and Gordon Brothers Brands, a division of another liquidator, Gordon Brothers, in Boston, have bought the rights to use the names of Sharper Image, Linens 'n Things and Bombay, the onetime furniture retailer. The liquidators -- who prefer to be known as asset recovery specialists -- have also expressed an interest in buying the Circuit City and Fortunoff names.
 Already, new merchandise with the Sharper Image name is available at retailers like Macy's, J. C. Penney and Bed, Bath & Beyond. A new Web site for the Linens 'n Things brand, lnt.com, is up and running. In addition to the bedding and bath products the chain was known for, the site also carries toys, pet products and baby accouterments. Jamie Salter, the chief executive of Hilco Consumer Capital, said he expected that Bombay would become a furniture line. 
 Mr. Salter estimated Hilco and Gordon Brothers spent about $175 million to acquire the Sharper Image, Linens 'n Things and Bombay names. He predicted a billion dollars a year in sales for Sharper Image and Linens 'n Things in each of the next five years.
 Hilco got its start in the business of buying naming rights two years ago, when it acquired, in partnership with the Weinstein Company, the name of the fashion designer Halston. But the business of naming rights has accelerated in the last six months with the rise in liquidations by retailers that have been unable to borrow money to reorganize and emerge from bankruptcy protection. In the process, the value of brand names is being redefined.
 ''The liquidators are taking the definition of assets and extending them to the brands themselves,'' said Martin Brochstein, a spokesman for the International Licensing Industry Merchandisers' Association in New York.
 Amanda Nicholson, assistant professor of retail management at the Whitman School of Management at Syracuse University, took a similar view. ''The brand name has value,'' she said.
 The liquidators say they see themselves as brand licensing experts who will receive royalties for the products without the need to pay rent or a sales staff. ''It's not a capital-intensive business,'' Mr. Salter said. ''It's a royalty-driven business. It's like an annuity.'' 
 Bradley Snyder, principal and managing director of the Gordon Brothers Group, agreed. For these operations, ''the store-based model is flawed,'' he said.
 In court papers filed last week, Circuit City asked a bankruptcy judge in Richmond, Va., to name Systemax in Port Washington, N.Y., to be the so-called stalking horse bidder at an auction on May 11. The initial bid for the trademark and Internet domain names would be $6.5 million in cash plus a share of future revenue. It would essentially set the floor for competing bids, said Thomas Salerno, a bankruptcy lawyer at Squire, Sanders & Dempsey in Phoenix and an author of ''The Executive Guide to Corporate Bankruptcy.'' A hearing on the motion for an auction is set for Tuesday.
 Systemax, though not a liquidator, is also in the market for brand names. Last year, it paid about $30 million for the CompUSA name and now operates 24 free-standing stores, more than half in Florida, and a Web presence at www.compusa.com.
 Those familiar with intellectual property rights say there is no guarantee that a revived brand will be successful after a retailer has gone under. The brands will compete with others that do not have troubled histories. And it is still too early to tell whether there is a market for the brands being licensed by Hilco and Gordon Brothers. Still, with the recession continuing, merchandise with a familiar name may prove attractive to consumers. 
 Frederico de Bellegarde is vice president for licensing at Sharper Image, now a joint venture of Hilco, Gordon Brothers and Blue- star Alliance, and worked for the defunct company as vice president for wholesale and international distribution. He said he had met with enthusiasm. ''Retailers are embracing it,'' he said. 
 Previously, other retail stores sold an earlier generation of Sharper Image merchandise, while dedicated Sharper Image stores and catalogs sold newer merchandise, he said. ''Now, with no store channel to protect, we have a much broader distribution strategy.'' 
 He said the brand would be extended to include categories like bedding, which is scheduled to arrive in stores in September. Mr. de Bellegarde said that the molds used to make Sharper Image merchandise were part of the liquidation sale but that those products would not necessarily be brought to market again. 
 The ready identification can come with a special burden, though, experts said. ''Consumers might make inferences about why a company went under,'' said Ryan Hamilton, assistant professor of marketing at the Goizueta Business School at Emory University. ''And if those inferences are about product quality, then resurrecting the brand might not be a good thing.''
 He said that even consumer sentiment about layoffs can figure in the success of a brand's revival. ''Any negative association can spill onto the brand,'' he said. Still he acknowledged that creating a good brand is enormously expensive. One that is already well known has a leg up.
 Yet, with consumers cautious about discretionary spending, it remains uncertain whether an influx of new brands, even ones with familiar names, will persuade customers to buy. 
 The Bed, Bath & Beyond Web site has a Sharper Image garment steamer for $19.99, a wireless indoor-outdoor speaker for $49.99 and an entertainment projector for $99.99. 
 ''It remains to be seen whether they create brands that the stores want to carry,'' said Stevan Buxbaum, executive vice president for marketing and business development at the Buxbaum Group, a liquidation company in Agoura Hills, Calif.
 At least one expert said consumers might be confused by the new products or even feel deceived by the practice. ''If you think of the trademark as a way of protecting the identity of the brands, once it's sold, it isn't the same,'' said David K. Levine, an economics professor at Washington University in St. Louis. 
 Others disagree, saying that the bankruptcy courts have an obligation to dispose of all the assets and that it is possible that the liquidators overpaid for the names. ''I see nothing wrong on the face of it,'' says Phillip Beutel, who heads the intellectual property practice at National Economic Research Associates in White Plains. ''The courts have to get the best value they can in the marketplace,'' he said. The stores can use the brands to try to attract customers.
 Charles R. McManis, a professor of intellectual property law at Washington University in St. Louis, said the new owners have to be vigilant in protecting their investment. He said a business had to maintain quality control or the courts might conclude that it was trying to commit fraud. 
 ''A consumer is entitled to get what the trademark symbolizes, with merchandise roughly the same quality as before,'' he said. Any trademark misuse could be considered abandonment and result in a loss of rights.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sharper Image bathmats at London Luxury in New York.(PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Federico de Bellegarde, now a vice president of Sharper Image, also worked for the retail chain.
Sharper Image neck pillows sold at the London Luxury store in Manhattan. Sharper Image will add bedding to its line.
 Products with the Sharper Image brand offered by the EnE Group in Manhattan include iPod cases.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (90%); LIQUIDATIONS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (90%); BED BATH & LINEN SHOPS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); BRANDING (89%); FURNITURE STORES (78%); ROYALTIES (78%); BRAND EQUITY (77%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); MERCHANDISE LICENSING (73%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); WEB SITES (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); FASHION DESIGNERS (50%)

COMPANY: LINENS 'N THINGS INC (90%); TSIC INC (90%); WEINSTEIN CO LLC (65%); GORDON BROTHERS GROUP LLC (57%); HILCO CONSUMER CAPITAL LLC (57%); BED BATH & BEYOND INC (56%)

TICKER: BBBY (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (90%); SIC5719 MISC. HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (90%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (90%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (90%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (90%); NAICS512120 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (65%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (65%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); NAICS339920 SPORTING & ATHLETIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC3949 SPORTING & ATHLETIC GOODS, NEC (57%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (56%); NAICS423210 FURNITURE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (74%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2009



548 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MUSIC REVIEW LOOKING FORWARD; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: A New Leader Adapts A Course Already Taken

BYLINE: By ALLAN KOZINN

 BODY:
New York City Opera, on hiatus from its principal business while its home is being renovated, has been sending its orchestra, chorus and soloists around New York to perform concerts under the series title Looking Forward. 
 Originally, the object of this forward glimpse was the vaunted directorship of Gerard Mortier, and the music touched obliquely on some of his planned productions. Now Mr. Mortier has decamped, and George R. Steel has taken his place as general manager and artistic director and announced a short season of his own.
 The program led by George Manahan, the company's music director, at Alice Tully Hall on Saturday evening included several of the same works offered at the first concert in the series, last October on Staten Island, although works played in excerpts then were given whole this time. Yet the series title is just as suitable to Mr. Steel's vision: the music here was all from the 20th century and could easily have been performed at the Miller Theater during his tenure there. 
 The orchestra sounded consistently good, and the program, with its modernist cast, brought to mind the Met Orchestra's symphonic and chamber music adventures at Carnegie Hall with James Levine. It would be a good idea to let these musicians break free from the pit now and then, although given the challenges Mr. Steel is facing -- a steep deficit, already tense union negotiations and a weak economy -- orchestral emancipation is probably not high on his agenda.
 Mr. Manahan began with ''Time Cycle'' (1960), one of the most durable scores by Lukas Foss, who died in February. In its original form, this gracefully textured song cycle included improvised interludes, but those would probably sound dated now, and Mr. Manahan wisely kept to the four fully composed movements. 
 These dark-hued pieces, with texts by Auden, Housman, Kafka and Nietzsche, have a lot to say about time and mortality, and that's enough freight for a work to bear. Jennifer Zetlan, the soprano, sang the angular vocal lines with an affecting beauty and suppleness. 
 Messiaen's ''Trois Petite Liturgies de la Presence Divine'' (1944) picked up the mystical thread that the Foss work dangled and proposed answers from this composer's personal vision of eternity. These ''liturgies'' are settings of Messiaen's own devotional poetry to music that seeks a kind of timelessness. 
 Messiaen's rhythmically stark choral writing hints at an antique chant, but the eerily wavering electronic wail of the ondes martenot gives the music a spacey quality (or what must have seemed spacey in 1944). Aleck Karis played the work's daunting piano part, and Jean Laurendeau played the ondes martenot. 
 The Foss and Messiaen works used the orchestra idiosyncratically, with brief patches of changing color rising and falling around the vocal music. The music in the second half of the program asked the orchestra to shine in a brighter, more conventional light. Debussy's ''Danse Sacree et Danse Profane'' (1904) had the ensemble sounding lush, or at least as lush as an ensemble can sound in a hall with no reverberation. Jessica Zhou gave a lovely account of the picturesque solo harp line. 
 Mr. Manahan closed the program with Stravinsky's ''Pulcinella'' (1920, revised 1965): the full ballet rather than the more popular suite. The vocal soloists -- Theodora Hanslowe, mezzo-soprano; Robert Breault, tenor; and Daniel Mobbs, bass-baritone -- sang their solo and ensemble pieces with character and clarity, and the orchestra played Stravinsky's arch updating of Pergolesi's music with a winning vitality. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Looking Forward: From left, Robert Breault, Theodora Hanslowe and Daniel Mobbs, with George Manahan conducting, at Alice Tully Hall.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIN BAIANO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (91%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); OPERA (89%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); POETRY (60%)

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2009



549 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1239 words

HEADLINE: Life in Iran, Where Freedom Is Deferred

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:
HONEYMOON IN TEHRAN 
 Two Years of Love and Danger in Iran 
 By Azadeh Moaveni 
 340 pages. Random House. $26. 
 In her compelling 2005 book, ''Lipstick Jihad,'' the journalist Azadeh Moaveni chronicled the underground youth culture in Tehran at the turn of the millennium, writing about teenagers who embraced an ''as if lifestyle,'' acting as if their country were not under the control of hard-line mullahs, as if they were allowed to hold hands on the street, blast rock 'n' roll at parties, read censored books, speak their minds, challenge authority, wear too much lipstick. Ms. Moaveni argued that grass-roots changes in Iran -- from the spread of illegal satellite dishes and illegal video dealers to the popularity of blogging -- would eventually alter the trajectory of that country's history, while the demographic ascendance of a younger generation would transform the nation from below. 
 Ms. Moaveni's new book, ''Honeymoon in Tehran,'' which describes the fallout that the 2005 election of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad would have on Iran, paints a far less optimistic portrait of the country. It depicts the author's own struggles to make a home for herself in Tehran -- where she fell in love, married an Iranian and gave birth to a boy -- and her realization that she could no longer pursue a career as a journalist and raise a family there. It is a book that uses the author's own experiences as a prism by which to view political developments in Tehran, a book that leaves the reader with an indelible portrait of the author's family and a highly personal picture of Iran's social and political evolution.
 Ms. Moaveni, who grew up in California, the daughter of Iranian emigres, and who has covered the country for Time magazine, left Tehran in 2002, in the wake of President Bush's depiction of Iran in his State of the Union address as part of the ''axis of evil.'' When she returned to Tehran in 2005 to cover the presidential election, she was initially encouraged by changes she saw in the city and thought ''Iranians had reached a tacit accommodation with the government over which taboos might be reconsidered.'' 
 Novels by women, full of romance and sex, dominated the best-seller lists; students had started underground rock bands; and Iranians, ''accustomed to a bland, mullah-controlled existence lacking in entertainment and retail'' prospects, could now choose among a variety of household products, American-style foods and designer goods. (A billboard for Dolce & Gabbana, she notes, weirdly loomed over a site where demonstrators gathered to chant ''Death to America.'')
 The election of the little-known Mr. Ahmadinejad -- a hardliner, who had campaigned not on a platform of strict Islamic values but on populist promises of economic opportunity -- came as a surprise to much of the country and the world. It was a result, Ms. Moaveni argues, not only of possible vote tampering, but also of moderates' failure to unify around one persuasive candidate, and apathy on the part of voters who'd grown disillusioned with years of stalled reform. 
 The election would have serious consequences -- for Iran and for the world. President Ahmadinejad has pursued a confrontational approach toward the United States and used Western opposition to Iran's nuclear program to try to generate national unity; in addition, his government has clamped down on the limited freedoms afforded journalists and women. 
 One day in spring 2007, Ms. Moaveni reports: ''The authorities launched the most ferocious crackdown on 'un-Islamic' dress in over a decade. Overnight, they revised the tacit rules governing women's dress. The closets of millions of women across the country contained nothing but short, tailored coats; ankle-length pants; and bright headscarves. Suddenly, these styles were grounds for arrest. In the days that followed, the police detained 150,000 women for failing to abide by the official dress code.'' 
 ''I suppose to people living in free countries where women wear what they please, the difference between a relaxed dress code and a stern one sounds inconsequential,'' she writes. ''In fact, it mattered desperately. In the years when women could wear colors, could show off the lines of their figures, what in effect became acceptable was the expression of individuality. Between the year 2000 until that April of 2007, I wore a headscarf and manteau in Tehran, but I still looked, from head to toe, like Azadeh. I did not resemble the thousands of other women on the street, but only myself. As I presume was the case for most women, this helped me to perceive the oppressive weight of the regime as lighter than it perhaps actually was.'' 
 In these pages Ms. Moaveni does an affecting job of conveying how the Islamic government's edicts permeated every aspect of people's private lives. Couples wishing to hold a ''mixed wedding,'' where men and women commingle, are advised to hire expensive security details to guard against police raids. Baby names have to be chosen with care so as to avoid forbidden names, including European names, Kurdish names and the names of pre-Islamic Persian heroes. 
 Attention must be paid to neighbors, who are liable to report people who pursue an ''alternative lifestyle'' -- sometimes ''out of genuine pious indignation, sometimes as revenge for neighborly quarrels.'' And parents must worry that bringing up their children with liberal values can have troubling consequences for them down the road: ''for espousing their real beliefs openly, they might one day be punished by a teacher, expelled from school, arrested by the police, fired from a job.'' 
 After a government minder tells Ms. Moaveni that ''it is no longer appropriate for you to work,'' that she is ''guilty of propaganda against the regime,'' and that judiciary proceedings are being started against her, she and her husband -- who worked for his father's textile business and who, like Ms. Moaveni, came from a family split between Iran and exile in the West -- decide to move to England with their young son. It is a difficult decision, for it means abandoning the extended family that has enveloped them in Tehran, and for Ms. Moaveni, it means acknowledging that ''Iran wasn't livable enough'' for them, that all the talk there about ''mending and changing and improving was a charade,'' that ''Iran is all heavy and rotten at the core.'' 
 Why has the reform movement stalled in Iran? Why hasn't there been more protest against the government's repressive policies or a broader movement for political change? As Ms. Moaveni sees it, young Iranians care ''far more about finding jobs and raising their living standards than about whether Islam would become compatible with Western-style democracy during their lifetime.'' 
 That young people ''were willing to shout down a police officer or flirt during a public Islamic ritual meant mostly that they were concerned with freedom in their immediate 10-foot radius,'' she caustically concludes. ''Beyond that, the risks involved in rebellion swiftly outgrew the rewards. Busy investing in the logistics of emigration -- the English proficiency tests, visa applications and language courses -- many young people envisioned their futures abroad, and were unwilling to compromise those hopes for the sake of somehow changing Iran, a notion they considered chimerical, costly and bestleft to a future generation.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO(C1)
 Azadeh Moaveni (PHOTOGRAPH BY MEHRDAD DAFTARI)(C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); BESTSELLERS (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); CENSORSHIP (78%); YOUTH MARKET (77%); TEENS MARKET (77%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); POP & ROCK (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); HISTORY (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); RELIGION (71%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (70%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (68%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAN (90%)

TITLE: Honeymoon in Tehran (Book); Honeymoon in Tehran (Book)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2009



550 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 406 words

HEADLINE: MetLife Says It Won't Seek Aid for Troubled Assets

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
MetLife, the insurance company, said on Monday that it would not participate in the government's program to provide emergency funds for troubled assets.
 The company pointed to other steps it had taken in recent months to build up its capital position, and said it decided that it did not need to take money from the Troubled Asset Relief Program as well. 
 In March, MetLife took advantage of a separate federal program, operated by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, to raise about $397 million for general corporate purposes through a sale of floating-rate notes. Under the program, the F.D.I.C. guaranteed the notes, allowing MetLife to borrow at a lower rate than it could have on its own. MetLife was eligible for the F.D.I.C. program because it owns a bank and is regulated by the Federal Reserve.
 MetLife also sold $2.3 billion of stock last fall to replenish its capital and remarketed more than $1 billion of debt earlier this year. In a statement, MetLife's chief executive, C. Robert Henrikson, said the company now had ''approximately $5 billion in excess capital'' and did not need TARP money, ''although a number of economic challenges remain.'' 
 Two other life insurance companies have also recently found themselves out of the running for TARP money, despite having submitted applications last fall. Both had been trying to buy federally chartered financial institutions to meet a condition the Treasury set under the former secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr.
 The Protective Life Corporation, an insurer in Birmingham, Ala., said it had terminated its efforts to acquire the Bank of Bonifay, a federally chartered institution, at the end of March. Protective Life said it had waited in vain until then for news about its application. The Bank of Bonifay had decided that because of the uncertainty, calling off the deal ''was in its best interest.'' 
 Protective said it had no plans to acquire any other federally chartered institution, but considered itself ''well capitalized with ample liquidity.''
 Genworth Financial, a life insurer and mortgage guarantor in Richmond, Va., dropped its application for TARP money last week after the Obama administration confirmed that insurers would have to have federally chartered affiliates to qualify for the TARP. Genworth had been trying to acquire InterBank, a thrift in Minnesota, but its application was not approved in time by the Office of Thrift Supervision. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); LIFE INSURANCE (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); DEBT NOTES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%)

COMPANY: METLIFE INC (95%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (84%); PROTECTIVE LIFE CORP (82%); PROTECTIVE LIFE CORP (OHIO) (82%); GENWORTH FINANCIAL INC (52%)

TICKER: MET (NYSE) (95%); PL (NYSE) (82%); GNW (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (95%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (95%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (95%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (95%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (95%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (95%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (95%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (84%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (84%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (82%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (82%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (82%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (52%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (52%)

PERSON: ROB HENRIKSON (59%); HENRY PAULSON (57%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (53%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2009



551 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; PFORZHEIM JOURNAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: Shadows Grow Longer in Germany's Golden City as Unemployment Surges

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS KULISH

DATELINE: PFORZHEIM, Germany 

 BODY:
The family-run Opel car dealership here has closed after 80 years. After the local SinnLeffers department store shut down, the grocery store in the basement put beer and pasta displays in the store windows where the mannequins once stood. The unemployment rate is shooting up as industrial jobs vanish. 
 Until recently, this was a more or less typical scene in eastern Germany. But this was in the west, and in one of its richest regions, the state of Baden-Wurttemberg. Because of the nature of the world economic crisis, rising unemployment in Germany is largely bypassing the poor areas of the east and striking at the heart of the country's wealthy industrial areas in the western and southern regions. 
 Nowhere is that more true than in Pforzheim, known as the Golden City for its history as the jewelry capital of Germany, and which now has the fastest-growing unemployment rate of any locality in the country. Unemployment is still far worse in the east, where it hovers around 20 percent in some regions. But the number of unemployed in the west rose by 31,000 in March, versus just 3,000 in the territories of the former east. Over the past year, Pforzheim has had the highest increase in its unemployment rate, rising 2.7 points, to 9.8 percent from 7.1 percent, taking it from below-average unemployment to above the nationwide average of 8.6 percent.
 According to economists here, German consumers have been one of the few pillars of strength for the global economy, not having felt the effects of the recession as directly as have Americans. There was no real estate bubble here and relatively few rely on equities for their retirements or have credit-card debts, and job protections are much stronger. But as declining exports lead to ever more layoffs, the brunt of the crisis is expected to cause pain throughout Germany, Europe's largest economy, the way it already has in Pforzheim.
 This town on the northern edge of the Black Forest traces its heritage as a jewelry center to 1767, when its overlord founded a factory for watches and jewelry at the local orphanage. In recent decades, as the production of lower-end necklaces, rings and bracelets migrated to cheaper labor markets in Asia, the highly trained metal workers here turned to making precision parts for the automobile industry.
 But the combination of luxury goods and automobile parts proved a poor one in this economic downturn, leaving the town of around 120,000 exposed to the clampdown on spending by consumers, particularly in the United States. Pforzheim's experience is one small part of the losses inflicted by the broader plunge in exported goods around the country.
 Locals say that the worsening economy is a constant topic of discussion. ''I still get up every day at 5 o'clock in the morning,'' said Helmut Frey, 57, a goldsmith who lost his job at the end of December. Mr. Frey, who began learning the trade in 1965, said he had sent out some 18 job applications without getting a single interview. ''For me, it's basically over,'' he said, waving away questions about his future.
 The country has a strong social safety net. Mr. Frey said he could collect 60 percent of his salary for 18 months, but said he did not know how he would support himself on the more modest welfare payments he would receive if he had not found a job by then. Economists say that the worst is yet to come for workers. Companies have used government-subsidized short working hours -- known as kurzarbeit -- to avoid mass layoffs, but that still costs them money and is only a temporary solution.
 In February exports fell 23 percent compared with the previous year. Industrial output shrank 20.6 percent for the month, compared with the year before. ''We would need to see signs of improvement in summer or early autumn. Otherwise it becomes too expensive for companies to continue kurzarbeit,'' said Gernot Nerb, director of sector research at the Ifo Institute for Economic Research in Munich.
 Last week some 14,000 Thyssen-Krupp employees demonstrated in Duisberg against plans by the company to cut back thousands of jobs. The German automaker Daimler, which has placed some 70,000 workers on short-hour status, said recently that it could no longer rule out job cuts. 
 That would mean more bad news for Pforzheim, where many people commute to nearby Daimler factories. The local branch of the German Federal Labor Office said that in Pforzheim and the surrounding region, there were roughly 10,000 unemployed but the same number had already been moved to short hours. 
 ''What we cannot allow is for the mood to fall so low that people lose faith in themselves,'' said Christel Augenstein, the mayor of Pforzheim, in an interview while overlooking the city, which had to be almost entirely rebuilt after bombing raids during World War II. Yet she recalled a visit in March to the annual watch and jewelry industry convention in Basel that was nothing like her previous visits as mayor of the Golden City. ''The Americans were missing. The Russians were missing. Those are our two biggest markets. The Asians were there but much more cautious.''
 What has astounded even older people, who have lived through recessions and restructurings in the past, was the speed with which business ground to a halt. ''At factories that last summer were running seven days a week orders simply collapsed, and now they're running just two or three days a week,'' said Martin Kunzmann, a local representative for the union IG Metall. 
 Ralf Scheithauer, 49, lost his job at an electronics factory where he worked for 15 years, but was lucky enough to find an internship in occupational therapy that could lead to a full-time position. ''People don't like to talk about it. You just find yourself thinking, 'What's he doing working in his garden during the day?' '' Mr. Scheithauer said. ''There's this sense that, if someone doesn't have work they must somehow be to blame.''
 At the Opel Hauser dealership on Karlsruher Strasse, the last few cars are in a corner facing the street, hiding the vast expanse of parking spaces as empty as the abandoned showroom. The manager of the bankrupt business was out himself on a recent afternoon, hosing and scrubbing the last of his inventory.
 ''Naturally, it is a bitter feeling to put your whole life, everything you have, into a business and be forced to shut down,'' said Bernd Hauser-Schmieg, 59. ''It is bitter,'' he repeated, before returning to scrubbing one of the cars.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A closed SinnLeffers department store and a bankrupt Opel dealership in Pforzheim, known for making jewelry and car parts. The drop in consumer spending has left the town of 120,000 reeling.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAELA HANDREK-REHLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP: Pforzheim has the country's highest rise in unemployment. Map details Pforzheim, Germany. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (93%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); NEW CAR DEALERS (78%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); RECESSION (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); PERSONAL DEBT (73%); JEWELRY (73%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) BADEN-WURTTEMBERG, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2009



552 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 435 words

HEADLINE: On Nytimes.com

 BODY:
Audio Slide Show: Final Voyage For Hubble's Keeper
 Photographs of John Grunsfeld, the astronaut and longtime repairman of the Hubble Space Telescope. In accompanying audio, Mr. Grunsfeld describes preparing for his final ride to the telescope's rescue, scheduled to take place on May 12. This will be the fifth and last time astronauts visit Hubble. At left, Mr. Grunsfeld peers into the crew cabin of the Space Shuttle Columbia during a mission in 2002. 
 nytimes.com/science
 VIDEO: STREETS OF BANGKOK
 As the health of the Thai king worsens, the country's two political parties are battling for control, ravaging the country with the most severe domestic unrest in recent memory. Soldiers armed with assault rifles fought running street battles with antigovernment protesters in Bangkok. A video report.
 nytimes.com/world
 The Caucus
 Easter at the White House
 Hundreds of children pushed pink, yellow and sky blue eggs in the annual White House Easter Egg roll. The theme was ''Let's Go Play,'' and the focus was on Michelle Obama's effort to promote nutritious food, physical exercise and healthy living.
 nytimes.com/thecaucus
 SLIDESHOW: JACKSONIANA ON AUCTION
 A slide show of images of Michael Jackson's possessions that will be up for auction, including the armchair above.
 nytimes.com/music
 City Room
 Adjusting to the Recession
 A report from Harlem about coping with the downturn, as part of the ''New York on Less'' series.
 nytimes.com/cityroom
 ON LIFE IN IRAN
 An excerpt from the journalist Azadeh Moaveni's new memoir, ''Honeymoon in Tehran.'' Also, past reviews of Ms. Moaveni's work, including her compelling 2005 book, ''Lipstick Jihad,'' and information about the author. 
 nytimes.com/books
 VIDEO: CRITICS' PICKS: 'WAG THE DOG'
 In a video, A. O. Scott reviews Barry Levinson's 1997 film ''Wag the Dog,'' about a Washington fixer and a Hollywood producer who band together to create a politically expedient but entirely fictional war.
 nytimes.com/movies
 ArtsBeat
 The 24 Hour Musicals
 ArtsBeat chronicled the 24 Hour Musicals, in which several one-act shows are written, cast, rehearsed and performed in a single day.
 nytimes.com/artsbeat
 Bitten
 A Stew for Spring
 With local markets crammed with good produce, Mark Bittman suggests throwing together a vegetable stew.
 nytimes.com/bitten
 Opinion
 Jeff Scher 'Welcome Back'
 The (seemingly long-overdue) transformation of winter into spring, in an animated film.
 nytimes.com/scher
 Question of the Day: Should companies mine social networking posts for data on consumer attitudes? Share your thoughts at: nytimes.com/technology

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Final Voyage For Hubble's Keeper: Photographs of John Grunsfeld, the astronaut and longtime repairman of the Hubble Space Telescope. In accompanying audio, Mr. Grunsfeld describes preparing for his final ride to the telescope's rescue, scheduled to take place on May 12. This will be the fifth and last time astronauts visit Hubble. At left, Mr. Grunsfeld peers into the crew cabin of the Space Shuttle Columbia during a mission in 2002. nytimes.com/science (PHOTOGRAPH BY NASA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OBSERVATORIES & TELESCOPES (90%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (90%); WRITERS (86%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (75%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (75%); POLITICS (75%); RIOTS (75%); FILM (75%); EASTER SEASON (73%); SPACECRAFT (73%); SPACE SHUTTLE (71%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); MUSIC (70%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (70%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (69%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (69%); NUTRITION (66%); MARKET RESEARCH (64%); ANIMATED FILMS (61%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (54%); FIREARMS (54%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (90%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (68%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%); THAILAND (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAN (68%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2009



553 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TOOL KIT; Pg. 

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: Dealing With Recession-Related Stress

BYLINE: By PAUL B. BROWN

 BODY:
What are the best ways to deal with the stress that comes from operating in a recession? The following tips could help.
 CONTROL WHAT YOU CAN A major cause of stress for small-business owners is the inordinate amount of time they spend reacting. A crucial client has a demand that can't wait. A serious employee problem must be dealt with immediately. A pivotal piece of office equipment decides to take the day off, just when you need it most.
 Dealing with unexpected problems not of your making is stressful. That is why you should try to get under control the factors that are within your control, argues Glen Ebersole, a consultant. 
 That means you should ''maintain a well-organized office,'' he writes, commit to ''setting aside some time to get away from your desk each day'' to take a break, and deal ''with employee conflicts in a proactive and timely manner'' before the conflicts get worse. Last, he recommends that you keep yourself in good health.
 YIN AND YANGWriting on her blog, Jan Norman cites two ways of dealing with stress from Steve Davidson, a psychologist in Newport Beach, Calif. 
 The first is the traditional approach of going for a walk or visualizing your favorite place.
 But the other technique is more intriguing. In it, you treat stress as any other business problem.
 First, you do a causal analysis. ''What's the source of the stress?''
 Second, you propose a course of action to solve the problem. 
 Third, you execute your plan, and then, fourth, adjust as necessary.
 POSITIVE SPIN I Being aware that you are under stress invariably increases your stress level. It gives you one more thing to worry about.
 But you don't need to look at it that way, the people at BizHelp.24.com say.
 .
 ''Stress is a sign our body is preparing us for action. Your body is pumped with chemicals, your heart beats faster, your muscles tense and your mind becomes more focused. These changes allow us to master situations by making that deadline or giving that bad news to an important customer. More clearly, stress helps us complete tasks successfully under times of pressure.''
 Feel better?
 POSITIVE SPIN II Here is an approach to dealing with stress that Michael Jackson, chairman of the British venture capital firm Elderstreet Investments, has found effective: Assume the very worst when faced with a problem. 
 ''I am often accused of being unduly pessimistic when I use this technique, but it works for me at the outset and provides me with a backup plan. I then feel better, remember it can't get worse, and I don't feel totally powerless and out of control.''
 RULES OF THUMB Writing on BusinessWeek.com, Mallary Tytel, president of Healthy Workplaces, offers these rules of thumb for reducing your employees' stress. (The tips could also work for you.)
 Ensure that the workload is in line with workers' capabilities and resources.
 Provide opportunities for social interaction.
 Establish work schedules that are compatible with demands and responsibilities outside the job.
 LAST CALL Just about everyone agrees that keeping both perspective and your sense of humor can help deal with stress.
 Larry Wilde, who bills himself as ''America's good humor expert,'' tells this story, which addresses both.
 ''The chairman of the board of directors of a Chicago charity called the monthly meeting to order. 'I have rather a stressful order of business,' he announced. 'We're looking for a treasurer.' 
 '' 'But we appointed a treasurer just six months ago.' 
 '' 'Yes,' said the chairman. 'That's the treasurer we're looking for.' ''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (77%); VENTURE CAPITAL (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (55%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2009



554 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Automobiles; NEW YORK AUTO SHOW MITSUBISHI OUTLANDER GT PROTOTYPE; Pg. 

LENGTH: 256 words

HEADLINE: Outlander, the Jet Fighter Edition

BYLINE: By JERRY GARRETT

 BODY:
Introduced on Thursday:Mitsubishi Outlander GT Prototype
 Is it real? No, but yes. Billed as a prototype, this vehicle is very close to production -- and soon to replace the existing Outlander. 
 What they said: ''The Outlander GT Prototype is packed with technology, performance and premium features that are uncommon in the compact S.U.V. class,'' John Koenig, executive vice president of Mitsubishi Motors North America, said. ''Along with its faster heartbeat, we also wanted to quicken pulses by channeling the look of our sportiest cars.''
 What they didn't say: The Outlander has not been a big seller in the United States, as it is in Japan. At least part of the problem is that in Japan the Outlander can be tricked out with options like turbochargers. With limited optional features in the United States market, shoppers have not embraced it. 
 What makes it tick? An improved version of the 3-liter V-6 in the current Outlander XLS; it makes 10 additional horsepower for a total of 230. More usable torque is also promised, with higher fuel economy and lower emissions. It will also save gas by shifting the transmission into neutral at stop lights.
 How much, how soon? Questions, questions. Answers about availability are expected shortly. Look for the GT to cost at least as much as the current top-of-the-line XLS (about $26,000).
 How's it look? Its signature feature is its cavernous ''jet-fighter nose'' lifted from the Lancer Evolution. Perhaps the idea is that Outlander GT will take flight and strafe the competition. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (66%)

COMPANY: MITSUBISHI MOTORS CORP (58%)

TICKER: 7211 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); JAPAN (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2009



555 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 527 words

HEADLINE: Immigration Reform and Hard Times

 BODY:
The Obama administration said last week that it would begin a major push for immigration reform this year. The country's two big labor federations just announced that they are joining forces to support that effort, which includes a path to citizenship for undocumented workers. That's double good news. 
 The administration is saying that it will keep its promise to fix the broken system, even if it means pushing the hottest of hot buttons: legalization, the dreaded ''amnesty'' that sets the Republican right wing ablaze and makes many Democrats quiver. 
 We are also heartened that American labor is speaking with a united voice in hard times, rejecting the false claim that fixing the immigration system will somehow hurt American workers. Even in a bad economy -- especially in a bad economy -- getting undocumented immigrants on the right side of the law only makes sense.
 Administration officials said President Obama planned to speak publicly about the issue next month and would convene working groups this summer, a la health care, to begin discussing future legislation. Immigrant advocates were ecstatic, though it is important to note that this was not a promise to move a bill, only to start the debate. Even that is not going to be easy. Reform was thwarted in the last two Congresses by obstructionist Republicans committed to the delusion that expelling 12 million people amounts to a realistic policy. 
 The country has suffered mightily in the meantime. American workers and businesses continue to be undercut by the underground economy. The economic potential of some of the country's most industrious workers is thwarted. Working off the books -- and living in constant fear of apprehension -- they earn less, spend less, pay less in taxes and have little ability to report abuses or to improve their skills or job prospects. 
 The ingredients of reform are clear: legalization for the 12 million, to yield bumper crops of new citizens, to make it easier to weed out criminals and to end the fear and hopelessness of life in the shadows; sensible enforcement at the border that focuses resources on fighting crime, drugs and violence; a strengthened employment system that punishes businesses that exploit illegal labor; and a future flow of workers that is attuned to the economy's needs and fully protects workers' rights.
 The last point has been a sticky one with some unions. The agreement between the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and Change to Win -- a rival federation that includes service employees, the Teamsters and carpenters -- will center on a new approach to future immigration, a compromise in which an independent national commission calibrates the size of temporary-worker programs each year, based on conditions in labor markets. It may not be a perfect plan, but after years of vitriol, it's encouraging to hear calmer voices outlining smart reform. 
 We expect to hear more from Mr. Obama soon. It will take courage to defend the wisdom and necessity of fixing the immigration system. It will take even more courage to engage in the serious fight to do so. It is what the country needs and what American voters elected Mr. Obama to do. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); DECRIMINALIZATION (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (78%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (77%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); BORDER CONTROL (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2009



556 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 250 words

HEADLINE: Boston Station Decides to Run Leno's New Show After All

BYLINE: By BILL CARTER

 BODY:
The duel in Boston between NBC and its affiliated station there, WHDH, over the future of Jay Leno's new prime-time program ended without economic bloodshed Monday, less than two weeks after it started. 
 Mr. Leno's show will be on WHDH starting in September, and the station will remain an NBC affiliate. That resolved a conflict that began on April 2 when WHDH's general manager, Ed Ansin, announced that the station had decided to block the new Leno show, set for 10 p.m. each weeknight, and intended to replace it with an hourlong local newscast.
 Mr. Ansin had said in an interview that the station did not think Mr. Leno's new show would be ''effective in prime time'' and would be detrimental to the station's 11 p.m. newscast. 
 NBC reacted swiftly and ferociously, threatening that the network would replace WHDH as a network affiliate -- a move likely to seriously undermine the station's asset value. 
 On Monday, both sides issued conciliatory statements. Mr. Ansin, sounding a bit like an N.F.L. replay official, said, ''Upon further consideration we have decided to telecast Jay Leno at 10 p.m. starting in September.'' He added, ''Jay is from Andover where I went to school. I enjoy his humor.''
 NBC issued a statement attributed to John Eck, the president of the NBC TV network: ''We are very pleased that WHDH will carry Jay Leno's new prime-time comedy show at 10 p.m. this fall on NBC. We look forward to working closely with the station on a successful launch in Boston of this show.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (90%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); INTERVIEWS (75%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (73%)

PERSON: JAY LENO (93%); EDMUND ANSIN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2009



557 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1909 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times: April 14, 2009

 BODY:
International
 WHITE HOUSE TO LOOSEN 
 Some Cuba Restrictions
 The Obama administration announced a loosening of restrictions on family travel, remittances and gifts to people in Cuba along with allowing telecommunications companies to pursue licensing agreements in Cuba. The White House said that this step was meant to reach out to the Cuban people and not signal an expectation of full diplomatic relations. Page A6 
 FIGHTING IN BANGKOK'S STREETS
 Pitched battles between soldiers and protesters broke out at intervals in Bangkok as unrest spread through the city. Thailand's chief of the armed forces vowed to end the chaos by whatever means necessary. Two people were killed and 113 wounded, among them 23 security and government personnel, hospital officials said. Page A6 
 IRAQ LEANS ON JOURNALISTS
 The Iraqi military said that it was filing a lawsuit to close the Baghdad offices of the newspaper, Al Hayat, and the television station, Al Sharqiya, for misquoting an official. And an Iraqi government office criticized the local and international news media, saying they promoted sectarian strife. Page A7 
 MORTARS THREATEN OFFICIAL'S PLANE
 The chairman of the House subcommittee on Africa narrowly escaped a mortar attack as he was ending a visit to Mogadishu. Ten civilians were injured. Page A8 
 FIRE AT POLAND SHELTER KILLS 21
 A fire at a homeless shelter in Poland killed 21 people and injured 20 others. The fire, the worst in Poland in nearly three decades, began early in the morning and spread quickly, Polish authorities and witnesses said. The cause had not been determined. Page A8 Pforzheim Journal 
 The Glitter Fades in Germany
 Vacant storefronts and failing industry are often associated with eastern Germany, but the country's currents troubles are assailing the wealthy regions in the west. Nowhere is this more apparent than in Pforzheim, also called the Golden City for its history as the capital of Germany's jewelry trade. The Golden City's gilt is chipping away under the fastest rising tide of unemployment in Germany. Page A9 
 EGYPT TRACKING HEZBOLLAH PLOT
 Egypt has released details on what it called a Hezbollah plan to smuggle weapons into the Gaza Strip. The authorities said that the plotter also intended to attack Israeli tourist sites on the Sinai Peninsula and fire on ships in the Suez Canal. Officials said they were hunting 10 Lebanese suspects they believed were hiding in central Sinai. Page A10 
 National
 REP. JACKSON GETS CLOSER LOOK
 In Blagojevich Case
 Federal investigators in Washington are looking into contacts between Representative Jesse L. Jackson Jr.'s and Rod R. Blagojevich, the former governor of Illinois who is accused of trying to sell his appointment to the United States Senate seat vacated by Barack Obama. According to wiretap transcripts, Mr. Jackson promised to raise $1.5 million for Mr. Blagojevich in exchange for the appointment. PAGE A11 
 EFFICIENCY AT THE COST OF SAFETY
 An insurance group that crashed three models of minicars into midsize ones in tests said buyers who purchase minicars to economize on fuel were making a big tradeoff when it comes to safety in collisions. PAGE A11
 REORGANIZING THE FORD FOUNDATION
 Under its new director, the Ford Foundation, the nation's second-largest philanthropic institution, has begun unveiling the results of a two-year overhaul, under which it will define the foundation's work and objectives more clearly, streamline its sprawling operations and place greater emphasis on demonstrating the impact of its programs. PAGE A12
 FRETTING OVER THE PREAKNESS
 With just a month to go before the Preakness Stakes at Pimlico Race Course, the bankruptcy of the company that owns the track and questions about the race's future have unleashed a wave of distress among politicians and the public over whether Maryland could lose the second leg of the Triple Crown. PAGE A13
 PRODUCER CONVICTED OF MURDER
 Phil Spector, the rock music impresario behind hits like ''Da Doo Ron Ron,'' and ''You've Lost that Lovin' Feeling,'' was convicted of shooting and killing an actress at his home in 2003 after a night of drinking. He faces at least 18 years in prison. PAGE A15 
 COURT HALTS IDENTITY THEFT CASE
 A state judge in Greeley, Colo., ordered a halt to a controversial identify theft investigation that has implicated more than 1,000 suspected illegal immigrants, ruling that the search at the start of the investigation was unlawful and violated privacy rights. PAGE A15
 Obituaries
 HARRY KALAS, 73
 The voice of the Philadelphia Phillies since 1971 -- as well as the voice of N.F.L. Films -- he was inducted into the broadcasters' wing of the Baseball Hall of Fame. PAGE B16 
 New York
 UNIONS GO ON ATTACK
 Over Threat of State Layoffs
 New York's largest public employee unions responded quickly to Gov. David A. Paterson's threat to lay off nearly 9,000 state workers, launching an effort to force his poll numbers down to the point where he would have to reverse course. But Mr. Paterson's approval ratings are already at historic lows in some polls, and the campaign has only stiffened the governor's resolve. PAGE A17 
 FINANCE FINDS FRIEND IN MAYOR
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has emerged as perhaps the foremost defender of the financial industry in the political world, while other elected leaders seize on the populist anger over the economy and executive compensation. While his support is refreshing to those in finance, others say he is too cozy with his business-class brethren. PAGE A17
 Daredevil Plans High-Wire Walk A21 
 Business
 AMAZON.COM BLAMES ERROR 
 For Removing Search Rankings
 Amazon.com said ''an embarrassing and ham-fisted cataloging error'' was the reason thousands of books lost their search rankings and became harder to find on the Web retailer's site over the weekend. Blog and Twitter posts complained about what appeared to be a disproportionate effect on books with gay and lesbian themes. PAGE B1
 GOLDMAN PROFIT TOPPED FORECAST
 Goldman Sachs announced a first-quarter profit of $1.66 billion -- 13 percent higher than the quarter a year ago, bolstered by a record quarter in its fixed-income units. It marked a return to profitability for Goldman after a tough end to 2008, and gave a glimmer of hope to the ailing banking sector. PAGE B1
 THE WISDOM OF TWITTERING CROWDS
 Individually, the tweets offered by Twitter users seem like inane inner monologues made public. But collectively, the stream of messages can turn Twitter into a surprisingly useful tool for solving problems and providing insights into the digital mood. PAGE B1
 AIR FORCE CHANGES STANCE ON JETS
 Top Air Force officials have said that they support the Obama administration's decision to buy only four more of the advanced F-22 fighter jets, making it less likely that Congress will insist on extending its production. PAGE B3
 Adding Action to ESPN Billboards B3 
 Sports
 A BALLPARK, WITH NOOKS, 
 Crannies and Little Pretense
 The Mets christened Citi Field with its first regular season game, and the most striking aspect of their new home is when it comes into full view from the off ramp of the Grand Central Parkway as a single entity, already secure in its own time and space. Harvey Araton, Sports of the Times. PAGE B11
 A VICTORY WITH GLOBAL APPEAL
 When Angel Cabrera, the rugged, powerful and galumphing native of Cordoba, Argentina, won the Masters Tournament on Sunday, he caught the attention of his home country, which boasts a high literacy rate, roughly one cellphone for each person and is ripe for golf expansion. PAGE B16
 Arts
 POP STAR'S PERSONAL EFFECTS
 Go Up For Auction
 As part of a deal to spare his Neverland Valley Ranch, Michael Jackson is selling off hundreds of items that were once housed there. In its sheer quantity and diversity -- paintings of Mr. Jackson as an Elizabethan noble, a life-size Lego model of Darth Vader, his signature sparkling gloves -- the collection offers a revealing tour through the pop star's obsessions. PAGE C1
 RELIEF AFTER SUCCESS OF 'HAIR'
 Investors who backed the transfer of the hit summer production of ''Hair'' in Central Park to Broadway are breathing sighs of relief after the show, which opened at the Public Theater on March 31, has done brisk business and now garnered advance ticket sales of more than $5 million. PAGE C1
 Book Review
 Freedom Deferred in Tehran
 Azadeh Moaveni's ''Honeymoon in Tehran'' uses the author's experiences as a prism through which to view political developments in Iran since her last memoir. Michiko Kakutani writes that the country's political evolution has left Ms. Moaveni so jaded that she was forced to leave. PAGE B1 
 INVOKING A VAST CONSPIRACY
 The director John McTiernan is expected to be indicted for his role in the Anthony Pellicano wiretapping case in Hollywood, but Mr. McTiernan is pushing back with a new documentary that accuses the Bush administration of pursuing the Pellicano case as part of a far-ranging conspiracy under the direction of Karl Rove to prosecute Democrats. PAGE C3
 SCIENCE
 KEEPER OF THE HUBBLE
 Prepares for Last Tuneup
 John Grunsfeld, an astronaut who has long tended to the Hubble Space Telescope's needs, and six other astronauts are scheduled to ride to the telescope's rescue one last time in May. It will be the fifth and final time astronauts visit Hubble. When the telescope's batteries and gyros finally run out of juice sometime in the middle of the next decade, NASA plans to send a rocket and drop it into the ocean. PAGE D1 
 Basics
 Taxing: Ritual to Save the Species
 Giving up a portion of one's income for the sake of the tribe is such a ubiquitous feature of the human race that some researchers see it as crucial to our species' success. Without ritualized taxation, there would be precious little hominid representation. PAGE D1 
 Well
 Antibiotics Threat Made Clear
 Doctors have found that Clostridium difficile, a contagious and potentially deadly bacterium, is often spurred by antibiotics. Drugs that wipe out an illness like a urinary tract or upper respiratory infection also kill off large portions of the healthy bacteria that normally live in the digestive tract, creating an opportunity for C. difficile to flourish. PAGE D1 
 Essay
 Can You Hear Me Now?
 The Australian performance artist known as Stelarc, formerly Stelios Arcadiou, wants to transform his body into a portal on the Internet. Which is why visitors to Exit Art, a gallery in Midtown Manhattan, are being treated to a video of Stelarc's left arm being cut up to implant what will eventually be a Bluetooth-enabled artificial ear. PAGE D2 
 EARTHQUAKES' MANY MYSTERIES
 A small segment of a fault, miles underground, jerks a little, the rumble imperceptible at the surface. But with a few quakes, the fault continues breaking, the ground jumps several feet and the world shakes in cataclysm. No one knows why this is, and the gap in knowledge makes earthquake prediction a chancy exercise. PAGE D3 
 Prenatal Thyroid Testing Debated D5 
 Another Awkward Sex Talk D5 
 SIGNS THAT MICE REGENERATE EGGS
 Scientists in Shanghai have challenged the orthodox medical view that a woman is born with egg cells to last a lifetime and will never generate any new ones. The Chinese team injected mice with fertility cells bearing a green marker had green offspring, indicating they originated from eggs produced by the injected cells. PAGE D6 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (77%); ARMED FORCES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (74%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (72%); TESTIMONY (71%); WRITERS (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); GOVERNORS (68%); SMUGGLING (67%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (67%); HEZBOLLAH (66%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (65%); HOMELESSNESS (65%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (65%); WIRETAPPING (60%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (60%); LITIGATION (54%); HOSPITALS (54%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); JESSE JACKSON (60%); JESSE L JACKSON JR (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGKOK, THAILAND (93%); MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (71%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) CUBA (95%); THAILAND (93%); IRAQ (93%); POLAND (92%); EGYPT (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); GERMANY (90%); ISRAEL (79%); SOMALIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); LEBANON (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2009



558 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1144 words

HEADLINE: Labor Groups Reach an Accord on Immigration

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON and STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
The nation's two major labor federations have agreed for the first time to join forces to support an overhaul of the immigration system, leaders of both organizations said on Monday. The accord could give President Obama significant support among unions as he revisits the stormy issue in the midst of the recession. 
 John Sweeney, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., and Joe T. Hansen, a leader of the rival Change to Win federation, will present the outlines of their new position on Tuesday in Washington. In 2007, when Congress last considered comprehensive immigration legislation, the two groups could not agree on a common approach. That legislation failed. 
 The accord endorses legalizing the status of illegal immigrants already in the United States and opposes any large new program for employers to bring in temporary immigrant workers, officials of both federations said. 
 ''The labor movement will work together to make sure that the White House as well as Congress understand that we speak about immigration reform with one voice,'' Mr. Sweeney said in a statement to The New York Times. 
 But while the compromise repaired one fissure in the coalition that has favored broad immigration legislation, it appeared to open another. An official from the United States Chamber of Commerce said Monday that the business community remained committed to a significant guest-worker program.
 ''If the unions think they're going to push a bill through without the support of the business community, they're crazy,'' said Randel Johnson, the chamber's vice president of labor, immigration and employee benefits. ''There's only going to be one shot at immigration reform. As part of the trade-off for legalization, we need to expand the temporary worker program.''
 The common labor position is also unlikely to convince many opponents that an immigration overhaul would not harm American workers. When Obama administration officials said last week that the president intended to push Congress this year to take up an immigration bill that would include a path to legal status for the country's estimated 12 million illegal immigrants, critics criticized the approach as amnesty for lawbreakers. 
 ''In our current economic crisis, Americans cannot afford to lose more jobs to illegal workers,'' said Representative Steve King, an Iowa Republican who sits on the House Judiciary subcommittee on immigration. ''American workers are depending on President Obama to protect their jobs from those in America illegally.''
 The two labor federations have agreed in the past to proposals that would give legal status to illegal immigrants. But in 2007 the A.F.L.-C.I.O. parted ways with the service employees and several other unions when it did not support legislation put forth by the Bush administration because it contained provisions for an expanded guest-worker program. 
 In the new accord, the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and Change to Win have called for managing future immigration of workers through a national commission. The commission would determine how many permanent and temporary foreign workers should be admitted each year based on demand in American labor markets. Union officials are confident that the result would reduce worker immigration during times of high unemployment like the present.
 Mr. Hansen, who is president of the United Food and Commercial Workers Union, said in an interview that the joint proposal was a ''building block to go forward to get immigration reform up on the agenda in Congress'' sometime this year. 
 Thousands of immigrant farm workers and other low-wage laborers come to the United States through seasonal guest-worker programs that are subject to numerical visa limits and have been criticized by employers as rigid and inefficient. Many unions oppose the programs because the immigrants are tied to one employer and cannot change jobs no matter how abusive the conditions, so union officials say they undercut conditions for American workers. Highly skilled foreign technology engineers and medical specialists also come on temporary visas.
 Advocates for immigrants said a unified labor movement could substantially bolster their position as they push for legislation to restructure the ailing immigration system. 
 ''It shows how important the issue is to the representatives of American workers,'' said Frank Sharry, executive director of America's Voice, an advocate group.
 A.F.L.-C.I.O. officials said they agreed with Change to Win leaders that, with more than seven million unauthorized immigrants already working across the nation, legalizing their status would be the most effective way to protect labor standards for all workers.
 ''We have developed a joint strategy with the approach framed around workers' rights,'' said Ana Avendano, associate general counsel of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.
 Labor leaders said that they would talk with other groups in coming weeks to nail down details of a common position, and that they would then would work in Congress and with the Obama administration to try to ensure that their proposal was part of any bill offered for debate. 
 Also supporting the compromise is Eliseo Medina, an executive vice president of the Service Employees International Union, a member of Change to Win with hundreds of thousands of members who are immigrants. The Change to Win federation was formed in 2005 with seven unions that broke away from the A.F.L.-C.I.O. 
 The plan for a labor commission to monitor and control levels of worker immigration was developed with help from Ray Marshall, a labor secretary under President Jimmy Carter. Over the past year, Mr. Marshall, at the request of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., has been consulting between the two federations and with a variety of Hispanic organizations and advocate groups for immigrants. 
 ''All these groups understand that one of the main reasons they lost before was that they were not together,'' Mr. Marshall said. 
 According to a list of principles the labor leaders will present on Tuesday, they are proposing a ''depoliticized,'' independent commission that ''can assess labor market needs on an ongoing basis and -- based on a methodology to be approved by Congress -- determine the number of foreign workers to be admitted for employment purposes.''
 Mr. Johnson, the Chamber of Commerce official, said, ''A commission doesn't get us there.'' 
 Tamar Jacoby, president of ImmigrationWorks USA, a group that organizes businesses to support comprehensive immigration legislation, agreed that employers would have many questions about the approach.
 ''The question is, Will the commission work?'' Ms. Jacoby said. ''Will it be adequately attuned to and triggered by the labor market? A system that may -- or may not -- supply the workers that business will need in the future after the recession will be a cause of great concern to employers.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John Sweeney, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., left, and Joe T. Hansen, leader of Change to Win, have agreed to join forces in the debate over overhauling immigration policies. When the issue last came up, the groups were divided, and legislation failed.(PHOTOGRAPHS, LEFT TO RIGHT, BY JOE RAEDLE/GETTY IMAGES
 CHRIS OCKEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); AMNESTY (74%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (83%); CHANGE TO WIN (83%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (77%); STEVE KING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2009



559 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: Investigators Take Closer Look at Rep. Jackson in Blagojevich Case

BYLINE: By SUSAN SAULNY and CHRISTOPHER DREW; Christopher Drew reported from New York.

DATELINE: CHICAGO 

 BODY:
Representative Jesse L. Jackson Jr. went to see the Illinois governor in December to press for an appointment to the United States Senate seat being vacated by Barack Obama. Mr. Jackson took along a black binder filled with letters of support, poll numbers and lists of his accomplishments over 13 years in Congress. 
 By dawn the next morning, the governor, Rod R. Blagojevich, was under arrest and accused of trying to sell his appointment to the seat. And Mr. Jackson landed in his own political hot seat as federal prosecutors revealed wiretap evidence that one of his fund-raisers had promised to raise $1.5 million for Mr. Blagojevich in exchange for the appointment. 
 Mr. Jackson asserts he has done nothing wrong and had not known about the fund-raiser's activities. But with new indications that federal prosecutors and Congressional ethics investigators are stepping up their interest in Mr. Jackson, a nagging question follows him: Was that December meeting with Mr. Blagojevich a good-faith effort to land the Senate job or a charade to conceal behind-the-scenes maneuvers with Mr. Blagojevich to pay to play?
 Federal prosecutors would not comment on the investigation, but lawyers who are familiar with it said Mr. Jackson was pressed earlier this month about his contacts with Mr. Blagojevich, who has since been removed from office and indicted on racketeering and other charges. Prosecutors want to know whether Mr. Jackson had initiated any deals with Mr. Blagojevich or his staff, the lawyers said, and whether he knew that anyone was working on his behalf to secure the seat.
 Mr. Jackson, who said in a statement that he had cooperated with the federal authorities, declined to be interviewed for this article. His lawyer, James D. Montgomery, did not return calls for comment. Rick Bryant, a spokesman for Mr. Jackson, said the congressman had been focused lately on finding more jobs for his South Side constituents and pushing for economic-development projects, like construction of another airport in Chicago.
 Even some of Mr. Jackson's allies say that his political star has been tarnished by the continuing scrutiny -- and uncertainty -- and that Mr. Jackson has emerged as the politician outside of Mr. Blagojevich's inner circle with the most to lose from the former governor's troubles.
 ''He wasn't indicted but he still needs to be cleared,'' said Dick Simpson, a former Chicago alderman who is the head of the political science department at the University of Illinois at Chicago. ''He needs to be able to say, 'I was investigated, and not only did I not do anything illegal, I did not do anything unethical.' He needs those certificates.''
 Buoyed by the celebrity and resources of his father, the Rev. Jesse Jackson, the civil rights leader, Mr. Jackson shot to power in winning his Congressional seat on Chicago's South Side in 1995, when he was 30. He long ago set his sights on higher office, but since December has dropped off the state's political radar and is not among the contenders vying for Mr. Obama's Senate seat, now occupied by Roland W. Burris, when the term ends in 2010.
 Mr. Jackson, a Democrat, served as a national co-chairman of President Obama's campaign last year. But it is Alexi Giannoulias, the Democratic state treasurer, who is being assisted in his fund-raising by the former head of Mr. Obama's presidential fund-raising staff, Jordan Kaplan. Mr. Giannoulias raised $1.1 million in 28 days after announcing his exploratory committee for the Senate race. 
 The transcripts of wiretap conversations released in the Blagojevich criminal case in December revealed evidence that one of Mr. Jackson's fund-raisers, Raghuveer Nayak, had promised to raise money for Mr. Blagojevich in exchange for Mr. Jackson's appointment. 
 Also according to the transcripts in the criminal complaint, Mr. Blagojevich had been putting pressure on one of his fund-raisers to strike a deal with a person close to Mr. Jackson -- assumed to be Mr. Nayak -- for a contribution he described as ''tangible'' and ''up front'' just days before his arrest. Mr. Blagojevich pulled back on that plan on the morning of Dec. 5, when The Chicago Tribune published an article saying that he was being secretly recorded as part of the federal investigation.
 Mr. Nayak, a wealthy businessman, was a host of a fund-raiser for Mr. Blagojevich in October to start raising the money, and Mr. Jackson's brother, Jonathan, attended. 
 Mr. Nayak, who owns a chain of surgical centers, is trying to obtain immunity from prosecution in exchange for his testimony, his friends say. And the key for Mr. Jackson will be whether Mr. Nayak supports his assertion that he did not know anything about the fund-raiser's dealings with Mr. Blagojevich.
 Mr. Nayak's friends say he has long been a supporter of the elder Mr. Jackson's civil rights organizations, and has also been involved in efforts to put together a land deal with one of Representative Jackson's brothers. Mr. Nayak, an Indian-American, has also been a sponsor of the congressman's annual ''birthday bash'' fund-raiser here, and he has taken credit for urging the Mr. Jackson to become a member of the House Caucus on India. 
 The Chicago Tribune reported Friday that the United States attorney for the Northern District of Illinois, Patrick J. Fitzgerald, who is known for the energy and sweep of his investigations, had subpoenaed several people who had helped Mr. Nayak set up the fund-raiser to benefit Mr. Blagojevich. The Chicago Sun-Times reported on Monday that Mr. Blagojevich's people had been told that Mr. Jackson would raise up to $5 million in campaign cash for Mr. Blagojevich.
 With the federal investigation apparently stepping up, legal experts said a preliminary inquiry into Mr. Jackson's dealing with Mr. Blagojevich by the new Office of Congressional Ethics is likely to take a back seat to Mr. Fitzgerald's investigation.
 Stefan C. Passantino, a Washington lawyer and ethics specialist, said the new office, which cannot compel testimony, was not given enough tools to compete with the federal prosecutors in a case like Mr. Jackson's.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Jesse L. Jackson Jr., flanked by Representatives Elijah E. Cummings and Sheila Jackson Lee, sought appointment to the vacant Illinois Senate seat. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PABLO MARTINEZ MONSIVAIS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); INDICTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); ETHICS (76%); LAWYERS (75%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); ARRESTS (71%); WIRETAPPING (70%); DISMISSALS (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (61%); CIVIL RIGHTS (60%)

PERSON: JESSE JACKSON (93%); JESSE L JACKSON JR (91%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); ELIJAH E CUMMINGS (59%); SHEILA JACKSON-LEE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2009



560 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1391 words

HEADLINE: Much Vilified, Financial Titans Find a Friend in Bloomberg

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

 BODY:
Gov. Jon S. Corzine is suing Lehman Brothers, saying the firm shortchanged New Jersey's pension funds. Most members of New York's Congressional delegation pushed for a 90 percent tax on American International Group bonuses. Politicians in Albany and beyond have pushed through income tax increases on the wealthy.
 But Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is having none of that. 
 Declaring that ''we love the rich people,'' Mr. Bloomberg has opposed capping executive pay, increasing the capital gains tax or raising income taxes on the wealthy. He has gushed about Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, saying he ''walks on water,'' and praised Henry M. Paulson Jr.'s Goldman Sachs resume. 
 Mr. Bloomberg, a billionaire many times over, has also vouched for vilified Wall Street titans like Richard S. Fuld Jr., the former chief executive of Lehman Brothers.
 ''There's Lehman Brothers, who I feel very sorry for,'' he said during a news conference. ''Dick Fuld, I've known for 40 years, who's a competent guy, and people are criticizing him. They didn't criticize him when things were going well for an awful lot of years.''
 Mr. Bloomberg has emerged as perhaps the foremost defender of the financial industry in the political world, while other elected leaders seize on the populist anger over the economy and executive compensation. 
 To the financial community, Mr. Bloomberg's support is refreshing, and his refusal to hop on an antibusiness bandwagon underscores his understanding of economic realities.
 But to others, Mr. Bloomberg's position suggests he is too cozy with his business-class brethren. He also runs the risk of seeming oblivious to the hurts and wants of the typical New Yorker.
 ''When the economy is bad, people are angry, and they look to politicians to mirror that anger, and it creates a problem for Bloomberg because he cannot be an 'I feel your pain' candidate,'' said Kenneth Sherrill, a political science professor at Hunter College. ''I think he's gentler on people in the private sector on whom, in his view, the city is dependent. He just holds his tongue.''
 The mayor occupies a unique position among politicians, thanks to his entrepreneurial background and his chameleon-like politics. So Mr. Bloomberg -- a Democrat turned Republican turned independent who is now running for a third term -- has been a regular on national television as a nonpartisan commentator who can talk authoritatively about derivatives, liquidity and foreclosures.
 Since the collapse of Lehman Brothers last fall, Mr. Bloomberg has repeatedly expressed his bullishness about the economy. He says that there is a ''crisis of confidence,'' yes, but that New York has ''a great hand to play.''
 He has recommended that investors buy shares of General Electric, Saks and Macy's -- all companies with a strong New York City presence. He has brushed aside suggestions that the ratings agencies downplayed the perils of riskier investments, telling an audience of bankers in London in October that investors should bear some responsibility as well.
 ''People are screaming about regulating the rating agencies,'' he said. ''Let me try to defend the rating agencies just a touch. It's a little bit unfair to totally blame them.'' 
 And, exercising a reflex that he most notably displayed in 2006, when he defended Con Edison's embattled chief executive, Kevin M. Burke, after a series of blackouts, Mr. Bloomberg has routinely applauded top management. His signature expression of approval is to call an executive a ''competent guy.''
 When asked in September about the A.I.G. bailout, he mentioned that he had talked to Robert B. Willumstad, the company's former chief executive. ''I feel sorry for him,'' Mr. Bloomberg said. ''He didn't have a chance to really make a difference. He's a very competent guy.''
 When asked last month about the fate of General Motors, Mr. Bloomberg hailed the man helping to shape White House policy, Steven Rattner, an investment banker whose firm, the Quadrangle Group, manages Mr. Bloomberg's wealth. ''One of the people is a friend of mine -- Steve Rattner -- he's a phenomenally competent guy.''
 Mr. Bloomberg has also declined to criticize federal officials who have overseen the markets -- not Mr. Paulson, not Mr. Geithner, not Christopher Cox, the much-maligned former chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
 ''I think Tim Geithner is exactly the guy that I would want there,'' he said on ''Meet the Press'' last month. ''He's smart, he is a workaholic, he's been there, he's been part of the financial system for a long time, he understands how things work, how markets work, how people react.''
 Mr. Bloomberg's views seem all the more striking when measured alongside those of other politicians. 
 During his ''Meet the Press'' appearance in March, Mr. Bloomberg was flanked by two governors with whom he frequently collaborates on infrastructure issues, Edward G. Rendell of Pennsylvania, a Democrat, and Arnold Schwarzenegger of California, a Republican. Both governors denounced the A.I.G. bonuses, while Mr. Bloomberg was far more circumspect.
 In New Jersey, Mr. Corzine, a Democrat and a former co-chairman of Goldman Sachs, has proposed raising income taxes on the wealthiest residents, reversing his earlier stance. He also sued Lehman Brothers in March, contending that the firm took fraudulent actions that caused the state's pension fund to lose $118 million, and accusing top executives, Mr. Fuld included, of a ''thirst for profit'' and ''simple greed.''
 Such accusations are not Mr. Bloomberg's style. ''You know, the yelling and screaming about the rich, we want the rich from around this country to move here,'' he said during his weekly radio program on March 6. ''We love the rich people.''
 He was one of the few politicians who questioned making the names of A.I.G. bonus recipients public, arguing that privacy was paramount. He criticized Congress for being rash in drafting the A.I.G. bonus tax bill, and suggested that members were hypocritical for taking money from the financial industry with one hand while slapping it with the other.
 ''It's time for Congress to stand up and say what's right, even if it isn't popular,'' he said. ''A lot of them have taken support from the financial industry so they have a little bit difficult time in being totally separate and dispassionate.''
 Then again, Mr. Bloomberg is hardly unaware of the perception among some that he is out of step with a nervous public. So he occasionally prefaces his comments by saying that he understands the public's anger over Wall Street bonuses and the like. He has also begun to frame his optimism within the context of his own policies to help small businesses, nonprofit groups and homeowners.
 ''The issue is not, 'Am I out of sync?' '' he said during a news conference on Thursday. ''The issue is, 'Am I correct?' My job -- you're right -- is to be optimistic. But it's also to be accurate and try to do something about it. We're not just optimistic; we're trying to create the reason to be optimistic. We're out there doing things every day.''
 No one would ever accuse Mr. Bloomberg, who is drawing a token salary of $1 a year, of pursuing public office for personal gain. But Eduardo Castell, who is managing City Comptroller William C. Thompson Jr.'s mayoral campaign, noted that Mr. Bloomberg had an extra incentive, perhaps, to cheer on the financial services industry, since the fortunes of his own company, Bloomberg L.P., hinge in part on other companies' staying healthy and subscribing to the firm's financial data terminals.
 Howard Wolfson, a spokesman for the Bloomberg campaign, called the Thompson campaign's suggestion ''laughable.'' He added, ''Mike Bloomberg and Bill Thompson clearly have different views of the economy, how to fix it and how to talk about it.''
 Still, Kathryn S. Wylde, president of the Partnership for New York City, a group that represents large corporations, said corporate executives were grateful that Mr. Bloomberg has been calm, confident and unwavering.
 ''He's somebody everybody calls for advice on how to deal with populist anger and the political ramifications,'' she said. ''I'm sure privately he's as critical of some of the misjudgments as everyone else, but what good would it do to have the mayor of the city pile on?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: On ''Meet the Press'' in March, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger of California, left, criticized bonuses at American International Group
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg was more circumspect. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/GETTY IMAGES FOR MEET THE PRESS) (pg.A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); POLITICS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); TAX INCREASES (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (53%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (92%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (50%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (90%); GNE (PAR) (50%); GEC (LSE) (50%); GE (SWX) (50%); GE (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%); JON CORZINE (74%); RICHARD S FULD (73%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (59%); HENRY PAULSON (57%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2009



561 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: Unions Go on Attack Over Paterson's Layoff Threat

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
When New York's largest public-employee unions learned last month that Gov. David A. Paterson was threatening to lay off nearly 9,000 state workers, the response was fast and ferocious.
 They produced television commercials and newspaper ads with photos of Mr. Paterson sticking his fingers in his ears above the words ''Why aren't you listening?'' 
 The president of one of the unions variously accused the governor last week of union busting, putting people's lives in danger, and drug use. 
 ''We think he needs a good psychiatrist, or at least he should share the drugs he's on, because he's not making any sense,'' railed Danny Donohue, president of the Civil Service Employees Union, which represents 70,000 workers in agencies like the Correctional Services Department, Health Department and State Police.
 This campaign of attacks, one of the nastiest and most personal against a governor in memory, is rare even by Albany's relaxed standards of political decorum.
 ''Normally in major issues of public debate, even if there are hard feelings on both sides, it usually builds to a crescendo,'' said Evan Stavisky, a Democratic political consultant. ''It's been jarring to see it become this brutal this quickly.''
 The unions' objective, as the civil service union's communications director, Stephen Madarasz, put it, was ''to drive the numbers down.'' Bludgeon the governor with enough negative advertising and public condemnation, the logic goes, and sooner or later he will reverse himself because his popularity is suffering.
 But Mr. Paterson's approval ratings are already at historic lows in some polls, and the unions have found their mission more difficult than they first thought. 
 If anything, the ferocity of the attacks has only stiffened Mr. Paterson's resolve.
 The governor has not backed off his threat to lay off state workers if the unions do not agree to concessions, including forgoing a 3 percent raise this year as part of a plan to save close to $500 million. He has asked leaders of agencies for work-force reduction plans that would go into effect on July 1 if a compromise with the unions is not reached. 
 Mr. Paterson also took his message directly to state employees, urging them in a letter last week to encourage their union leaders to consider the concessions. Union leaders considered the governor's letter as an effort to undercut their authority, and they were furious.
 Even as the governor's poll numbers have dropped, state officials ''seem to have hardened their stance and have certainly stepped up their efforts to embarrass us,'' Mr. Madarasz said, adding that the unions had little choice but to hit back with full force. 
 Kenneth Brynien, president of the Public Employees Federation, which has been coordinating the campaign against Mr. Paterson with the civil service union, said the governor was responsible for the aggressiveness of the response.
 ''This is not the way I like to negotiate,'' he said. ''But somehow the other side just isn't listening.''
 The heart of the dispute lies in a seemingly bland legal question: should the state's labor contract with its unions be reopened? The state cannot unilaterally reduce the pay of its unionized workers as it has done with its nonunionized workers. So Mr. Paterson has proposed to renegotiate the contract to eliminate the 3 percent raise that was to go into effect April 1.
 The unions have rejected any cost-cutting achieved through reopening the contracts because they believe it would create a dangerous precedent.
 ''Once we renegotiate one, then every employer out there has a perfectly legitimate right to ask us to reopen their contracts,'' Mr. Madarasz said. ''As a matter of trust, how can you say the contract is worth the paper it's printed on if it's been reopened?''
 A spokeswoman for Mr. Paterson, Marissa Shorenstein, dismissed that argument. ''What is the precedent exactly?'' she asked. ''That every 80 years, when there's a historic economic and fiscal crisis, the state work force might only get half its planned raise?'' 
 Reopening labor contracts is rare, but it is not unheard of for employers with unionized work forces to take the step to cut costs. American automakers have persuaded their unions to reopen labor contracts in recent years to help defray health care and other significant employee-related expenses.
 In defending the move, Mr. Paterson has pointed out that what the unionized workers are being asked to accept is no different than the cuts the state has imposed on nonunionized employees. Last week Mr. Paterson said he had rescinded their 3 percent raises. 
 In his public remarks on the issue, Mr. Paterson has said the unions are trying to escape the kinds of sacrifices that other New Yorkers are making in the economic downturn. ''They actually are suggesting that they be left completely alone,'' Mr. Paterson said on a Buffalo radio show last week.
 For now, the standoff between the governor and the unions appears unlikely to be resolved easily. More advertisements attacking the governor are due this week.
 ''We're trying to just say it a little more loudly and a little more aggressively, just to get someone's attention,'' Mr. Brynien said of the unions' message that the governor is mistreating the workers. ''Sometimes you need to be more on the attack.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Before the unions' advertising onslaught, Gov. David A. Paterson's poll numbers were at historic lows, perhaps too low for the commercials to drive lower. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 The union presidents directing the campaign, Kenneth Brynien, left, and Danny Donohue, denounced the governor last week. Above, some images from their commercials. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY YOUTUBE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LABOR FORCE (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (74%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (72%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (72%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (69%); POLICE FORCES (68%); PRISONS (53%)

COMPANY: CIVIL SERVICE EMPLOYEES LIFE INSURANCE CO (56%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2009



562 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 181 words

HEADLINE: Jobs and the Estate Tax

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''The Forgotten Rich'' (editorial, April 2):
 There is a key distinction to be made between the incidence of the estate tax and the larger impact of the tax on American family business owners, investors and workers. 
 Those who owe the tax are disproportionately family business owners -- people whose productive lifestyle creates economic opportunities for others. 
 Family business owners reinvest their life earnings to stay competitive. Investing that wealth in their businesses creates new operations and new opportunities for jobs. 
 Confiscating the wealth of these men and women every generation is a sure way to reduce their productive abilities and hamper job creation. According to Douglas Holtz-Eakin, a former director of the Congressional Budget Office, eliminating the estate tax would result over the long term in additional investment that would create as many as 1.5 million jobs.
 Forget ''the forgotten rich'' -- we are fighting for the forgotten entrepreneurs.
 Dick Patten President American Family Business Institute Washington, April 2, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ESTATE TAX (92%); FAMILY COMPANIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); BUDGETS (88%); JOB CREATION (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2009



563 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: As in 1976, Britain Faces a Blow to Its Financial Pride

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
In the dank gloom of the factory that he and his fellow workers had just occupied, John Horscroft recalled a time 30 years ago when strikes and industrial unrest in Britain were an everyday occurrence.
 ''It feels like those days again,'' said Mr. Horscroft, who with 226 colleagues was laid off when a car parts factory in North London was shut down last month after its American parent company, Visteon, put three British plants into bankruptcy protection. ''We are all together now, fighting for a cause.''
 As job losses accumulate here, along with the government's debt burden as it tries to fight the ravages of recession, Mr. Horscroft's nostalgia has been joined by harder-edged warnings -- from no less a critic than former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher -- that Britain's deteriorating public finances might require the government to seek aid from the International Monetary Fund, just as it did back in 1976 when the country's economy was on its knees.
 As remote as that possibility might be, it underscores the financial bind Britain is in and represents another humbling comedown for a country that once had ambitions to overtake New York City as the world's financial capital. 
 Speculation that Britain may once again seek monetary fund assistance -- and become the first major western European country to do so in this financial crisis -- rests upon a crucial, uncertain assumption: that the combination of its steep debt and wounded banking sector will put too much pressure on the already wobbly pound.
 The numbers are worrisome. Britain's budget deficit is 11 percent of its gross domestic product, compared with 13 percent forecast for the United States this year. Analysts say that without severe spending cuts and tax increases, government debt will jump to 80 percent of the overall economy in the coming years, from today's level of about 40 percent, a ratio that approaches that of troubled economies like Greece and Italy.
 So far, investors have been willing to finance Britain's debt at relatively low interest rates, unlike in countries like Hungary and Latvia, whose reserves have been drained, leading them to turn to the I.M.F. for support. Last month a failed British government bond auction in London sparked some fear, but subsequent debt sales have been successful. 
 That could change, according to Simon Johnson, the former chief economist of the I.M.F., if those now holding British assets lose confidence in the government's ability to pay its debts and start abandoning the pound in droves, as they did in 1976.
 In contrast to some of its troubled European partners like Ireland, Spain and Greece, Britain did not adopt the euro and is thus more vulnerable to a run on its currency. If the situation worsens, turning to the monetary fund may be the best alternative, Mr. Johnson said.
 ''If you have a budget problem and a banking problem, the bottom line is that you need to make adjustments,'' he said. ''And an I.M.F. loan can make Britain's life easier, not harder. They may have to do it.''
 Mr. Johnson's views are decidedly in the minority here, and even he considers the likelihood that Britain will face such a situation to be remote. 
 Still, he and the financier George Soros, who made $1 billion betting against the pound in 1992 and who has also cautioned about the possibility of a monetary fund bailout, have attracted considerable attention.
 Their views signal a growing fear that Britain, like some other countries that spent and borrowed from abroad with abandon, may be hit with a bill that it would have trouble handling. Ireland has a deficit of 10 percent of G.D.P. and a banking system that is in worse shape. Greece has the largest current account deficit in Europe at 12 percent of G.D.P. But Britain is the only one with its own currency to defend.
 The British scoff at the idea that they may need help from the I.M.F. At the Group of 20 summit meeting two weeks ago, Prime Minister Gordon Brown said his Labor government had no plans to seek such assistance.
 The 1976 agreement with the monetary fund was not only seen as a national embarrassment, it remained a symbol of a country that, under various Labor governments, effectively lost control of the economy to militant trade unions, resulting in spiraling debt and rampant work stoppages that brought down Britain. 
 So it is no wonder that Mr. Brown would reject any comparison to Britain in 1976.
 Kathleen Burk, a historian at University College London, one of the authors of an account of the crisis in ''Goodbye, Great Britain,'' argued that the economic situation today might well be dire but it bore little similarity to the Britain of that period when, as she recalled, even the gravediggers were on strike.
 And while Mr. Horscroft and his fellow Visteon workers may look wistfully to the days of nationwide worker revolts, the numbers tell a different story. In January, the British economy lost seven days to work stoppages compared with a combined 2,966 lost employee-days in the same month 30 years ago, according to the Office for National Statistics.
 Still, Britain's situation is likely to get worse before it gets better.
 ''It is not that debt of 80 percent of G.D.P. is unsustainable,'' said Gemma Tetlow, an economist at the Institute for Fiscal Studies, a nonpartisan research group based in London. ''It is that without fiscal adjustments, the debt could grow indefinitely to 100 percent and beyond. And the evidence suggests that the higher your debt,'' she added, ''the more your borrowing costs increase.''
 As the lesson of Britain's crisis in 1976 demonstrates, good intentions are not enough to offset a loss of international investor confidence.
 Before the 1976 agreement, the Labor government of Prime Minister James Callaghan had already taken difficult steps to curb public wages and bring down the deficit, which at 5 percent of G.D.P. was about half of what Britain's current gap is. 
 But for foreign investors fed up with years of government excess, that was not enough and they unloaded their sterling holdings, starting the run on the currency that would drive Labor into the arms of the monetary fund.
 At the time, Mr. Callaghan delivered an assessment of Britain's finances that resonates today. 
 ''We have been living on borrowed time,'' he said. ''We used to think you could spend your way out of a recession and increase employment by cutting taxes and boosting government spending. I tell you in all candor that that option no longer exists.''
 Later this month, Mr. Brown's government is expected to present an especially austere budget to avoid turning to the I.M.F. like Mr. Callaghan did. 
 ''This would destroy the Labor Party,'' said Ms. Burk, the historian. ''It is one thing if you are Hungary or Zambia. But the idea that the United Kingdom is so weak that it cannot support itself without going to the I.M.F. would be system-shaking.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Workers laid off by the American auto parts maker Visteon protested last week on the roof of a company plant in London. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAX NASH/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE - GETTY IMAGES) (pg.B1)
Ex-Visteon workers warmed by a fire while picketing a company plant in London on Monday. More than 600 lost jobs. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE TCHALENKO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B6) CHART: RELIEF FOR BRITAIN: In 1976, economic crisis drove Britain to seek help from the International Monetary Fund. Though labor unrest and inflation were much stronger then, by other measures the economy is in worse shape today. (Source
 British government) (pg.B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); LAYOFFS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); RECESSION (76%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (72%); PARENT COMPANIES (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (70%); BONDS (70%); EURO (67%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (62%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: VISTEON CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (83%)

TICKER: VC (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336330 MOTOR VEHICLE STEERING & SUSPENSION COMPONENTS (EXCEPT SPRING) MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336320 MOTOR VEHICLE ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS327211 FLAT GLASS MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); GREECE (92%); LATVIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); SPAIN (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2009



564 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2087 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Stymied as Guns Flow to Mexican Cartels

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

DATELINE: HOUSTON 

 BODY:
John Phillip Hernandez, a 24-year-old unemployed machinist who lived with his parents, walked into a giant sporting goods store here in July 2006, and plunked $2,600 in cash on a glass display counter. A few minutes later, Mr. Hernandez walked out with three military-style rifles. 
 One of those rifles was recovered seven months later in Acapulco, Mexico, where it had been used by drug cartel gunmen to attack the offices of the Guerrero State attorney general, court documents say. Four police officers and three secretaries were killed. 
 Although Mr. Hernandez was arrested last year as part of a gun-smuggling ring, most of the 22 others in the ring are still at large. Before their operation was discovered, the smugglers had transported what court documents described as at least 339 high-powered weapons to Mexico over a year and a half, federal agents said. 
 ''There is no telling how long that group was operating before we caught on to them,'' said J. Dewey Webb, the agent in charge of the Houston division of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.
 Noting there are about 1,500 licensed gun dealers in the Houston area, Mr. Webb added, ''You can come to Houston and go to a different gun store every day for several months and never alert any one.'' 
 The case highlights a major obstacle facing the United States as it tries to meet a demand from Mexico to curb the flow of arms from the states to drug cartels. The federal system for tracking gun sales, crafted over the years to avoid infringements on Second Amendment rights, makes it difficult to spot suspicious trends quickly and to identify people buying for smugglers, law enforcement officials say. 
 As a result, in some states along the Southwest border where firearms are lightly regulated, gun smugglers can evade detection for months or years. In Texas, New Mexico and Arizona, dealers can sell an unlimited number of rifles to anyone with a driver's license and a clean criminal record without reporting the sales to the government. 
 At gun shows in these states, there is even less regulation. Private sellers, unlike licensed dealers, are not obligated to record the buyer's name, much less report the sale to the A.T.F. 
 Mexican officials have repeatedly asked the United States to clamp down on the flow of weapons and are likely to bring it up again with President Obama when he visits Mexico on Thursday. 
 Sending straw buyers into American stores, cartels have stocked up on semiautomatic AK-47 and AR-15 rifles, converting some to machine guns, investigators in both countries say. They have also bought .50 caliber rifles capable of stopping a car and Belgian pistols able to fire rifle rounds that will penetrate body armor. 
 Federal agents say about 90 percent of the 12,000 pistols and rifles the Mexican authorities recovered from drug dealers last year and asked to be traced came from dealers in the United States, most of them in Texas and Arizona. 
 The Mexican foreign minister, Patricia Espinosa, in talking with reporters recently, accused the United States of violating its international treaty obligations by allowing guns to flow into the hands of organized crime groups in Mexico. 
 But law enforcement officials on this side of the border say the legal hurdles to making cases against smugglers remain high. 
 ''Guns are legal to possess in this country,'' said William J. Hoover, the assistant director for operations of the federal firearms agency. ''If you stop me between the dealer and the border, I am still legal, because I can possess those guns.'' 
 To be sure, the A.T.F. and Immigration and Customs Enforcement have stepped up their efforts to stop smuggling over the last two years. Last year, some 200 indictments were handed up against straw buyers and gun smugglers, breaking up at least a dozen trafficking rings. 
 In the last six months, federal agents have also begun stopping more cars they have reason to believe are carrying guns before they cross into Mexico, seizing about 1,000 weapons. 
 A review of cases over the last two years shows a pattern: the drug cartels hire people in need of cash with no criminal records to buy guns from legal sources, often just one or two at a time.
 Once the smugglers have amassed a cache of weapons, they drive them across the border in small batches, stuffed inside spare tires, fastened to undercarriages with zip ties or bubble-wrapped and tucked into vehicle panels. In some cases, the drug traffickers and gun smugglers are linked. 
 On a recent evening in Reynosa, a border town, a Mexican army patrol found an abandoned farmhouse that had been used by drug traffickers. Hidden deep in the brush outside was a plastic barrel filled with guns. The authorities believe that the traffickers were taking drugs to the United States and using the money to return with guns. 
 The cartels also employ spies to keep track of the sporadic efforts of the Mexican military to search cars, law enforcement authorities say. Because there is no computerized national gun registry, agents say, tracking guns relies on a paper trail. Agents must contact the manufacturer or importer with a make and a serial number and work their way down the supply chain by telephone or on foot. 
 At the retail level, records of gun sales remain in the hands of the dealers. Agents can request to see them only if a gun is recovered in a crime or during periodic audits. By law, those audits can be done only once a year, and, in practice, most dealers face such a review once every three to six years, because auditors are stretched thin. 
 The record keeping is not always perfect. In trying to track guns confiscated in Mexico last year, agents found that one in five of the guns could not be traced because the dealers had no record of the sale or had gone out of business and the records had been lost. 
 Even when the original legal buyer is located, a gun owner in many states, can legally say ''I lost it'' or ''I sold it to someone I do not know.'' 
 Dealers are not obligated to tell the authorities about multiple sales of rifles like the AK-47, as they must do with pistols.
 In Texas and Arizona, where most of the guns recovered in Mexico come from, there is even less regulation on private sales. Individuals may sell guns at gun shows or even through classified advertisements without running a criminal background check or even recording the buyer's name. ''If you wanted to create a system that is basically legal but designed to facilitate gun trafficking, you couldn't have a better system than you have here,'' said Tom Diaz, a researcher with the Violence Policy Center in Washington.
 But Wayne LaPierre, executive vice president and chief executive of the National Rifle Association, said tightening gun laws in the United States would penalize only people who enjoy marksmanship and hunting, or who buy firearms for self-defense, without solving Mexico's problem. 
 With billions in profits from illegal drugs, the cartels can easily obtain weapons on the black market in other countries, Mr. LaPierre and many gun dealers argue. ''The cartels have the money to get guns wherever they want,'' said Charles Fredien, the owner of Chuck's Gun in Brownsville, Tex., on the border ''They have grenades, don't they? They don't buy grenades here.'' No one knows how large the cross-border trade in arms is. In 2008, the Mexican government seized more than 20,000 weapons from suspected drug dealers. 
 Since Congress lifted the ban on assault rifles in 2004, more and more of the weapons recovered in Mexico have been military-style rifles like the AK-47s or the AR-15, the authorities in both countries say. 
 Some local law enforcement officials argue that the A.T.F., which has about 2,500 special agents watching 78,000 gun dealers nationwide, is overwhelmed. 
 ''The gun issue is the single one thing we can address, and we are not seeing it,'' said Victor Rodriguez, the chief of police in McAllen, Tex., a border town that has 19 gun dealers. 
 Although some investigations, like that of the Hernandez ring, spring from gun traces and audits, investigators say the system is set up in such a way that they must rely heavily on tips from gun dealers about suspicious sales.
 Mr. Hernandez, who pleaded guilty in the case, is to be sentenced this week. 
 Lawrence Keane, the general counsel of the National Shooting Sports Foundation, said most gun dealers were law-abiding and reported suspicious sales to the authorities.
 ''The dealers are an important source of information to them and very cooperative with the A.T.F.,'' Mr. Keane said.
 The gun industry has joined with federal authorities to educate dealers about how to spot buyers who might be making illegal purchases for someone else, mounting a public relations campaign to warn people that they could face up to 10 years in prison if they bought a firearm for someone illegally. 
 Jim Pruett, the owner of Guns and Ammo in Houston, said that every month or two he spotted a suspicious buyer.
 Recently, employees said, a young woman came in and tried to buy an AK-47, in cash, and knew nothing about the weapon. Mr. Pruett read her the riot act, they said, informing her she faced 10 years in prison if she was buying for someone else. She left quickly.
 ''We hammer them,'' Mr. Pruett said. ''We are not obligated to do that, but if you suspect it, you can.''
 Still, federal investigators say some dealers are tempted to look the other way when given a strong financial incentive. Others have been intimidated by drug dealers.
 When dealers do tip off the authorities to suspicious sales, they often call the A.T.F. after a sale has been made, federal agents say. Take the case of the owner of a small company in Tucson that specializes in military-style rifles. The owner, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he feared reprisals from drug gangs, mostly sells the semiautomatic .223 caliber rifles known as AR-15s, a civilian rifle similar to the military M-16. 
 On May 18, 2008, a man bought two military-style rifles from him at a gun show on the Arizona State Fairgrounds. Two days later, the man showed up at the dealer's home with a friend and bought eight more rifles for more than $5,000 in cash.
 ''When somebody walks in and says, 'I need eight of these,' it becomes apparent what's happening,'' the dealer said. 
 Despite the dealer's help, members of the ring managed to smuggle at least 112 weapons, bought at a half dozen locations, into Mexico before they were arrested in February, A.T.F. agents said.
 But much of the smuggling is not so obvious, dealers said. In Brownsville, for instance, one convicted smuggler, Emmanuel Ramirez, recruited 10 people with no criminal records, including young women, then sent them into big-box sporting goods stores to buy two pistols each. 
 Although federal agents say licensed dealers are the source of most guns going to Mexico, some come from private sellers at gun shows, where even noncitizens can buy guns. Dozens of shows are held each year across Texas, New Mexico and Arizona. 
 At a recent show in Pharr, Tex., another border town, a college freshman with a wispy beard arrived with two AR-15 rifles strapped to his body, spidery black guns designed for combat, tricked out with features that soldiers prize: collapsible stocks, pistol grips, extra long magazines. 
 The student, who asked to be identified only as Shane, was asking $1,900 for one of his rifles. As for paper work, he wanted only a handwritten receipt with the buyer's name and address. He was not worried, he said, about the gun's falling into the hands of drug cartels in Mexico. 
 ''They are going to get their guns either way,'' he said. ''The only thing that a ban is going to stop is good people being able to get a gun.''
 At the show, hundreds of people wandered among booths that displayed antique revolvers, bolt-action deer rifles and ornate shotguns side by side with military-style rifles and magazines for AK-47s, laser sights and scopes. 
 Bruce A. Schluderman from Round Rock, Tex., was doing a brisk business in Russian rifles from World War II as well as brand-new AR-15s. 
 As a licensed dealer, Mr. Schluderman had to call the F.B.I. to run a criminal background check on every buyer. But nearby people were selling their private collections. 
 ''I have had people that failed background checks, and yet they are carrying guns out of here that they bought from someone else,'' Mr. Schluderman said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Joy Pruett at Jim Pruett's Guns and Ammo, one of 1,500 licensed dealers in the Houston area that are easily accessible to Mexico. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
LAND OF 1,500 GUN DEALERS: ''You can come to Houston and go to a different gun store every day for several months and never alert anyone,'' a federal agent in Houston said. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
MEXICO'S GUN VIOLENCE VICTIMS: A funeral in Acapulco for two police officers in the Guerrero State attorney general's office who were killed with at least one gun traced to the United States. A Texas man pleaded guilty to smuggling charges in the case. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GREGORY BULL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A14) CHART: SMUGGLING GUNS FROM HOUSTON TO MEXICO: Under the guidance of John Phillip Hernandez, three young men bought 101 guns from 10 licensed dealers in Houston from June 2006 to June 2007. Officials have recovered 12 of these guns in Mexico. The four men, officials say, are part of a ring of 23 traffickers who have smuggled at least 339 weapons across the border. Guns highlighted in orange were recovered in the Mexican cities below. (Sources: court documents
 Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives) (CHART BY AMY SCHOENFELD AND XAQUIN G.V./THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIREARMS (92%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); SMUGGLING (90%); CARTELS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); GUN CONTROL (89%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (89%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (78%); SHOOTINGS (77%); RIGHT TO BEAR ARMS (77%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); ARRESTS (70%); TRENDS (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); DRIVERS LICENSES (66%); US PRESIDENTS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF ALCOHOL TOBACCO FIREARMS & EXPLOSIVES (82%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%) TEXAS, USA (94%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2009



565 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: North Korea Says It Will Halt Talks and Restart Its Nuclear Program

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER; Neil MacFarquhar contributed reporting from the United Nations.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
North Korea, angered by a United Nations rebuke of its recent missile launching, declared on Tuesday that it would permanently pull out of nuclear disarmament talks and restart its nuclear program. It also expelled United Nations inspectors from the country.
 The moves, which came hours after the United Nations Security Council chastised North Korea for violating a United Nations resolution, pose a nettlesome foreign policy test for the Obama administration. 
 Political analysts said they did not expect North Korea's latest actions to immediately heighten the nuclear danger the country posed because it had dismantled parts of its nuclear plant at Yongbyon. North Korea has taken a hard line before, only to soften its stance once it got concessions or made a political point.
 Still, the White House spokesman, Robert Gibbs, said North Korea's threat to abandon multiparty talks and reactivate its Yongbyon nuclear reactor represented a ''serious step in the wrong direction.'' He urged the North Korean government to return to the bargaining table.
 Privately, administration officials said they expected little change in tone or tactics from North Korea until there was some resolution of an internal struggle to replace the country's leader, Kim Jong-il, who only recently began appearing in public again after recuperating from what South Korean and Western intelligence officials have said was a stroke.
 ''If you tried to do a grand bargain with these guys right now, it's not clear that they would want to,'' said Marcus Noland, an expert on North Korea at the Peterson Institute for International Economics. ''This is a situation in which no one can afford to look conciliatory to an adversary.''
 For now, at least, the administration's strategy is to try to persuade China to exert its influence on the North to resume negotiations over its nuclear program, while trying to devise more targeted economic sanctions against the North. 
 The Security Council decided unanimously on Monday to tighten sanctions against North Korea, and the White House has asked the United Nations sanctions committee to develop a list of North Korean companies to be singled out by April 24. The focus is expected to be on companies involved in missile and nuclear technology.
 Given the poor record of sanctions against North Korea, some analysts said they doubted that these measures would prove effective. They noted that China, which is by far North Korea's largest trading partner, opposed a stronger United Nations response to the missile launching. 
 Even by its strident standards, the North Korean government used particularly uncompromising language, saying the Security Council's vote to condemn the launching and tighten sanctions was an ''unbearable insult'' to the North Korean people.
 ''There is no need for the six-party talks anymore,'' said a statement issued by the Foreign Ministry, referring to the off-again-on-again talks between North Korea and five countries, including the United States. ''We will never again take part in such talks and will not be bound by any agreement reached at the talks.''
 The International Atomic Energy Agencysaid its inspectors had been ordered to remove surveillance devices and other equipment at the Yongbyon nuclear plant, and to leave North Korea as soon as possible.
 Siegfried S. Hecker, a professor at Stanford University who has extensively toured the plant, said it would take six months to rebuild the cooling tower that North Korea blew up in June 2008 as part of an earlier agreement.
 But Dr. Hecker said the North Koreans could begin reprocessing plutonium from an existing cache in a couple of weeks. That would allow them to make one additional bomb a year, he said, which might embolden them to conduct another test and refine their bomb-making expertise. 
 ''With Yongbyon disabled, it meant no more bombs and no better bombs,'' Dr. Hecker said.
 The North had earlier agreed in principle to give up its nuclear material and any weapons, but talks on how to reach that goal stalled. During the Bush administration, North Korea is believed to have produced enough bomb-grade plutonium for six or more nuclear weapons. 
 Dr. Hecker said that throwing out inspectors also raised the risk that North Korea could sell nuclear material to other countries.
 The United States has worked to get North Korea back to the negotiating table, even as it has tried unsuccessfully to win a tougher statement from the Security Council in response to the April 5 missile launching.
 The launching, experts said, was supported by the North Korean military and was part of a larger drama in which Mr. Kim was reasserting his grip on the levers of power. North Korea had said the launching was meant to send a satellite into orbit, but Western analysts said it was a failure, with parts of the rocket plunging into the sea off Japan. Nevertheless, it was worrisome because the North was using the same technology as an intercontinental ballistic missile.
 On Tuesday, China, which along with Russia had blocked a sharper rebuke from the United Nations, said it hoped that North Korea would reconsider. The Russian foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, said he was confident that the talks would resume, even if ''emotions usually run high in such situations.''
 At the White House and the State Department, officials seemed to be digging in for a long struggle.
 ''You have to be able to withstand short-term setbacks,'' said one official, who spoke on condition of anonymity because of the delicacy of the matter. ''You can't judge these things by short-term reactions.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A North Korean soldier on a recent patrol near North Korea's border with China. The United States is relying on China to persuade the North to rejoin talks over the North's nuclear program.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NIR ELIAS/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); DISARMAMENT (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); POWER PLANTS (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); POLITICS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%)

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (58%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2009



566 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Health Care for All: A Moral Obligation

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''The Misguided Quest for Universal Coverage,'' by Ramesh Ponnuru (Op-Ed, April 9):
 Mr. Ponnuru's argument against universal health insurance coverage oversimplifies the moral issue involved. Having health insurance in our modern economy is not just desirable but absolutely essential, as matters of both individual survival and collective well-being.
 It is morally perverse to favor a system where a bad diagnosis can be a financial death sentence. Given that risks of being uninsured are shared with family members and costs of treating uninsured patients are foisted on society, it is ethically myopic to frame a decision to be uninsured as an acceptable choice ''in a free country.'' And Mr. Ponnuru overlooks the financial bloat of administrative costs in our market-based insurance system compared with single-payer alternatives that would finance universal coverage. 
 Health insurance in a civilized society is a collective moral obligation, not a discretionary consumer good. It's somewhat analogous to national defense: We strive to safeguard everyone from the unpredictable consequences of an unforeseen tragedy, not just those who can find room in their household budgets to pony up for defense spending.
 Bruce Barry Nashville, April 9, 2009
 The writer is a professor of management and sociology at Vanderbilt University.
 To the Editor:
 Ramesh Ponnuru's explanation about how universal health coverage in America remains financially unfeasible makes the erroneous assumption that a cheaper, superior alternative to private health insurance does not exist.
 Single-payer insurance, financed through a minor federal tax increase that does not exceed what we pay for private insurance and co-payments now, guarantees health coverage for everyone at a cheaper price for the country over all. It also allows for the enforcement of health quality standards. The experience of most industrialized countries around the world verifies this.
 The reason we are not hearing more about the value of a single-payer system is that, if America makes the change, private insurance companies will lose the estimated $400 billion in administrative costs they charge Americans each year. 
 With the price of private insurance rising and the number of Americans becoming uninsured or underinsured increasing, America does not have any real long-term choice but to turn to a single-payer plan.
 Chandak Ghosh New York, April 9, 2009
 The writer is a physician.
 To the Editor:
 In his straw-man-laced polemic, Ramesh Ponnuru writes: ''At the same time, state mandates that require insurers to cover certain conditions, which make it expensive to offer individual policies, could be removed.'' In other words, make it even easier for insurance companies to cherry-pick to increase profits.
 Medicare now specifies acceptable medical procedures and permits free choice of physicians; why would its extension to all change that? No one desires to be uninsured; ''immortal'' young people without children can sometimes be persuaded to gamble that they won't get sick in the next year or two, but that hardly justifies keeping the for-big-profit private insurance bureaucracies well cushioned.
 I want my democratically elected representatives to establish universal tax-supported health care, ''as it should be in a free country,'' in Mr. Ponnuru's words.
 Arnold Wishnia Setauket, N.Y., April 9, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Ramesh Ponnuru inadvertently provides a fine argument for single-payer, government-sponsored health care: the market simply can't provide universal coverage. 
 He must surely know that the attempt to generate profit from health care is a major reason for the high cost of health care in the United States. Let's put the insurance companies out of business as soon as we possibly can.
 Lisa R. Hirsch Oakland, Calif., April 9, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Ramesh Ponnuru's argument is specious throughout, beginning with its premise, that health care should be affordable, not necessarily universal. If health care is affordable to everyone, then it's universal. If it's not affordable to everyone -- and nothing in his argument suggests it could or should be -- it's dysfunctional.
 Health care should be a right, not a ''benefit.''
 Glenn Alan Cheney Hanover, Conn., April 9, 2009

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LAURIE ROSENWALD) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); INSURANCE (89%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); WRITERS (89%); INSURANCE POLICIES (78%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (77%); ETHICS (77%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (77%); FAMILY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); MEDICARE (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (72%); SOCIOLOGY (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (61%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2009



567 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: Use of Web Tracking Tool Raises Privacy Issue in Britain

BYLINE: By KEVIN J. O'BRIEN

DATELINE: BERLIN 

 BODY:
The European Commission threatened Britain with sanctions on Tuesday for allowing an Internet service provider to use a new advertising technology to track the Web movements of customers. 
 The European telecommunications commissioner, Viviane Reding, said that use of a tracking tool created by Phorm violated European privacy laws. The country's largest service provider, BT, acknowledged last April that it used the tool without customers' consent in 2006 and 2007, Ms. Reding said. 
 ''European privacy rules are crystal clear: a person's information can only be used with their prior consent,'' Ms. Reding said. 
 The case could become a test for the limits of ads that aim at online behavior. Supporters of the practice say it has the potential to transform advertising by allowing marketers to show Internet users only ads that are considered relevant to them, based on their surfing habits. 
 But the technique has come under scrutiny because of concern that personal privacy could be violated as companies seek more specific data on individual users. In the United States, lawmakers in both houses held hearings last fall on targeted advertising. Although no legislation came out of the deliberations, one broadband operator, Charter Communications of St. Louis, dropped plans to conduct a test of behavioral advertising technology after receiving protests. 
 The British government has resisted calls for tighter oversight and has supported voluntary efforts by industry to monitor how user data is collected. This month, the Internet Advertising Bureau, a trade association for Internet marketers in Britain, asked its members to sign a voluntary code of conduct stating that no Web data would be collected without a user's explicit consent. 
 The initiative was endorsed by Ed Richards, the head of the British telecommunications regulator, OfCom. 
 After investigating complaints about BT's use of Phorm, the British information commissioner, Richard Thomas, concluded that Phorm's technology, which relies on anonymous cookies and tracking of individual Web movements, had adequately eliminated ties to individual users. BT held another trial of Phorm's technology from October through December using volunteers. 
 Many companies involved in Internet advertising, including Google and other social networking services, use behavioral targeting. But because Phorm receives actual Web-use records from service providers, it says its technology is more accurate. 
 An Internet association that has led the protest against Phorm in Britain, Open Rights Group in London, said the government had ignored European law to accommodate businesses interested in developing lucrative Internet advertising models. 
 ''What the U.K. government has done is lackeyed up to business and as a result we've been breaking E.U. law and now have this infraction proceeding as a result,'' the executive director of the Open Rights Group, Jim Killock, said. 
 Ms. Reding threatened to take Britain to court if the government did not step in and enforce European law. A spokeswoman for the Department for Business, who did not want to be identified, confirmed that the government had received the notice from Brussels and would respond after analyzing the issue. 
 Ms. Reding also called for stronger action by social networking services to protect the privacy of minors. 
 Under the action announced Tuesday, the commission is threatening to begin an ''infringement proceeding'' against Britain, accusing it of failing to observe European privacy law. 
 A spokesman for Phorm, Justin Griffiths, said the company felt it was being made an example in a broader regulatory struggle between Britain and the commission. 
 ''Phorm is very confident that it is compliant with the relevant U.K. laws and E.U. directives,'' Mr. Griffiths said. 
 Simon Davies, the director of Privacy International in London, said the case against Britain over Phorm was a broader test of the unclear legal landscape regarding a technique that allows companies to track the identity and Web habits of individual computers, traced by their unique Internet Protocol addresses. 
 ''The E.U. has been attempting to require the U.K. government to produce a definitive statement on behavioral advertising for more than a year,'' Mr. Davies said. ''But the U.K. government has refused to do that and now we have a total breakdown of regulatory oversight and the result is intransigence on the part of Britain.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIVACY RIGHTS (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); SOCIAL MEDIA (78%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (78%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (78%); ADVERTISING COPY TESTING (78%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (78%); ETHICS (77%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (74%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); BROADBAND (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (58%); CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (91%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); CHTR (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (58%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (95%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2009



568 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THIS LAND; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1519 words

HEADLINE: At an Age for Music and Imagination, Real Life Is Intruding

BYLINE: By DAN BARRY

DATELINE: NEWARK, Ohio 

 BODY:
 Two days before their long-awaited trip to New York City, for many of them a foreign place, the members of the Newark High School Sinfonia noisily gather for rehearsal. The cacophony ends when the first of the first violinists, the best violinist, stands to lead others in tuning to an A.
 Her name is Tiffany Clay and she is 18, with light brown hair tied in a ponytail and large eyes that always seem at the edge of tears. She has been on her own, more or less, since she was 16, and the violin in her delicate hands was bought for $175 on eBay by her music teacher. 
 She is a complicated young woman, says that teacher, and a gifted musician. Consistently at or near the very top of her class. Should be going to a top college, on scholarship. Should be, but won't be, because she feels a need to make money more than music. 
 Ms. Clay is a child of her age and place, worried about being laid off, uninterested in and maybe even afraid of imagining a life beyond central Ohio. Newark is what she knows: a pleasant, bifurcated city of 45,000, where concerns about unemployment temper the pride in local public art, and where affluence and poverty sit side-by-side in the classroom.
 She once explored the idea of going away to college to become a music teacher. But it just didn't seem practical: spending four years studying the theory of music, which doesn't interest her, while here in Newark, the school system is constantly adapting to real and threatened cuts. 
 Music programs always seem among the first to go, she says. No job security in Tchaikovsky.
 So she is maintaining high grades, playing in the orchestra, working 35 hours a week as a Sonic Drive-In carhop, paying $345 a month for the small apartment she shares with an unemployed boyfriend -- and planning to study nursing for two years at a technical college in Newark.
 ''Everybody gets sick,'' she says, plotting her future.
 Right now, though, she and the other students are rehearsing their string instruments for a high school orchestra competition that will take place in Lincoln Center. Soon the chatter of teenagers in a mostly empty school auditorium surrenders to the music of the masters.
 ''Listen,'' says their teacher, Susan Larson, her baton paused in mid-sway. ''Listen.''
 Ms. Larson, 43, the Newark school system's music director for the past three years, faces challenges beyond those presented on sheets of music. The city's voters keep rejecting raises in the tax levy, forcing cuts in school programs, including music. Parents now pay $55 for a child to participate in activities like this orchestra, and $200 to play sports; if next month's proposed levy is defeated, Ms. Larson doubts that the orchestra, for one, will survive.
 When she struggles to pay for repairs to instruments, many of which are long-ago hand-me-downs from another school district, she recalls her 15 years as the music director in Bexley, a more affluent city where her budget was nowhere near as tight. She vividly remembers the Bexley student who celebrated graduation by smashing a $10,000 violin -- his spare.
 She cried then; it hurts more now.
 Here in Newark, half the students are poor enough to receive lunch free or at a discount. The system also has one of the highest dropout rates in Ohio; nearly a third of the high school students do not graduate. That elevated percentage seems out of place given the Middle America setting, but officials have a theory:
 Back in the day, you could drop out and still get a good job at one of the many manufacturing plants in town. You could pay the mortgage, buy a car new, take holiday trips -- all without a high school diploma.
 ''Now those jobs have gone away,'' says Keith Richards, the city's schools superintendent. ''But the mindset has not.''
 Mayor Bob Diebold, 48, who grew up here, agrees. ''You could walk out of school and get a job,'' he says. ''You can't do that anymore.''
 Actually, you can -- only those jobs are more likely to be at McDonald's and not, say, at the Owens Corning fiberglass plant, for generations a vital part of the Newark economy. Nine years ago the plant employed about 1,500; now, fewer than 700.
 Rehearsal ends and the young musicians flee, a few in cars driven by parents. Ms. Clay, though, drives her 1998 Chevy Malibu to wash clothes for her New York trip at the Colonial Coin Laundry, then heads to her home in a weathered apartment complex -- the unit, she says, ''right next to the Dumpster.''
 The apartment contains little more than bed, television and couch, now occupied by her boyfriend, Trevor Scanlon, who dropped out of high school but says he's working on his graduate-equivalency diploma. Slinking about is their cat, Easy Mac, named after a macaroni and cheese that you microwave.
 The short life story Ms. Clay tells is of an adulthood come too soon, of parents splitting up when she was young, of a mother gone to another city, of a father, an electrician, dogged by employment uncertainties. She and her father clashed so often, she says, that she moved out at 16, got a job and tried to figure out life -- rent, work, school, some health issues -- on her own.
 She returned after a year but left again several months later, for good, though she is in touch with her parents, and talks often of wanting to be around in case they ever need her. 
 While working full time at the Sonic, she has also maintained superior grades, taken several Advanced Placement courses and distanced herself from classmates. She bristles when some of them talk of what they have spent at the Easton Town Center mall -- ''That's a month's rent,'' she wants to say -- but at the same time she admits to feeling jealous: ''I want -- that!''
 Now wearing a yellow Sonic golf shirt and a Tiffany C. nameplate, Ms. Clay leaves to make $7.35 an hour, plus tips; it will be a long night. ''Kids are in school during the week,'' she explains. ''They leave at 9, and I stay until after 11.''
 Soon she is gliding on roller skates beneath neon reds and yellows that grow more garish as dusk descends. Spinning, speeding, stopping with effortless grace, she balances plastic trays of sweet and greasy food with those delicate hands. Her mastery of yet another world, this Sonic world, means she is again employee of the month, entitling her to a month of free meals.
 And the lyrics of her night songs are: 
 ''All right, I've got your three junior chili cheese wraps, a B.L.T., chicken strip sandwich, extra long Coney and a mozzarella stick. And a kid's hot dog meal and kid's hamburger meal, one with a grape slush, the other with a Powerade slush.''
 Two mornings later, buses whisk the Newark High School Sinfonia and its entourage to New York: Austin Modesitt, 16, violinist, who has never left Ohio, but whose mother, a factory worker, contributed her tax-refund check; Jessica Kunasek, 17, violinist, whose older siblings chipped in to pay her way; other students, who sold chocolate, washed cars, held a spaghetti dinner -- anything to cover the cost of $850 a student.
 Now it is Sunday. They have spent three days in a Manhattan wonderland, but the time has come to compete for something called the National Orchestra Cup. They file into the just-renovated Alice Tully Hall at Lincoln Center and put on their school-owned tuxedos and gowns.
 A few of the invited high schools had to decline; the recession, organizers explain. But others, from Ohio and California, New York and Indiana, have made it, and their instruments, at least in Ms. Larson's estimation, are of higher quality.
 Newark is the last to perform, following a symphony orchestra -- with strings, brass, winds, percussion and a harp -- from Carmel, Ind., where the median household income is nearly three times that in Newark. The Carmel students seem at home in Lincoln Center; they play exquisitely.
 The Newark students take the stage, led by concertmaster Tiffany Clay and trailed by director Susan Larson. First, a toccata by Frescobaldi. Then a cello duet by Vivaldi, sweetly rendered by juniors Bryn Wilkin and Alex Van Atta. Finally, the first movement of Tchaikovsky's Serenade for Strings.
 Soon there come sounds just beyond articulation, of sorrow and joy and wonder, summoned from wood and string by the children of Newark, Ohio. And Ms. Clay, at the front of the stage, disappears into the music.
 Enchanted by Pachelbel as a child, given free lessons by a teacher who recognized her talent, blessed with the gift of musical sight reading, Ms. Clay has not been as fortunate with other parts of her young life. Her worries are not about prom dresses but about family, and rent, and employment.
 Soon, these students will be back in Newark, proud of tying for first runner-up, behind that orchestra from Carmel. And Ms. Clay will be back at the Sonic, spinning her wheels, singing her song of limeades and cheeseburgers, easy on the mayo. After that, nursing, probably.
 What role music will play in her life, she doesn't know. But for now, at least, she is on a New York stage, wearing a borrowed black gown, playing a borrowed eBay violin, and Tchaikovsky holds her.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tiffany Clay is the top violinist at her school in Ohio, but her dreams are bound by money worries. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
 CARHOP: Tiffany Clay, top, works 35 hours a week at Sonic Drive-In to pay the rent at the apartment she shares with her boyfriend, Trevor Scanlon, at left. The violin she plays in the school orchestra is borrowed from her teacher, who bought it for $175 on eBay. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (91%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (74%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); LAYOFFS (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (66%); TAX LAW (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) OHIO, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2009



569 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 413 words

HEADLINE: Loss of Tax Revenues Is Felt Acutely in West, Report Finds

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: DENVER 

 BODY:
Western states that were among the first to feel the pain of the housing bubble's collapse, especially Arizona, California and Nevada, continued to lead the nation's downward spiral, as measured by falling state tax collections in the last three months of 2008, according to an analysis of state budgets released Tuesday. 
 The report, by the Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government, did not conclude that the recession was vastly worse in the West: indeed, of the 10 states that out-performed the national economy from October through December, all were west of the Mississippi River, led by the energy-producing economies of Alaska and Wyoming. 
 But the sharp declines in tax revenue that are bedeviling governors and legislatures all over the country -- the steepest fall-off in 50 years -- clearly hit much of the West early and hard, the study said. Utah, for example, where construction-related employment has been battered, had the sharpest decline in personal income tax collections in the nation in the last quarter of 2008, down 18.5 percent from the same period in 2007.
 Sales tax collections, the budgetary lifeblood of states like tourism-dependent Nevada, also declined faster or sooner in the West than elsewhere in the country, as fewer homes were bought and furnished and fewer people felt free to unleash their wallets in Las Vegas.
 The sober-sided Plains States, by contrast -- Iowa, Kansas, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska and North Dakota -- which did not experience dizzying swoops in home prices, held relatively steady in sales and personal income taxes in the fourth quarter.
 The study said that preliminary indicators for the first few months of 2009 suggested that state budget stress was spreading geographically, with consumers continuing to cut back on purchases -- thus hurting sales tax collections -- and taxpayers reporting declines in capital gains and interest income that could compound budget troubles in states like Connecticut, New Jersey and New York that have lots of affluent families.
 ''The rest of the country is starting to catch up,'' said Donald J. Boyd, a co-author of the study and a senior fellow at the Rockefeller Institute, which is the public policy research arm of the State University of New York.
 That trailblazer states in the recession like California would continue to see budget troubles worsen into this year suggests that the worst has yet to come, Mr. Boyd said. 
 ''States haven't hit bottom yet,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SALES TAX (89%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); HOUSING BUBBLE (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); INCOME TAX (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (79%) NEVADA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); WEST USA (92%); WYOMING, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2009



570 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1596 words

HEADLINE: City Was Slow To Fight Fraud In Foreclosures

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL

 BODY:
Many New York City prosecutors reacted slowly and brought few indictments as foreclosure swindles and mortgage fraud swept the city during the past decade, allowing problematic operators to flourish even as the nation's housing market rose and crashed, according to housing lawyers, prosecutors and federal reports.
 As early as 2000, the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development declared the city a foreclosure fraud ''hot zone.'' In 2005, the National Consumer Law Center wrote an influential report, ''Dreams Foreclosed: The Rampant Theft of Americans' Homes Through Equity-Stripping Foreclosure 'Rescue' Scams,'' warning that the F.B.I. and local prosecutors remained dangerously understaffed in this fight.
 Yet a review of civil lawsuits suggests that many fraud cases go unprosecuted. 
 Officials with several of New York's district attorneys acknowledge the problem, saying they lack the staff to investigate and prosecute more than a fraction of the potential deed-theft and mortgage-fraud cases. Such cases are typically complex and time consuming; as a consequence, prosecutors say, they often know the names of sophisticated fraudulent operators but have trouble getting indictments. 
 ''Am I frustrated and can I feel the frustration of those who send us the cases? Absolutely,'' said Gregory C. Pavlides, the chief of the economic crimes unit in the Queens district attorney's office. His unit's 14 lawyers also handle money laundering, counterfeiting, identity theft and environmental cases. 
 For years many district attorneys viewed mortgage fraud as taking a second seat to traditional show-stoppers: homicides, counterfeiting, burglaries and even gambling. At least one New York district attorney still takes that view.
 ''Our natural inclination is that these are civil cases,'' said William Smith, spokesman for the Staten Island district attorney, Daniel M. Donovan.
 Yet mortgage and deed fraud, assistant district attorneys say, are among the most economically destructive crimes prosecuted by their offices. Bank robbers average less than $2,000 and face a 75 percent chance of being caught; a mortgage fraud ring walks away with hundreds of thousands of dollars per house, prosecutors say, and runs little risk of arrest.
 ''Robbing a bank with a gun is not as smart as going into mortgage fraud,'' Mr. Pavlides said. ''Because of the sheer volume, you have a decent chance of getting away with it.'' 
 Nationwide, mortgage fraud and deed theft cost homeowners $4 billion to $6 billion annually, according to the F.B.I. In New York City, housing fraud has wiped out tens of millions of dollars for thousands of predominantly black and Latino homeowners in large parts of Brooklyn, Queens and Staten Island.
 Mortgage fraud comes in several varieties. Most common today are deed thieves, who approach distressed owners and offer to straighten out finances by temporarily taking over deeds, then refinance and abscond with the owners' equity. Others, more common during the boom years, rely on circles of appraisers who deliver inflated appraisals on demand, lawyers paid by the seller but purporting to represent the buyer, and mortgage brokers, all to persuade buyers to take on overpriced and often dilapidated homes. 
 As the foreclosure crisis has deepened, officials have promised a tougher line. Last week, Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner announced plans for federal and state agencies to fight mortgage and foreclosure fraud. And last month, District Attorney Charles J. Hynes of Brooklyn and Senator Charles E. Schumer announced the creation of a real estate fraud unit in Brooklyn, to address what Mr. Hynes described as ''the recent flood of mortgage fraud cases plaguing New Yorkers.''
 But the lawyers who have pleaded with district attorneys, chased witnesses and pointed out the same suspects for years say that prosecutors failed to stop fraud when it was most rampant.
 ''We gift-wrapped these cases,'' said Jessica Attie, co-director of the foreclosure prevention project at South Brooklyn Legal Services. ''These are crimes committed in plain sight.''
 When Doris Dickinson walked into Joe Sanders's office at Brooklyn Legal Services Corporation A, he noted the sort of detail he thought an assistant district attorney would love.
 The men who sold one of Ms. Dickinson's houses filled out a deed in 2002 claiming that she was dead. 
 ''Exhibit A: This is Ms. Dickinson and she's alive,'' Mr. Sanders said. ''I figured that was a good place for a prosecutor to start.''
 Ms. Dickinson, 53, is blind, and her father, a transit worker, had scrimped and purchased several homes in hopes of giving her a lifelong income stream. According to a lawsuit in State Supreme Court, two men used the forged deed to obtain a mortgage. Then they sold the house to an accomplice -- or straw buyer -- and refinanced it, taking $570,000 in equity. 
 Ms. Dickinson spent years fighting to regain legal title, eventually taking her case to Richard Farrell, one of the few prosecutors in the Brooklyn district attorney's office who handles mortgage fraud.
 ''He gave me his card and said what was done to me was wrong,'' said Ms. Dickinson. 
 Mr. Farrell has called witnesses and searched records, and he has located a suspect. But a year later, no grand jury has been called or indictments brought.
 ''It's in my hopper,'' he said. 
 Mr. Farrell, chief of the new mortgage fraud unit, said the Brooklyn district attorney's office has brought 50 cases since 2000 and has obtained 45 pleas and convictions, or five per year in a county of 2.4 million people. 
 In Queens, the district attorney, Richard A. Brown, said his office obtains 35 to 45 mortgage fraud indictments annually, although more often of individual suspects than larger operators. 
 The district attorneys speak of their frustration in tracking the more sophisticated operators. 
 ''I'm simply emphasizing how difficult these cases are,'' Mr. Farrell said. ''Each case tends to take in excess of a year.''
 Federal and state prosecutors have made more progress. Benton J. Campbell, the United States attorney for the Eastern District of New York, formed a mortgage fraud squad a year ago and recently obtained a conviction of the owner of Olympia Mortgage for defrauding Fannie Mae, the federal mortgage giant, on hundreds of mortgages. The Southern District office, too, has gained several convictions of high-volume swindlers.
 Mr. Donovan, on Staten Island, is the only New York City district attorney who says his county has no mortgage fraud problem, although his county ranks near the top in foreclosures per capita statewide. ''We don't see many complaints,'' said Mr. White, his spokesman.
 But lawyers with Staten Island Legal Services and State Senator Diane J. Savino, who represents parts of Brooklyn and Staten Island, say they get many reports of fraud and have walked some cases over to Mr. Donovan's office. ''We've gotten very little response,'' Ms. Savino said.
 Linda and Wesley Bryce can attest to Staten Island's fraud problems. They own a small, $169,000 home on the borough's north shore. Mr. Bryce, 71, worked in a pigments factory; Ms. Bryce, 55, worked as a chemical technician. Then she injured her spine, and in 2006 they fell behind on their mortgage. 
 The bank filed notice and a day later two ''rescue'' specialists from a mortgage broker in Queens knocked on the Bryces' door. Temporarily share the mortgage with us, the men said, and we'll give you $10,000 of the refinance proceeds and put your home on solid footing. 
 The Bryces, who are quick to say they lack financial sophistication, agreed. According to a lawsuit in State Supreme Court, the so-called rescuers transferred the deed to a straw buyer. A year later, they told the Bryces that they would have to pay $324,000 to get their house back, or start paying rent of $3,000. When the Bryces protested, the firm filed a petition to evict them. 
 The Bryces called Mr. Donovan, and a detective tried to help them. Mr. Donovan's top deputy said his office investigated but dropped the case after discovering that federal prosecutors had an indictment of one of the brokers in an unrelated case.
 An associate of the broker, however, continues to claim ownership of the Bryces' home; a state judge has intervened but the Bryces still face eviction.
 ''There is this mentality that the victims are complicit if they sign papers they don't understand,'' said Margaret Becker of Staten Island Legal Services. ''But who would ever knowingly sell their home for $10,000? Of course it's fraud.''
 And then there is Dr. Janet Mitchell, 58, the daughter of a butler and a maid who became chief of perinatology at Harlem Hospital Center and a national advocate for black pregnant women with H.I.V. 
 In 1992, she purchased a handsome and affordable brownstone in Fort Greene, Brooklyn. Then early-onset dementia struck. Dr. Mitchell stopped paying her bills in 2005, leading lenders to foreclose. Soon she walked into a mortgage company, according to a lawsuit filed by her niece.
 A mortgage specialist persuaded her to sign a handwritten transfer with no lawyer present and paid off her $210,000 in loans. Then he refinanced her house, taking $1.7 million in cash. The doctor now lives, penniless, with her sister in Colorado. 
 South Brooklyn Legal Services gave the files to the Brooklyn district attorney. The prosecutors have not yet brought a case.
 ''We are constantly trying to get them to pursue this case,'' Ms. Attie said. ''These are the most defenseless of all.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: After Linda Bryce injured her spine, she and her husband, Wesley, fell behind on the mortgage on their Staten Island home. They lost the title to opportunistic brokers and face eviction. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (92%); FORECLOSURE (91%); INDICTMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE FRAUD (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); DEEDS & RECORDINGS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); COUNTERFEITING (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); LITIGATION (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (77%); LAWYERS (77%); BURGLARY (75%); ROBBERY (75%); LARCENY & THEFT (73%); MONEY LAUNDERING (73%); CITIES (73%); HOMICIDE (73%); IDENTITY THEFT (73%); BANK ROBBERY (66%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING & URBAN DEVELOPMENT (58%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%); NATIONAL CONSUMER LAW CENTER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2009



571 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: As Finance Offices Empty, Developers Rethink Ground Zero

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Merrill Lynch, an investment bank now owned by Bank of America, has started moving the first of thousands of employees to Midtown from Lower Manhattan, a departure that will ultimately leave floor after floor of empty office space at the World Financial Center. 
 Goldman Sachs will leave vacant 1.3 million square feet in four aging buildings in the financial district after it begins moving to its new headquarters in Battery Park City late this year. American International Group, the troubled insurance giant, is also a shrinking presence downtown, real estate brokers say, while Depository Trust is considering a move to New Jersey. 
 And just as companies are leaving downtown, more commercial space is being built there. Under current plans for the redevelopment of ground zero, the developer Larry A. Silverstein will add three massive skyscrapers with a total of 7.57 million square feet by 2013.
 It adds up to hundreds of acres of vacant space in Lower Manhattan at a time of recession and restructuring of the financial industry.
 For that reason, Mr. Silverstein and the owner of the 16-acre ground zero site, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, are once again locked in negotiations over how and when the office towers get built. The talks are further complicated by the fact that the utilities and entryways for the nearby $3.2 billion transit center and the Sept. 11 memorial are woven into the base and underground portions of Mr. Silverstein's three towers.
 Given the restructuring of the financial services industry, there is a ''need to reconsider the original plan for 10 million square feet of office space at ground zero,'' said Mitchell L. Moss, a professor of urban policy and planning at New York University. The two sides are reluctant to discuss the details of negotiations because of confidentiality agreements. But executives who have spoken to both parties outlined their positions. 
 Mr. Silverstein, who has received more than $150 million in development fees already, wants to push forward with at least two of the towers and reconfigure an agreement with the Port Authority. He has offered a characteristically optimistic view of New York's rebound, saying there will always be companies willing to pay top dollar for new, modern buildings. 
 Unable to finance the buildings himself, Mr. Silverstein wants the Port Authority to do it, a move that could cost $3 billion and a sizable portion of its capital budget. At the same time, Mr. Silverstein has pressed the state and the city, which agreed in 2006 to occupy a portion of the first of his towers, to pay a premium rent for space that would otherwise be unoccupied.
 Two weeks ago, according to executives on both sides, Port Authority officials offered a counterproposal: it would provide $800 million in financing for only the first tower, a 64-story, 2.3 million-square-foot building on Church Street, between Cortlandt and Liberty Streets. In keeping with the original agreement, the Port Authority would move its headquarters there, but pay a substantially higher rent.
 In return, Mr. Silverstein would have to invest his fees in the project, while providing the Port Authority with a financial stake in the building. 
 Rather than flooding the downtown market with what it believes would be unneeded office space, the Port Authority has proposed delaying construction of the second, even larger tower until 2022 and the third until 2030. 
 ''We have to deal with the economic reality today,'' said Christopher O. Ward, the authority's executive director. ''That starts with keeping the memorial and the other public infrastructure on the timeline and budget we've committed to.''
 Still, the authority says it would build the underground portions and the first few floors of the other two towers, because they contain ventilation systems, entryways and emergency exits for the transit center and the memorial. Mr. Silverstein, however, has argued that the authority's proposal would leave much of the site unfinished and perhaps unoccupied. He also contends that it would be impractical, if not impossible, to build the first few floors of the second two towers and complete them later.
 ''In 2006, all of the stakeholders -- the city, the state, the Port and Silverstein -- agreed that the best interests of both the city and downtown would be served by finishing the entire site simultaneously and as quickly as possible,'' said Janno Lieber, who oversees the trade center project for Silverstein Properties. ''One building surrounded by three half-finished blocks for the next 20 years does not make good on promises made to New Yorkers.''
 The recession and the collapse of the credit markets have taken a toll on the commercial market, as some banks fold or consolidate. Brokers predict that the vacancy rate in downtown office buildings will climb to 16 percent, from 11.7 percent today. JPMorgan Chase has quietly abandoned its plan to build a new headquarters for its investment banking division near ground zero.
 ''The market doesn't need seven million square feet of space and it's not going to need it for a while,'' said Barry Gosin, chief executive of Newmark Knight Frank, a real estate brokerage firm.
 The Bloomberg administration has remained neutral so far as to whether Mr. Silverstein should build one or two towers in the next couple of years. Mr. Silverstein is not without leverage. He can insist on adhering to the current development agreement. So far, the Port Authority has paid nearly $90 million in penalties for failing to turn over Mr. Silverstein's construction sites in a timely manner. If the impasse continues, it could jeopardize the authority's promise to open the memorial in 2011.
 ''What Larry did is take out all his equity at the beginning, so he really doesn't have a lot of skin in the game,'' Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said last month. ''He has an enormous amount of upside potential, which doesn't leave the Port Authority with a lot of negotiating ability, because they're the ones who have to put up the money.'' 
 Mr. Silverstein has about $964 million left from an original $4.5 billion pool of insurance proceeds, paid to cover his losses from the destruction of the two original World Trade Center towers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PORT AUTHORITIES (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (76%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); INSURANCE (70%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (70%); RECESSION (70%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS (62%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (72%); PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (68%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (90%); AIG (NYSE) (72%); 8685 (TSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (68%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2009



572 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1288 words

HEADLINE: A Change in Pitch

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

 BODY:
A striking 40-story tower under construction on Eighth Avenue between 41st and 42nd Streets in Midtown Manhattan has a number of things going for it, including floor-to-ceiling windows, still relatively rare for an office building; six terraces; a thick concrete core that reduces the need for view-obstructing columns; and many of the latest advances in energy-efficient technology.
 But less than one year before it is due to be completed, there is one major thing that the 1.1-million-square-foot tower, known as 11 Times Square, is lacking: tenants.
 In the 1980s, 53 million square feet of newly built office space flooded the market and led to a collapse of real estate values. For many years afterward, lenders would not finance speculative projects, so only those with commitments from anchor tenants were built. In the current decade, developers have been relatively restrained, adding only 20 million square feet, according to the brokerage firm CB Richard Ellis. 
 As real estate values and rents escalated in middecade, however, a few developers were able to secure hundreds of millions of dollars in financing for ground-up construction or extensive rehabilitation of existing buildings -- all without any advance lease commitments but with heady expectations of high rents.
 In addition to 11 Times Square, which is being developed by SJP Properties of Parsippany, N.J., and Prudential Real Estate Investors, these buildings include 510 Madison Avenue, at 53rd Street, which is also entirely new; and several buildings that have been or are being completely transformed, including the former headquarters of The New York Times Company at 229 West 43rd Street, near Times Square, and 545 Madison Avenue, at 55th Street. In a building at 3 Columbus Circle, which was formerly called 1775 Broadway, the owner, Joseph Moinian, is spending $100 million on renovations, including installation of a new glass facade, said James D. Kuhn, the president of Newmark Knight Frank, the brokerage company that is marketing the building. 
 Two planned redevelopment projects outside Midtown -- at 375 Pearl Street in Lower Manhattan and 330 Hudson Street in SoHo -- have been indefinitely postponed because they have no tenants or construction financing, according to industry sources who were not authorized to speak about them. 
 These days, as vacancies in Manhattan climb and rents decline, developers of new or rehabbed buildings find themselves competing with cheap sublet space on Park Avenue and in other desirable locations. In March, the amount of actively marketed space that is vacant now or will be available within a year in Midtown reached 14.2 percent, the highest it has been since July 1994, CB Richard Ellis said. The average yearly asking rent for sublease space in Midtown was $60.44 a square foot, far less than the rents that were envisioned in the new or renovated buildings.
 Those developers are also finding that capital-constrained tenants would rather stay put than spend money on a move -- a trend that landlords are eager to encourage.
 Most of the new or newly rehabbed buildings have yet to attract office tenants. One exception is 510 Madison Avenue, where the developer, Harry Macklowe and his son, William S. Macklowe, leased one floor to a hedge fund, Jay Goldman, in December 2007 for well above $100 a square foot.
 But now, the lease may be in jeopardy. In a lawsuit filed in February, Jay Goldman accused the Macklowes of failing to meet their obligations by not delivering the space on time. In their legal filings, lawyers for the developers say the lease called for a period during which Jay Goldman would create its offices, with $400,000 of the cost to be absorbed by the Macklowes. They also accuse Jay Goldman of seeking a ''pretext'' to back out of the lease because of the ''changed economy.''
 There have been no takers for the office space at 229 West 43rd Street, now known as the Times Square Building, despite what Brian D. Gell, a vice chairman at CB Richard Ellis, describes as ''cool funky space'' for a tenant that is not seeking a ''cookie-cutter building.'' 
 Africa Israel bought the building for $525 million in April 2007, and has poured more than $150 million into renovating it. Recently, some newly created retail space, most of it in the basement and subbasement, was rented to Running Subway Productions, producer of the recent Broadway show ''Dr. Seuss's How the Grinch Stole Christmas.''
 Africa Israel recently took a $380 million write-down on the building, according to The Jerusalem Post. Its principal lender, Credit Suisse, recently sold some of the debt to Banco Inbursa, a company controlled by the Mexican billionaire Carlos Slim Helu (who also recently lent $250 million to The New York Times Company).
 These extravagant projects were fueled by the explosive growth of the financial services industry, the westward migration of law firms and other prestigious tenants to Times Square and Columbus Circle and the expectation that annual rents would soar above $100 a square foot. Some large tenants did pay more than $100, including the law firm Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld, which leased 203,000 square feet at One Bryant Park, a new tower at 42nd Street and Avenue of the Americas, and Colgate-Palmolive, which renewed its lease for 528,000 square feet at 300 Park Avenue, at 49th Street, its headquarters since 1955. But most of the tenants willing to spend that much on rent were much smaller hedge funds.
 ''The hedge fund community was this decade's Internet bubble, and they were insensitive to pricing for the most part,'' said Mitchell S. Steir, the chief executive of Studley, which represents commercial tenants.
 Like landlords throughout the city, developers of new or newly renovated buildings are tailoring their marketing efforts to today's economic realities. The Macklowes initially hoped to lure hedge funds to 510 Madison Avenue by incorporating a health club and a 20-yard-long swimming pool into their plans. But in the current environment, prospective tenants have more practical concerns, brokers say. To spare future tenants the expense and bother of outfitting their offices, for example, Macklowe Properties hired the design firm Gensler to create turnkey offices on two floors. 
 In November, LCOR, the company that stripped 545 Madison Avenue to its steel frame and rebuilt it, invited 150 brokers to lunch at the 17-story building and gave some of them $500 gift cards from Alfred Dunhill, a new retail tenant in the building. ''It was a pretty effective way of getting people in to see the finished product,'' said David A. Sigman, a senior vice president at LCOR. 
 With the recent decision by Boston Properties to abandon plans to build at 250 West 55th Street, 11 Times Square will be the only new office building on the West Side aimed at large tenants. Part of the marketing strategy involves convincing prospective tenants that the column-free design will permit them to house their employees in less space, said Steven J. Pozycki, the chairman and chief executive of SJP Properties. ''When you're coming up against a lease expiration and you haven't touched your space in 20 years,'' he said, referring to tenants, ''you see that the paradigm has changed, and there are resulting economies.''
 SJP and its partners have spent more than $1 billion on construction and other costs and initially hoped to get rents of $90 a square foot or more, a level that some brokers say was a stretch for an Eighth Avenue building.
 But Mr. Pozycki said he was not surprised that prospective tenants had been dithering for months, unable to make a decision. ''No one wants to make a big financial commitment,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Macklowe Properties arranged for turnkey office space at 510 Madison Avenue, left
11 Times Square, right, which is nearing completion, lacks tenants.
 Africa Israel has reportedly taken a write-down on the Times Square Building, left. LCOR invited brokers to lunch at 545 Madison Avenue, right. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (74%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (69%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (68%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (65%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (56%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (66%); CBRE GROUP INC (55%); REAL ESTATE INVESTORS PLC (54%); BGC PARTNERS INC (52%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (66%); CBG (NYSE) (55%); RLE (LSE) (54%); BGCP (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (66%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (66%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (66%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (55%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (55%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (54%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (54%); SIC6512 OPERATORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (54%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2009



573 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 481 words

HEADLINE: Germany Bars Genetically Modified Corn

BYLINE: By JAMES KANTER

 BODY:
Germany announced plans on Tuesday to ban the only genetically modified strain of corn grown in the European Union, dealing a new blow to the American manufacturer, Monsanto, and raising the specter of trade tensions with the United States. 
 The German agriculture minister, Ilse Aigner, said that the move was intended to protect the safety of consumers and the environment. But she underlined that it would not represent a blanket ban on genetically modified crops.
 ''My decision is not a political decision, it's a decision based on the facts,'' Ms. Aigner said. ''I have come to the conclusion that there is a justifiable reason to believe that genetically modified maize of the type MON 810 presents a danger to the environment.'' 
 Kari Matalone, a spokeswoman for Monsanto, said the corn -- which is engineered to resist pests -- had been approved for cultivation in Europe more than a decade ago and that no ill effects had been detected since then.
 ''We don't really understand where this decision is coming from,'' Ms. Matalone said.
 Skepticism among consumers about the safety of genetically modified products and about their effect on the environment has made Europe one of the most difficult markets for Monsanto and for other makers of such crops.
 A particular headache for biotechnology companies is that countries retain the right to impose their own bans on cultivation of products approved by the European Union, while they examine new scientific findings. It can take years for a company to force those governments to lift such bans. 
 The European Commission, the executive body, has been pushing member governments to ease rules on genetically modified crops to enable greater quantities of lower cost foods and animal feeds to be grown in Europe.
 The commission has also been seeking to ease tensions with Argentina, Canada and the United States, where modified crops are grown.
 Those countries won a lawsuit at the World Trade Organization in 2006 obliging the European Union to ease remaining bans on the import and cultivation of genetically modified products. The United States still could impose punitive duties on the Europeans for continuing to block trade.
 Spain grows about 80,000 hectares of the genetically modified corn, the largest quantity in the European Union. Germany grows 3,000 hectares out of its total corn crop of about 2 million hectares, making the move to ban the crop in Germany highly symbolic.
 The Czech Republic, Portugal and Poland are among countries still growing the crop, while France and Luxembourg are among countries to have recently imposed bans on cultivation.
 The European Food Safety Authority currently is reviewing the Monsanto product because European Union consent to market the product has expired. Even so, E.U. rules allow the product to remain on the market during the authority's assessment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (91%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (90%); CORN FARMING (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); PRODUCT SAFETY (89%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ANIMAL FOODS (78%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (78%); LIVESTOCK FEED (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); CONSUMER LAW (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (77%); FOOD SAFETY (76%); APPROVALS (73%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (73%); LITIGATION (71%); SCIENCE NEWS (50%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (50%)

COMPANY: MONSANTO DEUTSCHLAND GMBH (92%); MONSANTO CO (90%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%)

TICKER: MON (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS313310 TEXTILE & FABRIC FINISHING MILLS (92%); SIC2261 FINISHERS OF BROADWOVEN FABRICS OF COTTON (92%); NAICS424910 FARM SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (90%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC5191 FARM SUPPLIES (90%); SIC2879 PESTICIDES & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); GERMANY (92%); POLAND (79%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); SPAIN (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (59%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2009



574 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 118 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths KRISTEIN, MARVIN M.

 BODY:
KRISTEIN--Marvin M.,Stony Brook, LI, NY, on April 11 at home, after valiant struggle against leukemia. Pioneer in calculation of smoking's societal costs, particularly to employers and economy, key evidence for national anti-smoking policies. Patron of higher education, fine and performing arts; established Kolozsvar Awards honoring New York City Opera artists performing new/unusual repertory. SUNY Stony Brook, Professor, Economics 1959-87; CUNY, Economics, 1956-59, 1987-90, retired as Professor Emeritus. Townsend Harris High School 1942. CCNY BA 1947 (interrupted by US Army service). New School Ph.D. 1955. Survived by beloved and loving wife Vera Rony. Burial private; memorial event being scheduled. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); SMOKING (88%); SMOKING BANS (88%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (87%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (87%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (87%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (84%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (84%); ARMIES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2009



575 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2192 words

HEADLINE: War Without Borders: U.S. Stymied as Guns Flow to Mexican Cartels

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

DATELINE: HOUSTON 

 BODY:
 John Phillip Hernandez, a 24-year-old unemployed machinist who lived with his parents, walked into a giant sporting goods store here in July 2006, and plunked $2,600 in cash on a glass display counter. A few minutes later, Mr. Hernandez walked out with three military-style rifles.
One of those rifles was recovered seven months later in Acapulco, Mexico, where it had been used by drug cartel gunmen to attack the offices of the Guerrero State attorney general, court documents say. Four police officers and three secretaries were killed. 
 Although Mr. Hernandez was arrested last year as part of a gun-smuggling ring, most of the 22 others in the ring are still at large. Before their operation was discovered, the smugglers had transported what court documents described as at least 339 high-powered weapons to Mexico over a year and a half, federal agents said. 
 ''There is no telling how long that group was operating before we caught on to them,'' said J. Dewey Webb, the agent in charge of the Houston division of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.
 Noting there are about 1,500 licensed gun dealers in the Houston area, Mr. Webb added, ''You can come to Houston and go to a different gun store every day for several months and never alert any one.'' 
 The case highlights a major obstacle facing the United States as it tries to meet a demand from Mexico to curb the flow of arms from the states to drug cartels. The federal system for tracking gun sales, crafted over the years to avoid infringements on Second Amendment rights, makes it difficult to spot suspicious trends quickly and to identify people buying for smugglers, law enforcement officials say. 
 As a result, in some states along the Southwest border where firearms are lightly regulated, gun smugglers can evade detection for months or years. In Texas, New Mexico and Arizona, dealers can sell an unlimited number of rifles to anyone with a driver's license and a clean criminal record without reporting the sales to the government. 
 At gun shows in these states, there is even less regulation. Private sellers, unlike licensed dealers, are not obligated to record the buyer's name, much less report the sale to the A.T.F. 
 Mexican officials have repeatedly asked the United States to clamp down on the flow of weapons and are likely to bring it up again with President Obama when he visits Mexico on Thursday. 
 Sending straw buyers into American stores, cartels have stocked up on semiautomatic AK-47 and AR-15 rifles, converting some to machine guns, investigators in both countries say. They have also bought .50 caliber rifles capable of stopping a car and Belgian pistols able to fire rifle rounds that will penetrate body armor. 
 Federal agents say about 90 percent of the 12,000 pistols and rifles the Mexican authorities recovered from drug dealers last year and asked to be traced came from dealers in the United States, most of them in Texas and Arizona. 
 The Mexican foreign minister, Patricia Espinosa, in talking with reporters recently, accused the United States of violating its international treaty obligations by allowing guns to flow into the hands of organized crime groups in Mexico. 
 But law enforcement officials on this side of the border say the legal hurdles to making cases against smugglers remain high. 
 ''Guns are legal to possess in this country,'' said William J. Hoover, the assistant director for operations of the federal firearms agency. ''If you stop me between the dealer and the border, I am still legal, because I can possess those guns.'' 
 To be sure, the A.T.F. and Immigration and Customs Enforcement have stepped up their efforts to stop smuggling over the last two years. Last year, some 200 indictments were handed up against straw buyers and gun smugglers, breaking up at least a dozen trafficking rings. 
 In the last six months, federal agents have also begun stopping more cars they have reason to believe are carrying guns before they cross into Mexico, seizing about 1,000 weapons. 
 A review of cases over the last two years shows a pattern: the drug cartels hire people in need of cash with no criminal records to buy guns from legal sources, often just one or two at a time.
 Once the smugglers have amassed a cache of weapons, they drive them across the border in small batches, stuffed inside spare tires, fastened to undercarriages with zip ties or bubble-wrapped and tucked into vehicle panels. In some cases, the drug traffickers and gun smugglers are linked. 
 On a recent evening in Reynosa, a border town, a Mexican army patrol found an abandoned farmhouse that had been used by drug traffickers. Hidden deep in the brush outside was a plastic barrel filled with guns. The authorities believe that the traffickers were taking drugs to the United States and using the money to return with guns. 
 The cartels also employ spies to keep track of the sporadic efforts of the Mexican military to search cars, law enforcement authorities say. Because there is no computerized national gun registry, agents say, tracking guns relies on a paper trail. Agents must contact the manufacturer or importer with a make and a serial number and work their way down the supply chain by telephone or on foot. 
 At the retail level, records of gun sales remain in the hands of the dealers. Agents can request to see them only if a gun is recovered in a crime or during periodic audits. By law, those audits can be done only once a year, and, in practice, most dealers face such a review once every three to six years, because auditors are stretched thin. 
 The record keeping is not always perfect. In trying to track guns confiscated in Mexico last year, agents found that one in five of the guns could not be traced because the dealers had no record of the sale or had gone out of business and the records had been lost. 
 Even when the original legal buyer is located, a gun owner in many states, can legally say ''I lost it'' or ''I sold it to someone I do not know.'' 
 Dealers are not obligated to tell the authorities about multiple sales of rifles like the AK-47, as they must do with pistols.
 In Texas and Arizona, where most of the guns recovered in Mexico come from, there is even less regulation on private sales. Individuals may sell guns at gun shows or even through classified advertisements without running a criminal background check or even recording the buyer's name. ''If you wanted to create a system that is basically legal but designed to facilitate gun trafficking, you couldn't have a better system than you have here,'' said Tom Diaz, a researcher with the Violence Policy Center in Washington.
 But Wayne LaPierre, executive vice president and chief executive of the National Rifle Association, said tightening gun laws in the United States would penalize only people who enjoy marksmanship and hunting, or who buy firearms for self-defense, without solving Mexico's problem. 
 With billions in profits from illegal drugs, the cartels can easily obtain weapons on the black market in other countries, Mr. LaPierre and many gun dealers argue. ''The cartels have the money to get guns wherever they want,'' said Charles Fredien, the owner of Chuck's Gun in Brownsville, Tex., on the border ''They have grenades, don't they? They don't buy grenades here.'' No one knows how large the cross-border trade in arms is. In 2008, the Mexican government seized more than 20,000 weapons from suspected drug dealers. 
 Since Congress lifted the ban on assault rifles in 2004, more and more of the weapons recovered in Mexico havebeen military-style rifles like the AK-47s or the AR-15, the authorities in both countries say. 
 Some local law enforcement officials argue that the A.T.F., which has about 2,500 special agents watching 78,000 gun dealers nationwide, is overwhelmed. 
 ''The gun issue is the single one thing we can address, and we are not seeing it,'' said Victor Rodriguez, the chief of police in McAllen, Tex., a border town that has 19 gun dealers. 
 Although some investigations, like that of the Hernandez ring, spring from gun traces and audits, investigators say the system is set up in such a way that they must rely heavily on tips from gun dealers about suspicious sales.
 Mr. Hernandez, who pleaded guilty in the case, is to be sentenced this week. 
 Lawrence Keane, the general counsel of the National Shooting Sports Foundation, said most gun dealers were law-abiding and reported suspicious sales to the authorities.
 ''The dealers are an important source of information to them and very cooperative with the A.T.F.,'' Mr. Keane said.
 The gun industry has joined with federal authorities to educate dealers about how to spot buyers who might be making illegal purchases for someone else, mounting a public relations campaign to warn people that they could face up to 10 years in prison if they bought a firearm for someone illegally. 
 Jim Pruett, the owner of Guns and Ammo in Houston, said that every month or two he spotted a suspicious buyer.
 Recently, employees said, a young woman came in and tried to buy an AK-47, in cash, and knew nothing about the weapon. Mr. Pruett read her the riot act, they said, informing her she faced 10 years in prison if she was buying for someone else. She left quickly.
 ''We hammer them,'' Mr. Pruett said. ''We are not obligated to do that, but if you suspect it, you can.''
 Still, federal investigators say some dealers are tempted to look the other way when given a strong financial incentive. Others have been intimidated by drug dealers.
 When dealers do tip off the authorities to suspicious sales, they often call the A.T.F. after a sale has been made, federal agents say. Take the case of the owner of a small company in Tucson that specializes in military-style rifles. The owner, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he feared reprisals from drug gangs, mostly sells the semiautomatic .223 caliber rifles known as AR-15s, a civilian rifle similar to the military M-16. 
 On May 18, 2008, a man bought two military-style rifles from him at a gun show on the Arizona State Fairgrounds. Two days later, the man showed up at the dealer's home with a friend and bought eight more rifles for more than $5,000 in cash.
 ''When somebody walks in and says, 'I need eight of these,' it becomes apparent what's happening,'' the dealer said. 
 Despite the dealer's help, members of the ring managed to smuggle at least 112 weapons, bought at a half dozen locations, into Mexico before they were arrested in February, A.T.F. agents said.
 But much of the smuggling is not so obvious, dealers said. In Brownsville, for instance, one convicted smuggler, Emmanuel Ramirez, recruited 10 people with no criminal records, including young women, then sent them into big-box sporting goods stores to buy two pistols each. 
 Although federal agents say licensed dealers are the source of most guns going to Mexico, some come from private sellers at gun shows, where even noncitizens can buy guns. Dozens of shows are held each year across Texas, New Mexico and Arizona. 
 At a recent show in Pharr, Tex., another border town, a college freshman with a wispy beard arrived with two AR-15 rifles strapped to his body, spidery black guns designed for combat, tricked out with features that soldiers prize: collapsible stocks, pistol grips, extra long magazines. 
 The student, who asked to be identified only as Shane, was asking $1,900 for one of his rifles. As for paper work, he wanted only a handwritten receipt with the buyer's name and address. He was not worried, he said, about the gun's falling into the hands of drug cartels in Mexico. 
 ''They are going to get their guns either way,'' he said. ''The only thing that a ban is going to stop is good people being able to get a gun.''
 At the show, hundreds of people wandered among booths that displayed antique revolvers, bolt-action deer rifles and ornate shotguns side by side with military-style rifles and magazines for AK-47s, laser sights and scopes. 
 Bruce A. Schluderman from Round Rock, Tex., was doing a brisk business in Russian rifles from World War II as well as brand-new AR-15s. 
 As a licensed dealer, Mr. Schluderman had to call the F.B.I. to run a criminal background check on every buyer. But nearby people were selling their private collections. 
 ''I have had people that failed background checks, and yet they are carrying guns out of here that they bought from someone else,'' Mr. Schluderman said.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 16, 2009

 CORRECTION:
 An article on Wednesday about the flow of guns from the United States to Mexico misidentified, in some editions, the professional affiliation of Tom Diaz, who said that the system to regulate gun sales facilitates gun trafficking. He is a researcher with the Violence Policy Center, not the Violence Project.
 This is the third article in a series examining the impact of Mexican drug cartels on both sides of the border. ONLINE: Previous articles in the series, more photographs and a video of the Mexican effort to stem the violence in Ciudad Juarez on the border: nytimes.com/national 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Joy Pruett at Jim Pruett's Guns and Ammo, one of 1,500 licensed dealers in the Houston area that are easily accessible to Mexico. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
LAND OF 1,500 GUN DEALERS: ''You can come to Houston and go to a different gun store every day for several months and never alert anyone,'' a federal agent in Houston said. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
MEXICO'S GUN VIOLENCE VICTIMS: A funeral in Acapulco for two police officers in the Guerrero State attorney general's office who were killed with at least one gun traced to the United States. A Texas man pleaded guilty to smuggling charges in the case. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GREGORY BULL/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.A14) CHART: SMUGGLING GUNS FROM HOUSTON TO MEXICO: Under the guidance of John Phillip Hernandez, three young men bought 101 guns from 10 licensed dealers in Houston from June 2006 to June 2007. Officials have recovered 12 of these guns in Mexico. The four men, officials say, are part of a ring of 23 traffickers who have smuggled at least 339 weapons across the border. Guns highlighted in orange were recovered in the Mexican cities below. (Sources: court documents
 Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives) (CHART BY AMY SCHOENFELD AND XAQUIN G.V./THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIREARMS (92%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); SMUGGLING (90%); CARTELS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); GUN CONTROL (89%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (89%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (78%); SHOOTINGS (77%); RIGHT TO BEAR ARMS (77%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); ARRESTS (70%); TRENDS (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); DRIVERS LICENSES (66%); US PRESIDENTS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF ALCOHOL TOBACCO FIREARMS & EXPLOSIVES (82%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (94%) TEXAS, USA (94%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2009



576 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 973 words

HEADLINE: Offices Go Vacant at Fannie and Freddie

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Until a year ago, two of the most coveted workplaces in this city were Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the mortgage finance giants at the intersection of Washington and Wall Street. The companies offered a lucrative perch for former top administration officials and Congressional aides interested in continuing to shape policy.
 Now both companies are suffering from an exodus of senior and midlevel managers. The companies have been unable to replace executives who have either been pushed aside as part of last year's government takeover, or who sought refuge at less stigmatized companies offering better pay and a more predictable future. 
 The staffing problems arise as the government has invested hundreds of billions of dollars into the companies and has expanded their mission to be the primary engines to pull the housing market out of the doldrums. 
 In addition to playing the central role in the Obama administration's mortgage foreclosure mitigation program, the two companies hold or guarantee more than $5 trillion, or more than half, of the nation's mortgages and continue to finance more than 70 percent of new home loans.
 Freddie Mac has vacancies for a chief executive, a chief operating officer and a chief financial officer. At Fannie, there are openings for a general counsel, a chief risk officer and a chief technology officer. Both have many unfilled slots for senior vice presidents and other top positions. 
 The staffing problems are spreading to other areas of the financial rescue. For weeks, the Obama administration has been reluctant to shift Herbert M. Allison Jr., the chief executive of Fannie who was appointed by President George W. Bush last fall, to be the new head of the Treasury bailout program, in part because of the growing number of vacancies. Mr. Allison remains a contender for the job.
 If nominated by President Obama and confirmed by the Senate, Mr. Allison would succeed Neel T. Kashkari, who has stepped down as assistant Treasury secretary for financial stability, a position created last year as part of the bailout effort.
 Mr. Allison worked for Merrill Lynch for almost 30 years, rising to the positions of president and chief operating officer. He later ran the finance committee for Senator John McCain's 2000 presidential campaign and became the chairman and chief executive of TIAA-CREF, the large money management company.
 The remaining executives at Fannie and Freddie are being asked to do two jobs -- nurse the companies back to health and help the government bailout effort.
 ''Everybody is stretched very thin,'' said James B. Lockhart III, director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency, the regulator for the two companies, in a recent interview. ''The United States government probably has about $400 billion invested in these companies. If you lose these people, you jeopardize that investment.''
 So far, the companies have managed to work around the vacancies, although there are worries that they could begin to take a toll, particularly with so much money at stake.
 ''We're very worried, not only about the vacancies now, but also about future holes,'' Mr. Lockhart said, noting particular concern that the unfilled positions could lead to weaknesses in the technology, risk management and loan modification units of the companies. 
 Executives have been fleeing the company for a variety of reasons. Freddie's chief executive, David Moffett, who was appointed six months ago, stepped down in part because of frustration with tight government control and the deeply conflicted mission of the company. 
 Others, like Gary Kain, Fannie's former senior vice president of investments and capital markets and the top executive overseeing a $700 billion investment portfolio, recently left to become chief investment officer for American Capital Agency, a real estate investment trust.
 The uncertain future of the companies as private companies has also contributed to low morale and made recruitment difficult. In contrast to Fannie and Freddie, major banks that have received financial assistance from the government can offer their executives stock-based bonuses on top of their annual salary -- within limits -- and their executives know that their companies will ultimately be weaned off financial assistance. 
 Where it used to be a badge of honor to work at Fannie and Freddie, they are now largely viewed in Washington with disdain and anger, because the companies are blamed for contributing to the economic crisis. And though they have cut the size of their bonuses drastically and eliminated some perks, the companies have come under withering criticism from some senior members of Congress for continuing to offer bonuses at all. 
 The climate is reflected by the recent letter to Mr. Lockhart from Representative Barney Frank, the Massachusetts Democrat who heads the House Financial Services Committee.
 ''I am writing to urge strongly that you rescind the retention bonus programs at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, prohibit any further payment of bonuses to executives under that program, and pursue repayment of any already-paid bonuses,'' Mr. Frank wrote. 
 Mr. Lockhart said the companies were now paying a political price for overpaying some executives in the years leading to the government takeover. The current bonuses are more modest, but because the companies are now on the public dole, they are also more controversial. 
 Two weeks ago, Mr. Lockhart reported that 7,600 employees at Fannie and Freddie are set to receive retention bonuses this year of a total of $210 million. He said that 213 employees would receive bonuses of more than $100,000 and one executive at Freddie Mac would receive $1.3 million.
 Mr. Lockhart and other officials are now creating compensation guidelines that will form the basis for recruiting executives. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Obama administration hesitates to move Herbert M. Allison Jr., chief of Fannie Mae. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEA SUZUKI/SAN FRANCISCO CHRONICLE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (92%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (76%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); FORECLOSURE (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); LAWYERS (51%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (95%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (93%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); TEACHERS INSURANCE & ANNUITY ASSOCIATION - COLLEGE RETIREMENT EQUITIES FUND (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (95%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (95%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (95%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (52%)

PERSON: HERBERT M ALLISON (89%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2009



577 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: Education Standards Likely to See Toughening

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama and his team have alternated praise for the goals of President George W. Bush's No Child Left Behind law with criticism of its weaknesses, all the while keeping their own plans for the law a bit of a mystery.
 But clues are now emerging, and they suggest that the Obama administration will use a Congressional rewriting of the federal law later this year to toughen requirements on topics like teacher quality and academic standards and to intensify its focus on helping failing schools. The law's testing requirements may evolve but will certainly not disappear. And the federal role in education policy, once a state and local matter, is likely to grow. 
 The administration appears to be preparing important fixes to what many see as some of the law's most serious defects. But its emerging plans are a disappointment to some critics of the No Child Left Behind law, who hoped Mr. Obama's campaign promises of change would mean a sharper break with the Bush-era law.
 ''Obama's fundamental strategy is the same as George Bush's: standardized tests, numbers-crunching; it's the N.C.L.B. approach with lots of money attached,'' Diane Ravitch, an education historian often critical of the education law, said in an interview. 
 In a recent blog Ms. Ravitch wrote, ''Obama has given Bush a third term in education policy.''
 The clues emerge from the fine print of the economic stimulus law that Mr. Obama signed in February, which channels billions of dollars to public education. The key education provisions in the stimulus take the form of four ''assurances'' that governors must sign to receive billions in emergency education aid.
 In one, governors must pledge to improve the quality of standardized tests and raise standards. In another, they promise to enforce a requirement of the education law that their state's most effective teachers will be assigned equitably to all students, rich and poor. A separate provision gives Education Secretary Arne Duncan control over $5 billion, which Mr. Duncan calls a ''Race to the Top Fund,'' to reward states that make good on their pledges.
 ''With these assurances and the Race to the Top Fund, we are laying the foundation for where we want to go with N.C.L.B. reauthorization,'' Mr. Duncan said in an interview. ''This will help us to get states lining up behind this agenda.''
 One fix the administration is preparing focuses on failing schools.
 Currently 6,000 of the nation's 95,000 schools are labeled as needing corrective action or restructuring because they have fallen short of testing targets under the federal law, which nonetheless provided little financing to help them. Most states have let the targets languish. The stimulus law, in contrast, provides $3 billion for school turnarounds, and requires governors to pledge vigorous action.
 The No Child Left Behind law allowed each state to set its own academic standards, with the result that many have dumbed down curriculums and tests. Colorado even opted to use its ''partially proficient'' level of academic performance as ''proficient'' for reporting purposes.
 The stimulus requires governors to raise standards to a new benchmark: the point at which high school graduates can succeed -- without remedial classes -- in college, the workplace or the military. Mr. Duncan has gone further, saying he wants to be a catalyst for the development of national academic standards.
 Cynthia Brown, vice president for education policy at the Center for American Progress, said she believed that Mr. Duncan was the first top federal official to make such a call.
 ''They're putting money and ideas behind what they think are the changes needed in public education,'' Ms. Brown said. ''That signals their seriousness about major reform.''
 So far, the administration has not described its plans for the education law's 2014 deadline for schools to bring 100 percent of American students to math and reading proficiency, which experts have likened to a certain date by which the police are to end all crime.
 The teachers unions, which in 2007 fought a bare-knuckle lobbying battle that scuttled Congress's last effort to rewrite the No Child Left Behind law, are voicing muted concern over a couple of provisions in the stimulus.
 In one of the stimulus assurances, for instance, governors must pledge that their states are building sophisticated data systems. Among other functions, such systems would link teachers to students and test scores and thus, in theory, enable the authorities to distinguish between effective and ineffective teachers. In a March 10 speech, President Obama endorsed using such data systems ''to tell us which students had which teachers so we can assess what's working and what's not.''
 In an interview, Dennis Van Roekel, president of the National Education Association, said he did not like that part of the president's speech.
 ''When he equates teachers with test scores, that's when we part company,'' Mr. Van Roekel said. But he added: ''Over all, I just really support Obama's vision to strengthen public education.''
 Randi Weingarten, president of the American Federation of Teachers, said that her union also had concerns about the president's enthusiasm for data systems, which she said could be misused, but that she would give the new administration the benefit of the doubt.
 ''They have been consistent,'' Ms. Weingarten said. ''They're trying to do reform with teachers, not to them.''
 Including education reform ideas in an economic stimulus bill was a policy improvisation made on the fly during the December transition, when Democratic governors were pleading for federal help to prevent government layoffs amid the economic crisis, aides to Mr. Duncan said.
 In a Jan. 7 meeting with senior Democratic lawmakers, Mr. Duncan announced the administration's intention to channel billions of dollars to the states in exchange for governors' pledges to double down on education reform.
 Representatives David R. Obey of Wisconsin and George Miller of California, the Democratic chairmen of the House appropriations and education committees, immediately saw the importance of extracting reform promises from the states, said a Democratic House staff member who attended the meeting but is barred from speaking on the record about committee business. 
 Rachel Racusen, a spokeswoman for the House education committee, said, ''Chairman Miller said this couldn't just be free money, that we had to get something in return.''
 The administration's reform initiatives have thrust governors into an unusually prominent role in education policy, more often the province of state school chiefs and big-city mayors. Gov. Martin O'Malley of Maryland and several other governors met with Mr. Duncan during a National Governors Association meeting in February.
 ''In a nutshell,'' Mr. O'Malley said in an interview, ''Arne Duncan's pitch was, 'I want to partner with governors; I know you can be drivers for education reform.' He wants us to step up.''
 Mr. Duncan says that governors in Colorado, Florida, Massachusetts, Wisconsin and other states have also responded favorably.
 ''They are happy that we are pushing them to where they know they need to go,'' Mr. Duncan said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Education Secretary Arne Duncan said the administration was ''laying the foundation for where we want to go'' with the No Child Left Behind reauthorization.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN HOFFMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACADEMIC STANDARDS (92%); EDUCATION LAW (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); HISTORY (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); QUALITY CONTROL (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); EDUCATION FUNDING (75%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); ARNE DUNCAN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2009



578 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 507 words

HEADLINE: Retail Sales Decline After 2-Month Rebound

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
Retail sales declined in March, the government reported on Tuesday, ending two months of tentative gains and signaling more weakness in demand as worried consumers continue to tighten their budgets. 
 The 1.1 percent monthly drop in retail sales displayed the fragility of some recent ''glimmers of hope'' in the economy cited by President Obama and other policy makers as they press the administration's economic agenda.
 The Commerce Department reported that consumers spent less on a range of goods last month, including automobiles, home furnishings, gasoline and clothing. Spending on electronics and appliances dropped 5.9 percent in March from the previous month.
 ''If consumers had turned the corner in January and February, they apparently did not like what they saw and quickly reversed course in March,'' Richard F. Moody, chief economist at Forward Capital, wrote in a note. 
 Retail sales were down 10.7 percent from last March, many of the declines stemming from a 34 percent drop in gasoline prices and a 23.5 percent drop in vehicle sales.
 Still, economists said the free fall in retail spending in the dismal holiday shopping season at the end of 2008 seemed to be relenting in the first part of the year. Retail spending jumped an unexpected 1.8 percent in January, and February's numbers were revised upward from a decline of 0.1 percent to a gain of 0.3 percent.
 ''Things are not contracting in the same way as they did at the end of last year,'' said Dean Maki, co-head of United States economic research at Barclays Capital. ''We're not back to a booming consumer spending environment by any means, but it's a stable one.''
 Speeches by Mr. Obama and Ben S. Bernanke, chairman of the Federal Reserve, on Tuesday underscored that point.
 In an address at Georgetown University, Mr. Obama said the $787 billion stimulus plan and other recovery measures by the government and the Fed were ''starting to generate signs of economic progress.'' 
 Also on Tuesday, Mr. Bernanke said there were ''tentative signs that the sharp decline in economic activity may be slowing.'' He pointed to data on home sales, home construction, consumer spending and auto sales, which have offered some hints of improvement -- or at least less severe declines -- in recent weeks.
 In another report on Tuesday, the Labor Department reported that wholesale prices showed more signs of weakness last month. 
 The producer price index fell a seasonally adjusted 1.2 percent in March, reflecting a substantial slide in energy prices from a month earlier. Producer prices declined3.5 percent from the same period in 2008, their largest yearly drop in more than 50 years, reflecting the decline in oil prices from more than $100 a barrel in March 2008.
 Producer prices excluding food and energy were flat in March, putting more focus on the government's report on retail inflation, which will be released Wednesday morning. 
 Another report released Tuesday showed that businesses were continuing to cut their inventories and clear excess supplies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (93%); SALES FIGURES (92%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); PRODUCER PRICES (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); WHOLESALE PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); GASOLINE MARKETS (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%)

COMPANY: BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (76%); BEN BERNANKE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2009



579 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2143 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: APRIL 15, 2009

 BODY:
INTERNATIONAL
 FINANCIAL TIGHTROPE AWAITS
 India's Election Winners
 Exactly what will happen when India's 714 million eligible voters head to the polls is difficult to forecast. But one thing is certain. The next government will confront tough choices as it seeks to balance the need to spur economic growth with the need to address the anxieties of India's poor. Above, Rahul Gandhi, heir apparent to the governing Indian National Congress, greets supporters. PAGE A5 
 NORTH KOREA TO RESTART PROGRAM
 North Korea, angered by a United Nations rebuke of its recent missile launching, declared it would permanently pull out of nuclear disarmament talks and restart its nuclear program. It also expelled United Nations inspectors from the country. PAGE A5 
 3 TRIED TO SELL BOMB MATERIAL
 Three Ukranian men were arrested after they told undercover officers of the Ukrainian Security Service that they had plutonium that could be used in a nuclear weapon, authorities said. The operation underscored concerns that unsecured radioactive material in the former Soviet Union might fall into the wrong hands. PAGE A6 
 DIVISIONS RUN DEEP IN MOLDOVA
 After nearly two decades of independence, Moldovans are still at odds over the basic question of who they are. That division boiled over last week, when a huge anti-Communist demonstration turned violent. PAGE A6 
 POPE EXPECTED TO DISCUSS ABUSE
 Pope Benedict XVI is expected to acknowledge the role of the Roman Catholic Church in forcing about 150,000 Native Canadians into schools where many were sexually and physically abused, the country's most prominent native leader said. PAGE A6 
 Sekisei Lagoon Journal
 Coral Transplant Surgery in Japan
 Divers are planting coral as part of a government-led effort to save Japan's largest reef, near the southern end of the Okinawa chain of islands. True to form in Japan, the project involves new technology, painstaking attention to detail and a generous dose of taxpayer money. PAGE A8 
 ISLAMIC LAW IN PAKISTAN VALLEY
 President Asif Ali Zardari of Pakistan signed a measure that would impose Islamic law in the northwestern valley of Swat, a move that was largely seen as a capitulation to Taliban militants. PAGE A10 
 IRAQ TRIES TO PROVE AUTONOMY
 With Americans leaving and security improved, the Iraqi government has been on a campaign to convince the world that it is a sovereign state, a client of neither the United States nor Iran. Arab nations that are wary of Iran are among the most difficult critics for Baghdad to sway. PAGE A10 
 National
 OBAMA LIKELY TO TIGHTEN
 No Child Left Behind Law
 There has been some anticipation regarding how the Obama administration will handle the No Child Left Behind law. Now clues are emerging and suggest that the administration will use a Congressional rewriting of the law to raise standards on teacher quality and academics. The federal role in education policy, formerly a state and local matter, is likely to grow. Page A11 
 SHIFT IN DRUG IMPRISONMENTS
 The number of African-American drug offenders in state prisons has decreased for the first time since the war on drugs began 25 years ago, according to a new study. But the number of white offenders has sharply increased. Over all, the number of drug offenders in state prisons has risen since 2005. Page A11 
 CALIFORNIA PROPOSAL ON TV POWER
 Estimations in California that 10 percent of the average household's energy consumption is related to television use are leading to proposals for new efficiency standards. These standards would require that all TV sets sold in California use 50 percent less energy by 2013. Page A11 
 NEW REPORT ON IMMIGRANT PARENTS
 About four million American children have at least one parent who is an illegal immigrant, a rapid increase since 2003, according to a nonpartisan research group based in Washington. Page A12 
 BLAGOJEVICH'S OFFICIAL DENIAL
 Rod R. Blagojevich, the ousted Illinois governor who was telling every ear turned his way that he was not guilty of corruption charges, got to tell it to the judge. Mr. Blagojevich pleaded not guilty to 16 criminal counts at his arraignment at the Chicago federal courthouse. Page A13 
 FLORIDA TRAVEL LAW OVERTURNED
 Following the Obama administration's loosening of strictures on travel to Cuba, a judge in Miami has overturned a state law requiring travel agents specializing in trips to the island to pay a $250,000 bond. Page A15 
 Obituaries
 JUDITH F. KRUG, 69
 As the American Library Association's official proponent of the First Amendment's guarantee of free speech since the 1960s, Ms. Krug led the campaign by libraries to combat efforts to ban books, and helped found Banned Books Week. She then fought laws and regulations to limit children's access to the Internet. Page A21 
 New York
 NEW YORK WELCOMES 
 New Archbishop in Dolan
 In ceremonies marked by solemnity, Archbishop Timothy M. Dolan was welcomed as the new leader and high priest of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York. Page A18 
 WORRIES ABOUT GLUT OF OFFICE SPACE
 As financial companies leave Lower Manhattan, freeing up floor after floor of commercial office space, developers are rethinking ground zero. For that reason, the developer Larry A. Silverstein, who is set to add three skyscrapers to ground zero by 2013, and the Port Authority, which owns the 16-acre site, are once again locked in negotiations over how and when the office towers get built. Page A18 
 Business
 PUBLIC PENSION FUNDS REEL
 After Investing in Hedge Funds
 Public pension funds staked billions of dollars in good times on the highest of Wall Street high-rollers: hedge fund managers and corporate buyout specialists. But for many of these pension funds, that gamble is not paying off as hoped. Page B1 
 STEPS CLOSER TO CANCER VACCINE
 A clinical trial for a new prostate drug yielded positive results, the drug company Dendreon announced. The company said that the drug, called Provenge, prolonged the lives of men involved with the trial. These results could pave the way for the first so-called cancer vaccine to win approval in the United States. Page B1 
 TOOLS FOR ONLINE MEDIA CHARGES
 Three media executives are planning an online service that would supply newspapers and magazines a ready-made way to charge for online service. Page B3 
 COMPANY SUSPENDS CLINICAL TRIALS
 Under pressure from the Food and Drug Administration, a Colorado company has agreed to temporarily suspend approving medical studies, or enrolling new patients in current ones. This was following the company's approval of a make-believe trial run by nonexistent doctors. Page B6 
 AN UNUSUAL, COST-SAVING, UNION
 A new freestanding hospital that is slated to be built within the next two decades in Middletown, N.Y., is keeping down costs in an unusual way. Traditionally, the general contractor and architect are separate entities. But in the ''design build'' method being used for this hospital, the two roles are satisfied by the same firm. And smoothing that road might make for a more efficient and cost-effective construction. Page B7 
 Arts
 SMITHSONIAN CHOOSES ARCHITECTS 
 For Black History Museum
 The Smithsonian Institution has chosen a team led by David Adjaye, the famed Tanzanian-born architect, to design the National Museum of African-American History and Culture. The idea for the museum has been in works since the early 1900s, but has been delayed by political opposition. PAGE C1
 Book Review
 Manifesto of a Comic-Book Rebel
 ''A Drifting Life'' is the autobiography of Yoshihiro Tatsumi, one of Japan's most important visual artists and a pioneer of the manga form of comics. Dwight Garner writes that the illustrated work is a mordant cultural tour of postwar Japan, and also one of the genre's signal achievements. PAGE C1
 Neko Case at the Nokia Theater C1
 Television Review But Wait! There's More!
 The new reality show ''Pitchmen'' follows two well-known informercial personalities as they decide which products they would like to hawk to consumers on their programs. In one episode, one of the aggressive, ubiquitous salesmen beats himself with a hammer. ''If you're trying to sell a new reality series to the viewing public in this crowded market,'' Neil Genzlinger writes, ''give people their wildest fantasy.'' PAGE C3
 Sports
 METS REYES HAS HIS OWN 
 Robinson Tribute in Mind
 The Mets' new ballpark boasts many tributes to Jackie Robinson. Among the other considerable achievements of his career, Robinson stole home 19 times -- a number that is almost inconceivable today. Jose Reyes, the team's speedy shortstop, says he is mulling attempting a straight steal of home in a game. ''I want to try, but they always talk to me about it,'' he said. ''Sooner or later, you're going to see me.'' PAGE B10 
 Isiah Thomas to Coach College Team B11 
 Sports of the Times Obama Courts the Soccer World
 In making a pitch to bring the World Cup to the United States in 2018 or 2022, George Vecsey writes that President Obama seems to understand the implications of the world's favorite sport, in the same way he gave early interviews to Arabic newspapers, stopped off in Turkey on his first European trip and held the first Seder in the history of the White House. PAGE B12 
 Dining
 BY THE SPOON OR THE PACKET:
 A Battle for the Guilt-Free Sweet
 The passion, the loyalty, the discernment ... the fake sugar? There are three standbys in the world of the artificially sweet: saccharin, aspartame and sucralose. Each in its respective pink, blue or yellow packet. But there's a new gun in town, robed in green and ready to shake things up in this $1.2 billion industry. Page D1 
 THE GIFT OF CHOICE AND CONSCIENCE
 Jeffrey Moussaieff Masson writes books about animals and is a vegan, or at least ''veganish'' he says. His new book, ''The Face on Your Plate,'' endorses a vegan lifestyle and poses that human beings evolved as herbivores, and were not supposed to eat meat. That freedom of choice is what Mr. Mason believes obligates us to be more humane about our eating habits. Page D1 
 NO TRADITION LIKE THE FREEZER AISLE
 Can you think of anything more of a trademark of Southern cooking than buttermilk biscuits? They're right up there with fried chicken and pit-cooked barbecue. Not to throw a rock through all that plate-glass imagery, but freezer-case biscuits and rolls have been very passionately adopted by Southern cooks, even if they're shy about telling you. Page D1 
 A Good Appetite 
 The Fear of the Flaky and Baked
 The intimidating part of a recent dinner party attended by intellectuals turned out not to be the scintillating discourse. Instead it's that phyllo dough tort, a masterpiece really, being molded in the kitchen. Page D2 
 Broccoli Rabe, What's Not to Like? D2
 The Curious Cook 
 Yogurt, From Scratch
 This one time, it might be O.K. to cultivate bacteria in your kitchen. Because it's yogurt you're making, not chicken. Even if this type of culture isn't part of your routine, it's worth doing every now and then just to see how good they can be. Page D2 
 COMO SE DICE 'PASSION?'
 In Chile, from the lips of revolutionaries to those standing at a roadside stand, the love of the empanada is prevalent. These tiny meat pies made their way from the Strait of Magellan to the food courts of the United States. Page D4 
 Wines of The Times 
 Sancerre: Say It With Feeling D6
 Restaurant 
 Charles: Satisfactory D7 
 Editorial
 WOMEN AND EXTREMISM
 In Afghanistan, President Hamid Karzai has signed a law that effectively permits marital rape. In Pakistan, a video shows the Taliban publicly flogging a young woman. The cases represent an officially sanctioned brutality that sabotages any chance of building stable healthy societies. PAGE A22
 SAFETY, ONE PISTACHIO AT A TIME
 For those concerned about food safety, one of the most encouraging events in years was the blanket warning from the Food and Drug Administration about salmonella in pistachios. But a recent report from the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention suggests that the agency still has a long way to go. PAGE A22
 AN IMPRESSIVE FIRST NOMINEE
 President Obama has done well with his first judicial nomination of David F. Hamilton -- whose rulings appear to be guided by a belief in applying the law fairly, and in providing a fair hearing to victims of injustice. The Senate should confirm him quickly. PAGE A22
 Op-Ed
 THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
 It's deja vu all over again when it comes to United States foreign policy right now. PAGE A23
 BIG PROFITS, BIG QUESTIONS
 In an Op-Ed article, William D. Cohan, the author of ''House of Cards: A Tale of Hubris and Wretched Excess on Wall Street,'' is skeptical of how Goldman Sachs has turned itself around so quickly, and wonders why taxpayers have had to funnel so much money to it through A.I.G. PAGE A23

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); RELIGION (89%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (88%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (86%); EDUCATION LAW (86%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (86%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (85%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (75%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (74%); TALIBAN (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (71%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (70%); DISARMAMENT (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (69%); ISLANDS & REEFS (69%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (67%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); NATIVE AMERICANS (58%); ARRESTS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%)

PERSON: POPE BENEDICT XVI (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); ASIF ALI ZARDARI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) INDIA (94%); JAPAN (93%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); UKRAINE (92%); IRAQ (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2009



580 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1018 words

HEADLINE: Obama Stands Firm On a Sweeping Agenda

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
 AS he spoke about the economy on Tuesday, President Obama invoked the parable in the Sermon on the Mount about two houses, one built on sand only to be blown away in a storm and another built on rock impervious to the swirling winds.
 Mr. Obama was trying to explain why he wants not only to revive the sagging economy but to virtually reinvent it with sweeping changes in health care, energy and education. Without deeper reform, he argued, the economy would only topple again later. 
 But as he confronted critics in a wide-ranging hourlong speech to students and faculty members at Georgetown University, he also sought to shift his expansive economic program off the political sands onto a firmer foundation.
 As Mr. Obama acknowledged, many Americans think he is taking on too much at once, or, conversely, not doing enough at all, or just wondering how all the pieces of his agenda fit together. A flurry of government action has yet to reverse the nation's economic calamity, and while Mr. Obama said again that he detects ''glimmers of hope,'' he pleaded for patience from an instant-gratification society that usually responds to crisis with ''a lurch from shock to trance.''
 ''It's more than most Congresses and most presidents have to deal with in a lifetime,'' Mr. Obama said. ''But we have been called to govern in extraordinary times. And that requires an extraordinary sense of responsibility to ourselves, to the men and women who sent us here, to the many generations whose lives will be affected for good or for ill because of what we do here.''
 Mr. Obama chose to give what aides described as a ''major speech'' shortly before leaving Thursday for Trinidad and Mexico, his second foreign trip of the month. It served as a reminder to his domestic audience that he remains focused on the economy and an effort to frame the debate before Congress returns from its spring recess next week. 
 Skeptics, including some in his own party, have questioned whether it makes sense for Mr. Obama to focus on expanding health care coverage, curbing greenhouse gases and other priorities when jobs continue to disappear at a dizzying rate, the banking sector remains in limbo, the auto industry is hanging over the precipice and the federal budget deficit is soaring.
 Mr. Obama used the address to link those disparate issues and present an integrated vision for the future of American capitalism when the recession eventually ends. He defended himself against those who accuse him of bankrupting the nation and those who argue that he should be more aggressive about taking over banks and spending even more money.
 ''I know there's a criticism out there that my administration has been spending with reckless abandon, pushing a liberal social agenda while mortgaging our children's future,'' Mr. Obama said. But he rejected that characterization and said it was time to make difficult decisions. ''There's been a tendency to spend a lot of time scoring political points instead of rolling up sleeves to solve real problems.''
 He chided critics of his spending plans and recommitted himself to addressing the entitlement programs like Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid that consume so much of the budget.
 ''Let's not kid ourselves and suggest that we can solve this problem by trimming a few earmarks or cutting the budget for the National Endowment for the Arts,'' he said. ''If we want to get serious about fiscal discipline, and I do,'' then the country's leaders must ''get serious about entitlement reform.''
 That drew a rebuke from Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the House Republican leader, who accused the president of not being serious himself about entitlements or deficits.
 ''Talk is cheap in Washington,'' Mr. Boehner's office said in a statement, ''so the question to the administration continues to be: what's the plan, and if we should 'get serious' about it, why did you choose to ignore entitlement reform in your budget?''
 In defending his commitment to fiscal restraint, Mr. Obama continued to cite a statistic widely scorned by budget specialists. He again claimed that ''we've identified $2 trillion in deficit reductions over the next decade.'' 
 Three-quarters of those ''reductions,'' however, reflect assumptions that the nation would have had as many troops in Iraq in 10 years as it does now, even though President George W. Bush signed an agreement with Baghdad before leaving office that would result in the withdrawal of all American forces within three years.
 Even as he skirmished with critics on the right, Mr. Obama pushed back at critics on the left who accuse him of being too timid, and ask, as he described their grievance, '' 'Why aren't you tougher on the banks?' '' He said he had not embraced pre-emptive government takeovers because in the end such a move would cost taxpayers more and undermine confidence. ''Government should practice the same principle as doctors,'' he said. ''First, do no harm.''
 In listing his priorities, Mr. Obama again insisted that health care be overhauled by the end of the year, and he embraced the ''courageous set of reforms'' proposed by Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates to cancel costly weapons programs.
 He was less precise about his timing for a market-based cap on carbon emissions, which are blamed for climate change. Democrats in Congress left a cap out of the budget outline passed in separate form by the House and Senate. Critics have said a cap would hurt industry and cost energy consumers during a recession. 
 Democratic lawmakers are pushing such cap-and-trade legislation, but appear uncertain that it could pass this year. Mr. Obama agreed that ''we have to take into account the costs of transition'' to a new system. But he added: ''We can no longer delay putting a framework for a clean energy economy in place. That needs to be done now.''
 Such initiatives, he argued, are every bit as necessary as solving the banking or housing crises. ''If we don't lay this new foundation now,'' he said, ''it won't be long before we're right back where we are today.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama repeated calls for changes in health care, energy and education on Tuesday at Georgetown University. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (66%); NATIONAL DEBT (61%); BUDGET DEFICITS (60%); BANKING & FINANCE (60%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (50%); GREENHOUSE GASES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2009



581 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1146 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Is Planning To Reveal Health Of Top 19 Banks

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and ERIC DASH; David E. Sanger reported from Washington and Eric Dash from New York. Louise Story contributed reporting from New York.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Obama administration is drawing up plans to disclose the conditions of the 19 biggest banks in the country, according to senior administration officials, as it tries to restore confidence in the financial system without unnerving investors.
 The administration has decided to reveal some sensitive details of the stress tests now being completed after concluding that keeping many of the findings secret could send investors fleeing from financial institutions rumored to be weakest.
 While all of the banks are expected to pass the tests, some are expected to be graded more highly than others. Officials have deliberately left murky just how much they intend to reveal -- or to encourage the banks to reveal -- about how well they would weather difficult economic conditions over the next two years. 
 As a result, indicating which banks are most vulnerable still runs some risk of doing what officials hope to avoid. 
 The decision on handling the stress tests underscores the delicate balancing act by the government, which has spent hundreds of billions to stabilize banks. Despite some signs of improvement in the financial system, many economists remain concerned that banks are still weighed down with toxic assets stemming from the housing downturn.
 Until now, the Treasury De-partment has simply said that it will reveal the amounts of any new infusions of capital into banks that regulators judge to be at risk if the economic downturn is prolonged or the economy takes a further dive. 
 The administration's hand may have been forced in part by the investment firm Goldman Sachs, which successfully sold $5 billion in new stock on Tuesday and declared that it would use the proceeds and other private capital to repay the $10 billion it accepted from the government in October. 
 That money came from the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP, and Goldman's action was seen as a way of predisclosing to the markets the company's confidence that it would pass its stress test with flying colors. 
 Goldman's action has put pressure on other financial institutions to do the same or risk being judged in far worse shape by investors. The administration feared that details on healthier banks would inevitably leak out, leaving weaker banks exposed to speculation and damaging market rumors, possibly making any further bailouts more costly. 
 The Goldman move also puts pressure on the administration to decide what conditions will apply to institutions that return their bailout funds. It is unclear if Goldman, for example, will continue to be allowed to benefit from an indirect subsidy effectively worth billions of dollars from a federal government guarantee on its debt, a program the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation adopted last fall when the credit markets froze and it was virtually impossible for companies to raise cash. In ordinary times, regulators do not reveal the results of bank exams or disclose the names of troubled banks for fear of instigating bank runs or market stampedes out of a stock. But as top officials at the Treasury and the Federal Reserve Bank focused on the intensity with which the markets would look for signals about the nation's biggest banks at the conclusion of the stress tests, the administration reconsidered its earlier decision to say little. 
 ''The purpose of this program is to prevent panics, not cause them,'' said one senior official involved in the stress tests who declined to speak on the record because the extent of the disclosures were still being debated. ''And it's becoming clearer that we and the banks are going to have to explain clearly where each bank falls in the spectrum.''
 Two senior government officials said on Tuesday that they were now likely to encourage the banks to reveal a range of information, perhaps including the size of losses the banks could suffer under each of the stress assumptions. Critics of the testing system, however, have questioned whether the hypothetical cases are extreme enough.
 ''The assessments are not yet complete,'' Stephanie Cutter, a spokeswoman for the Treasury, said. ''When they are, we'll work with the banks on how best to release the appropriate data and on what time frame to ensure fairness and minimize market uncertainty.''
 Concern about the impact of the stress tests on the financial markets has been deep. Last week, the Federal Reserve, acting on behalf of itself and other regulators, sent e-mail messages to banks undergoing the stress tests, urging them to say nothing about the tests during the earnings season, including their capital needs or plans to return TARP money. 
 The banks, officials say, have not been told of any test results, but since they know what information they have had to provide, they can probably estimate their own results. 
 Despite the regulators' warning, there is evidence that some banks are trying to signal to the markets early that their quarterly results will look good -- and, by implication, that investors should not worry about the tests.
 Citigroup and Bank of America made positive statements about the current quarter weeks ago, and last week, John Stumpf, the chief executive of Wells Fargo, said the bank was in good shape and expected a $3 billion profit this quarter. The Wells Fargo statement appeared to frustrate some Treasury officials, and regulators clearly fear it will be more difficult for them to issue negative assessments of banks that have already proclaimed that they are in good shape. 
 A Wells Fargo spokeswoman, Janis Smith, said the company would not comment on interactions with its regulator. 
 ''Given current market conditions we felt it was important to share preliminary results as early as possible,'' she said, ''and we are not aware of any constituent who would have disagreed.''
 After Goldman's announcement on Monday that it planned to return the TARP funds, other big banks are looking for ways to do the same. Healthier banks are desperate to get out from the government's thumb, believing the heightened scrutiny and the restrictions on executive compensation could cripple their businesses. But senior administration officials made clear they, not the banks, would decide whether to let the institutions return the money, and that would depend on their ability to raise fresh capital in the private markets. 
 ''We are going to have some separation between the haves and have nots,'' said Dino Kos, a banking analyst at Portales Partners, a research firm. ''The downside of it is that you are bleeding capital out of the banking system at a time when the banks would be better off with more, rather than less.'' 
 The Treasury Department says it has $134.5 billion in TARP funds. That includes a conservative estimate that the banks would pay back $25 billion, a sign the government will allow at least some big banks to return the money. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); TOXIC ASSETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (60%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (60%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (60%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2009



582 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: Newspaper Ad Revenue Could Fall as Much as 30%

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
NEWSPAPER advertising, already in its worst slump since the Depression, suffered by far the sharpest drop in generations during the first quarter of 2009, down 30 percent for some papers, industry executives and analysts say.
 Publishers will start to report first-quarter results this week, but people who follow the industry and have had a glimpse of the 2009 numbers say it is clear that once again, even the most pessimistic predictions were not dark enough. They are expecting declines sharp enough to wipe out profit margins at many papers that, despite two years of battering, had stayed comfortably in the black, and to push already-weak publishers closer to bankruptcy, perhaps even closure. ''I think over all we're going to see a decline somewhere in the mid-20s'' compared to the first quarter of last year, said Edward Atorino, a media analyst at the Benchmark Company, a research firm. ''There have been a lot of signals that things have gotten much worse in the last couple of months -- the furloughs, the pay cuts, the layoffs.''
 John Morton, an independent newspaper analyst, agreed with that assessment, adding ''from what I'm hearing, I suspect 30 percent won't be too unusual for the bigger papers.'' 
 One of the few publishers to make a public statement is the Gannett Company, owner of the largest and most profitable newspaper chain in the country. At a conference with analysts last month, Gracia Martore, the company's executive vice president and chief financial officer, indicated that so far, 2009 newspaper ad revenue was down roughly 30 percent, and more than that at its flagship paper, USA Today.
 In filing for bankruptcy recently, Sun-Times Media Group, publisher of The Chicago Sun-Times and several smaller papers, disclosed in court papers that it had drawn up its original 2009 budget based on an expected 18 percent slide in ad revenue for the entire year, but had revised that to 30 percent.
 More recently, some publishing executives, insisting on anonymity because they are prohibited from discussing figures that have not been made public yet, say they know of some other large newspapers that had a first-quarter drop in the 30 percent range. Declines above 20 percent, they said, were commonplace.
 ''This is far worse than anything any of us has seen,'' said an executive at a major newspaper company. ''We can keep cutting, but we need this to start to bottom out.''
 Small papers generally fared better than large ones, though they also saw a sharp loss of revenue, experts say. In markets like Michigan and Florida, even some smaller papers have fared as poorly as the big papers, Mr. Morton said.
 Offering at least a glimmer of hope, several executives and analysts said there were signs that the year-over-year decline in March was not as steep as those for January and February, even though the traditional pre-Easter advertising bump fell in March last year. (This year, it fell in April.) That and other factors, they said, could signal that losses for the rest of 2009 would not be as steep as the first quarter's.
 Lauren Rich Fine, research director at ContentNext Media, said that in all media, ''as the economy grew much worse in the fall, companies really started to pull back hard on advertising'' to save money. In particular, automakers, among the biggest advertisers, cut back as it became clear that their own futures were in jeopardy.
 Ms. Fine said it was hard to predict when companies would readjust their ad spending limits, which depended in part on when the recession bottomed out.
 Broadcast advertising has dropped, too, but not to the same degree. Gannett said the decline for its television stations was about half as steep as for its newspapers. In a report released Monday, ZenithOptimedia predicted that ad spending this year in all United States media would fall 8.7 percent.
 The worsening crisis has prompted many newspapers, including The New York Times and the Hearst newspapers, to begin developing plans for new revenue sources like charging readers online -- an idea that most of the industry had rejected until recently -- but it is unclear whether they will put those plans into action, or when.
 Newspapers count on advertising for the bulk of their revenue, and for a decade they have been losing ads to the Internet, where advertising is much cheaper and there is far more competition for it. But until 2006, papers held their own.
 Then in 2007, ad revenue for newspapers and their Web sites dropped 7.9 percent, according to figures compiled by the Newspaper Association of America. That was the first significant decline in a nonrecession year on record, and came as a surprise to most analysts and executives.
 In 2008, the downturn in the overall economy magnified the long-term trend in the newspapers, and ad revenue fell 16.6 percent -- again, far more than publishers and analysts predicted. The real estate bubble burst, financial firms tottered and fell, recession took hold and unemployment spiked. Some of the biggest categories of advertising, like real estate and help wanted, all but evaporated.
 Nearly every large paper has made significant budget cuts in the last year, including laying off staff and reducing the number and size of pages they print. Recently, a number of publishers, including Gannett and The New York Times Company, have asked employees to take a pay cut -- sometimes in the form of mandatory furloughs -- and have raised the prices they charge readers.
 In December, Tribune Company, publisher of The Los Angeles Times, The Chicago Tribune and other major papers, filed for bankruptcy. Since then, Sun-Times Media, the Star Tribune of Minneapolis, and Philadelphia Newspapers, owner of that city's Inquirer and Daily News, have also filed for bankruptcy.
 A handful of papers have folded or stopped publishing, becoming much smaller online operations. And companies have threatened to close other papers without major labor concessions, including The San Francisco Chronicle, owned by Hearst, and The Boston Globe, owned by the Times Company.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A newsstand in the West Village, in Manhattan. Analysts said some predictions of ad revenue declines were not bleak enough. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRINT ADVERTISING (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (90%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); LAYOFFS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); BUDGETS (71%)

COMPANY: GANNETT CO INC (91%); SUN-TIMES MEDIA GROUP INC (65%); CHICAGO SUN-TIMES INC (53%)

TICKER: GCI (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: GRACIA MARTORE (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2009



583 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: Intel Says PC Sales Have Reached a Bottom and Forecasts Moderate Growth

BYLINE: By MATT RICHTEL

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
In another sign that the worst of the economic downturn might have passed, Intel said on Tuesday that the personal computer industry had bottomed out in the first quarter of the year.
 Paul S. Otellini, Intel's chief executive, said, ''The worst is now behind us.''
 The company, which makes computer chips, reported that net income in the first quarter fell 55 percent from a year ago. It forecast modest growth in the coming months, but industry analysts said that a rebound would be anything but sharp and fast. 
 ''The best word for it is 'stabilization,' '' said Glen Yeung, an analyst with Citi. But he was cautious about how much good news that represented. ''The reason they have found the bottom is because it's been so bad that it's hard to imagine it could have gotten worse.''
 Mr. Otellini said in the company's earnings announcement, ''We're seeing signs that a bottom in the PC segment has been reached.'' He also said that consumer demand remained relatively stronger than corporate demand and that demand in the United States and China appeared to be recovering more quickly than in Europe, Japan and emerging markets around the world.
 Intel reported that its net income fell to $647 million, or 11 cents a share, from $1.44 billion, or 25 cents a share, in the year-ago quarter. The company reported sales of $7.1 billion, down 26 percent from $9.67 billion, reported a year ago.
 Intel reported net income a share, excluding one-time charges, of 8 cents, beating the consensus Wall Street estimate of 2 cents a share. The analysis consensus was that Intel would report revenue of $6.98 billion.
 Intel said it was not confident enough in the state of the economy to provide a revenue estimate for its second quarter. But it said that ''for internal purposes'' it was planning for flat revenue in the second quarter.
 Wall Street analysts had hoped for a rosier outlook. After its earnings announcement, Intel's shares fell in after-hours trading Tuesday by 5.4 percent, to $15.14. It had closed Tuesday at $16.01, up 3 cents. Intel's stock has had a mini-rally over the last month, rising from about $13. 
 One area of the computer business that has been relatively strong has been the sale of low-cost, Internet-centric machines the industry calls mini-notebooks or netbooks. But Intel had a sharp drop in the quarter for sales of its Atom processor, a chip that powers some of these devices. The first-quarter sales of $219 million were down 27 percent from the fourth quarter of last year. 
 Intel attributed the drop to computer makers' using their excess inventory of chips. The company expects demand to return as those inventories grow leaner. 
 Intel's gross profit margins of 45.6 percent were several percentage points above what analysts had expected, but a number that was decidedly low by its historical standards.
 In the previous quarter, gross margins were 53 percent; they were 59 percent in the third quarter.
 Gross margins have not been this low since the third quarter of 2001, when they hit 46 percent, Edwin Mok, an analyst with Needham & Company, said. Intel forecast that margins would remain in the mid-40s in the current quarter. 
 ''This might be a little disappointing for the street,'' Mr. Mok said.
 Mr. Yeung drew a distinction between the tepid reaction of the stock, which in Intel's case tends to trade on projections of its gross margins, and the positive outlook that the computer market appeared to have hit a bottom. 
 Citi projects, for instance, that the number of notebooks built in the second quarter will increase 10 to 15 percent from the first quarter. Netbook shipments are expected to grow 15 to 20 percent in the current quarter, and shipments of desktops are expected to be flat or down 5 percent.
 But Mr. Yeung said the market had a long way to go. He said that demand for computers was as far from average historical demand as it had been in more than a decade. 
 ''Fundamentally, business has been getting better since the beginning of February,'' he said. But ''it's not like it's going gangbusters.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL COMPUTERS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COMPUTER MAKERS (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); MICROPROCESSORS (78%); COMPUTER CHIPS (78%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); COMPANY LOSSES (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (71%); SECURITIES TRADING (70%)

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (97%); CITIGROUP INC (56%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (97%); C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%)

PERSON: PAUL S OTELLINI (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2009



584 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 550 words

 BODY:
REVEALING BANKS' CONDITION The Obama administration is planning to disclose the condition of the 19 biggest banks in the country, as it tries to restore confidence in the financial system without unnerving investors. 
 HIGH COST FOR CANCER PILLS Health insurance generally covers intravenous chemotherapy for cancer patients, but not the pills taken at home, saddling such patients with thousands of dollars in bills. [A1.]
 A DIFFERENT KIND OF MONEY As Goldman Sachs seeks to return $10 billion in taxpayer funds to escape rules that cap executive pay, it is keeping a subsidy that let it issue $28 billion in debt and had virtually no conditions. [B1.]
 PENSION FUNDS' GAMBLE Public pension funds invested billions with hedge funds in hopes of big gains, but in many cases they lost money. Now, several big firms are being investigated for payments to pension funds. [B1.]
 HEDGE OFFICER PLEADS GUILTY A hedge fund executive has pleaded guilty to securities fraud and is cooperating with a New York investigation of corruption at the state pension fund. [B1.]
 FLEEING FANNIE AND FREDDIE Until a year ago, two of the most coveted workplaces in Washington were Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. Now, both are suffering from an exodus of senior and midlevel managers who are seeking refuge at less stigmatized companies. [B4.]
 BRITISH ECONOMY IN TROUBLE Analysts worried about the British economy say that without severe spending cuts and tax increases, government debt will jump to 80 percent of the overall economy in the coming years, a ratio that approaches that of troubled countries like Greece and Italy. [B1.]
 PATIENCE, PLEASEPresident Obama pleaded for patience for his efforts in dealing with the economy, saying, ''It's more than most Congresses and most presidents have to deal with in a lifetime.'' News Analysis. [B4.] 
 INTEL SEES RECOVERY Intel's chief executive, Paul Otellini, left, said the personal computer industry had bottomed out in the first quarter of the year and ''the worst is now behind us.'' [B3.]
 EBAY TO SPIN OFF SKYPE EBay announced plans to spin off Skype, its Internet calling division, in an initial public offering during the first half of 2010. [B3.] 
 GUILTY PLEA IN TAX FRAUD The owner of a yacht company pleaded guilty to tax fraud, in a widening investigation of the Swiss banking giant UBS. [B2.]
 RETAIL SALES DOWN Retail sales declined, ending two months of tentative gains and signaling more weakness in demand. [B9.] 
 MARKETS FALL ON REPORTS The major United States stock indexes fell, interrupting a rally that had been driven by better-than-expected economic data, as investors were disappointed by retail and wholesale reports. [B9.]
 SLIDE IN NEWSPAPER ADS Newspaper advertising, already in its worst slump since the Depression, suffered the sharpest drop in generations during the first quarter of 2009, down 30 percent for some papers. [B3.]
 CANCER DRUG PASSES TRIAL A prostate cancer drug prolonged the lives of men in a decisive clinical trial, according to the company that developed it. [B1.]
 MEDICAL STUDIES SUSPENDED A company that approved a sham clinical trial in a federal sting operation agreed under F.D.A. pressure to temporarily suspend approving federally regulated medical studies or enrolling new patients in current studies. [B6.] 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION FUNDS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CANCER DRUGS (90%); CANCER (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TAX FRAUD (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); GUILTY PLEAS (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); HEDGE FUNDS (75%); CORRUPTION (73%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (69%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (69%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (67%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (66%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (66%); RETAIL SALES (64%); PRINT ADVERTISING (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (60%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (60%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (82%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (82%); INTEL CORP (81%); UBS AG (80%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); INTC (NASDAQ) (81%); UBSN (SWX) (80%); UBS (NYSE) (80%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (82%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (82%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (82%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (80%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (80%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); PAUL S OTELLINI (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2009



585 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: Big Profits, Big Questions

BYLINE: By WILLIAM D. COHAN. 
William D. Cohan, a contributing editor at Fortune, is the author of ''House of Cards: A Tale of Hubris and Wretched Excess on Wall Street.''

 BODY:
AT its nadir last November, Goldman Sachs's share price closed at $52, nearly 80 percent below its high of around $250. By then, many of its chief competitors -- Bear Stearns, Lehman Brothers, Merrill Lynch and UBS -- were dead or shadows of their former selves. Even Morgan Stanley, long considered Goldman's archrival, had nearly died. But somehow, less than five months later, on the heels of a surprisingly profitable first quarter of fiscal 2009, Goldman Sachs is once again riding high, with its stock closing Tuesday at $115 a share.
 The question many Wall Streeters are asking is just how Goldman once again snatched victory from the jaws of defeat. Many point to Goldman's expert manipulation of the levers of power in Washington. Since Robert Rubin, its former chairman, joined the Clinton administration in 1993, first as the director of the National Economic Council and then as Treasury secretary, the firm has come to be known, as a headline in this newspaper last October put it, as ''Government Sachs.'' 
 How can one ignore, the conspiracy-minded say, the crucial role that Henry Paulson, who followed Mr. Rubin to the top at both Goldman and Treasury, played in the decisions to shutter Bear Stearns, to force Lehman Brothers to file for bankruptcy and to insist that Bank of America buy Merrill Lynch at an inflated price? David Viniar, Goldman's chief financial officer, acknowledged in a conference call yesterday the important role the changed competitive landscape had on Goldman's unexpected first-quarter profit of $1.8 billion: ''Many of our traditional competitors have retreated from the marketplace, either due to financial distress, mergers or shift in strategic priorities.'' 
 But he was largely mum on American International Group, which, Goldman's critics insist, is the canvas upon which the bank and its alumni have painted their great masterpiece of self-interest. A few days after Mr. Paulson refused to save Lehman Brothers last September -- at a cost of a mere $45 billion or so -- he came to A.I.G.'s rescue, to the tune of $170 billion and rising. Then he decided to install Edward Liddy -- a former Goldman Sachs board member -- as A.I.G.'s chief executive. Goldman has since received some $13 billion in cash, collateral and other payouts from A.I.G. -- that is, from taxpayers. 
 Why kill Lehman and save A.I.G.? The theory, we now know, was that the government felt it needed to save the firms, including Goldman Sachs, that had insured many of their risky ventures through the insurer. Indeed, had Mr. Paulson decided not to save A.I.G., its counterparties would have suffered serious losses. Lehman's creditors will be lucky to get back pennies on the dollar. 
 In a conference call he held last month, Mr. Viniar made the shocking claim that Goldman ''had no material exposure to A.I.G.'' because the firm had ''collateral and market hedges in order to protect ourselves.'' If so, then why did Goldman need the government's help in the first place? During yesterday's conference call, Guy Moszkowski, an analyst from Merrill Lynch, asked Mr. Viniar what role the $13 billion Goldman has collected from A.I.G. had on its first-quarter showing. But Mr. Viniar would have none of it: Profits ''related to A.I.G. in the first quarter rounded to zero.'' Hmm, how then did Goldman make so much money if that multibillion-dollar gift from you and me had nothing to do with it? 
 Part of the answer lies in a little sleight of hand. One consequence of Goldman's becoming a bank holding company last year was that it had to switch its fiscal year to the calendar year. Previously, Goldman's fiscal year had ended on Nov. 30. Now it ends Dec. 31. 
 As a result, December 2008 was not included in Goldman's rosy first-quarter 2009 numbers. In that month, Goldman lost a little more than $1 billion, after a $1 billion writedown related to ''non-investment-grade credit origination activities'' and a further $625 million related to commercial real estate loans and securities. All told, in the last seven months, Goldman has lost $1.5 billion. But that number didn't come up on Monday. How convenient. 
 Which leaves us with the real reason Goldman has cleaned up this year: the huge misfortunes of its major competitors. Those other firms have disappeared or have become severely wounded, and as a result have more or less been sitting on their collective hands since the collapse of Lehman last September. 
 As part of its busy day on Monday, Goldman also announced it was raising $5 billion of equity capital and that it intended to pay back the $10 billion from the Treasury's Troubled Asset Relief Program that Mr. Paulson forced on the bank last October. Being free of the TARP yoke will give Goldman yet another competitive advantage: the ability to pay its own top talent and new recruits whatever it wants without government scrutiny. 
 This is significant, since it is unlikely any of Goldman's remaining competitors will be able to make a similar move anytime soon. There is a reason Bill Gates once said Microsoft's biggest competitor was Goldman Sachs. ''It's all about I.Q.,'' Mr. Gates said. ''You win with I.Q. Our only competition for I.Q. is the top investment banks.'' And then there was one.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID SUTER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INSURANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); MERGERS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); COMPANY STRATEGY (72%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); CONFERENCE CALLS (64%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (65%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (54%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (92%); JPM (LSE) (92%); 8634 (TSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (92%); AIG (NYSE) (65%); 8685 (TSE) (65%); BAC (NYSE) (54%); BAC (LSE) (54%); 8648 (TSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (92%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (65%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (65%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: DAVID E PRICE (79%); HENRY PAULSON (78%); EDWARD M LIDDY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2009



586 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: For Young Japanese, It's Back to the Farm

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

 BODY:
YOKOSHIBAHIKARI, Japan -- A motley group of unlikely farmers descended on the countryside here one recent Sunday, fresh towels around their necks, shiny boots on their feet.
''This is harder than it looks,'' said Tatsunori Kobayashi, a spiky-haired janitor from Tokyo Disney Resort, as he tromped through a mustard spinach patch with a seed planter, irregular furrows stretching out behind him.
He is part of Japan's 2,400-strong Rural Labor Squad, urban trainees dispatched to the countryside under a pilot program to put Japan's underemployed youth to work tilling its farms.
Started last month as part of Prime Minister Taro Aso's stimulus plans, the program stems from growing concern about both the plight of Japan's younger workers and the dismal state of farms. In a play on words, the squad's name in Japanese -- Inaka-de-hatarakitai -- is also its rallying cry: ''We want to work in the countryside!'' 
The predicament of Japanese in their 20s and 30s dates back to the lost decade of the 1990s, when many failed to find good, stable work. Today, a disproportionate number endure low-wage jobs -- a potential portent for America's students and first-time job seekers plunging into a shallow job market in the United States.
As the Japanese recession has worsened, younger workers have taken the brunt of wage cuts and layoffs, especially in manufacturing. Now the government views the slump -- Japanese exports fell almost 50 percent year-to-year in February -- as a chance to divert idle labor to sectors that have long suffered from worker shortages, like agriculture. Many young Japanese, for their part, have shown a growing interest in farming as disillusionment rises over the grind of city jobs and layoffs. Agricultural job fairs have been swamped with hundreds of applicants; one in Osaka attracted 1,400 people.
''Young people want jobs, and farmers need the extra hands,'' said Isao Muneta, an agriculture ministry official who coordinates the 1.3 billion yen ($13 million) program, part of a larger stimulus package. ''It's the perfect match.''
Whether it will save Japan's deteriorating economy is something else. ''Rural communities could benefit from an influx of young people,'' said Masashi Umemoto at the National Agricultural Research Center. ''But it's unrealistic to look to agriculture as a solution to the country's unemployment problems.''
He added, ''There aren't enough farming jobs.''
Like the French and the British, whose industrial societies have deep (if distant) rural roots, the Japanese have long romanticized life in the countryside. Only 4 percent of Japan's labor force works in agriculture, but a reverence for the country's rice-farming heritage is strong. Japanese children grow up with warnings not to waste a single grain of rice, out of respect for farmers' labor. In an annual ritual, the Japanese emperor makes an offering of rice harvested from paddies within the palace grounds to Shinto deities. And in international trade talks, rice remains the most sensitive crop for Japan.
Beneath this romanticism, however, is a stark reality. Japanese farming is a picture of inefficiency, and the rural work force is graying. A decline in rice prices has hit farms hard -- only the largest farms still turn a profit from harvesting rice, forcing farmers to take on extra jobs. The farms most desperate for workers do not have the means to pay for new recruits. Agricultural jobs pay as little as $1,500 a month and are often seasonal.
Overgrown plots abound in Yokoshibahikari, a town of 26,000 about 43 miles east of Tokyo.
''We're all old folk and thankful to have young people come help us,'' said Hitoshi Suzuki, 57, and head of a cooperative of family farms that share equipment to reduce overhead costs. (One of the cooperative's farmers is 83.)
Rural communities themselves effectively shut out new blood by making it difficult for outsiders to set up their own farms, says Takayuki Yoshioka, a coordinator at the nonprofit organization that runs the Yokoshibahikari program. People with no local links who want to buy farmland are subjected to a vetting process by local farming committees that can take years.
''I believe the possibilities are limitless in agriculture,'' said Mr. Yoshioka, who is interested in starting his own farm. ''But there are also big barriers.''
Shinji Akimoto, who until recently worked in information technology, is not intimidated.
Fearful of constant staff cuts as business deteriorated, Mr. Akimoto, 31, quit his job last month and days later started training in Yokoshibahikari. His three-day, government-financed training program has been a succession of whirlwind lessons in rice and vegetable planting, cleaning pig sties and feeding cattle.
''I had nothing much to lose, and in times like these, I felt I needed to learn to make my own living,'' he said. He chuckled and twirled a finger in the air. ''Did you know pigs really do have curly tails?''
Mr. Akimoto's team of 10 is a hodgepodge: the Disney janitor, a recently laid-off landscape artist and several college students. They all get 7,000 yen a day, about $70, and free food and board.
They all shared a common complaint: there was no convenience store nearby for drinks and snacks. One trainee persuaded a farmer to lend him his light truck, so he could get cigarettes.
''My friends think I'm crazy for coming here,'' said Tomoka Inoue, 20, a management major who said she was widening her job search to include farming. ''But I think people are becoming more aware of where our food comes from, and I want to get more involved with that.''
Experts say the program's wider economic impact will be limited in the face of the severe challenges facing Japan's economy: gross domestic product shrank at an annualized rate of 12.1 percent in the fourth quarter of 2008, and unemployment is at a three-year high of 4.4 percent.
But the government is going ahead with plans to begin yearlong farm intern placements later this year. Increasing agricultural employment is part of a new $154 billion stimulus package that Mr. Aso announced last week.
Mr. Kobayashi, the janitor at Disney, says his time as a trainee has helped him decide he wants to take up farming leeks, this town's main crop. He intends to take another week off to train with a local leek farmer, Yoshinori Yamazaki, who is looking for someone to take over his farm.
''This is just too perfect,'' Mr. Kobayashi gushed. He said leeks were his favorite vegetable, and he had read that they were easy for beginners to grow and bring in a stable income.
But Mr. Yamazaki, the leek farmer, was skeptical. ''You can't learn farming in just a year, or even several years. It's a lifetime profession,'' he said. ''I worry this is just a fad. I'm worried that when the economy picks up, they'll all flock back to the city.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In March, Yoko Goto carried trays with rice seeds in a greenhouse in Yamatake-gun, Japan. The seedlings were to be planted later.
 Kazuki Sakai, left, and Tatsunori Kobayashi planted komatsuna, or mustard spinach, in a field in Yamatake-gun.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY AYUMI NAKANISHI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS: The Rural Labor Squad sends urban trainees to farms. Map details area of Yokoshibahikari 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); FARM LABOR (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (88%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); AGRICULTURE (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); LABOR FORCE (73%); AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (73%); LABOR SHORTAGES (70%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (69%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (68%); EXPORT TRADE (50%)

PERSON: TARO ASO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); OSAKA, JAPAN (78%) JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2011



587 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: Challenger To Specter From Right Of His Party

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
Arlen Specter, Pennsylvania's longtime Republican senator, visited the police department in Darby, Pa., on Monday to hand out $221,000 in federal stimulus money and received high praise -- from the local Democratic congressman.
Checks like this are being handed out nationwide ''because of Arlen Specter's vote, a courageous vote,'' said the Democrat, Representative Robert A. Brady, referring to Mr. Specter's support for President Obama's stimulus package. ''It was a vote out of the heart, and for that you should be commended.''
Such praise for Mr. Specter from his fellow Republicans has been less forthcoming. Conservatives have opposed him for years, and moderates, tens of thousands of them, have deserted the party and registered as Democrats. That has left a smaller Republican Party dominated by conservatives and has made Mr. Specter vulnerable to a challenge from the right.
After Mr. Specter's stimulus vote in February, he plunged in polls of Republican voters. And Pat Toomey, a conservative and former congressman who narrowly lost to Mr. Specter in the 2004 primary, smelled blood. Mr. Toomey officially announced Wednesday that he would challenge Mr. Specter in the primary in May 2010. 
''For 30 years, Senator Specter has consistently voted for increased government spending and a liberal agenda on social, labor, immigration and national security policies,'' Mr. Toomey said, adding that those positions were ''wrong'' for Pennsylvania.
Mr. Specter is holding fast to his identity as part of a dwindling band of Republican moderates. As one of only three Republican members of Congress who supported the stimulus -- and the only one up next year for re-election -- he has become a test case for their survival.
Mr. Specter, who says he voted for the stimulus to prevent the economy from worsening, has built his career on skillfully navigating between Republicans and Democrats. But doing so has come at a price. Now, at 79, he may be the political equivalent of a man without a country. His own party has not embraced him, and he has rebuffed entreaties to join the Democrats.
''The irony is that the very nature of his moderate politics leaves him without a home,'' said Christopher Borick, a political scientist at Muhlenberg College in Allentown, Pa. ''He's at a time in his career when he should be being embraced by his party as an elder statesman, but instead he's being pushed aside. This gives his story an element of tragedy.''
Mr. Specter received a rare bit of encouragement Monday from Senator John Cornyn, the Texas Republican who heads the National Republican Senatorial Committee. With the balance of power in the Senate potentially at stake, Mr. Cornyn said, Mr. Specter was ''our best bet to keep this Senate seat in the G.O.P. column.''
And after Mr. Toomey entered the race on Wednesday, Mr. Specter produced some testimonials from local Republican officials.
But a recent Quinnipiac poll found that Republican voters preferred Mr. Toomey over Mr. Specter, 41 percent to 27 percent, with 28 percent undecided. (The margin of sampling error for the poll of Republican voters is plus or minus five percentage points.) And the chairmen of both the Pennsylvania and national Republican parties have said they were open to backing a challenger, an unusual slight to a five-term incumbent.
Mr. Toomey lost to Mr. Specter in 2004 by less than 2 percent of the vote. But so many moderates have defected from the party -- particularly from Mr. Specter's base in Philadelphia and its four suburban counties -- that Mr. Toomey is better positioned this time, at least for the primary.
''This is not the party of Tom Ridge anymore,'' said Terry Madonna, a political scientist at Franklin & Marshall College in Lancaster, Pa., referring to the former governor and moderate Republican. ''It has atrophied considerably, and the state is looking more like New Jersey than Ohio,'' meaning more reliably Democratic.
While Mr. Specter remains very popular among Democrats, they cannot vote in the Republican primary. They have appreciated much in his history -- his support for abortion rights, his blocking of Judge Robert H. Bork from a seat on the Supreme Court, as well as his stimulus vote -- but they have been furious with him, too, notably for his support for Clarence Thomas for the Supreme Court and his related interrogation of Anita F. Hill, who had accused Mr. Thomas of sexual harassment.
In a general election, Democrats would have to judge whether Mr. Specter was reliable enough (during his career, he has broken with his party about 43 percent of the time, according to Congressional Quarterly) or whether to go with an actual Democrat.
The state's top Democrat, Gov. Edward G. Rendell, a friend of Mr. Specter for more than four decades, said he was ''hugely torn'' over Mr. Specter's fate, but would support the Democrat, whoever it may be, in 2010.
''I'd hate to see him go out losing,'' Mr. Rendell said of Mr. Specter. ''But if he lost the primary, we'd almost certainly win the seat.''
Given the lay of the land, why is Mr. Specter seeking a sixth term?
''I'm at the top of my game,'' he said in an interview Monday as he traversed the Philadelphia suburbs.
He said he could become chairman of the Appropriations Committee, meaning he could direct even more money back home, although Republicans, with 41 seats, have a lot of catching up to do before they could be back in the majority and able to appoint committee chairmen. He said he would prevail in the primary because Mr. Toomey was too conservative to win a general election. ''Republicans won't want to elect a sure loser,'' Mr. Specter said.
Mr. Toomey said in an interview that it was Mr. Specter who would lose:
''The degree and intensity of the antipathy by Republicans toward Senator Specter is so great that if he were to win the primary, which I doubt he could, but, if he could, it would ensure a conservative third-party candidate'' who would split Republicans and guarantee a Democratic victory.
Mr. Specter is battling aggressively on several fronts and has raised $6.7 million. He has spent $100,000 in television commercials trying to link Mr. Toomey, a former derivatives trader, with the financial crisis. Mr. Specter also plans to spend $100,000 in Philadelphia to try to persuade former Republicans who changed their registrations to return to the fold.
Time may be on Mr. Specter's side. By next May the economic picture may be brighter. In addition, a third Republican, Peg Luksik, who opposes abortion rights, has entered the race and could draw votes from Mr. Toomey. Perhaps most important, Mr. Specter has a history of surviving close scrapes.
''He's like Houdini, a master escape artist, getting out of near-death experiences,'' Mr. Madonna said. ''And he's delivered a lot of money for the state. Never underestimate him.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Arlen Specter, right, a Republican, and Representative Robert A. Brady, a Democrat, on Monday in Darby, Pa. Such friendliness has upset conservatives. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA KOURKOUNIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg. A16)
 Pat Toomey, a conservative, said Wednesday that he would challenge Senator Arlen Specter in the Republican primary. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT ROURKE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (76%); POLICE FORCES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (65%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (65%); IMMIGRATION (50%)

PERSON: ARLEN SPECTER (94%); PAT TOOMEY (89%); ROBERT A BRADY (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN CORNYN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2011



588 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: As Thomas Resurfaces, Knicks Rebuild a Franchise

BYLINE: By HARVEY ARATON. 
E-mail: hjaraton@nytimes.com

 BODY:
There was Isiah Thomas late Wednesday morning landing on national television in South Florida, on his feet, in another coaching job, albeit at the ground level of big-time college basketball. There again was the megawatt smile and rousing applause when Thomas sank his first rhetorical 3-pointer as the new Florida International University head coach.
''In life, you have your ups and downs,'' he said. ''I'm no different. But don't expect me to just stay down, because that's not happening.'' 
His cadence was as perfectly timed as the news conference to restart his career, on the day the Knicks would close out another lost season by routing the Nets, 102-73, at Madison Square Garden
. Probably just a coincidence, but at least now I have some idea of why I bumped into Thomas in the lobby of Dolphin Stadium early this year before the Bowl Championship Series title game.
The university provost introduced him as Isiah Thompson, but the athletic director, Pete Garcia, was obviously on the prowl for a name. He said he has personally known Thomas and insisted he had ''thoroughly investigated'' him after all the bad news in New York. Under questioning, the investigation sounded more like a dinner at which Thomas had Garcia believing he was Gandhi by the salad, if not at hello.
On the subject of the Knicks, Thomas more or less said his mission was impossible, and cited failed predecessors, all the way back to Willis Reed (who, for the record, made the playoffs and won a round in his one full season as Knicks coach). The team that Thomas left for Donnie Walsh, the Knicks' president, and Coach Mike D'Antoni should have been so lucky.
For months, the 2008-9 Knicks played spirited, competitive basketball, though typically lacking in any semblance of lockdown defense. Their record was nine games better than in two of their three previous seasons, when they paid numerical tribute to Michael Jordan and ceased winning after their 23rd victory.
In a more broad-based analysis, Walsh did succeed in freeing the Knicks from the Thomas-era constraints of long-term contracts for players with whom they would never escape the curse of mediocrity, or worse. Only one remains: center Eddy Curry, misidentified by many, mostly by Thomas, as a franchise player, and currently an infirm and immobile obstruction to the grand plan of spectacularly remaking the team in the free-agent market after next season.
Can the Knicks coax Curry back onto the court for enough meaningful minutes to create the belief that he is young (26) and offensively skilled enough to trade for sometime during his penultimate contract season? Impossible at this point to say, and that is the most profound example of the perplexity that will linger into summer. Such a long season, too many questions left unanswered.
Should the Knicks re-sign the prospective free agents David Lee and Nate Robinson at the risk of recrowding the cap? Is Wilson Chandler a career front-liner, or just a rotation player after the overhaul? Will Danilo Gallinari, who showed glimpses of possible transcendence during a rookie season plagued by back pain that has led to surgery, be the next great European forward, or the next woebegone calamity?
If Walsh lets Lee and/or Robinson walk, the Knicks will be weakened next season, but that raises another question. What should their immediate ambition be: the low-level playoff contention they plunged from after the All-Star break with their newsreel of a roster, or the rapid development of their personnel keepers at the expense of their short-term hired guns, Al Harrington and Larry Hughes?
Given a fans' referendum, I am guessing they would vote for the latter. Like the Thomas acquisitions Stephon Marbury, Jamal Crawford and Zach Randolph, these are players who are largely about numbers without valor. The true effects of the recession are ahead, but in the basketball scheme of things, Knicks fans have waited a long time and will endure another year with the reasonable assurance that the Walsh-D'Antoni plan is actually grand.
Speaking of uncertainty, at least the Knicks have a home in which they don't feel imprisoned and which isn't being swallowed by an indoor skiing and entertainment complex.
Pity the Nets; despite the infusion of young talent at point guard (Devin Harris) and center (Brook Lopez), they remain residentially stuck between a horrible place, the Meadowlands, and a hard place, Brooklyn. If shovels aren't soon in the ground for the proposed arena, they'd be wise to relocate soon to the Rock, as Newark's Prudential Center is called, if they want to compete for free-agent talent.
With regard to college recruiting, Thomas at least has Miami to sell as he tries to build at an undistinguished Sun Belt Conference program. Working pro bono for the first year of five, the man who couldn't deal with a female marketing executive in the Knicks' front office and wound up on the short end of a civil sexual harassment lawsuit will also be expected to please spoiled players and their parents, university alumni, compliance officers and educators, among others.
Good luck to him in the reconstruction of his reputation, as daunting a task as the one he left behind, rebuilding the Knicks.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Thomas Is Back In the Gym: Isiah Thomas was introduced as the men's basketball coach at Florida International University, a year after being fired as the Knicks' coach. Coverage at nytimes.com/sports. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LYNNE SLADKY/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (88%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); SPORTS (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (86%); FLORIDA INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY (84%)

PERSON: MICHAEL JORDAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2011



589 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; SKIN DEEP; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1235 words

HEADLINE: Many Cutbacks but Not for Straight Teeth

BYLINE: By CATHERINE SAINT LOUIS

 BODY:
WITH her husband newly unemployed, Kim Moldofsky isn't about to drop thousands of dollars guilt-free.
 Except to straighten out her firstborn's teeth.
 The way she sees it, dipping into their rainy-day savings to correct her son Isaac's overbite is a sound investment when few exist. ''If you look at what would be happening to our money sitting in banks, we are not getting much return on it,'' said Ms. Moldofsky, a new-media consultant who lives in Morton Grove, Ill. ''This is something we will get a return on.''
 Even in the best of times, paying $4,500 to $7,000 for braces (depending on the severity of alignment issues) is a stretch for many -- not to mention the thousands that some spend on preparatory work. Dental insurance pays roughly $750 to $2,000; often, the whole tab is paid out of pocket. 
 As job losses and salary reductions wreak havoc on family budgets, financing the perfect smile is a big-ticket purchase that many middle-class parents find is worth scrimping for. For Ms. Moldofsky, family dinners at restaurants and tennis lessons are out, and her boys no longer attend private school, partly because of the expense. But 11-year-old Isaac's orthodontics remain a priority. 
 ''Could we have avoided doing this? Probably,'' she said. Still, she added, ''I think having well-aligned teeth -- this is going to sound shallow -- but it sends a message to people.''
 Paul Zuelke, whose health care firm gives advice on practice management to 800 orthodontists who together see 25,000 new patients a month, said ''a large number'' of those families are struggling financially. But they would ''rather buy mac and cheese for dinner than not pay their bills,'' he said. 
 Even those who are insolvent place a high priority on their children having straight and healthy teeth. A few times recently, patients have called clients of Mr. Zuelke's to say they are filing for bankruptcy but don't plan to list the orthodontist as a creditor. They still intend to pay for straight teeth. 
 In a society that places extraordinary value on appearance, orthodontics is increasingly seen as a necessity, not a luxury, and even though the number of patients appears to have declined since the start of the recession, many families are going to great lengths to keep tooth-straightening in their budgets. Some orthodontists, with business slowing, are dropping fees or letting families stretch out payments. 
 The latest figures from the American Association of Orthodontists, compiled before the recession began, counted about 4 million patients younger than 18 in North America in treatment in 2006, up from 2.6 million in 1989. Experts say the number has dropped recently. 
 Mr. Zuelke estimated that orthodontists saw an 8 percent decline in new patients in 2008 from the previous year, coming on top of a 12 percent falloff in 2007 over 2006. This year, however, there's been a slight uptick in patients in the first quarter, he said.
 Dr. Roger Levin, the founder of Levin Group, which advises 500 orthodontists nationwide on how to manage their practices' finances, said that since August, revenue for orthodontists has decreased 10 to 12 percent. ''Fewer patients are coming in,'' Dr. Levin said. 
 Why are cash-strapped families still considering braces at all? The answer seems to be that giving the next generation a leg up is a priority. ''If you go into a job with teeth out of a novelty store, people aren't supposed to discriminate,'' said Dr. Benjamin Burris, an orthodontist with several offices in Arkansas. ''But people do.''
 To pay for braces, families typically face three choices: either upfront payment in full for a modest discount; third-party financing, often with interest; or in-office financing, which entails a hefty down payment, then interest-free monthly fees over two years or so.
 But in this economy, ''a lot of practices are more flexible with their payment options,'' Dr. Levin said. Since last fall, Dr. Hyue Young C. Park, of Markin & Park Orthodontics in Maryland, has allowed her patients to make the down payment over a few visits, so that a large upfront sum is not a barrier to treatment. Her office also waives a $380 fee for X-rays and dental records for all patients.
 Recently Dr. Park and her financial coordinator decided to let one family pay ''$300 for the first six months, then $100 for the remaining months,'' she said. The understanding was that if they had extra money -- say, a tax refund -- they would put it toward treatment.
 In her 25 years advising orthodontic practices, Jackie Shoemaker, the president of J. M. Shoemaker Consulting, has advocated flexibility, especially if a credit check is run first. 
 ''Some orthodontists are hard and fast,'' demanding money before the braces come off, Ms. Shoemaker said. But referrals on soccer fields and in ballet classes are what grow a practice, so it's invaluable to let the word travel that if a family is having difficulties, this orthodontist is flexible.
 Once a mortifying rite of adolescence, braces carry less of a stigma now that many tweens and teenagers have them. Braces are as innocuous as glasses these days, said Steven Kelly, 13, of Newton, Mass., who has worn his braces for two years. ''They just blend in,'' he said. ''You don't notice them.'' In fact, try breaking it to a seventh grader that she'll have to survive junior high school with a jumbled ''social six'' -- the catchphrase for the half dozen teeth that are front and center. ''There are more kids coming in, wanting them, expecting them,'' said Dr. David Cordes, an orthodontist with offices in Westfield, Mass., and Enfield, Conn. 
 ''I feel sorry for a lot of parents,'' said Dr. Burris, who takes pro bono cases through a foundation he recently created, Smile for a Lifetime. ''That's why we work with them.''
 When a parent decides to postpone treatment, their child can be peeved. Dr. Cordes said: ''I see the kid glaring at the parent, and the parent is like, 'No, we are holding off.' ''
 In October, Martin Bowser, a printer from Laurel, Md., lost his job and the dental plan that had helped pay for two of his four children's pre-braces orthodontics with Dr. Park. The two, Megan and Martin Jr., lost baby teeth prematurely, so they had appliances installed to make space for permanent teeth. 
 Mr. Bowser was able to renegotiate his monthly fee for Megan to $150, down from $185. ''When you have good insurance, you give them the best,'' said Mr. Bowser, who recently paid off Martin's bill. ''But when you don't, you think maybe we need to be economical here.'' 
 Alice Lesch Kelly, a freelance writer in Newton, Mass., got a few opinions when her son Steven needed braces. But she and her husband, who is also self-employed, chose the most expensive orthodontist because he didn't propose to extract any teeth. ''He was $2,000 more than anyone else: that was a hard decision to make,'' Ms. Kelly said. ''I heard he was a perfectionist. With teeth, that's kind of what you want.''
 That said, lately the family income has taken a hit, and their college savings have lost value. If their 11-year-old, Scott, needed braces now, Ms. Kelly said, they couldn't afford another $6,600. That makes dentist visits stressful. ''Every time I go in for a cleaning with my youngest one, I ask whether he needs braces,'' she said. So far the answer has been no. ''I'm so relieved to hear that,'' Ms. Kelly said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY ABOVE, ALIX MINDE/PHOTOALTO/CORBIS
TOP, RALPH A. CLEVENGER/CORBIS)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY RALF TOOTEN/CORBIS)
 (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEROME TISNE/CORBIS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); DENTISTRY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); FAMILY (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (73%); CHILDREN (71%); HEALTH CARE (68%); DENTAL INSURANCE (68%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); RESTAURANTS (66%); RECESSION (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); DENTAL VISION & PRESCRIPTION INSURANCE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2009



590 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 350 words

HEADLINE: Shop Faster

BYLINE: By KATE STEIN. 
Kate Stein is a student at the University of Florida.

DATELINE: Gainesville, Fla. 

 BODY:
 SHOPPER 46 is making a decision. Stopwatch in hand, I observe her from behind a cereal display. Shopper 46 has been contemplating bananas for four minutes and 43 seconds. Finally, she moves to place one with minimal brown spots in her cart, changes her mind and quickly deposits the unfit specimen back onto the pile of fruit. Shopper 46 exits the produce department with a bargain tub of banana pudding instead. 
 Interning as a consumer behavior researcher last summer for Brian Wansink, director of the Cornell University Food and Brand Lab, I observed thousands of supermarket patrons in situ from Whole Foods to Safeway. In this economy, people are increasingly trying to save money by eating in. As Americans make the transition from restaurant tables to supermarket aisles, they are making mistakes that translate into unnecessary expenses at the checkout lane. 
 Grocery shopping might seem like a mundane, mechanical activity, but look around next time you're in the store: Despite our best intentions, we buy food impulsively and irrationally. 
 We go to the supermarket resolved to watch our pennies and choose healthful foods. But we become disoriented when we're confronted with thousands of products and brands. So we end up spending $3.49 on an accidental bag of Doritos, $1.99 on M&M's. And besides the calories, these wasted dollars add up fast. 
 You might think that browsing slowly through the store would help you pick out the best products. But our research shows that's not the case.
 The shoppers I studied who took the longest, examining packages, stopping at whatever caught their eye, invariably spent more money. They tumbled stray, often unhealthy, items into their baskets, and later, when questioned, couldn't cite a reason for the purchases. 
 It turns out that making up a precise list beforehand and getting the errand done as quickly as possible is the best way to save money. Cutting time cuts costs, as well. 
 Bananas? Check. Special on Kozy Shack banana pudding? If it wasn't indelibly marked on your grocery list, control your instincts and move on quickly.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (92%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (79%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); NUTRITION (71%); RESTAURANTS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2009



591 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: In Some Parts of U.S., Pace Of Decline May Be Easing

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
Though the American economy is in a rut, some areas of the country, from San Francisco to Kansas City to New York, are seeing hints that the pace of economic declines is leveling off.
 That was one conclusion of a region-by-region economic snapshot released Wednesday by the Federal Reserve. The survey of a dozen Federal Reserve districts, known as the beige book, again described a landscape of continuing economic woe, one marked by rising job losses, declines in manufacturing and lower prices.
 But the assessment this time was a shade less dreary. Five of the Fed's 12 districts said the downward slide was slowing, and others glimpsed signs that different sectors of the economy were coming to rest at lower levels. 
 Home sales and retail spending edged up in some areas. Manufacturing in Chicago and Kansas City was falling at a slower clip, and orders for high-technology equipment ''firmed somewhat'' in Dallas and San Francisco, although at very weak levels, the Fed said.
 The grace notes in the report added one more glint to the ''glimmers of hope'' in the economy that President Obama and other policy makers have cited as they try to build confidence in the government's economic agenda and rescue measures. 
 But analysts were cautious of the Fed's report, pointing out that an economy falling at a slower rate was still heading down.
 ''A reduction in the pace of declines does not simply equate to economic rebound,'' Dan Greenhaus, an analyst in the technical strategy group at Miller Tabak & Company, wrote in a note. ''This is a crucial difference and one that in many months and years, people will be wondering why everyone on the block didn't realize this.''
 The Fed also noted continuing downward pressure on prices, from cheaper raw materials to lower prices for products and services like accounting in Dallas or hotels in San Francisco.
 The Labor Department confirmed the data in its consumer price report for March. The agency said that for the first time since 1955, consumer prices in the United States were lower than they were a year ago. 
 Consumer prices in March were 0.4 percent lower than the same month last year, reflecting a steep drop in oil prices, which peaked above $145 a barrel last summer before collapsing as the financial crisis took hold. 
 Last month, consumers paid far less for gasoline and home heating oil than they did in March 2008. While the price of dairy products, used cars, computers, lodging and transportation also fell as cheaper oil and reduced consumer demand rippled through the system, fears about outright deflation are ebbing.
 Economists expect inflation to remain low for the rest of the year as rising unemployment keeps consumer spending low and demand weak. In its report on Wednesday, the Labor Department said that its Consumer Price Index unexpectedly fell 0.1 percent in March from February, largely because of a 3 percent decrease in energy costs. 
 But the so-called core rate of inflation, which excludes food and energy prices, was 0.2 percent. Sixty percent of the gain in core prices was because of an 11 percent increase in tobacco costs. 
 Despite the overall decline in prices from March 2008, core prices excluding food and energy were 1.8 percent higher in March than a year ago, muting some concerns that the economy was sliding toward a deflationary spiral of lower prices, falling wages and vicious economic contraction. 
 ''We're in the zone of price stability,'' said Stuart Hoffman, chief economist at PNC Financial. ''I view these as good numbers. I don't see any numbers that would indicate deflation and depression.''
 As the financial crisis erupted at the end of 2008, some economists and even Federal Reserve policy makers began to worry about the threat of deflation, a factor in the Great Depression. 
 Seeking to revive the economy, the Fed slashed interest rates to record lows near zero percent and expanded its balance sheet to more than $2 trillion. Consumer spending and prices for food, gasoline and other household goods have stabilized in the last two months, dimming the specter of a downward cascade of wages and prices.
 ''We're not in that spiral,'' said Nigel Gault, chief United States economist at IHS Global Insight. ''I don't think we'll get into that spiral, but that's more of a risk than inflation is at the present time.'' Other economists say that the Fed's aggressive measures amount to creating money from whole cloth, and could catalyze a rapid rise in prices and a weakening of the dollar once the economy gets back on its feet. 
 ''The real risk to this economy is inflation,'' said Ken Mayland, president of ClearView Economics. ''When the Fed doubles -- and is en route to -- tripling its balance sheet, I don't fear deflation.''
 Still, at the most recent meeting of the Fed's Open Market Committee meeting in March, some members ''expressed the view that inflation was likely to persist below desirable levels.'' 
 The Federal Reserve expects inflation to run at a rate of 0.3 percent to 1 percent for the rest of the year and pick up slightly in 2010 as the economy begins growing again at a slow pace.
 On Tuesday, the government reported that producer prices slipped 1.2 percent in March after ticking up for the first two months of the year, largely because of the decline in energy costs from falling gasoline prices. The core producer price index, which excludes food and energy, was unchanged for the month.
 The Federal Reserve also reported Wednesday that industrial production fell at an annual rate of 20 percent over the first three months of the year, showing a virtual shutdown in manufacturing plants, materials makers and in construction. Industrial production fell 1.5 percent in March from a month earlier.
 The Fed's measure of how much industrial infrastructure is being put to work fell to its lowest levels on record in March, to 69.3 percent. Economists said measures of capacity utilization were likely to fall even further this year as manufacturers, mines, factories and other industrial companies cut costs and reduce their outputs.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Economic Weakness Across the Country: A roundup of regional economic conditions in the Federal Reserve's 12 districts, according to survey results released by the Fed Wednesday. Based on information collected on or before April 6.(Source: Bloomberg News)
Consumer Prices: Percent change, month to month, seasonally adjusted.
 U.S. and major metropolitan areas (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); DEFLATION (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); HEATING OIL (74%); CONSUMER SPENDING (72%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (72%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (62%); HOTELS & MOTELS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2009



592 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1158 words

HEADLINE: Import Fight in a Steel Town

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

DATELINE: GRANITE CITY, Ill. 

 BODY:
Jeff Rains, a retired steelworker at the sprawling mill here, made the discovery. Out walking a month ago, he waited impatiently at a rail crossing while a freight train slowly passed, its flatbed cars stacked with steel pipes, each wide enough for a child to crawl through. Then he noticed ''Made in India'' stenciled on the pipes.
 That observation has made him a Paul Revere in the eyes of many townspeople. Hundreds of sections of imported steel pipe have been moving into Granite City for use in an oil pipeline. The steel mill, meanwhile, has been shut since December for lack of orders -- the first time in its 130-year history -- and nearly 2,000 workers are on furlough. 
 ''I was very mad when I saw they were imported; I wondered why this pipe had not been made in the United States,'' said Mr. Rains, who is 61. Once the train passed, Mr. Rains, still active in union affairs, hastened to the union hall to spread the word. 
 The United Steelworkers union has been trying ever since to galvanize the Granite City story into national outrage over steel imports, raising suggestions of protectionism in the process. The union and its workers want steel pipe for future projects to be made in the United States, creating domestic jobs. 
 With the economy in tatters, top corporate executives often state privately that they fear this downturn will fuel public sentiment against foreign-made products. Indeed, in February -- before Mr. Rains made his discovery -- 5,000 people marched through the streets of this steel town in support of a strong ''Buy America'' clause in the $787 billion stimulus bill then before Congress.
 The imported pipe has inflamed that sentiment. The union filed an antidumping lawsuit in Washington last Wednesday against tubular and pipe steel imported from China. A day earlier, Local 1899 staged a rally here, drawing more than 500 people to the same field where the lengths of ''Indian pipe,'' as the people here call them, have been stacked. 
 ''The steel pipe behind us is a symbol of what has gone wrong in this country,'' one of the speakers declared, arguing in effect that a lax Congress and greedy businesspeople, as in Wall Street, had brought three months of layoff, so far, to more than 10 percent of Granite City's work force. The crowd cheered, and some chanted back, ''No more greed.''
 The union's hope is that the Indian pipe episode will provoke a broad outcry, and similar finger-pointing, forcing Congress to tighten trade rules and pressuring companies that import steel to buy more from domestic suppliers instead.
 The pressure on Congress is already evident. A provision in the stimulus package, signed into law in February, limits the hiring of foreign workers by any company receiving government bailout money. At least one institution, Bank of America, has rescinded job offers to foreign citizens otherwise eligible for H-1B visas.
 The United Steelworkers asserts that free trade is not the issue. The union's leaders endorse that, as do the chief executives of nearly every multinational company. What the Indian pipe represents, the union argues -- and it is joined in this by steel industry executives -- is a violation of fair trade. They contend that generous government subsidies allow Indian and Chinese manufacturers to ''dump'' steel in this country at prices below the fair market value. 
 ''Other countries point the finger at the U.S. and say we are protectionist,'' said Nancy Gravatt, a spokeswoman for the American Iron and Steel Institute, representing mill owners, ''and then you look at the details in the other countries, and they are not playing by the rules at all.'' 
 Such strong language aside, the episode here has not generated the broad public outcry of, say, the bonuses paid by the American International Group. That is perhaps because trade issues do not generate the same reaction as huge Wall Street bonuses, and perhaps because the steelworkers themselves, as they explained in interviews here, would not have objected to the Indian steel if they were still fully employed at U.S. Steel's Granite City Works. But the industry has been operating at less than 50 percent of capacity since last fall. 
 Imports have accounted for a steady 20 to 25 percent of the nation's steel consumption for a decade or more -- and neither the union nor the steel mill operators challenged that inroad.
 But now they are, partly through stepped-up antidumping actions, like the one filed against China last week. The union, in addition, is pushing for policies that would increase manufacturing in the United States, reversing a long decline. It favors, for example, tax credits that would encourage more domestic production of solar panels and wind turbines, replacing imports.
 ''I have seven children, and six of them need a job,'' said Ricky Jankowski, a laid-off steelworker here. ''If one of them gets a manufacturing job as a result of our protests, it will be worth it.''
 The shrinking of American manufacturing was indeed a handicap when TransCanada, a giant Canadian energy company, agreed to buy 560,000 tons of large-diameter pipe in 2006 for its 1,600-mile Keystone Pipeline, now being built from Alberta to Oklahoma to carry oil to American refineries from Canada's tar sand fields. A section of the pipeline will pass near this Mississippi River town, opposite St. Louis. 
 An American mill provided 30 percent of the pipe, Canadian mills 23 percent and a giant Indian company, Welspun, the remaining 47 percent, at a low enough price, TransCanada says, to compete with American-made pipe, even allowing for shipping.
 ''American and Canadian mills would have gotten more if they had had the available capacity to meet our requirements,'' said Robert Jones, a TransCanada vice president. 
 Neither union leaders nor industry executives dispute that assessment. Indeed, neither is trying to stop construction of the Keystone Pipeline, now that all the steel pipe has been purchased. But the union, at least, is putting pressure on TransCanada to buy American-made pipe for a parallel pipeline soon to be built. In a letter filed with the Transportation Department last week, the union joined the Sierra Club in challenging, on environmental grounds, TransCanada's request for a permit -- one argument being that the walls of the pipe would be too thin. 
 Pipe made in America would ''meet all safety requirements,'' a union official declared, responding in part to the growing anger in Granite City, dominated as it is by a giant steel mill that has never, in 130 years, been so quiet and smokeless.
 ''People here use the word anger to describe their reaction to the Indian steel, but I'm not sure that is the right word,'' said the Rev. Gene Fowler, pastor of the First Presbyterian Church, who attended the rally with other clergy members. ''I think the right description is, 'slapped in the face.' It is like an offense to the community.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Indian-made steel pipes, top, in Granite City, Ill., a steel town whose big plant has been idle since December. The union has staged rallies in protest.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAN GILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B1)
 A United Steelworkers rally in Granite City on April 7. The union wants to marshal national outrage over steel imports.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAN GILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); TRAINS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (78%); RAIL CROSSINGS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (76%); PROTECTIONISM (76%); LABOR FORCE (74%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (73%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (72%); CITY LIFE (71%); CITIES (71%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (69%); FOREIGN LABOR (69%); JOB CREATION (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (92%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2009



593 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: Delphi Faces A Deadline On G.M. Aid

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED

 BODY:
When Delphi filed for bankruptcy in the fall of 2005, a management team led by the seasoned turnaround executive Robert S. Miller Jr., set a goal to shepherd the auto parts maker out of the courts by the middle of 2007.
 Now, after more than three years of clashes with unions and bondholders, Delphi is teetering on the brink of collapse. 
 Its prolonged and tortuous route through the courts provides a stark counterpoint to the widespread hope that if General Motors itself is forced to file, its bankruptcy will be quick. 
 Delphi faces a deadline on Friday to deliver a term sheet outlining the future of its continued support from G.M., which spun off Delphi a decade ago but still has ties to the company, one of its largest suppliers.
 If it fails to reach agreements with G.M., the Treasury Department and its lenders by April 24, Delphi could lose its bankruptcy financing. That could mean a liquidation, something the Obama administration's task force is preparing for, according to a person briefed on the negotiations.
 In that event, the government hopes that a slimmed-down G.M., created through a structured bankruptcy, would acquire the Delphi plants and equipment necessary to make the parts it needs. The rest would most likely be sold at fire-sale prices, leading to little recovery for creditors.
 Talks have been continuing among Delphi and its lenders, G.M. and the auto task force, and meetings are scheduled for Thursday and Friday. But little consensus has emerged, said people with knowledge of the talks, who spoke on the condition that they not be named because the talks were fluid.
 A liquidation would represent a dismal end. Except for 2002, Delphi has reported a net operating loss every year since it was spun off. Since it filed for bankruptcy, it has been kept alive largely through $11 billion in support payments from G.M.
 Even though Delphi has shuttered domestic factories and shed thousands of unionized workers, it faces continuing pension obligations, some of which have already been transferred to G.M.; a drastic downturn in car sales; and the battered credit markets, making financing for its operations difficult to obtain.
 Based in Troy, Mich., Delphi had about 148,000 employees as of Dec. 31. In its annual report, filed last month, Delphi disclosed a $1.48 billion operating loss for 2008. 
 ''Our focus remains on change, and we continue to focus our efforts on restructuring within our Chapter 11 case,'' said Lindsey Williams, a Delphi spokesman.
 Representatives for JPMorgan Chase and Citigroup, Delphi's chief lenders, declined to comment.
 The news from Delphi in recent days has been largely gloomy. In an interview with The Wall Street Journal on Tuesday, Kent Kresa, G.M.'s new chairman, raised the specter of a Delphi liquidation. 
 On Monday, Delphi requested that the judge in its bankruptcy case disband its equity holders' committee, a cost-cutting move that also indicates how poor the expected recovery rates for its stakeholders are.
 The Obama task force has largely been consumed with finding reorganization solutions for G.M. and Chrysler. But the universe of auto parts makers, ranging from giants like Delphi to tiny suppliers, is equally troubled and just as starved for cash. 
 G.M., Chrysler and Ford Motor together buy about $5 billion in parts a month, the Motor and Equipment Manufacturers Association, a trade group representing hundreds of suppliers, says.
 For years, Delphi has produced a variety of parts for G.M. cars, like steering components, heating systems and electronics. While G.M. has diversified its supply base to a degree in recent years, it still largely needs what Delphi produces.
 ''Given the amount of components it sources from Delphi, it's not likely that G.M. would be able to re-source to other companies in a timely fashion,'' said Jim Gillette, an analyst with CSM Worldwide, an auto research firm.
 This year, G.M. planned to take back several assets from Delphi, including factories and its steering business. The proposal was similar to what Ford had done with Visteon, its former parts supplier.
 Since G.M. took $13.4 billion in federal aid, however, the Obama task force has exerted greater control over the carmaker's support of Delphi. 
 This month, lawyers for the administration persuaded Delphi's bankruptcy court judge to delay G.M.'s purchase of its steering business, a transaction G.M. undertook because a previous deal with another buyer fell apart. Through its loan, the government gained the ability to reject G.M. transactions larger than $100 million.
 The auto task force has said that it will allow G.M. to help pay for Delphi's survival only in conjunction with a broader reorganization plan.
 It is not the first time that a rescue for Delphi has collapsed at the last minute. In March 2008, a group of investors led by Appaloosa Management backed out of a deal to invest $2.55 billion in the supplier. That scuttled a $6.1 billion financing package meant to pay for Delphi's exit from bankruptcy. 
 As that deal fell apart, so too did the credit markets, making so-called debtor-in-possession financing largely unavailable and extremely expensive when offered. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (92%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (89%); LIQUIDATIONS (89%); COMPANY LIQUIDATIONS & DISSOLUTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (88%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (86%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); BONDS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (75%); COMPANY LOSSES (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); INTERVIEWS (68%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (68%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); CITIGROUP INC (52%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%); GM (NYSE) (57%); C (NYSE) (52%); C (BMV) (52%); 8710 (TSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (52%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2009



594 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ENTREPRENEURIAL EDGE; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 998 words

HEADLINE: Insurance Agencies Hustle in Slump

BYLINE: By JAMES FLANIGAN. 
This column about small-business trends in California and the West appears on the third Thursday of every month. E-mail: jamesflanigan@nytimes.com

 BODY:
WHILE the big insurance companies have been buffeted by the weak economy and investment losses, the industry's front line, the insurance agencies, have generally been riding out the adversity.
 ''This is a great business, because people always need insurance,'' said Janet Jones, president of the Elkins Jones Insurance Agency in Los Angeles. ''It's just a question of who they buy it from.'' 
 ''As the economy gets worse,'' she added, ''people need to feel they can hold on to their business, their home, their cars.'' 
 Still, the small agencies have had to scramble a bit to keep up with all the changes in their business. Glenn A. Smith, owner and district manager of a Farmers Insurance Group agency in Long Beach, Calif., said his agency, which manages insurance for about $50 million a year in premiums, recently lost a client to Travelers Companies. Travelers, which writes about $24 billion a year in premiums, was reaching down, he said, to compete with small local agencies to pick up business. 
 Other major insurance and financial service companies, including MetLife and Prudential, and large international agency firms, like Marsh and Aon, have also become newly aggressive in competing for business as their investments falter. ''Companies that wouldn't look at an account that promised less than $1 million in premiums before, now are reaching out for smaller prospects because they want the income,'' Ms. Jones said. Such competition can lead to lower insurance costs for small-business owners today, but portends higher costs in the future as insurers try to recoup losses.
 Ms. Jones said the financial problems at the American International Group had also opened up competition for A.I.G.'s high-end clients -- ''people who have several houses and artwork and jewelry valuable enough to warrant separate insurance.'' 
 Insurance agencies reflect all the pressures. ''We are a cross-section of the economy,'' said Kenneth L. Kessler, president of Kessler Advisors, an independent agency in Santa Monica, Calif. In the current crisis, Mr. Kessler said he knew that the business of his manufacturing company clients was off as much as 50 percent, while food companies were more stable. ''We help them all,'' he said, ''by revisiting their coverage.''
 Mr. Kessler said he was well aware of competitive forays by national insurers and agencies, but remained confident. ''We are a major regional agency and we've been here since 1956, when my father founded the company,'' he said. ''In our local area, we have an advantage and can take care of ourselves, I believe.'' Kessler Advisors writes insurance for more than $100 million in premiums annually and has $13.5 million in revenue and 80 employees, he said.
 Ms. Jones said her agency, Elkins Jones, has also been revisiting clients. ''We will sit down with a small-business client, for example, and reduce the cost by raising a deductible here or taking a schedule off the policy for a temporary period,'' she said.
 And Mr. Smith, too, is a proponent of such revisits. ''If we talk with a business owner about employee health or workers' comp coverage,'' he said, ''we may notice that we don't have coverage of the company's cars and trucks and offer to include auto insurance in an overall policy.''
 Elkins Jones was founded in the 1930s by George Elkins as an adjunct to a growing real estate business. Ms. Jones came into the company in 1980 and bought the agency in 1991, after Mr. Elkins died. She has built it into a practice that writes $50 million annually in premiums, taking in revenue of $6 million a year, and has 40 employees. 
 About half the agency's employees are in sales, bringing in new accounts, and half are underwriters, writing up policies which are then financed by insurance companies.
 The role of the industry's agents, now numbering about 550,000, has grown as insurance companies have merged into larger groups and reduced the number of their employees. 
 That has given an opening to the agencies. ''We provide a service,'' Ms. Jones said. ''We are there on the spot if a business has a fire or some other trouble. And we keep them protected through all the changes in legal liabilities.'' She cited Employment Practices Liability Insurance as a growing necessity for business because it covers wrongful dismissal lawsuits, which increase in times of layoffs, as well as sexual harassment and other claims. Insurance agent jobs are expected to grow 13 percent a year through 2016, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
 Insurance agencies take in 10 to 15 percent of the premiums, depending on the complexity of the risks covered. And the business is adapting to changing demographics and technologies.
 America's growing Hispanic population represents a significant growth market, said Andre Urena, who founded the Latin American Agents Association 10 years ago. ''We have 637 insurance agencies as members,'' he said.
 ''Immigrants from Latin America first encounter insurance when they need coverage for a car or a truck,'' Mr. Urena said. ''And from that start, they find they need insurance for their families' health and for their homes, and so it is a growing business.''
 Mr. Urena's group keeps members informed of changes in industry practices and legislation. The Latin American Agents Association expects about 3,000 people from the insurance industry at its convention in Long Beach at the end of May. 
 Mr. Urena, a veteran of 20 years in the business, owned Oasis Insurance Agency, and sold it a decade ago to Confie Seguros, a consolidator of small agencies that has sold insurance groups to Goldman Sachs and the Blackstone Group.
 Other agencies like Elkins Jones and Mr. Smith's Farmers affiliate are also reaching out to the Hispanic market. And Ms. Jones is expanding to the Internet. ''We have an online company named CalHome in Central California,'' she said. ''It uses an online application and can write up standard property insurance.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Janet Jones, president of the Elkins Jones Insurance Agency in Los Angeles, says that local agencies are adjusting their offerings to small businesses that may be struggling.(PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (92%); INSURANCE (91%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%)

COMPANY: TRAVELERS COS INC (92%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (65%); FARMERS GROUP INC (56%)

TICKER: TRV (NYSE) (92%); AIG (NYSE) (65%); 8685 (TSE) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (92%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (65%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2009



595 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 118 words

HEADLINE: Elaine Stritch Joins Paper Mill's 'Full Monty'

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY; Compiled by DAVE ITZKOFF

 BODY:
Attention all Elaine Stritch fans: it's time to get better acquainted with the New Jersey Transit schedule. Paper Mill Playhouse, in Millburn, N.J., has announced that Ms. Stritch, right, is joining its production of the musical comedy ''The Full Monty,'' running June 10 to July 12. Ms. Stritch, 83, whose credits include ''Company,'' ''A Delicate Balance'' and her popular one-woman show, ''Elaine Stritch at Liberty,'' will play Jeanette Burmeister. Ben Brantley, in his New York Times review of the Broadway production of ''The Full Monty'' in 2000, described the character as a ''salty old retired club pianist,'' who is the accompanist for a group of unemployed steel workers turned strippers in Buffalo. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAPER & PACKAGING (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (72%); THEATER (72%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (71%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (71%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: PAPER MILL PLAYHOUSE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

TITLE: The Full Monty (Play); The Full Monty (Play)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2009



596 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Soldiers, Putting War On Paper

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

DATELINE: Danbury, Conn. 

 BODY:
 Darnell Carpenter slowly traverses the campus of Western Connecticut State University using a carved mahogany cane. He was in a convoy from Baghdad to Kuwait, coming back home after 18 months in the war zone, when the grenade hit. Thrown from his truck, he suffered broken vertebrae in his back and neck and a broken sacrum, and has been found to have a brain tumor. The pain never really goes away, but life goes on, and, at 33, so does he.
 Bradley Noone, on the other hand, looks much like any other college kid -- tall, thin, green Red Sox cap, Lightning Hockey T-shirt. But then you talk to him and you can feel the anxiety, voice catching, eyes darting; not as bad as when he got out two years ago, but still there like a bad cough you can't shake. It's the residue of too many bullets, grenades and explosions still haunting him, one of the war's post-traumatic stress disorder casualties then, a 23-year-old college student now. 
 Still, for them and for a dozen or so other veterans who gathered on Wednesday to talk about writing and war with Anthony Swofford, the author of ''Jarhead,'' what they shared meant much more than whatever divided them. War may be hell, but it's a brotherhood (and sisterhood), too, so the talk at a two-day conference featuring the writing of students who are veterans was of writing, yes.
 But the bond, for those who came out in one piece and those who did not, was the war and the stories it threw at you -- getting hit in the face by a soda can hurled by an Iraqi kid, sharing a hole in a mountain with four buddies and a dog named Dog, throwing rocks at Geraldo Rivera.
 When Mr. Swofford asked them to write about a room, some evoked bedrooms at home, but more common was Mr. Noone's remembrance of his 6 1/2-by-13-foot room in Afghanistan, its smell of vanilla candles and oatmeal, the floor covered with fine dust like talcum powder, the 27-inch TV, the original Xbox, the uniforms, dusty armor, the ammunition and M249 machine gun, the walls covered with pictures from a surfing magazine.
 ''Bends and thrusts, do they still do that?'' asked Mr. Swofford, whose book tells of his experience as a Marine during the first gulf war. Yes, they do. ''I don't subscribe to the 'writing as catharsis' or 'writing as therapy' school,'' he said. But for the students, the writing was about many things -- telling their story, sharing the experience, some catharsis and therapy as well. 
 Mr. Carpenter is working on a book titled ''The Long Road Home,'' about post-traumatic stress disorder. Lisa Smith-Overton, who emerged from war a broke, unemployed single mother with two kids, writes about a woman's experience in the military and beyond.
 People have been writing about war since ancient times, and show no signs of giving up now, though now war can be blogged and Tweeted and turned into novels and essays. But for all the noise of the culture, the veterans here seemed to say, the wars are everywhere and nowhere, part of our life for almost a decade since 9/11 but now more background noise than front and center. You can shout, but you still won't get heard.
 So Mr. Carpenter can't help but be struck by how far away his life is from most students here. ''Truthfully, to me, it seems like college students are in their own little bubble,'' he said. ''It's like they've got this happy-go-lucky feeling that's oblivious to world events.''
 BUT absent a draft, it's unlikely to be otherwise. So the students wrote of the experiences they could -- including Lisa Siedlarz's poems evoking her brother's time in Afghanistan, with excrement-filled lagoons, hot winds of diesel and disinfectant, silver hulls of Russian fighters, children with fly-covered smiles, soldiers hanging out playing cards and watching Van Damme movies. ''We are walking bombs with elephant grace,'' she writes. And, almost to a man or woman, Mr. Carpenter and Mr. Noone included, they tell you they'd do it again. In a heartbeat.
 Still making the transition from there to here, that's the really hard part. Maybe that's today's real war story. 
 S0 here it's Greek Week. A banner reads ''A Greek's Gotta Do What a Greek's Gotta Do.'' The flat-screen televisions shows soccer on ESPN; news of markets, tea parties and pirates on CNN. You can hear click, click, click, CRACK, from incoming cue balls on the six green pool tables in the campus game room, and yelps of pleasure and pain from the players, as the afternoon drifts away.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); POST TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); DESERT STORM (78%); BONE FRACTURES (77%); ANXIETY DISORDERS (74%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (71%); WRITERS (71%); MENTAL ILLNESS (69%); ARMED FORCES (63%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%)

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (58%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (58%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) CONNECTICUT, USA (88%) KUWAIT (92%); IRAQ (90%); UNITED STATES (88%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

TITLE: The Long Road Home (Book); The Long Road Home (Book)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2009



597 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 390 words

HEADLINE: Magazine Ad Pages Decline Almost 26% in First Quarter

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
Magazine advertising pages fell almost 26 percent in the first quarter, according to Publishers Information Bureau data released late Tuesday, signaling a difficult beginning to what is expected to be a dismal advertising year. 
 Only 15 magazines tracked by the bureau had more ad pages this quarter than they did in the period a year ago. Those included the National Journal, up 42.1 percent to 185 pages, and Fitness, up 28 percent to 199 pages. 
 In a sign of just how difficult the magazine business is at the moment, the title that posted the second-biggest gain in the report was Hallmark Magazine, up 30.5 percent, to 54 pages. It was shut down in February because of the economy.
 The big publishers were hard to find among the advertising leaders. No magazines at either Hachette Filipacchi Media or Hearst Magazines posted gains. Time Inc. had only one, Sports Illustrated Kids, which rose about 30 percent to just under 29 pages. Conde Nast's only improvement was Golf World, up 0.2 percent, to 283 pages. In addition to Fitness, Meredith added ad pages at Family Circle, up 5.4 percent to 329 pages.
 The biggest decline was at U.S. News & World Report, down almost 69 percent, to 72 ad pages, followed by Conde Nast Portfolio, down 60.9 percent (however, since Portfolio recently reduced its publishing frequency, the bureau's numbers compared three issues in 2008 to two issues in 2009). Ser Padres, Meredith's Spanish-language parenting magazine, fell 60.2 percent. Technology Review fell 58.2 percent; Conde Nast's Wired declined 57.2 percent. 
 Sports enthusiast magazines, including Boating, Sporting News, Boating Life, Sport Fishing, Power & Motoryacht and Power Cruising were among the magazines with the biggest drops, all posting declines of about 50 percent. Publishers Information Bureau data is released by the Magazine Publishers of America.
 Magazine advertising is expected to decline 11 percent this year, according to figures released early this week from the media firm ZenithOptimedia. Magazines' share of advertising revenue is expected to fall to 10.9 percent this year, from 11.5 percent last year.
 ''We are currently in the middle of a period of steep deterioration in ad expenditure,'' the report said. ''Many are treating advertising as a discretionary expense, and one they find convenient to cut.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRINT ADVERTISING (94%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (93%); PUBLISHING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (90%); BOATING & RAFTING (86%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); STATISTICS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (73%); SPORTS FANS (68%); SPORT FISHING (68%)

COMPANY: TIME INC (91%); HEARST CORP (83%); U S NEWS & WORLD REPORT INC (68%); PUBLISHERS INFORMATION BUREAU (58%); HALLMARK CARDS INC (57%); ZENITH MEDIA SERVICES INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (91%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (83%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (58%); NAICS511191 GREETING CARD PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2771 GREETING CARD PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (52%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2009



598 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1630 words

HEADLINE: Luxury, Tamed: Varied Tactics in Unsure Times

BYLINE: By PENELOPE GREEN

 BODY:
WHEN Lawrence B. Salander was first accused of widespread art fraud nearly two years ago, many pointed to his gallery's new space -- a vast 45-foot-wide neo-Renaissance town house on East 71st Street that he rented for $154,000 a month -- as a potent symbol of Mr. Salander's undoing. It was too big, people said, too expensive and altogether too much for a man who had been quietly successful as a modest dealer of early 20th-century American art before turning to old masters, and to this enormous house, in 2005. 
 Mr. Salander, who was arrested last month on a 100-count indictment that included charges of grand larceny and fraud, declared bankruptcy last year, and his gallery has been shut for 18 months, but traces of it remain: in a ghostly sign reading Salander-O'Reilly Galleries etched into a plaque on the limestone facade, and in the cavernous spaces within, many of which are sheathed in white wallboard. 
 Last week, as 32 designers and their assistants tweaked the rooms they had decorated there for the Kips Bay Decorator Show House, many acknowledged that they had found the place unwieldy and were still struggling to tame it. (Its owner, the developer Aby Rosen, has it on the market for $75 million, an improbably high asking price that, if met, would top the record for a town house in Manhattan by more than $20 million.) The house's huge, awkward spaces, tainted past and uncertain future seemed to echo Manhattan's own painful fortunes, and perhaps also pointed to high design's place in them. 
 ''I just wanted to make a space I could relate to,'' said Donald F. Schermerhorn, whose tiny fifth-floor bedroom was like a cocoon, swathed in white wool and amethyst linen. Mr. Schermerhorn made no staff reductions this year; like Mario Buatta, he commands a firm of one. A modest man with a painter's eye, he seemed grateful for small mercies. ''The first year I did Kips Bay, I was higher up, and in a closet,'' he said. ''I'm just happy to have windows.''
 You have to work with what you have, said Jamie Drake, describing his approach to a library that stretched two-thirds of the width of the town house. Mr. Drake, who said he has trimmed his staff by 25 percent in the last six months, pointed to its dark paneling. ''I was going to paint it, or just take it out,'' he said, ''but then I thought, in these times, better keep it.'' His ''logical library,'' as he put it, is designed as a studio apartment, with a queen-size bed wrapped in tufted, silvery linen set smack in the middle. Papier-mache ''books'' by Jean Lowe, with titles like ''How to Escape From Quicksand'' and ''Pharmaceutical Solutions,'' were tucked into bookshelves. 
 ''You know what? In this time, you can live well, but maybe you won't spend your money on decorating,'' Mr. Drake said. ''Maybe you'll save it for a piece of art.'' 
 This year's show house, the 37th to benefit the Kips Bay Boys & Girls Club, was billed as a tribute to Albert Hadley, the Tennessee-born minimalist who provided a tether and balance for the English country house-style maximalism of his partner, Sister Parish. Theirs was a slightly tense dialectic that played out in society living rooms for more than three decades. There was an implicit assignment to the decorators here to honor Mr. Hadley, now 88, in each of their rooms. 
 The only one who did so was Bunny Williams, who worked at the Parish-Hadley firm for 10 years before starting her own business in 1988. Her first-floor parlor was full of Hadley-isms like lots of seating, a sisal carpet stenciled with stars, spots of deep red and side tables stocked with memo pads stamped with the words ''Don't Forget.'' (Ms. Williams had them printed for the show house. ''They don't make them any more,'' she said sadly. ''You can't get them at Staples.'') 
 These flourishes harkened back to times of plenty, to be sure, and also to an age when decorators were called in to tame their clients and teach them how to live properly. It's hard to imagine a contemporary hedge fund manager submitting to any such training.
 ''It's things like arranging the furniture so you don't have to turn the chairs to have a conversation,'' Ms. Williams said. ''It's seating height, and where do you put your drink.'' 
 Ms. Williams, who painted her walls robin's-egg blue and framed the fireplace with a pair of terrifyingly large botanical gouaches in bright blue, purple and green, went on to say that although ''Albert always lived in a white room, he was never afraid of color.''
 ''He loved strong color, and he used it in a way that you never got tired of it,'' she said. 
 Across the hall and past the grim stonework that Christopher Maya tried to temper with purple mohair and ikat, Juan Montoya waited in his 29-foot-long living room. 
 ''I just went abstract,'' he said. ''I was inspired by the Dadaists.'' 
 Really? His huge, cool room was like a tall drink of water, hypnotic and a little icy. And despite its European hauteur, it was full of decorating tricks. Mr. Montoya made a chandelier from rusty metal cones that looked like an installation at Dia: Beacon. He painted a 12-foot canvas the ''perfect Yves Klein blue,'' he said, and hung it above a 16-foot banquette. The white millwork around the double doors hid storage. ''In a small apartment it could be useful,'' Mr. Montoya said. (Though in here, who needs it? You could drive an Airstream trailer into the room, and it would hardly be noticed.)
 Charles Pavarini's firm drew a second-floor space -- a 25-by-40-foot rectangle upstairs from Mr. Montoya's -- with all the charm of a storage unit at the Museum of Modern Art. ''After we picked ourselves up off the floor,'' Mr. Pavarini said, ''we needed one of those.'' He was referring to a pink martini -- both the drink and the name of the band whose music was playing on the room's overzealous audio system. He said he gave up any hope of domesticating his space and decided to make it into a hotel lounge. 
 The room had a glittering, apocalyptic feel, with crystal chandeliers made to look like dripping icicles and a geode the size of a St. Bernard under a cast-bronze coffee table. Above, a photograph of an iceberg loomed.
 ''We did the iceberg,'' Mr. Pavarini said solemnly, ''just to be conscious of global warming.''
 Tangerine barkcloth walls and a glossy canary-yellow ceiling were the Los Angeles decorator Joe Nye's answer to environmental carnage. Later, Mr. Nye said: ''Everything in those rooms is either midcentury or antique, so that's my way of doing sustainable in a tasteful way. I am recycling furniture. My way of being economical was doing the two smallest rooms in the show house.''
 John Ike said his ''Sub (Lemon) Lime Sanctuary'' -- an ode to 1970s naturalism -- was inspired by Italian villas. Its main feature was a bed designed by Mario Ceroli, after the ''Bocca della Verita'' statue in Rome, a challenge, Mr. Ike said, ''to be your truest self'' in bed. As for the bales of hay on either side, they were, he continued, ''just an idea.'' 
 An installation of the Russian artist Anya Zholud's invisible furniture -- metal outlines of a chair, a table, a bed, a bureau -- hung over the stairwell at the top of the house and provided a possible coda to Manhattan's boom years, and the behavior they engendered. Floating in white space, these gestural objects, installed by Janna Bullock, the Russian town house developer, seemed to propose that perhaps, in the end, there just wasn't any there there. 
 On the landing's bookshelf, Ms. Bullock had placed books in plain gray jackets. ''It's an intellectual presence, as opposed to facts,'' she said. 
 The theme of Liza Cousins and Natasha Bergreen's ''cool guy's study'' was similarly baffling. They called it ''Ink and Equine,'' and it had something to do with tattoos and horses. Ms. Bergreen said, ''I was studying stitching, and the zigzag kept coming up.'' 
 She pointed to the gray zigzags painted on the walls. ''It's a Maori tribal symbol that means protection and strength, which we all need right now,'' she said. 
 What made sense, however, was Ms. Bergreen's deployment of a lozenge-shaped vintage sofa. She bought it last summer at the estate sale of her aunt, Jean MacAusland, widow of the publisher and founder of Gourmet magazine. Ms. Bergreen said she paid $150 for it and then reupholstered it. 
 ''I think we just have to reinvent what we have,'' she said, offering a decorating tip: instead of sculpture, consider athletic equipment. Ms. Bergreen used a surfboard and a saddle. 
 ''Things are so precarious, you don't want to do too much,'' she said. ''But you don't want to do too little, either.''
 The panic room created by William T. Georgis, the architect who renovated the public spaces of Lever House, anticipated that the worst was still to come. There were nostalgic touches in this nearly black windowless space -- a soundtrack playing David Bowie's ''The Man Who Sold the World,'' a motorized, twirling disco ball and ''Faster, Pussycat! Kill! Kill!,'' the Russ Meyer sexploitation film about homicidal go-go dancers, playing on the flat screen. Mr. Georgis had also included a stainless steel toilet from Gracious Home, a bearskin rug and an acrylic vitrine of fake semiautomatic weapons. 
 ''There's oxygen, vodka, Marlboros,'' he said proudly. ''It's heavily armed. Jodie Foster had none of this stuff.'' 
 Mr. Georgis seemed stunned by a reporter's question: ''Uh, why do we need a safe room?'' 
 He said: ''Do you read the papers? Economic mayhem, global warfare, take your pick. We have to hunker down, and where we do so has to be chic and comfortable.''
 The Kips Bay Decorator Show House, to benefit the Kips Bay Boys & Girls Club, is open April 17 to May 17. Cost: $30; (718) 893-8600, extension 245; kipsbay.org. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PUMPED UP: Bunny Williams's tribute to Albert Hadley included elements like a sisal rug stenciled with stars, lots of color and botanical gouaches, which seemed super-sized to fit the room.
SIGN OF SPRING: The decorator Amy Lau had Jo Lynn Alcorn, a paper artist, make an installation of Maya Romanoff wallpaper. (PHOTOGRAPHS (SHOW HOUSE) BY RAEANNE GIOVANNI-INOUE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.D1)
APOCALYPSE NEXT WEEK?: William T. Georgis's panic room, left, anticipated impending global catastrophe, with a twirling disco ball, automatic weapons (reproductions, of course) and a Russ Meyer movie. Liza Cousins and Natasha Bergreen's softer design, right, incorporated used athletic equipment and a sofa from Ms. Bergreen's aunt.
COCOONING: Juan Montoya used Swedish antiques and cool colors in his 29-foot living room, left. Peter Clark, a Beacon, N.Y., artist who died in 2003, made the piece above the fireplace from plumbing ducts. Donald F. Schermerhorn's bedroom, below, is a nest of amethyst linen.
CONCEPTUAL BED: An homage to the ''Bocca della Verita'' (The Mouth of Truth) in Rome, John Ike's room is a challenge to ''be your truest self'' in bed, he said. The bales of hay he used as side tables were ''just an idea.''
IMPRESSIONS: Clockwise from left: The wallpaper in Jamie Drake's room was handpainted by Alpha Workshops
ghostly furniture by the Russian artist Anya Zholud floats in Janna Bullock's space
 and Christopher Maya hung a metal chandelier dipped in plaster. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RAEANNE GIOVANNI-INOUE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.D4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); INTERIOR DECORATING (78%); ARRESTS (73%); INDICTMENTS (69%); LARCENY & THEFT (69%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (62%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (69%); ROME, ITALY (59%) NEW YORK, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%); ITALY (59%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2009



599 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 608 words

 BODY:
DROPPING CRITICISM OF CHINA The Treasury Department said China was not manipulating its currency to increase its exports, a big retreat from the criticism expressed by Timothy F. Geithner during his confirmation hearing to become the Treasury secretary. 
 ECLIPSE OF SATURNGeneral Motors says it is still deciding what to do with its Saturn brand, but dealers and car buyers have already made their choice. Sales of Saturns are down 59 percent, and many dealers are closing. [B1.] 
 Delphi, the auto parts maker that filed for bankruptcy in 2005, may collapse if it cannot reach an agreement with G.M. [B1.] 
 GLOBAL TRADE, LOCAL OUTRAGE Protests over the use of imported steel to build an oil pipeline in Granite City, Ill. -- a town with a steel mill closed for lack of orders -- are galvanizing national efforts against the use of foreign-made steel. [B1.]
 CHINA INVESTS IN LATIN AMERICA The Chinese government is working vigorously to build relationships in Latin America, offering countries large amounts of money in development deals that will provide China access to natural resources for years. [A1.] 
 The Chinese economy grew at an annual pace of about 6 percent in the first quarter, a senior government forecaster said, the slowest pace since quarterly records began in 1992. [B4.] 
 BAD FOR BUSINESS A prank by two Domino's Pizza employees, posted on YouTube, has provided the latest example of a big company facing a social-media public relations eruption. [B1.] 
 SOME POSITIVE SIGNS Some areas of the country are seeing hints that the pace of economic declines is leveling off, according to a region-by-region economic snapshot released by the Federal Reserve. [B3.] 
 INQUIRY INTO FIRST DATA The federal government is widening its investigation of offshore tax evasion to include services sold by the First Data Corporation, a processor of credit card transactions. [B5.] 
 BACK TO THE FARM As part of Japan's economic stimulus program, 2,400 young people with low-paying jobs in the cities are going to rural areas to help work on farms. [B3.] 
 MORE JOB CUTS AT UBS UBS plans to cut an additional 7,500 jobs after it lost about 2 billion Swiss francs ($1.8 billion) in the first quarter. [B9.] 
 ON THE BANDWAGON As marketers remake advertising campaigns to address the recession, copywriters are liberally peppering prose with phrases like ''stimulus'' and ''stimulus package.'' Advertising: Stuart Elliott. [B6.]
 Fewer ads in magazines Magazine advertising pages fell almost 26 percent in the first quarter, according to Publishers Information Bureau, signaling a difficult beginning to what is expected to be a dismal advertising year. Only 15 magazines tracked by the bureau had more ad pages than they did a year ago. [B6.] 
 dow ends day above 8,000 Stock indexes surged higher in the last hour of trading, with the Dow Jones industrial average ending back above 8,000, buoyed by better economic news. [B11.]
 quest to pay $302 millionQuest Diagnostics has agreed to pay the federal government $302 million and one of its units will plead guilty to misleading marketing in connection with a parathyroid hormone test. [B9.
 abbott profit risesAbbott Laboratories reported lower-than-expected quarterly sales that were hurt by generic competition for an antiseizure drug. But one-time gains and demand for stents drove profit higher. [B9.]
 AMR loss beats expectations The AMR Corporation, parent of American Airlines, said that it lost $375 million in the first quarter as people flew less than they did a year ago. But the loss was smaller than analysts had expected, and shares rose 19 percent. [B2.] 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (88%); PRINT ADVERTISING (86%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (86%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (79%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); TAX FRAUD (75%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (74%); NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (72%); MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MFG (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (69%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (69%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (66%); SOCIAL MEDIA (65%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (65%); WRITERS (64%); INVESTIGATIONS (63%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (62%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (56%); CREDIT CARDS (50%)

COMPANY: FIRST DATA CORP (82%); DOMINO'S PIZZA INC (54%); PUBLISHERS INFORMATION BUREAU (50%)

TICKER: DPZ (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (82%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (82%); SIC7374 COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION & PROCESSING SERVICES (82%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (54%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (54%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (50%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) CHINA (96%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2009



600 of 1108 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 16, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: Pulled Two Ways, Markets Bounce Back

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
Stock markets surged higher in the last hour of trading on Wednesday, buoyed by a more positive picture from home builders, some better economic news and hopes that defaults on credit cards would not soar as high as feared. 
 The outlook lifted the Dow Jones industrial average back above 8,000 again. Big banks and credit card companies led the markets higher. 
 ''We had a perfect combination of economic data and corporate news, none of it entirely negative and a lot of it positive,'' said Art Hogan, chief market analyst at Jefferies & Company. 
 The Dow gained 109.44 points, or 1.4 percent, to end at 8,029.62. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 10.6 points, or 1.3 percent, to 852.06. 
 The Nasdaq closed up, but just barely, finally overcoming concerns about losses among technology companies, including Microsoft, Cisco Systems and Intel.
 Shares of Intel dropped 2.4 percent to end at $15.62 as investors offered a skeptical response to the chip maker's first-quarter earnings report, released Tuesday after the markets closed. Intel said that its net income fell 55 percent from a year ago, but also said it viewed the first quarter as being a possible bottom and it believed that the worst was over.
 American Express rose 11.9 percent, to $20.62 a share, after it reported that defaults had risen slightly in March. Shares of JPMorgan Chase gained 6 percent to end at $32.56; the bank is to report its first-quarter earnings on Thursday.
 Investors are waiting for more details on the Treasury Department's stress tests of major banks to gauge the health of the financial sector.
 Conditions in credit markets offered signs of continued thawing. The London interbank offered rate, which measures how much banks charge one another to borrow money, fell to 1.11 percent, its lowest point since mid-January. 
 The number of mortgage applications fell, and the average rate on a 30-year fixed mortgage dropped to 4.7 percent for the week ending April 10, from 4.73 percent.
 The Treasury's 10-year rose 6/32, to 99 28/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell 2.76 percent, from 2.78 percent late Tuesday.
 Data released on Wednesday offered some hints that the economy's declines were slowing, or at least nearing a bottom. 
 Industrial production slid again and consumer prices fell slightly in March, posting their first year-over-year declines in more than five decades. 
 The Federal Reserve also reported that anecdotal evidence from across the country suggested that widespread economic trouble continued through March and early April, but also suggested that the pace of declines might have eased a bit. 
 The major indexes have climbed more than 20 percent from their lowest point in 12 years on hopes that the financial crisis was easing and that the worst economic declines were over.
 But some analysts warn the stock markets have raced out too far ahead of the broader economy, which is still shedding hundreds of thousands of jobs each month. Some experts warn that stocks -- especially financial shares -- could be headed for another drop. 
 ''We're trying to decide whether the bulls have given up,'' said Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist at Standard & Poor's. ''People are saying 'Fool me once, shame on you. Fool me three times, shame on me.' They are very reluctant to get back in.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow minute by minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); ELECTRONICS (79%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (79%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (71%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (71%); MORTGAGE RATES (67%); INTEREST RATES (67%); MORTGAGE LOANS (66%); INTERBANK LENDING (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); INTEL CORP (83%); JEFFERIES & CO INC (71%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (56%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); INTC (NASDAQ) (83%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2009

 
