

1 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 7; Page 10; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1524 words

HEADLINE: A Crime of Passion

BYLINE: By Jack Miles; Jack Miles, Mellon Visiting Professor of Humanities at the California Institute of Technology, was a consultant and participant in the 1996 KPCC radio series on race relations, "Shades of L.A."

 BODY:

THE HOUSE GUN
 By Nadine Gordimer.
 294 pp. New York:
 Farrar, Straus & Giroux. $24. 
 The end of apartheid has left much unchanged in South Africa, a technologically advanced country whose revolution has been accomplished without a revolutionary war. A passively liberal white couple like the one at the center of Nadine Gordimer's latest novel -- Claudia and Harald Lindgard, a physician and a business executive with decades of marriage behind them -- might almost regard Nelson Mandela's victory over F. W. de Klerk in 1994 as just another election.
And yet something has changed for them after all. As Patti Waldmeir describes it in "Anatomy of a Miracle: The End of Apartheid and the Birth of the New South Africa": "The main difference, for whites, was the surge in violent crime, which took the murder rate to 10 times the U.S. level. Whites felt politically secure, but physically threatened."
People like the Lindgards were safe and comfortable under de Klerk; under Mandela, they are, by and large, still safe and comfortable. Yet on a drowsy evening when one of their son's friends comes to the door -- "Someone's been shot. He's arrested. Duncan." -- Harald and Claudia react as if they have been waiting for something like this to happen. The brutal and instantaneous transformation of their mood is one Americans can only too easily recognize.
Duncan, 27, the Lindgards' only child, has been living with his girlfriend, Natalie, in the guest house of a residence shared by three gay men. Carl Jespersen, the oldest of the three, a Scandinavian roue with a vague background in filmmaking, has been shot dead. Duncan has confessed to the murder and has already engaged a lawyer, Hamilton Motsamai.
The murder appears to be a classic crime passionnel: Duncan, having found Carl and Natalie fornicating on the sofa in the main residence, has shot Carl with "the house gun," which by unhappy accident had been left out on the coffee table. Later Harald learns from Nkululeko (Khulu) Dladla, one of the two other housemates, that Duncan and Carl had briefly been lovers -- an idle dalliance for the older man; a poignant, exceptional affair for the younger. When Duncan found Carl with Natalie, he felt doubly humiliated, doubly mocked. The gun happened to be lying there. In the anguish and fury of the moment, he used it.
The murder is not a political act, then, but this elegantly conceived, flawlessly executed novel surely is, for it arrives in the heat of a major South African debate. A nascent gun control movement has been arguing that the more guns there are in private hands, the more dangerous South Africa will become, while the entrenched South African gun culture invokes the country's staggering murder rate to come to just the opposite conclusion: the more guns, the less crime; let there be no house without its house gun.
Analogous to the gun control debate is the death penalty debate. Does capital punishment deter violence or does it, as an example of violence, teach what it would deter? While Duncan awaits trial, Harald goes, "as if to a clandestine rendez-vous," to sessions of the Constitutional Court where the death penalty (abolished in the 1996 South African Constitution) is under review. Harald is obsessed with the debate because he wants one particular confessed murderer, his son, to live. But whether they are considering defense or deterrence, Harald and Claudia only fleetingly ask what has made their country so violent in the first place. Americans, again, will read with a painful sense of recognition.
South Africa, like the United States, has both the Netherlands and England in its cultural genealogy, but neither the Netherlands nor England is remotely as violent as the United States or South Africa. Is this because neither European country executes its criminals and both restrict citizen access to arms? Or is it because neither has a black population as large as the South African or the American? This is the racial question that haunts Gordimer's novel.
She does not answer it by writing a work of fiction with a slogan buttoned to its lapel. Her answer emerges as an inference -- possible, not necessary -- from two of her literary decisions. First, by portraying the murder of one white man by another, she reminds her readers that, even granting that race has played a key role in the genesis of South Africa's violence, this violence is by now intraracial as much as interracial. Whites in South Africa are by now acculturated to kill other whites at a higher rate than their cousins do in Europe. Second, the fact that two blacks -- Hamilton Motsamai, Duncan's lawyer, and Khulu, his loyal friend -- bring a measure of peace into the ravaged Lindgard family suggests that blacks and whites are not chemical elements that must explode on contact. In other words, the roots of South African violence lie in the history of race relations rather than in the biology of race. Gordimer's guarded hope is that what history has done over time, history over time can also undo.
Gordimer's more recent, post-apartheid fiction is no less political or more personal than the work that won her the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1991. "The House Gun," like her 1994 novel "None to Accompany Me," does indeed explore personal relations across racial lines in South Africa, but what, if not that sort of thing, did her earlier work ever do? Though she has been honored, and rightly so, for her political engagement, Gordimer has as a novelist the detachment to see that the human situation into which she has been born, whatever its morality, is one of enormous natural fascination and not infrequent comedy. If she has not had, before now, the opportunity to portray a black lawyer -- a black establishment lawyer, a rich black establishment lawyer -- representing a guilty white defendant, nearly 50 years at her desk writing 11 novels and nine volumes of short stories have prepared her to make the most of the opportunity, now that it has come along.
Harald is taken aback at Duncan's choice of Motsamai: "In the muck in which they are stewing now, where murder is done, old prejudices still writhe to the surface. Looking at the appointment of someone called Motsamai that way, he can find an answer within its context. Could be an advantage. If there's one of the black judges on the bench."
Ho! This is a novel that Johnnie Cochran could read with interest. Yet past the (wittily, watchfully enacted) first meeting between the murderer's parents and his lawyer, the material of their interaction is often made of other than racial stuff. For example, Claudia, a physician, does not enjoy being anybody's client: "The advocate knows the accused's mother is accusing him: of being too measured. He's accustomed to this kind of reaction, fear turned to resentment. In her case no doubt exacerbated by the fact that she is accustomed, as he has reminded her, to being the professional adviser instead of the victim. He looks away, flicking aside the shred of irrelevancy."
"The House Gun" crackles with interactions of this sort. Race is not essential to them, but -- especially as South Africa's political correction is followed, haltingly, by an economic correction -- race adds richly to their interest, their comic believability, almost to their fun.
Duncan has inherited his mother's desire to save lives, we learn, but Natalie, whom he has rescued from suicide by drowning, has not lost her death wish. She stays with him because she finds him a fate worse than death. She can only kill herself by somehow destroying him first. Motsamai puts this story together (or makes it up) by probing deeper into four lives -- Harald's, Claudia's, Duncan's and especially Natalie's -- than any one of them would wish. He takes all the indecent liberties that legal defense in a free society must take.
A long the way, using to brilliant effect the jagged abruptness of her prose style, Gordimer tells a love story unlike any I have ever read. Claudia and Harald are so married that they are almost one person. At the start, they are simply "she" and "he," and Gordimer's exposition accordingly jumbles their thoughts and words. But this fusion has ceased to be the expression and has become the suffocation of their love. Duncan splits them apart with his crime, as perhaps only he could. If there is no gap, there can be no spark jumping the gap. Murder opens such a gap between Claudia and Harald -- and the spark jumps.
As for Duncan himself, he is an absent presence until the last pages of the novel, known only through others' memories of him and testimonies about him -- his parents', Khulu's, Natalie's, even Motsamai's. We turn the pages, waiting for him to speak up, and eventually he does. This novel of physical violence and spiritual turmoil ends with Duncan's composure. Silent in his prison cell, Duncan remembers Carl, then thinks of the child in Natalie's womb. Carl's child or his? He doesn't know, he may never know, but he has found what he believes he had to find: in the novel's final, haunting words, "a way to bring death and life together."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: HOUSE GUN, THE (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AFRICA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (93%); MURDER (89%); SHOOTINGS (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (76%); GUN CONTROL (73%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (73%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (73%); CRIME RATES (73%); GAYS & LESBIANS (72%); LITERATURE (71%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (68%); 

PERSON: MILES, JACK; GORDIMER, NADINE NADINE GORDIMER (93%); NELSON ROLIHLAHLA MANDELA (71%); FREDERIK WILLEM 'F W' DE KLERK (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1998



2 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 7; Page 19; Column 4; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 215 words

HEADLINE: Books in Brief: Nonfiction

BYLINE: By Ruth Bayard Smith 

 BODY:

Radio Voices
 American Broadcasting, 1922-1952.
 By Michele Hilmes.
 University of Minnesota,
 cloth, $49.95; paper, $19.95. 
 In the introduction to her well-documented book, Michele Hilmes bemoans the lack of analytical attention paid to radio: "No other medium has been more thoroughly forgotten, by the public, historians and media scholars alike." "Radio Voices" traces the development of early radio, addressing such subjects as technological advances and the impact of popular comedies and dramas. Hilmes, who teaches communication arts at the University of Wisconsin, looks at radio and the power of advertising; the conflict between highbrow and lowbrow programming; and the role of women, blacks and immigrant groups. She also addresses many of the reasons radio has been neglected in the television years, focusing primarily on politics and economics as the main culprits. Unfortunately, Hilmes's analysis often gets overwhelmed by her cumbersome inclusion of material, not all of it necessarily salient. The text has too many phrases like "radio's dystopian potential," "containment of the transgressive possibilities" and "subaltern counterpublic." Still, the book is valuable for placing radio within a cultural and historical framework. Ruth Bayard Smith

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: RADIO VOICES (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: MINNESOTA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: RADIO VOICES AMERICAN BROADCASTING (76%); UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (57%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (57%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); MINNESOTA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); LITERATURE (77%); HISTORY (77%); WOMEN (68%); 

PERSON: SMITH, RUTH BAYARD; HILMES, MICHELE MICHELE HILMES (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1998



3 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT;
The Byzantine World Of Airline Fares

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

 BODY:
CUSTOMERS shopping for the lowest air fares have grown accustomed to good deals if they buy well in advance and lock in specific flights, while paying extravagant prices to fly at the last minute with freedom to change plans. Now a consumer-advocacy organization with members on college campuses across the country says a test it conducted shows that airline pricing is much more complicated than this, so complicated that even savvy consumers cannot be sure they are getting the best deal, or even a good deal, unless they spend an inordinate amount of time shopping.
Volunteers for the United States Public Interest Research Group, a nonprofit consumer and environmental research and advocacy organization based in Washington, called travel agents and airlines on a Friday last fall seeking the best deal on flights departing the next Thursday around 5 P.M. and returning Sunday evening. 
 Reservations made six days before departure usually do not qualify for significant discounts, although airlines sometimes offer three-day advance-purchase discounts. Still, the fares varied widely.
The volunteers looked at flights between 73 city pairs involving 28 cities. For each pair they called 8 to 10 travel agents and as many as 5 airlines. In all, they placed 910 calls. They were quoted 590 prices. The biggest difference was flying from Indianapolis to San Francisco and back. The fares quoted ranged from $220 to $1,547.
The volunteers also requested the cheapest ticket for both one-week and three-week advance-purchase fares. All requests involved the same Thursday-to-Sunday pattern that includes the Saturday-night stay often required for the best deals.
The researchers found that it cost more to fly round trip from Portland, Ore., to Boston than from Boston to Portland, and that travel agents were much likelier than airlines to give the lowest price.
Paul Stephen Dempsey, vice chairman of Frontier Airlines, a tiny carrier based in Denver that flies to 14 cities including New York, called the sevenfold price difference between Indianapolis and San Francisco astounding. But in an interview about the survey he said that he was not surprised that 910 telephone calls made on the same day resulted in 590 different price quotes.
"Airlines manipulate fares all the time,' he said. "If you called an airline for a price and called back 45 minutes later the fare bucket could have constricted or expanded and the price you are quoted could have dropped or gone up."
"Buckets" is an airline term for the different fare classes, like Y for unrestricted coach and V for highly restricted advance-purchase fares. Computers allow airlines to quickly change the number of seats available at each fare based on such factors as how many seats have sold by a particular date and the effect of holidays on travel patterns.
Ulrich Boser, a staff member of the consumer advocacy group, criticized the sevenfold difference on the Indianapolis-San Francisco route as an illustration of how the airlines engage in deceptive pricing. But Clifford Winston, a transportation economist at the Brookings Institution in Washington, saw it differently.
"In the hands of a so-called public interest group, you get this crazy idea that fares are all over the place and people are getting ripped off left and right," Mr. Winston said. "What they encountered is simply yield management, in which the airlines adjust prices according to demand in an attempt to fill every seat, a practice which actually benefits consumers."
He said that fewer than 20 percent of flyers pay the highest fares and that the ones who do are usuallybusiness people traveling on the company's dime, not paying out of their own pockets.
Mr. Winston said it was not surprising that travel agents tended to quote cheaper fares than the airlines, given the way the research group set up its study, which focused on specific times and dates.
"Airline personnel are trained to answer the question you ask, so if you cite a specific time they do not try to figure out how to rearrange your travel to get the lowest price," he said. "Travel agents want you as a repeat customer, so they will look at how flexible you are on travel times, at whether you can leave 10 minutes earlier or take a connection that may get you the lowest fare."
The Public Interest Research Group filed its findings with the Department of Transportation, in support of a "truth in air fares" rule proposed last fall by Consumers Union, another nonprofit research and advocacy organization. The rule would require airlines to tell customers who ask the average and lowest fares for each class of service between city pairs in the previous 90 days.
Consumers Union, which publishes Consumers Reports magazine, says that disclosing average fares will have a big impact on people's ability to spot the best deals and to evaluate how good a deal they can make.
American Airlines and TWA have filed formal objections to the proposed rule, saying it would increase costs and cause consumers to get misleading information -- because prices vary by season, the airlines say, the previous 90-day period is not a reliable indicator of present pricing. An American spokesman, Tim Smith, called the proposed rule a dumb idea.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (90%); OREGON, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (90%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES PUBLIC INTEREST RESEARCH GROUP RESEARCH GROUP (69%); US PUBLIC INTEREST RESEARCH GROUP (83%); US PUBLIC INTEREST RESEARCH GROUP (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES PUBLIC INTEREST RESEARCH GROUP US PUBLIC INTEREST RESEARCH GROUP (83%); US PUBLIC INTEREST RESEARCH GROUP (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); INDIANA, USA (90%); OREGON, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (90%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CONSUMER PROTECTION AIRLINES (92%); AIR FARES (92%); TRAVEL TICKETS (90%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); TRAVEL AGENTS (88%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); VOLUNTEERS (75%); INTERVIEWS (71%); 

PERSON: JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY CLIFFORD WINSTON (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1998



4 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 4; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 464 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY;
Deals and Discounts

BYLINE: By JANET PIORKO 

 BODY:

PARIS AND PROVENCE -- An 11-day package offered by Country Cottages, a Florida company, combines a two-night stay in a Paris hotel with seven nights in a villa in Provence. For each of two people sharing a one-bedroom villa, the price starts at $1,099 and includes air fare from New York, Newark or Boston; accommodations, and a rental car for a week. (The car can be picked up in Paris or in the South of France.) The flights are on British Airways to Paris via London. Departures are from late March to early May; travel on April 1 or later costs $169 a person extra. For each of eight people in a four-bedroom villa, the price starts at $899; for each of four in a two-bedroom, $999. The hotel in Paris is the Holiday Inn St.-Germain on the Rue de Vaugirard, where Continental breakfast, tax and service are included. The type of car depends on the party's size. Information: (800) 674-8883 or (561) 988-4000.

FREIGHTER DISCOUNTS -- Ivaran Lines' Americana is marking the 10th anniversary of what it calls luxury freighter travel with discounts this spring. Voyages No. 77 and 78, which depart from New Orleans April 6 and 28, are reduced almost 20 percent. Round-trip rates will start at $3,464 for an inside single cabin, with a standard outside double costing $3,979 a person. Repeat passengers receive an extra 5 percent discount. The itinerary on the cruise, which runs about 21 or 22 days depending on cargo requirements, includes Mexico, Costa Rica, South America and the Southern Caribbean. Shorter segments are available. The ship has a pool, sauna, sun deck and lounge. Information: (800) 451-1639. 

CANARIES PACKAGES -- A company called Canary Islands Holidays is offering six-night packages in the archipelago that start at $699 a person, double occupancy, including air fare from New York, hotel, daily buffet breakfast and airport transfers. That price is for February, March or late April departures with lodging at the Apartment Hotel Las Piramides on Tenerife, or late April departures with accommodations at Las Dalias on Tenerife. The program runs until April 25, with departures on Saturdays. Flights are nonstop on Air Europe, a Spanish carrier, from New York to Tenerife. Information: (888) 767-8822.
 
DISCOUNTS TO ASIA -- Overseas Adventure Travel has cut prices by as much as $400 on Thailand, Borneo and Indonesia trips; the company says it renegotiated prices because of the Asian economic crisis. A 15-day Discover Thailand tour now costs $2,590 or $2,790; a 17-day Legendary Borneo trip, $3,390 to $3,590; an 18-day Indonesia Odyssey, $3,690 or $3,990. Round-trip flights from Los Angeles are included, as are hotels, most meals and sightseeing. Most departures are in spring or fall. Information: (800) 873-5628. JANET PIORKO

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAY (LSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (95%); THAILAND (91%); INDONESIA (90%); BORNEO (90%); UNITED STATES (88%); COSTA RICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); CANARY ISLANDS (79%); SPAIN (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); ASIA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (53%); 

STATE: PROVENCE-ALPES-COTE D'AZUR, FRANCE (90%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%); 

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (95%); THAILAND (91%); INDONESIA (90%); BORNEO (90%); UNITED STATES (88%); COSTA RICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); CANARY ISLANDS (79%); SPAIN (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); ASIA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (53%); PROVENCE-ALPES-COTE D'AZUR, FRANCE (90%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); PARIS, FRANCE (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); TOUR PACKAGES (89%); AIR FARES (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); PRICE CUTTING (77%); AIRLINES (76%); AIRPORTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (70%); ANNIVERSARIES (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%); 

PERSON: PIORKO, JANET

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1998



5 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 3; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1451 words

HEADLINE: Q&A/Robert W. Elliott;
Reaching Beyond One's Own Bailiwick

BYLINE: By DONNA GREENE 

 BODY:
MAYOR Robert W. Elliott of Croton-on-Hudson is a person who gets involved in big ways with many organizations. He is the president of the New York State Conference of Mayors, chairman of the Tri-County Association, which links Westchester, Nassau and Suffolk Counties, and president of the Westchester Municipal Officials Association.
Mr. Elliott, who is in his fourth term as Mayor of his village in the town of Cortlandt, was recently appointed to the Small Cities Committee of the National League of Cities. He has been involved with the establishment of the Westchester Council of Governance, a body recommended by Westchester 2000, which County Executive Andrew J. Spano is creating. And he was at the forefront of establishing Historic River Towns of Westchester, which promotes communities from Yonkers to Peekskill along the Hudson River. He demonstrates that he believes in inter-government cooperation. 
 Recently, his name was mentioned as a Democratic challenger to Representative Sue W. Kelly, a Republican, in the 19th Congressional District, which includes northern Westchester, Putnam and parts of Dutchess and Orange Counties.
Here are excerpts from a recent conversation with Mr. Elliott, whose part-time position is supplemented with consulting work in economic development:
Q. Why do you feel it is important to get involved with so many inter-municipal groups?
A. It is coincidental that I would be involved with so many at one time. It is just the way things happened. But it is important, I think, for communities to get together to work together for a number of reasons. On the one hand, people want small government; they want government they can understand and get their arms around. On the other hand, they want a more efficient government. There is a cry particularly in the state of New York to limit the number of levels of government there are. Everybody would like to get rid of everybody else's level. But by working together you can provide real efficiencies and at the same time still keep small governments that most residents really like. The only way, really, I think, you get a lot done these says is to work together. You not only get more accomplished but you also get recognition and funding a lot easier for the initiatives if they are planned well. Such funding can come from other layers of government or private foundations. They are more apt to work with a group of communities rather than one community.
Q. An example is Historic River Towns. Describe what it does.
A. Historic River Towns is a good example. The communities initially came together looking for ways to solve economic development problems, problems of their downtowns and their Main Streets. These are the communities along the Hudson River from Yonkers to Peekskill. We started out when the economy had really bottomed out. We were searching for ways to deal with this problem, and having very little in the way of resources, we began to take a step back and take an inventory of what we had. We began to focus on tourism, which would not require us to draw on outside resources. We didn't have to wait for the Federal Government to come and solve our problems, or the state or the bio-tech industry.
We had an awful lot in common, from historical sites to cultural sites to the aqueduct to the trail systems, the Old Albany Post Road to our Main Streets, to our restaurants to the hotels, to Metro-North and, of course, the Hudson River. If you look at us as a whole, we're as legitimate a major tourist destination as any other place in the country. Of course, one of the markets is our own residents. We're largely looking at those who are interested in history and scenic beauty of the area.
Q. So you have joined together. Has it brought in money?
A. Yes, it has brought in joint money. We get great support from the county, and we work with the County Planning Department, and we've gotten funding from private foundations and others. The planning we do is all voluntary and from the bottom up. No one is telling anyone what to do. You buy in or subscribe to as much or as little of this as you like.
Q. Is there a shortage of people who are willing to take on the top leadership roles?
A. I haven't found that. What I like to do in any organization that I end up being president of or chairman of is to fill it with lots of good people. You like to have a succession of people to follow you, so it gives the organization life.
Q. Why don't you say no to one or two of these groups?
A. Each one fills a different need that cries out, particularly River Towns cries out. It's one of those things that if you step back and look at it you wonder, Why hasn't this been done before? Municipal Officials for Westchester is an organization that in recent years, due to many of my predecessors, has moved municipalities along in working with the county and the state on working on issues that are important to all of us. It's very difficult to influence legislation as a single community, for example. As a group, we can move things along.
Q. What about this talk of you as a possible candidate for Congress?
A. A number of people have approached me about that and asked me to consider it, and I said I would consider it. But it's very premature to say anything at all.
Q. If not this, do you have an interest in a higher office?
A. I really enjoy public service. And, frankly, having come out of the private sector, I began without a lot of respect for municipal government. But once getting into it, I now have enormous respect for both the paid professionals and the elected officials. They are wonderful people, and they do great things.
Q. Before you became Mayor, you were, it is said, a small business person who was a victim of the malls. What happened?
A. I took over a small family business just about the time the economy turned. I struggled through a very difficult time. As a matter of fact, Main Streets throughout the country and certainly throughout Westchester struggled. As it happened, I really began to wonder what could be done. How could small businessmen fend for themselves and what could local government do to assist them, and other levels? I really became a student of the dynamics of small downtown economics. That really led me to not only becoming Mayor but also to getting involved with organizations that deal with these issues, such as the Conference of Mayors. They began to sponsor conferences and we began working with communities and eventually that is how River Towns got started. Little by little, each community is repositioning itself and its Main Street, trying to find a niche. They had all become victims of the big shopping malls.
Q. You are active in Westchester 2000, which recently issued a report urging consolidation of governments, not to save money but to simplify things. What is your feeling.
A. There are too many levels of government -- there is no question about that. But as I said, everybody else's level is the one that people think should be eliminated. I do think over the next few years there will be a few consolidations of towns and villages, but not a whole lot. But with technology and with a few other things that are coming down the road, you'll see more efficiency. With the new county government, I think you will see greater cooperation between the municipal governments and the county. I think you will find a lot of rethinking about the delivery of services to make it more efficient.
Q. If you proposed that Croton merged with Buchanan or that both villages disbanded and let the Cortlandt town government run things, would you be thrown out of town?
A. Yeah, I don't think you'd find a gentle acceptance of that at this time. What you might find is -- and I'm not referring specifically to Croton and Cortlandt -- you might find one community providing more services for the other. One would do police services, and the other won't. It's very common with fire districts to have that. You may find this with roads, where it makes sense. Right now, if you're driving down a road, you don't know if you're on a Federal highway, a state highway, a county road, a village road or a town road. All you know is there is a pothole there.
Q. What about reassessment? Your own Legislator was instrumental in getting Gov. George E. Pataki to veto a bill in 1996.
A. I think there is a need to have it done -- the system is so unfair. The Governor, when he vetoed it, left the door open for it to be presented again. I think you will see in the future a cooperative effort among local and county governments and the private sector, the school sector and the state to get together.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert W. Elliott, center, with Jim Doody of Eastchester and Joyce Lannert, County Planning Commissioner. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: WESTCHESTER MUNICIPAL OFFICIALS ASSOCIATION (90%); NATIONAL LEAGUE OF CITIES (57%); NATIONAL LEAGUE OF CITIES (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL LEAGUE OF CITIES (57%); NATIONAL LEAGUE OF CITIES (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CROTON-ON-HUDSON (NY); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: MAYORS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT MAYORS (91%); COUNTIES (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RIVERS (88%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); POLITICS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); FOUNDATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, ROBERT W (MAYOR); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; GREENE, DONNA ROBERT W ELLIOTT (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1998



6 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 2; Page 37; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: HOME ENTERTAINMENT;
At Mickey's House, A Quiet Welcome For Distant Cousins

BYLINE: By PETER M. NICHOLS 

 BODY:
THERE'S AN AIR OF ANTICIPATION in the land of anime, the risque and warlike corner of Japanese animation that has become hugely popular on video in the United States. Amid characters like the genetically enhanced M. D. (Most Dangerous) Geist, liberator of the devastated planet of Jerra, and Doreimon, a scantily clad android from the 22d century, a youngster named Kiki is about to arrive -- representing, of all things, the forces of civic-minded youth.
Kiki, the young star of "Kiki's Delivery Service," isn't from Jerra but from a magic kingdom many galaxies removed called the Walt Disney Company. The film, which will be released straight to video later this year, represents Disney's cautious entry into Japanese animation. But don't call the film anime. Disney officials are skirting the term as if it were radioactive. Kiki is actually a good witch who flies around doing good deeds. "A sweet, sweet story," said Tanya Moloney, a vice president of Buena Vista, Disney's video arm. 
 These days, anime refers strictly to "adult" Japanese animation, aimed primarily at young men. But those films make up only a small fraction of the enormous body of work turned out every year by Japanese animators. Recently, Disney secured the rights to "Kiki's Delivery Service" and seven other films by Hayao Miyazake, one of Japan's more Disney-like animators. Ms. Moloney emphasized that the company was not only giving a wide berth to racy, battle-ravaged anime but was entering, in a limited way, the family-oriented precincts of Japanese animation. "We are merely recognizing the talents of one particular animator, Hayao Miyazake," she said.
Nevertheless, presented with coattails the length of Disney's, the purveyors of anime are hailing any degree of participation by the world's best-known giant of animation as an imprimatur of all things animated emanating from Japan. In a great gorge-vaulting leap worthy of one of its towering armored juggernauts, anime aims to land squarely in the American animated heartland. "Disney adds legitimacy," said Greg Forster, the marketing director of Manga Entertainment, a Chicago distributor of anime.
No skull-faced, spike-limbed 40-foot brute with rack-and-pinion steering may ever stride around bearing Disney's logo, but that's not the point. By importing samples from the vast selections of child-oriented animation from Japan, Disney may well clear shelf space for all kinds of work from Japan. "They'll bring anime into the mainstream," Mr. Forster said.
But no one from anime's marketing legions can really predict the outcome of Disney's tentative interest. Realistically speaking, most Americans will probably never broaden their concept of animation as anything more than children's territory. In Japan, by contrast, the animation industry springs from a long association with the comic book, both for grown-ups and for youngsters.
More than half the books published in Japan are comics, and they embrace all adult genres. "America is the only country in the world that has this preconceived notion that comic books are intrinsically for children," said John O'Donnell, managing director of Central Park Media, a New York distributor of anime and one of its leading importers. That notion, he said, extends to animation. "In America, cartoons are for kids; in Japan they slice up the market into both sexes and every age group."
A typical year in Japanese animation yields 20 to 30 feature films, 300 to 400 direct-to-video titles and 50 television shows, which run virtually around the clock. Films and shows range from sitcoms and family dramas to noir and the graphically violent and sexual. "In Japan they run everything on TV," Mr. O'Donnell said. "If people don't like it, they don't watch it."
In this country, of course, animation on television is geared primarily to children. The VCR, however, opened the way for Japanese films with mature themes and made it economically possible for distributors to profit from small markets.
Interviewed in Tokyo by phone through an interpreter, Koichi Ohata, the director of the anime film "M.D. Geist II," said that Japanese animators paid no attention to American tastes. They are too busy satisfying their own enormous and varied market. "I have no idea what foreigners want," he said.
He did say, though, that much anime of the late 1980's was influenced by the American "Star Wars" movies and that current darker tales were influenced by American films like "Robocop" and "Blade Runner." And Japanese animated characters have oversize eyes, a vestige, Mr. O'Donnell said, of the old American animated heroine Betty Boop.
WHATEVER IS produced, importers choose what they want, from "Kiki" to sci-fi Armageddons and "pornimation," as some of the steamier romps with Western-looking women, from college girls to the princesses of sci-fi legend, are sometimes called in the United States.
Mr. O'Donnell said that Americans' narrow attitude about animation could be traced to their experience with the comic book in the 1950's, when a Congressional committee headed by Senator Estes Kefauver of Tennessee declared that much of the country's juvenile delinquency problem could be linked to comic strips. "So for a lot of reasons, the cartoon in America got ghettoized," Mr. O'Donnell said. Truly adult material went underground, breaking out only occasionally in work like Robert Crumb's Zap Comix.
Now anime's popularity proves that there is a demand for adult animation. Perhaps even a qualified step like Disney's experiment with "Kiki's Delivery Service" is a sign of an eventual explosion for all sorts of Japanese animation here. "We say anime is all violence and sex," Mr. O'Donnell said, "and so far that's right, because the other 95 percent hasn't been released here yet."

GRAPHIC: Photos: BRUTE STRENGTH A character from the movie "Cybernetics Guardian," an example of the popular form of Japanese animation known as anime. (Central Park Media)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: KIKI'S DELIVERY SERVICE (MOVIE)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (84%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (84%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (84%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: DISNEY, WALT, CO WALT DISNEY CO (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: DISNEY, WALT, CO

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; ANIMATED FILMS; RECORDINGS (VIDEO) ANIMATION (94%); FILM (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (78%); ANIMATED FILMS (78%); CHILDREN (77%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (74%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (72%); 

PERSON: NICHOLS, PETER M; MIYAZAKE, HAYAO JOHN O'DONNELL (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1998



7 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 2; Page 9; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 2162 words

HEADLINE: THEATER;
A Few Favorite Things the Musical Left Out

BYLINE: By ALEX WITCHEL 

DATELINE: STOWE, Vt.

 BODY:
JOHANNES VON TRAPP OFFERED SOME perspective.
"I'm the youngest and I'm 59," he said, amused at the inevitable gasp. 
 It is hard to believe that those terminally adorable von Trapp children of "Sound of Music" fame, the same ones who piped "Auf Wiedersehen, good night" before dancing off to bed, ever grew up. But not only is Agathe, the oldest girl, no longer 16 going on 17 -- she is 84 going on 85.
"The Sound of Music" opened on Broadway on Nov. 16, 1959, with a score by Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein 2d and a book by Howard Lindsay and Russel Crouse. Mary Martin starred as Maria, the novice nun sent to teach the seven children of the widowed Baron von Trapp. Despite mixed reviews, which Johannes von Trapp remembers upsetting the opening night party that he and his mother attended at the St. Regis Hotel, the musical went on to defy its critics and run for an impressive 1,443 performances. It also became one of the most popular family films ever made, starring Julie Andrews and Christopher Plummer.
Now, for the first time on Broadway since the original production, a revival of "The Sound of Music" is to open on March 12 at the Martin Beck Theater. Previews of the show begin on Friday, with Rebecca Luker as Maria and Michael Siberry as the Baron, directed by Susan H. Schulman. This time, however, the von Trapp children will not all be there to see it.
Sitting down to lunch at the Trapp Family Lodge, a hotel and ski resort that overlooks the Stowe valley, Mr. von Trapp, its principal owner and general manager, talked of his mother and his family tree.
Indeed, it would seem that "How do you solve a problem like Maria?" was more than a lyric. The real Maria, her son says, was "a much more complex person, a more extreme person than Julie Andrews portrayed."
"Everything she did was larger, louder, bigger, faster," he said, working his way through an enormous plate of pinkelwurst, similar to scrapple, piled high on a mound of mashed potatoes. "She was the sort of person who when she walked into a room, everyone stopped talking and looked at her.
"When the family came to America, their economic survival depended on their staying together. Any influence that might lead off to an individual life was sternly suppressed by my mother. It was like bottling up a volcano. Eventually it blows. But at the same time there was that discipline, which kept us all functioning together. We're still very attached to each other."
Maria Augusta Kutschera came to the von Trapps when she was in her early 20's. Baron Georg von Trapp had been married to Agathe Whitehead in Salzburg, Austria, and they had seven children: Rupert, Agathe, Maria, Hedwig, Werner, Johanna and Martina. (In "The Sound of Music" the names were changed.) After his wife's death, the Baron arranged for Maria, a novice at the Nonnberg Abbey, to teach and care for the children, especially his daughter Maria, then 5, who had had scarlet fever.
The Baron and Maria married in 1927 and had three children: Rosmarie and Eleonore were born in Salzburg, Johannes in America.
The family's exodus from Austria, recounted by Maria in her 1949 autobiographical book, "The Story of the Trapp Family Singers," was more complicated than "The Sound of Music" version. In 1934, the von Trapps' bank went bankrupt and the family lost its fortune. To meet expenses, they took in boarders and met Father Franz Wasner, the priest who became their musical director. He helped turn the family's singing hobby into their livelihood as the Trapp Family Choir, performing throughout Europe.
But when Germany invaded Austria in 1938 and the Baron, a decorated submarine commander in World War I, was offered a post in the Nazi Navy, he refused. He and his family left Austria for a purported mountain-climbing holiday in Italy; from there they left for America, where they were booked to tour as the Trapp Family Singers. In 1942, they settled in Stowe, building their home themselves. The Lodge opened in 1950.
MR. VON TRAPP HAS been here ever since. A graduate of Dartmouth College and the Yale Forestry School, he was "going to go on for a doctorate," he said, "but I thought I would first install professional management here." He smiled ruefully. "But professional management didn't want to stay with my family telling them what to do."
He leaned back in his chair. "There are no perfect mothers," he said. "I have no sympathy for people who blame everything on their mother. Having said that," he paused, and his piercing blue eyes filled briefly with tears, "I miss the terrific friendship that we had. It was really wonderful." He blinked. "Part of the time. Other times we had huge battles. She loved to make people happy. She would read about someone in trouble and invite their widow and six children for Christmas. I would say, 'Mother, why not the first week in December when we have no guests?' And she would say, 'Johannes, you don't understand, it's Christmas that's important to children.' And I would say 'That may be, but we need the revenue.'
"Her willpower was incredible. During the summer of '59 Mary Martin was here with a photographer from Life and the photographer wanted my mother up on the slope. She had slippery shoes on, fell and broke her arm. She insisted that I drive her to the doctor, where he set her arm, with no painkillers, and with the cast on she came back up and finished the shoot."
Mr. von Trapp was 8 when his father died in 1947 of lung cancer at the age of 67. "My memories are of a huge man, very gentle, very kind. He always had high expectations. Even at that age I sensed that. 'The Sound of Music' portrayed him as a martinet, and he really was not that. The whistle he used to summon the children was a convenience." He sighed. "I felt bad about Father Wasner being left out of the musical. Really, without his musical and spiritual direction we never would have achieved a level of performance that anyone would have walked across the street to listen to."
Mr. von Trapp's frustration at his family being forever frozen in one moment of movie history has been building for decades. "People really do expect the family to be the ages they are in the film," he said. "Especially their children, and they're very disappointed to find that we're not. I've gotten used to it. I say only half jokingly, if I were the first person to set foot on the moon, people would still say, 'Which one were you in the film?' "
While tea was served, Mr. von Trapp explained what became of his siblings in their post-"Edelweiss" lives.
RUPERT WAS A DOCTOR, a general practitioner, who had six children and lived in Massachusetts. He died in 1992. Agathe still lives near Baltimore, where she ran a kindergarten for years. She never married and neither did Maria, who is 83 and lives about a half mile down the road from the Lodge. She was a missionary in New Guinea who retired in 1987. Hedwig, a teacher, died in 1972. Werner, 81, is a retired farmer who lives in Waitsfield, Vt. He also had six children. Johanna married, had seven children and moved back to Austria. Martina died in childbirth, as did her baby, when she was 28. Eleonore, 66, also lives in Waitsfield. She had six children. Rosmarie, 68, lives there, too. She nursed her mother through a number of strokes during the last years of her life when she still lived at the Lodge, close by to Johannes's two children. The Baroness died in 1987 at the age of 82.
Though the family no longer performs together, Rosmarie leads singalongs at the Lodge twice a week. Does she include songs from the musical? Mr. von Trapp nodded. "She does, much to my, I won't say shame, but to my irritation." Why is that? "Because it's something we never sang," he said. "You know, if Universal Studios owned the place they could turn it into a 'Sound of Music' theme park. That's fine, but it's not what my family was about."
And what was that? He thought a moment. "Good taste, culture, all these wonderful upper-class standards that people make fun of in movies like 'Titanic.' We're about environmental sensitivity, artistic sensitivity. 'Sound of Music' simplifies everything. I think perhaps reality is at the same time less glamorous but more interesting than the myth. There are people who come here and ask why aren't we hearing 'Climb Ev'ry Mountain' on the ski trails? And I say, 'I'm happy to play some Mozart, too. He came from Salzburg as well. Remember him?' "
Salzburg is important to Mr. von Trapp; as he walks through the Lodge he points out paintings and antiques from the city. The original Lodge building burned down in 1980 and was reconstructed in 1983. "Mother was never comfortable in the new hotel," he said, leading the way to a suite of rooms where she had lived until her death. "Here," he said, pointing to a photograph of her. "You can see the vagueness in her face during those last years."
He also pointed out a picture of the other Maria, who lives down the road. "She was beautiful, wasn't she?" he asked. "You don't think about that when it's your sister."
Maybe not, but even at 83, Maria von Trapp is still a beautiful woman. With her white hair braided across the top of her head, she looks like she stepped off a postcard. Her brown eyes are warm and belie her somewhat formal Austrian-accented English. She sat on the couch in the living room of her small house.
"For 'The Sound of Music' they wanted to take some things from our life and make a new story," she said. "I always say they took the raisins out of the dough and made a new dough. First, we were really angry. My father was very fatherly always with his children, especially after my mother died. He taught me the accordion. It was music all the time in the house before the second mother came. My mother, her whole family was musical."
Did she like Maria? She nodded. "When she first came it was heaven on earth," she recalled. "She sang, she knew new songs. We learned the different parts."
Did she want her father to marry Maria? She shook her head. "I loved my mother and I thought he should not marry again. I wanted Maria to stay as a bigger sister. But that was not possible. We never talked about this, of course, we just let it happen.
"When we lost our money we were pushed into the public. My second mother, she smelled the bread and butter if we stayed on the stage. We sang for the people like it was our living room. I enjoyed singing. I always felt a certain peace come over the audience."
It seems that her stepmother's will was formidable. She nodded. "Her plan had to be done. If we were all like her we would have followed our own plans and left. But it was necessary, you know. I really believe everything was arranged by God. That we were so willing to stay together. He wanted that choir. I don't know why. We didn't even aim for going to America. When my father in Salzburg got the offer to go he said, 'I will ask each one if they want to go and if one says no, nobody goes. We stay together.' He really wanted to know if it was in God's plan. So he opened the Bible and where did he hit? It said, 'God speaks to Abraham: Take your family and go into the land I have prepared for you.' That was a real consolation for my father."
Maria was 23 when the family emigrated. It would be almost 20 more years before she started her missionary work. "I had wanted to go to Africa and be a missionary when I was a child," she said. "Then when we were singing I thought maybe this is the mission. When we were in Sydney we met the priest from New Guinea and I felt such a pull. I was already 42 years old when I finally found my real life."
She was there when "The Sound of Music" opened. "They changed the names and ages," she said. "When someone would ask Rupert, who was the oldest, 'Who are you?' he would take his trousers, make a curtsy and say 'I am Liesl.' "
SHE SMILED GENTLY. "People think they are part of the family, they think they know everything from 'The Sound of Music.' And if you say, 'No, that's not true,' they say, 'I don't want to know the truth. I like "The Sound of Music" and that's it.' The nice thing is that it's kept the memory of the family among the people. Everyone loves you, even if they don't know what you really are."
Is it true that she remembers all the signals her father used to blow on his whistle to summon them? She nodded and went to the bedroom, where she found her silver whistle. "Each one had a call," she said, "and there was one that called everyone."
She sat on the couch and started. "For the oldest it was one low, one high." She did it, then went on down the line. When she finished, she laughed in spite of an almost worried look in her eye, since that last call meant she was to come too, a signal she knew to obey. It seemed for a moment she might actually run, threatening the braid to fly behind her. But although she stayed seated, the child flashed by anyway, if only on her face.

GRAPHIC: Photos: SINGING FOR THEIR SUPPER The von Trapp family, circa 1940, from left, Rosmarie, Eleonore, Martina, Maria, Baroness Maria, Johannes, Agathe, Hedwig, Baron Georg von Trapp, Johanna, Rupert and Werner. Below, Maria von Trapp and her brother Johannes last month at the Trapp Family Lodge and ski resort in Stowe, Vt. (Sandy Macys for The New York Times)(pg. 9); A NEW MARIA Rebecca Luker in the revival, opening on March 12. (Joan Marcus); MOTHER FIGURES Mary Martin, left, as Maria, with young actors playing the von Trapp children in the 1959 Broadway musical "The Sound of Music." Right, Julie Andrews as Maria in the 1965 film version. (20th Century Fox)(pg. 14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: SOUND OF MUSIC, THE (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); AUSTRIA (50%); 

STATE: VERMONT, USA (91%); SALZBURG, AUSTRIA (50%); 

COMPANY: TRAPP FAMILY LODGE INC (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); AUSTRIA (50%); VERMONT, USA (91%); SALZBURG, AUSTRIA (50%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION THEATER REVIEWS (90%); FAMILY (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (75%); RESORTS (73%); FILM GENRES (67%); SKIING (67%); THEATER (55%); 

PERSON: WITCHEL, ALEX; VON TRAPP, JOHANNES MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1998



8 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 6; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1388 words

HEADLINE: With Stand-Up Comedian, Sparks Fly at 'Rosie O'Donnell'

BYLINE: By MARCELLE S. FISCHLER 

 BODY:
Mornings, Joey Kola is the funny rodeo clown, bounding up and down the stairs, microphone in hand, dancing, joking and doing the wave with the studio audience at "The Rosie O'Donnell Show" in Manhattan. Evenings, Mr. Kola's darker side comes out, venting frustrations and observations about life on the comedy club circuit.
Mr. Kola, 36, is a "blue collar comedian" from North Bellmore, on the edge of stardom. 
 "I'm a Southern State Parkway kind of guy. Sunrise Highway is my home," he said, launching into a routine about Long Island women putting on makeup in traffic, Dairy Barns and cigar aficionados.
At 8:30 on a weekday morning, Mr. Kola, wearing a red polo shirt, jeans and sneakers, is working the ticketholders' line inside the lobby at 30 Rockefeller Center. Thirty million fans watch "The Rosie O'Donnell Show" every day. An additional 180 spectators line up as early as 6 A.M. in the lobby of NBC Studios in Rockefeller Center to be part of the audience.
"Hey guys. How ya doing? Anybody here like 'The Sound of Music?' You do? We got 'The Sound of Music' here today. Like we say on Long Island, it's going to be a . . .," he quips in an exaggerated Long Island accent, using an expletive, to the mostly female crowd waiting to go through security and upstairs to the eighth-floor studio where the show is taped. "Afterward, I'll take you to the diner. You wanna go to the diner?"
While the syndicated program doesn't go on the air until 10 A.M., Mr. Kola starts the show with his lobby antics, fielding questions, cracking jokes and looking for the day's announcer, whom he chooses from the waiting throng.
"The warm-up is integral," Ms.O'Donnell said in an interview after a recent taping. "It sets the tone for the entire show. Every guest who sits down on our show says this audience is so nice and so happy and it's because of him. I always say it's the snack cakes, and that doesn't hurt either." Every member of the audience gets a Ring Ding snack cake and a carton of lowfat milk.
"It's our general philosophy before the show," she said. "He meets them on the line and gets them excited and is kind to them and takes their questions and is always entertaining.
"The people always call and say, I know Joey Kola, can I get to do the opening announcement? Well, if you know Joey Kola you don't need me, because he's the guy. He handles it. I don't have anything to do with it. It's been a blessing and a curse for him."
Mr. Kola and Ms. O'Donnell met 16 years ago on the stand-up comedy circuit. In the early 1980's, Ms. O'Donnell and Mr. Kola often traveled together, singing as they made their way from club to club, performing two or three times a night.
"I was doing stand-up at the East Side Comedy Club and I was the headliner at that time," she said. "He was a brand-new comic, the open mike guy. He came over to me and said: 'How does it feel to have your picture in the paper. My picture was like the size of a stamp, in Newsday, about that big. Your family must feel proud of you. How does it feel? Does it feel good? 'Cause I want to do that one day. I want to be like you. I want to be a headliner.' And I'm like, oh god, kid, shut up."
"So he sort of became a little tag-along kid from that day on," she continued. "I always knew him. He always listened to me. A lot of the other comics didn't. When I got this job, I knew I wanted somebody who had a like mind in terms of what was important. He was the first guy I thought of and I called him up."
While moonlighting for "The Rosie O'Donnell Show" gives Mr. Kola a steady job and benefits, stand-up comedy is his main source of income. Mr. Kola has been the opening act for Robin Williams, Julio Iglesias, David Brenner, Jay Leno and and Robert Klein.
He performs as a headliner at the Brokerage in Bellmore, Caroline's Comedy Club and Stand-Up New York in Manhattan and Rascals in New Jersey. He plays to sellout crowds on weekends at comedy clubs in Milwaukee, Detroit, Cleveland and Chicago.
He has appeared on television on "The Late Show With David Letterman," MTV, VH-1, "Comedy Central," "Showtime Comedy Club" and "The Pat Sajak Show" on CBS. In his 16 years on the circuit, Mr. Kola has done cruise ships, Las Vegas and Atlantic City.
"We've been following him for about three years," said Pat Cipollina of Franklin Square, who, with her husband, John, was watching Mr. Kola's act at the Brokerage on a recent weeknight. "Whenever he's in town or playing at a club, we try to go out and see him," she said. "I think his comedy is geared toward Long Island. I don't think it would go over in Louisville."
Another fan watching the show first saw Mr. Kola on cable television a few years ago.
"I'm Italian," said Karen Rizzo, a mortgage broker from West Hempstead. "He reminds me of my family. He says stuff that just cracks me up. It's so everydayish. It's really funny to hear it from him."
There is a rich history of stand-up comedians on Long Island, many of whom got their start on the local comedy club circuit. Ms. O'Donnell, is from Commack, Jerry Seinfeld is from Massapequa. Rodney Dangerfield is from Babylon, Eddie Murphy is from Freeport and Lenny Bruce came from Bellmore.
Born in Brooklyn, Mr. Kola grew up in Bay Shore and graduated from Islip High School. He says he was the class comedian, not the class clown.
"The class clown runs across the football field nude," he explained. "The class comedian was the guy who talked him into doing it."
He attended Suffolk Community College and graduated from C. W. Post with a degree in economics and finance. He has been married to his wife, Leonora, for 10 years. They have a 6-year-old daughter and a 4-year-old son.
"I'm half-German, half-Italian," he said. "I'm taking over the world, but I'm going to eat first. My stand-up is really about the evil Joey Kola because I get to talk about reality and things that are in the news. Funny people aren't necessarily happy people. I don't want to paint any kind of picture that everything is rosy, no pun intended. My whole act I'm a domestic suburban warrior. All of my comedy is based in anger, but it's harmless."
"I'm very happy, but all of us to some extent are dissatisfied in some way," he continued. "All of us are wounded somehow. Mentally, physically, financially, somehow everybody's wounded. Stand-up comedy is my psychotherapy; that's the way of healing my wounds. I do it because I love it and luckily, it's paying the bills. I'm not a rich man, but I'm a happy guy. I get to go fishing whenever I want, that's my real passion."
Mr. Kola surfcasts for striped bass and bluefish off Jones Beach almost every afternoon.
"My stand-up is my alter ego," he said. "It's the more realistic part of my life. 'Rosie's' a very G-rated show. 'The Rosie O'Donnell Show' is a show about fun. It's very Mike Douglas, it's very Merv Griffin. We want the audience to have fun and raise a lot of money for charity. It works because it's a show that focuses on the 99 percent of society who are really good people in their hearts and really want to get along and have fun together, not the 1 percent that you see on the news and all these other shows hating each other.
"I know what Rosie wants from the audience," Mr. Kola continued. "I know what kind of tone she wants to set. If you get people together in a room and you give them a little music and some entertainment, people put their worries on the side. I tell the audience every morning that whatever problems you have, financial, medical, we all have the same problems. Lose them for an hour of your life and let us take you to Rosieville. And it works. We shoot Koosh balls, we eat snack cakes."
Mr. Kola's interest in comedy began with the family gatherings of his childhood. His biggest influences were his uncle Ralph, his father, his uncle Angelo and his mother.
As children, Joey Kola and his younger brother would perform in front of the family. Years later, he found himself recreating the act in front of strangers.
Ms. O'Donnell would like Mr. Kola to maintain a happy medium between performing and family life.
"I hope he never takes it to the next level," she said. "I always say, 'Joey, you know what, you get a sitcom offer, you tell me how much they're going to pay you and I'll match it.' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: Joey Kola, stand-up comedian from North Bellmore, warms up the audience at "The Rosie O'Donnell Show." (Barbara Apler for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ROSIE O'DONNELL SHOW (TV PROGRAM)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; COMEDY AND HUMOR TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); 

PERSON: KOLA, JOEY; FISCHLER, MARCELLE S ROSIE O'DONNELL (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1998



9 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 1; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1333 words

HEADLINE: Rough Navigating Around Bridgeport's Sunken Barges

BYLINE: By FRED MUSANTE

 BODY:
THE Port Authority of Bridgeport Harbor has a billion-dollar redevelopment project on the drawing board. Hotels, office buildings, museums, cruise ships, high-speed ferry boats and more are in the plans. But the Port Authority and the city's harbor master, Joseph Savino, are occupied with a nagging bit of the past: three barges lie on the harbor bottom, at the mouth of the Pequonnock River, and the National Register of Historic Places must be navigated before they can be removed.
Since the barges sank, in 1974, they have rotted away so that now only a few waterlogged timbers can be seen above the water, and then only at low tide. Below the surface, divers documented gaping holes in their hulls. They are Erie Canal barges, however, among only a few still in existence, and their historical significance has proven to be something of a complication, not for the major part of the harbor redevelopment plan, but for the fringes of it where city officials would like to provide direct access to downtown Bridgeport for boaters. 
 "If I have to leave them there," Mr. Savino said, "it will limit the recreational boating I can get in there." He said he has asked the Connecticut Historical Commission to remove them from the National Register.
John W. Shannahan, director of the commission, has replied that his office appreciates the city's desire for economic and recreational improvements in Bridgeport Harbor and "also acknowledges that the long-term preservation of these vessels will best be accomplished through their relocation."
But relocating them may not be an easy task. Mr. Savino said the three barges -- the Elmer S. Dailey, the Priscilla Dailey and Berkshire No. 7 -- are in such poor condition that he believed they would fall apart if an attempt were made to haul them out. Such a salvage operation would also be expensive, no matter what its prospects for success.
Then too, he asked, "Where am I going to put them? Who would want them?" Enter James Correnti, a graduate student who learned of the barges' existence while studying marine affairs and archeology. Mr. Correnti, whose area of academic study is focused on the management of maritime cultural resources, said the three large wooden barges are of a design typical of the transition between small wooden barges of the 19th century and large, modern metal barges. "They're rare in that case," he said.
Mr. Correnti said the city could attempt to salvage the boats and try to find someone to restore them. Or, if the boats are too deteriorated, videotapes, photographs and documents could be compiled for posterity. Mr. Shannahan, on the other hand, suggested they could be relocated offshore in Long Island Sound as a "marine habitat and underwater archeological preserve."
Either way, Mr. Correnti said, "before anything can be done, a marine archeologist has to do down there and determine if they can be salvaged without breaking up."
Only one of the three barges, the Elmer S. Dailey, built during World War I, ever plied the Erie Canal. The Priscilla Dailey, built in 1929, worked the Champlain Canal, and the Berkshire No. 7, built in 1935, never worked either canal. The three were used to haul bulk cargo along the New Jersey, New York and Connecticut coasts from 1941 until 1972, when they were tied up in Bridgeport.
The boats range in size from the Elmer S. Dailey's 105 feet and 100-ton displacement to the Priscilla Dailey's 111 feet and 311 tons. Only the Elmer S. Dailey was motorized, the result of a retrofit in 1928. The other two were towed by tugs.
In 1974 they sank at their dock, and have rested there ever since. Shortly before they went down, their owner, George W. Koenig (who has since died), had the three vessels placed on the National Register of Historic Places.
Mr. Savino said a recent survey of the barges, done by State Police divers in training, convinced him that they are beyond repair and should be broken up and removed. "I don't dispute that they're historic Erie Canal barges," he said, "but in that condition, nobody can enjoy them or even see them." He is worried the city would be required to recover them whole, which would be expensive as well as difficult.
These aren't the only barges known to be sunk in Bridgeport waters. There are five others, two in Johnson's Creek, an inlet off Bridgeport Harbor, and three in Black Rock Harbor. At a cost estimated at more than $100,000 each, removal "would cost the city almost $1 million," Mr. Savino said. But if it were done, it would provide space for many recreational boat moorings, open up new fishing spots, and avoid the navigational hazard posed from waterlogged timbers breaking from the vessels and floating just under the surface. He noted that the state is considering establishing a fund that municipalities can use to remove sunken barges.
None of the other sunken barges would impede the city's Bridgeport Harbor redevelopment project, which is called Harbour Place. The developer, Alex Conroy, of the Conroy Development Company in Greenwich, said he believed only a project as large as his could succeed. "You can't do it piecemeal," he insisted, "you need to create a new destination."
Mr. Conroy, a resident of Fairfield, said he was familiar with Bridgeport Harbor, and that he had always thought it should be developed. When he talked to prospective business tenants, he said, he found them interested in a large-scale project. He didn't get his chance, however, until October 1996, when Bridgeport and the United Illuminating Company, backed by the state, began a search for a developer for the utility company's Steel Point property. Mr. Conroy's proposal was selected last fall.
The site of a former electricity generating plant, added to other land the Port Authority says it will obtain, encompasses a 50-acre peninsula on the eastern side of the harbor. The peninsula is accessible by large ships, which has been noted in the plan.
The project will cost $900 million to $1 billion, about $200 million coming from the city and the state, and the rest from private investors. The public money will pay for land acquisition, parking and site preparation.
Mr. Conroy said the project would include two hotels, office buildings, a marina and a New England fishing village-style cluster of shops for artists and artisans. Mr. Conroy also said he is planning a conference center with a 2,000-seat ballroom as well as a multiplex theater and other entertainment.
The Discovery Museum, with its art and technology exhibitions, would move there from north Bridgeport, and the city's Board of Education would establish a magnet high school program for teaching boat building. Also planned are high-speed commuter ferry service to Manhattan, and cruise ship service to take passengers to other points in New England and in Canada. A boardwalk is to line the harbor, and an ocean liner -- a "visual centerpiece" for the city says the Port Authority's executive director, Joseph Riccio -- with restaurants is to tie up there.
Since the harbor project was announced, the Port Authority says it has lined up several other companies to join it, including a newsprint recycling plant and the expansion of the Tallmadge Brothers oyster company.
"For years," Mr. Riccio said, "people have said the development of Bridgeport will come through development of the harbor area, and it's finally going to come to pass."
Work is scheduled to begin in about two years, and the project is expected to take six years to complete. The wait gives Mr. Savino time to do something about the three barges.
While some may consider their historic status a nuisance, Mr. Correnti saw poignancy in the designation that their last owner, Mr. Koenig, obtained for them.
"He loved those barges," Mr. Correnti said, "and he had them put on the Historic Register. I believe he cared about them so much he didn't want to see them just waste away. But when the fellow died, nobody cared about them."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, at low tide, a bit of the sunken Priscilla Dailey can be seen in Bridgeport Harbor. Left, harbor view from the Bridgeport Center. (Photographs by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. 1); The Port Jefferson ferry eases into Bridgeport Harbor, where waterlogged refuse is a troubling issue. Joseph Savino, harbor master in Bridgeport, eyes the remains of the Priscilla Dailey, built in 1929, now visible only at dead low tide. (Photographs by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

CITY: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HISTORY (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (90%); ARCHAEOLOGY (89%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (89%); CRUISES (78%); BOATING & RAFTING (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); HISTORIC SITES (78%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (78%); MARINE SALVAGE (78%); MARINE TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); FERRIES (78%); RECREATIONAL WATERCRAFT (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); CITIES (72%); MARINE BIOLOGY (65%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1998



10 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1401 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey;
In Bridgewater, a Mix of Uses for Old Cyanamid Site

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
IN 1992, American Cyanamid began cleaning up its heavily polluted 565-acre site in the Somerset County Township of Bridgewater under orders issued earlier by the Federal Government.
Since then 140 acres have been remediated and the rest is being or will be cleaned, bit by bit, over time. 
 Now, a plan is being advanced to turn the cleaned portion of the site -- at the intersection of Interstate 287 and Route 28, with access from Route 22 -- into a mix of retail, hotel, entertainment and public uses. It was worked out over the last two and a half years by the township, a private developer and the American Home Products Corporation, based in Madison, which acquired American Cyanamid four years ago.
The township rezoned the site from office use in 1996. But the proposal still must receive final approval from the planning board and Township Council, which is expected this spring.
At that point, the private developer -- the Krame Development Company of Paramus, in partnership with the Price Reit, a Los Angeles-based real estate investment trust -- will begin construction of an $80-million mixed-use center called Bridgewater Promenade on half of the site. It will comprise 625,000 square feet of retail space and 75,000 square feet of hotel or office space.
The $80 million investment includes the cost of site acquisition, which neither side would disclose. But William G. Krame, president of Krame Development, said he had paid a "premium" price.
The other half will be deeded to Bridgewater for use as open or public space, the latter including a new public works complex. In turn the township will transfer 20 acres to Somerset County to build a 6,300-seat minor league baseball stadium.
As the remaining acres, which are zoned industrial, are cleaned and the existing manufacturing buildings are closed and razed, that property will be deeded to the township. A portion, edging the Raritan River, will go to the county's parks commission.
"It all bodes well for the future of Bridgewater," said Mayor James T. Dowden, noting that for years the township had battled with American Cyanamid to clean the site of its chemical-manufacturing wastes. In the short term, he said, the mixed-use proposal puts a portion of the site back to productive use and in the long term gives the township, if needed, a potential "future ratable."
The proposal is indicative of the blending of public and private interests to spur the recycling of old industrial sites. But the time it took to get to this point shows that the development climate is becoming more complex as communities search for ways to diversify their tax bases and address quality of life concerns. Those concerns range from preserving open space to controlling traffic, both of which are issues in the Bridgewater project.
"The plan is structured to be economically viable for us and for the seller while giving back a significant amount of land to the community," said Mr. Krame, the developer. The partners have agreed to make an estimated $5 million in road improvements to accommodate the project.
Mr. Krame called the site's location "phenomenal," adding that there was a void in the market for the "convenient, value-oriented" retail space the project will offer.
THE 625,000 square feet of retail space will be configured as a power center -- defined by the International Council of Shopping Centers in Manhattan as an open-air retail strip with 250,000 to 750,000 square feet of space and three or more big-box retailers.
The focus of retail activity in the township is now the 900,000 square foot Bridgewater Commons Mall, which is to be expanded by up to 750,000 square feet. Bridgewater Promenade, which will not compete with the mall, is moving ahead at a time when the retail market in Bridgewater and central Somerset County is heated.
Eight projects, mostly power centers, are in various stages of the approval process. If realized they could add a total of about 3.6 million square feet of stores into the area, much of it in Bridgewater, according to the Somerset County Planning Department.
Retail brokers say the area could handle more development. They cite demographics. "There has been tremendous housing and job growth in that market," said Jonathan B. Schultz, president of the Schultz Organization, a brokerage in Woodbridge. "But it is underserved in terms of big-box and discount retailers."
Projections are that the county's population will grow to 296,000 by the year 2010, up from 260,790 in 1996, according to county figures.
The county also reports that 2.8 million square feet of office space has been proposed in central Somerset, which means additional shoppers. Much of the proposed new office space is in Bridgewater.
Mayor Dowden said all of the proposed retail projects, along with the mall's expansion, had been planned for and, with additional road improvements by developers, could be accommodated in the 32-square-mile township.
Despite the area's favorable demographics, Mr. Schultz said, there are not enough tenants to fill all the projects. As retailers shop for projects that are in the best locations and likely to be among the first to come to fruition, the other projects will be dropped and reshaped into alternative uses, he said.
The developers of Bridgewater Promenade say they feel timing and location are on their side. That the site is clean and the project is far along in the approval process is an advantage, said Jerald Friedman, senior executive vice president at the Price Reit.
Mr. Krame added that some 242,000 people with an average household income of $81,000 live within a seven-mile radius of the proposed center.
At its peak in the 50's and 60's the former Cyanamid complex was among the largest employers and taxpayers in Bridgewater. In 1983, after it was put on the Federal Superfund list -- made up of sites demanding priority cleanup because of heavy pollution -- Cyanamid begin razing offices and laboratories there. Though there is still some manufacturing on the property, that will end in the next year and a half, said Lowell Weiner, a spokesman for American Home Products.
HE said the site was among the more than 3,000 acres in New Jersey his company took over when it acquired American Cyanamid. He said the policy concerning surplus properties has been to sell or donate them rather than develop them "since we are not in the real estate business."
The current development team was chosen from 18 companies that expressed interest in the site, he added, noting that the mixed-use plan "is the best use to put the property to."
But residents in that section of Bridgewater, known as Finderne, were not so sure. A citizens group called the Finderne Advisory Committee was formed in response to the project to make sure that the traffic it would generate would not over run their neighborhood.
To that end the developers, working with the group over the last year, nearly doubled the amount of traffic improvements they would make to the current level of $5 million.
They include rebuilding a bridge over I-287 and widening the ramps leading to and from it, installing new traffic lights and improving intersections.
Allen F. Krudyla, co-chairman of the group, said his organization supported the improvements and was hopeful that the developers would deliver them. But he said concerns remain over the cumulative impact all the proposed projects could have.
Those concerns are shared by Somerset County's Planning Department. It is now devising a plan to coordinate future development with road and traffic improvement and calls for enhanced mass transit links, said Robert Bzik, its planning director. He said the plan also called for enhanced mass-transit links.
As now planned, Bridgewater Promenade will comprise 12 buildings connected by landscaped pedestrian walkways. Natural buffers will be created throughout the site and around its border to help shield it from Main Street.
It will be home to some 25 tenants, made up mostly of regional and national retailers, occupying 20,000 to 130,000 square feet each as well as smaller shops and restaurants with 3,000 to 10,000 square feet. There will be parking for 3,600 cars.
Mr. Krame said rents per square foot were expected to range from the low to the high teens. The center is to open by the summer of 1999, the same time as the baseball stadium.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rendering of a retail section of the proposed $80 million Bridgewater Promenade mixed-use project, which will include hotel or office space. (Krame Development Company)
 
Map showing the location of Bridgewater, New Jersey.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (70%); PFE (NYSE) (70%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (70%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (70%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (70%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (70%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN CYANAMID CO; KRAME DEVELOPMENT CO; AMERICAN HOME PRODUCTS CORP PFIZER INC (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CYANAMID CO; KRAME DEVELOPMENT CO; AMERICAN HOME PRODUCTS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEWATER (NJ); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE REAL ESTATE (90%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%); WATER POLLUTION (89%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (89%); ZONING (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (78%); MAYORS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); RETAIL PROPERTY (75%); OFFICE PROPERTY (74%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (72%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (72%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (70%); APPROVALS (68%); BASEBALL (63%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (61%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1998



11 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1321 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property;
Philadelphia's Airport Is a Hub of Development

BYLINE: By DAVID J. WALLACE 

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA

 BODY:
WHEN PNC Bank opened its new operations center across from the city's airport on Jan. 22, it left little space for new construction in the Eastwick commercial/industrial area, just a 15-minute drive from downtown and less than a half-hour from the corporate and financial hub of Wilmington, Del.
The airport itself has beeen an economic magnet in recent years as United Parcel Service and US Airways have built regional hubs there. Flights by US Airways, which also has an international hub there, represent 60 percent of the traffic. 
 About 1,000 PNC Bank employees moved into the $70 million, 280,000-square-foot building's first phase, which processes more than 3.5 million checks and other financial transactions for the Pittsburgh-based institution and other companies. The five-story back-office operation, which has 527-foot-long floors, functions around the clock.
Construction is to begin this spring on the 161,000-square-foot second phase, where as many as 500 more employees will work. The 30-acre PNC Bank site is being developed by Liberty Property Trust under a 17-year lease from the site's owner, Korman Commercial Property.
The site was chosen over others in Pennsylvania and New Jersey because of its proximity to the airport, I-95 and the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, said Mark Eyerly, a PNC Bank spokesman.
The site's shape "allowed us to have a horizontal footprint, rather than vertical," Mr. Eyerly said. "Prior to this, we handled items in a Center City high-rise. Items would come in on the third floor, go up to 10 and down to six."
One drawback to the new building's site, said Mr. Eyerly, is a lack of amenities. "We have a very nice cafeteria with a two-story room that looks out over the airport, but once you're in the building it's inconvenient to go out for lunch or go shopping," he said. But, he added, "there's a buzz around town that more hotels and retailers are looking at the employment base there."
The PNC Bank project benefited from $6.5 million in state funds for road and site improvements and job training; $5.3 million in low-interest loans from the city and $5.6 million in city grants for land acquisition and road construction. To accommodate new companies in the area, the Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority opened an Eastwick rail station on the line that links downtown with the airport.
PNC Bank has 6,400 employees in its Philadelphia regional headquarters area, including 1,000 at Eastwick, and could add as many as 700 new jobs at the Eastwick center within a few years.
TWO hotels are already operating adjacent to the PNC Bank site and three more are nearing completion nearby, part of an 80-acre site dubbed Airport Interplex. Extended Stay America is adding 140 rooms and will be joined by a 140-room Hampton Inn and a Studio Plus property with 85 rooms, said Jerry Segal, senior vice president of Korman Commercial Properties Inc. Other off-airport lodging includes Embassy Suites, Marriott, Westin and Days Inn.
"These are replacing lots of rooms that were very old, said Mr. Segal. "They can support the convention center because they're so close to downtown with the Eastwick rail station."
Michael G. French, a principal with Coopers & Lybrand LLP in Philadelphia, said aging hotels near the airport and the nearby sports complex have been renovated thanks to capital programs by hotel chains like Promus Corp. and HFS, which recently purchased properties, or chains that own hotels there.
"The airport market in Philadelphia even in the worst of times always operated at healthier occupancy levels than Center City or other surrounding markets, largely because for a long time it was under-supplied compared to other airport markets," said Mr. French.
"In 1991-92, the hotels were being operated by asset managers on behalf of banks or going through restructurings, but even then the airport markets did well. The average occupancy is close to 80 percent, and for that market it's at capacity because things are always soft on Sunday nights. Commercial travelers are increasingly inclined to come in, have a meeting and get out."
In 1996, the Airport Council International reported Philadelphia had 1.6 million inbound and outbound international travelers, a 27 percent gain over the year before. And US Airways, the dominant airline serving Philadelphia, intends to improve both its service and facilities here. Nevertheless, many Philadelphia-area travelers depart from Newark or New York airports because of a limited number of international departures.
Construction is under way in two of the airport's five terminals to add moving sidewalks and a 45,000-square-foot retail mall. In addition, the airport has announced a $300 million expansion of its international terminal. And US Airways has disclosed plans for a new commuter-flight facility, the addition of flights to Amsterdam and increased service to Frankfurt, Rome, London and Paris, among other destinations.
Much of Eastwick is devoted to junkyards, car dealerships and related businesses that stretch for more than a mile along Essington Avenue. CarMax is planning to open a primarily used-car dealership on a 20-acre site, and Dobbs, an airline caterer, built a $7 million facility several years ago.
Pat Green, senior vice president of Jackson Cross/Oncor International, a real estate brokerage, said the disappearance of industrial space in the suburbs had led many manufacturing and distribution companies to Eastwick, where space is much less expensive and is within the city.
Instead of more than $5 per square foot per year for warehouse space in the suburbs, the limited space in Eastwick rents for $3 to $4 per square foot, Mr. Green said. About 26 acres of developable land remains in the area within the city limits, he added.
Eastwick, at Philadelphia's southwest corner at the confluence of the Schuylkill and Delaware Rivers, was largely swampland until a site was dredged to create the airport, starting in 1925. A waterfront parcel was saved at Fort Mifflin, a preserved installation that served in both the Revolutionary and Civil War. The area is dotted with the sights and smells of oil refineries, gas tank farms and a sewage treatment plant.
Less than a mile from the PNC Bank site is the John Heinz Natural Wildlife Refuge at Tinicum, a wooded area with streams and wildlife named for the late United States Senator and heir to the Pittsburgh food company. Canoers and fishermen treasure the secluded spot, directly across I-95 from the airport's runways. Just north of the refuge, near the city's border with Delaware County, is a development of single-family homes and town-house apartments.
Despite esthetic concerns, Eastwick is one of few locations available to companies whose workers rely on mass transit, said George Robinson, president of Henry H. Ottens Manufacturing Company. He is considering moving his factory/headquarters there from its current downtown locationinto a yet-to-be-built structure that shields visitors from the industrial landscape.
"We want to remain in an area that's reachable by all current employees and there wasn't a whole lot of choices because of zoning restrictions," said Mr. Robinson, whose company produces flavorings for food and pharmaceuticals, among other things. "Parts of Eastwick are in the flood plain, so companies building there incur costs above the price of construction. But staying in Philadelphia offers land at one-third the cost of outlying suburbs."
Another long-anticipated boost for the area is the prospect that shipbuilding will return to the now-closed Philadelphia Naval Ship Yard. Kvaerner ASA, a Norwegian conglomerate that includes shipbuilding, plans to take over acres of docks and buildings directly across the Schuylkill River from Eastwick. Current plans estimate 700 jobs at the shipyard, starting in the year 2000.

GRAPHIC: Photo: PNC Bank's $70 million back-office structure opened last month in the Eastwick section of Philadelphia. The five-story, 280,000-square-foot building, which has 527-foot-long floors, functions around the clock. (Art Wilkinson for The New York Times)
 
Map showing the location of the PNC Bank in Philadelphia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UPS (NYSE) (57%); LCC (NYSE) (57%); LRY (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (90%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (84%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (57%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (57%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (55%); SIC9621 REGULATION & ADMINISTRATION OF TRANSPORTATION PROGRAMS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); DELAWARE, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%); WILMINGTON, DE, USA (92%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PNC BANK PNC BANK NA (90%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (84%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (57%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (57%); LIBERTY PROPERTY TRUST (55%); SOUTHEASTERN PENNSYLVANIA TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: PNC BANK

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA (PA); UNITED STATES (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); DELAWARE, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%); WILMINGTON, DE, USA (92%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; PHILADELPHIA INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT AIRPORTS (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); JOB CREATION (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (72%); RETAILERS (61%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (60%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: WALLACE, DAVID J MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1998



12 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 1; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1198 words

HEADLINE: Yeas And Nays for Tax-Free Apparel

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER 

 BODY:
IT was Round 3 in the fight for apparel tax repeal as all of the state's 62 counties and 21 cities -- oops, make that all but 1 of the state's cities -- waived the levy on clothing and shoes selling for under $500 late last month. White Plains, the fashion capital of Westchester, was the sole holdout, disappointing shoppers and infuriating merchants who lost business.
White Plains, however, was not the only municipality to object in principle to the experimental tax holiday, even though the others joined in. Grumbling was heard in many quarters as the seven-day period, a warm-up for the real thing next year, drew to a close. 
 County Legislator Richard G. Wishnie called the tax reprieve a fiasco. Finance Commissioner James LaPerche of Yonkers reported that his city lost close to $500,000 in revenue for the period. And financial experts throughout the state scratched their heads, wondering how to make up for the vanished tax dollars.
In White Plains, Councilwoman Mary Ann Keenan said that very simple arithmetic dictated the city's decision to continue collecting its 2 cents worth on every dollar while other municipalities forfeited their sales tax and the state gave up its 4 percent. Common Council members realized they could ill afford to sacrifice an estimated $250,000 in revenue for the Jan. 17-23 period.
As Mr. Wishnie, the chairman of the Board of Legislators' Committee on Budget and Appropriations, observed: "When you reduce one tax, you often have to increase another. It's like giving with one hand and taking with the other."
Estimates are that the county lost between $750,000 and $1 million during that week by forfeiting its 1.5 percent sales tax on apparel under $500. If the sales tax is permanently lifted, those numbers would soar, the Legislator said.
"I appreciate that getting rid of the sales tax on selected items will help New York retailers compete," Mr. Wishnie said. "But what benefits one segment of the economy can hurt another. The loss isn't budgeted for, and it comes on top of a county budget that's already underfunded."
In Yonkers, where the sales tax is 2.5 percent, Commissioner LaPerche said that a survey by the New York State Association of Counties projected that Yonkers would lose $3 million a year when the tax proposals take effect. To compensate for that loss on the tax rolls, the city would have to raise property taxes about 2 percent, or $80 a year on an average tax bill.
In Mount Vernon, where the local tax is also 2.5 percent, Finance Commissioner Howard Rattner worried that the city, anticipating new mall development, stood to lose revenues when the tax proposals take effect. But he said: "We're keeping an open mind. We'll have to see what the final numbers are."
In an effort to compete with New Jersey and Connecticut, which offer tax breaks on apparel sales, the New York State Legislature voted last year to abolish the sales tax on clothing purchases under $100 beginning in December 1999. The experimental weeks -- two last year, one so far in 1998 -- were a trial run.
Some officials, like Mayor Rudolf W. Giuliani in New York City, are not only pleased with the results so far but are also pushing for the repeal to apply to purchases of up to $500.
Merchants, too, extolled the virtues of the tax reprieve. Lydia Howie, marketing director of the Jefferson Valley Mall in Yorktown Heights, described retail activity last month as unbelievable.
"We were packed. They came out in droves," she said, observing that business at the Macy's, Sears and 105 specialty shops was up more than 20 percent over a typical January week. "It was more like two weeks before Christmas."
Unfortunately, the opposite was also true. While retail activity was brisk throughout most sections of the county, it looked much like any other lackluster January shopping week in upscale suburban White Plains -- home to a Bloomingdale's, Nieman Marcus, Saks Fifth Avenue, Macy's, Tiffany and Nordstrom, to name but a few of the big-name stores there.
"Our merchants kept a stiff upper lip, even though there was plenty of resentment and disappointment," said Paula Kelliher, a spokeswoman at the Galleria at White Plains, where J. C. Penney, Macy's and 150 specialty shops struggled to compete with malls in cities like Yonkers, which canceled the local sales tax.
At Limited Too, a children's clothing store in the Galleria, Judith Lundy, a manager, said: "It's absolutely a down time after Christmas. We needed the boost."
At Contempo, a women's clothing store in the mall, Tiwana Floyd, the manager, reported that sales were up "but not as much as we hoped for."
At another White Plains mall, The Westchester, Robert Guerra, the general manager, was more than a little piqued with the city. "Frankly, it has been a tough week because of their decision," he said. "White Plains made things very difficult for us."
Even though The Westchester offered free parking and discount coupons, and many merchants like Banana Republic and Williams Sonoma "ate the local 2 percent sales tax," Mr. Guerra said business was flat.
He explained that many shoppers assumed White Plains was charging the full sales tax -- its levy and the state's -- and stayed away in protest. Some White Plains merchants fought in vain to dispel that notion, reminding shoppers that they would absorb the sales tax. They took out advertisements and attempted to reassure edgy consumers.
In most sections of the county, however, consumers shopped heartily, and merchants, who have long complained about the better tax deals in Connecticut and New Jersey, cheered in response. As Elmire Zamis, a college student who was shopping last weekend, said, "There are the same stores, the same merchandise, so why not the same tax benefits here as in New Jersey? The tax hiatus, she added, "gives me the opportunity to shop closer to home."
In most ways, shoppers -- except perhaps some in White Plains -- were pleased with the tax-free week. Many said they had saved their Christmas gift money for the occasion. Others said they were grateful for an excuse to go to the malls and beat the mid-winter blues.
"It's getting me out of the house at a time of year when I usually don't shop," Maryanne Karaman, a dental assistant from Yonkers, said.
In answer to critics who oppose the tax breaks, claiming it diminishes revenue sources, proponents say that localities more than make up the difference in other sales taxes collected when shoppers visit an area and spend on gas, food and other taxable items.
"The localities make up for it in increased traffic," said Ted Potrikas, vice-president of the Retail Council of New York, a trade association and lobbying group in Albany.
"Let's face it, the majority of shoppers will drive to the best bargain. They're a mobile bunch of consumers who don't hesitate to jump in their car and go someplace else."
Last January, there were several holdouts among the local taxing powers during a levy-free week. This year, he observed, only White Plains balked.
"From a marketing point of view, White Plains was a pain in the neck," he said. "But sometimes, you just can't fight City Hall."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Despite signs at the Galleria Mall in White Plains, the municipality was the sole holdout in the sales-tax holiday. It insisted on collecting its 2 cents on every dollar. (Susan Farley for The New York Times)(pg. 1); At Kids "R" Us in the Cross County shopping center in Yonkers, shoppers took advantage of the recent sales-tax waiver on clothing and shoes. (Susan Farley for The New York Times)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE ASSOCIATION FOR RETARDED CHILDREN INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WHITE PLAINS (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; SALES TAX; APPAREL; SHOES AND BOOTS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX RELIEF (90%); SALES TAX (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); COUNTIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); RETAIL PROPERTY (66%); 

PERSON: BRENNER, ELSA MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1998



13 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 10; Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: New Supermarket Aids Mount Vernon Corridor

BYLINE: By F. ROMALL SMALLS 

DATELINE: MOUNT VERNON

 BODY:
RECENTLY residents of this city and those of Pelham, New Rochelle and parts of the Bronx witnessed the opening of the largest Shop Rite Supermarket in Westchester. The 70,000-square-foot, hilltop store is the latest single project in redeveloping the Sanford Boulevard business corridor.
To celebrate the opening of the market, which is on the former site of the Westchester Regional Service Center of the United States Postal Service, Mayor Ernest D. Davis of Mount Vernon and Joseph V. Fisher, president of Big V Supermarkets, parent company of Shop Rite, were hosts at a black-tie, pre-opening party inside the huge building. 
 Amid sounds of classical music and hundreds of well-dressed guests, the two men talked about the all-in-one services and potential economic impact of the $10 million installation on the local economy.
"We have six other stores in Westchester, and we believe that this one area in Westchester was really underserved," Mr. Fisher said. "We believe that this type of state-of-the-art store, a Shop Rite Fresh Market, gives the consumer of today what they are looking for, which is more than just a Shop Rite."
Mr. Fisher pointed out what he called the marketplace cafe, which encompasses a large fresh-produce center with more than 450 varieties of fruits and vegetables. In the food court with its grouping of tables and chairs are a bakery, a delicatessen and places to buy Chinese and Italian food and oven-baked pizza.
The Mount Vernon Shop Rite is the first of its kind in Westchester operated by Big V Supermarkets and the largest of the chain's 32 stores. The center will also have a video rental store, a pharmacy and a full-service bank. This all-in-one approach to consumer shopping is a growing trend across the United States, Mr. Fisher said.
After the Postal Center and an Edwards supermarket down the street closed, there was a large gap in the city's revenue and an outcry for a replacement market, Mayor Davis said. "There was a big clamor about the area being underserved in terms of supermarkets. We have now satisfied the market with the opening of Shop Rite." The former Edwards location is now a CVS Pharmacy.
To develop the sprawling site vacated by the Postal Center, Mayor Davis called on the property's owner, Sal Pepe of the Bianco & Pepe construction concern, a personal friend. After zoning changes were obtained, an agreement was made with Big V Supermarkets, and the project was finished in a year.
Approximately 200 new jobs are being provided. Many employees come from the local area and were recruited through a job-referral bank set up at the Mount Vernon City Hall.
"When you bring people into the area, they spend in other places," Mayor Davis said. "So what we are doing is developing the Sanford Boulevard corridor so that other things can come in. We are working on a 14-screen movie theater right now, and we are also redeveloping Memorial Field Stadium."
The Mayor said he hopes that the stadium will house professional soccer and baseball teams. He cited the opening last year of an ice skating rink built to National Hockey League standards as another example of how the city is redeveloping the Sanford Boulevard area into a major retail and entertainment district.
During the Shop Rite grand opening on Jan. 3, cars entered and left the supermarket, which overlooks a tree-lined residential neighborhood. Shoppers were greeted at the door and were given many product samples. Business was brisk, and the parking lots were full.
Some customers had complaints. The entranceway, which one woman described as fortress like, has no pedestrian walk, forcing people to amble up a long, two-way road.
The added traffic on the boulevard is also raising concern. Some residents say there is a need for some type of traffic control along the busy thoroughfare. Mayor Davis said that both of the problems would soon be taken care of.
The feeling among many Mount Vernon residents and community leaders was that the Shop Rite Supermarket is an example of the city's continued growth and development. Mayor Davis said: "The city is definitely alive and exciting. This city is going to live up to its potential."
Big V Supermarkets said it was planning to open other Shop Rites in Somers and either Ardsley or Hastings-on-Hudson.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (57%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (57%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SHOPRITE SUPERMARKETS BIG V SUPERMARKETS INC (57%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (57%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (57%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: SHOPRITE SUPERMARKETS UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (57%); UNITED STATES POSTAL SERVICE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOUNT VERNON (NY); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; SUPERMARKETS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (95%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); JOB CREATION (73%); ZONING (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (67%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (66%); BAKERIES (64%); TRENDS (62%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (62%); POSTAL SERVICE (56%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (50%); 

PERSON: SMALLS, F ROMALL ERNEST D DAVIS (90%); JOSEPH V FISHER (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1998



14 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 3; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1609 words

HEADLINE: If You're Thinking of Living In/North Stamford, Conn.;
In a Bustling City, a Rural Haven

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES 

 BODY:
UNLIKE most rural areas of Fairfield County, North Stamford has the best of two worlds: deep country with a vibrant city just a short drive away.
Stamford's urbane downtown, fully emerged from an identity crisis dating back to urban renewal in the 70's, is now established as the business, entertainment, financial and shopping hub of Fairfield County. 
 Rural North Stamford, which stretches from the Merritt Parkway north, east and west to Stamford's borders, comprises one third of its 40 square miles. It was a village until 1949, when it became part of the City of Stamford. A haven of quiet, wooded hills and meadows, punctuated by rock outcroppings, veined with streams and dotted with ponds and lakes, it is entirely residential save for a few grandfathered gas stations, restaurants and food markets, commercial uses that zoning now forbids.
During the early part of this century, when Stamford was a blue-collar factory town, north end real estate was cheap, bought mostly by working people on modest incomes. Beginning in the 20's, many New Yorkers looking for summer homes turned to back country Stamford. Among them were Josh Logan, the theatrical producer; Gutzon Borglum, the Mount Rushmore sculptor; Ezio Pinza, Metropolitan Opera star; members of the Sulzberger publishing family; Vivian Vance, the Ethel Mertz of "I Love Lucy"; Alex Raymond, creator of the "Flash Gordon" comic strip; the actor Gene Wilder; singers Cyndi Lauper and Michael Bolton and Jackie Robinson, the baseball star.
Housing now includes subdivisions of raised ranches and colonials built since the 50's on minimum one- to three-acre parcels, selling for $375,000 to $550,000. Large homes on several acres approach or exceed the $1 million mark; only two houses in North Stamford are currently listed under $300,000, one in a small district of half-acre lots created before the upzoning in 1951.
Multifamily housing is prohibited by zoning, and of the 5,500 single-family homes "there are only 130 available," said Robert Jegier, a local Coldwell Banker broker, "about a five-month inventory given the rapid rate of sales."
Near the city's northern border a National Historic District called Long Ridge Village contains 36 homes and out-buildings dating from 1750 to 1925. Benny Goodman, the clarinetist band leader, lived there for many years. The 165-year-old Long Ridge Tavern was recently restored; it won a three-and-a-half star restaurant rating from The Stamford Advocate newspaper.
Incoming downtown businesses continue to bring new residents like Martin Vahsen, an executive with Citibank in Harrison, N.Y., who will divide his time between Citibank's new Stamford office and Harrison. This month he and his family will move into a 10-room colonial on 1.25 acres next to a bird sanctuary. "It's not cheap, but I got great value and standard of living," said Mr. Vahsen.
Gary Di Silvestri, 30-year-old principal in Di Silvestri Asset Management of Stamford and Geneva, bought a $1.2 million house on 1.5 acres through Juner Properties' Roxbury Road office. It has 5 bedrooms, 4 baths, a gym, a 3-car garage, 2 large entertaining rooms, a wine cellar, music room, media room, maid's apartment and a study.
"I looked from Greenwich to Southport," said Mr. Di Silvestri. "This house was the only one that met European construction standards that matched a custom home I had built in the French Alps."
With existing homes at a premium, new development is accelerating. "Young couples, both working, want new," said Gail Stone of the Long Ridge office of William Pitt Real Estate. "They don't want somebody else's dirt and they don't want major work." Now under construction by North Ridge Associates are custom homes for $900,000 and up on one-acre lots at Heming Way. And Harry Webski is building six homes on Haviland Road, priced from $750,000 to over $1 million. Square footages vary from 3,500 to 5,000 or more.
Residents of north end subdivisions typify Stamford's traditionally feisty citizenry, organizing over the years into some 20 neighborhood associations involved in lobbying for or against issues that affect them.
T HE preservation of open space and the proliferation of cell-phone towers are our major concerns," said Kit Martinsen, president of the North Stamford Association. Now that the city recently added 36 acres to an existing 1,646 acres of open space by buying the former Stamford campus of the University of Connecticut, North Stamford residents want the few remaining large tracts preserved. And they are seeking input into the process of approving sites for more than the two existing cellular phone towers in the area.
The associations are also fighting the expansion of the private Children's School, citing zoning restrictions on commercial properties.
For north end residents, there is a rich mix of cultural and entertainment activities in downtown Stamford. In their own area, attractions include the Stamford Museum and Nature Center -- the former mansion of the late Henri Bendel, the department store owner -- with its restored 18th century barn, animal farm, lake, art and science exhibits and indoor and outdoor concerts. The Nature Conservancy's trails cover 136 acres of woods and fields, and the Bartlett Arboretum offers 62 acres of specimen trees, plants, flowers, and wetlands, plus lectures and guided nature walks.
On Sunday mornings the place for gathering and gossiping is Giovanni's sprawling old market, crammed with high-grade meats, vegetables and groceries. It operates the old-fashioned way, with charge accounts. Giovanni's is also the name of the family's north end steak and seafood house, where Maine lobsters can occasionally run to 18 pounds, serving six people.
An abundance of additional food and household shopping is available south of the Merritt Parkway on High Ridge and Long Ridge Roads, as well as in the 874,000-square-foot Stamford Town Center mall downtown, which is anchored by Saks Fifth Avenue, Filene's and Macy's; there is also a free-standing Lord & Taylor between High Ridge and Long Ridge Roads.
Children in North Stamford attend one of three public elementary schools in the north end, each with about 700 pupils from kindergarten through fifth grade; they go on to Turn of River Middle School and either Westhill or Stamford High School.
Enrollment citywide increased by 25 percent in the last 10 years, mostly at the elementary level in poor downtown neighborhoods, generating a 20-year integration program in which students are bused to north end schools where Spanish-speaking children learn English and English-speaking children learn Spanish. Last June, 87 percent of the high school graduates went on to higher education. The scool's combined S.A.T. score average of 950 last year was well below the state's 1,116 average and the national average of 1,016.
Among north end day private schools is the Mead School on 13 acres, with 230 children from 6 weeks old through 9th grade. Emotional development is emphasized as well as academics and the arts. The pupil-teacher ratio is 5.3 to 1, and tuition ranges from $3,500 to $15,000 a year.
The Holy Spirit Roman Catholic School has 180 students from pre-kindergarten through fifth grade, 40 percent of whom are not Catholic. When appropriate, accelerated or remedial programs are designed for individual pupils. Tuition is $2,540 for Catholics, $3,490 for non-Catholics.
THE Bi-Cultural School offers a strong academic curriculum and a parallel curriculum in Judaic studies to 376 children from kindergarten through eighth grade. It ranked first in a NASA math competition, and at present holds an advanced math class for one student. Tuition is $6,500 to $7,300.
King & Low-Heywood Thomas, a traditional college-prep school on 40 acres that traces its foundation back to 1865, has 635 students from 18 foreign countries and the United States. Up to 20 percent are in special programs for mild learning difficulties. Tuition from pre-kindergarten through 12th grade is $8,000 to $15,000.
Children's School, which takes pupils from 3 to 8 years old, is operated in a manner similar to the Montessori philosophy of letting the child select a particular focus. Tuition ranges from $3,900 to $9,900.
Citywide, a full program of children's and adult baseball, softball and soccer, is run by the Recreation Department. Ice skating at the Terry Conners rink costs $4, children $ 2: it is free, seasonally, on the north end's frozen ponds. A $10 parking sticker admits residents to 3 beaches and a season tennis permit for 45 city courts costs $50. There are also private tennis and swim clubs, and stables that board horses and give riding lessons. Windswept Farm charges $45 for a two-hour trail ride on its horses.
Boating opportunities include the 108-year-old private Stamford Yacht Club. Yacht Haven Marine Center's 650 slips are open to the public for $85 a foot up to 120 feet. The city operates three marinas with a total of 663 slips charging $250 to $1,110 a season for up to 28 feet, and a boat launch for $35 a season plus a $5 launch fee.
The Sterling Farms and E. Gaynor Brennan municipal courses offer season permits of $20, plus daily play for $10 weekdays and $11 on weekends.
Renee Kahn, a north end resident, said that she and her husband, Samuel, "came up from New York 35 years ago when there were remnants of farms."
"Scenically it's still fabulous," she said, "but the reason we chose to live here was and is the interesting mix of old and new houses, and the mix of people socially, racially, ethnically, religiously, that's been historically constant."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Stamford Museum and Nature Center, with its restored 18th century barn, offers an animal farm along with art and science exhibits. Large house in area bordering Greenwich, above. View across pond on Lakewood Drive. (Photographs by Eddie Hausner for The New York Times); On the Market: 4-bedroom, 3-bath colonial with den on .50 acre at 1362 High Ridge Road, $294,000. 4-bedroom, 3 full-, 2 half-bath ranch, deck, library at 35 Ridgebrook Drive, $549,000. 4-bedroom, 3 full-, 2 half-bath house on 1 acre on Stone Fence Lane, $913,000.
 
Chart: "GAZETTEER"
 
POPULATION: 14,622 (1997 census update).
 
AREA: 13 square miles.
 
MEDIAN HOUSEHOLD INCOME: $133,797 (1997 census update).
 
MEDIAN PRICE OF A ONE-FAMILY HOUSE: $420,000.
 
TAXES ON A MEDIAN HOUSE: $7,526.
 
MEDIAN PRICE A YEAR AGO: $410,000.
 
MEDIAN PRICE 5 YEARS AGO: $395,000.
 
PUBLIC-SCHOOL SPENDING PER PUPIL: $8,900.
 
DISTANCE FROM MIDTOWN MANHATTAN: 35 miles.
 
RUSH-HOUR COMMUTATION TO MIDTOWN: Metro-North New Haven Line from downtown Stamford, 45 minutes; from 3 outlying stations, up to 65 minutes. One way $10, weekly $68, monthly $218.
 
GOVERNMENT: Mayor (Dannel Malloy, Democrat) and 40 members of the Board of Representatives, all elected to 4-year terms.
 
CODES: ZIP, 06903; area, 203.
 
RURAL PROGRESSIVES: Predating women's suffrage by 16 years, the Long Ridge Woman's Suffrage Club was founded in North Stamford in 1904, meeting at the home of Susan Thurston Cooper, its organizer and first president. Dues were 25 cents a year. It was, according to John L. DeForest's book, "Once Upon a Long, Long Ridge," "the only such organization in Stamford and one of the few in Connecticut." It was nonpartisan, nonsectarian, dedicated to obtaining information on the legal rights of women as voters and sworn not to support women on the ground of sex only. At that time women in Connecticut could vote on school matters, but, Mr. DeForest wrote, "only 12 females registered and only 5 or 6 voted." As far as anyone knows the club left no records past 1912.
 
Map showing the location of North Stamford, Conn.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CGP (LSE) (50%); C (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH STAMFORD (CONN); UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES REAL ESTATE (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); ZONING (88%); RESTAURANTS (88%); CIVIL RIGHTS (79%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (74%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (71%); VISUAL ARTISTS (66%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (60%); BIRDS (50%); 

PERSON: DANNEL MALLOY (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1998



15 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 17; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1533 words

HEADLINE: Derelict Theater, Hope for a Neighborhood

BYLINE: By STEPHEN L. PURDY 

 BODY:
AS with other members of the West End Civic Association, Chris Larsen Nelson was frustrated that the Hartford neighborhood group couldn't reach a consensus on the fate of the Colonial Theater on Farmington Avenue. By last year, the 1,200-seat area cinema, vacant for a decade, had come to symbolize an urban neighborhood in search of itself.
A costume designer by training, Ms. Larsen Nelson all for its renovation. "I've seen the inside of a lot of theaters, and they're in my blood," she said. On the other hand, she understood the group's concerns with other urban issues, like retail decline, traffic and crime, that threatened the once-gracious residential and commercial neighborhood. After all, it was the real estate plunge and her husband's mugging that had brought her to the association in the first place. 
 Gradually though, she and others in the 20-year-old advocacy group, whose individuals, small-businesses and academic institutions claim success in anti-drug education and redevelopment, came to accept that the old theater's and the neighborhood's futures went hand-in-hand. "We realized we couldn't save the building without saving the avenue," said Barnaby W. Horton, a lawyer on the association's executive board.
Then, last year, the building's owner, Philip Schonberger, a developer, received a serious offer from an auto parts business, whose plans included razing the existing structure. "We all went nuts," says Ms. Larsen Nelson.
The West End Civic Association began holding weekly meetings on the Colonial. Mr. Horton advised against confrontation. "A campaign of lying in the streets, when the bulldozers were coming down, wasn't going to work for us," he said. Rather, the group decided to promote the building's physical prominence, sentimental value and, most important, its advocates' grass roots energy.
"This is a neighborhood fighting for itself," Mr. Horton said. "This isn't Donald Trump coming in and developing from outside."
With the help of William R. Breetz, also a lawyer, three association members -- Bob Rulli, a real estate agent; Philip Will, an architect, and Ms. Larsen Nelson -- founded the Colonial Theater Renaissance Corporation last June.
Mr. Schonberger did his part. On June 30, the developer donated the theater and sold an adjacent house on Sherman Street to the new corporation. Though the house was valued at $100,000, Mr. Schonberger took back a $95,000 mortgage on it and Colonial raised the balance. Ms. Larsen Nelson says that, in "passing the hat" at a West End meeting, they raised about $1,200 -- in checks ranging from $10 to $500 -- in 20 minutes.
With these two properties and the hope of more, the new group's goal is a complex for performance, business and housing -- a focal point for neighborhood growth. Mr. Rulli says the corporation has a letter of intent from the Hartford Children's Theater, a drama group and school without a permanent home, to be the complex's principal tenant.
Geoffrey Sheehan, the theater company's artistic director, says the collective neighborhood effort is right for his theater. "We attract families and children from all over the greater Hartford area," he said.
The theater currently exists independent of the public schools, but Mr. Rulli hopes to involve them too. "I would foresee a partnership, offering internships for theater education programs, both performing and technical," he explained.
With a targeted completion date for the fall of 1999, Mr. Rulli envisages a complex that, in addition to a 600-700 seat performing arts theater, will have 29 units of market-rate and 20 of affordable housing, a 5,000-square-foot restaurant, 15,000 square feet of commercial/office space and a parking garage with truck access. Parking, he emphasizes, will make the complex and neighborhood safer.
As active as Colonial is becoming in the West End, it's only part of a series of initiatives along Farmington Avenue, including the Asylum Hill neighborhood. Mr. Will, president of the newly formed Farmington Avenue Business District, sees the theater's proximity to cross streets and Interstate 84 as an anchor to the region. "It's a gateway, into Hartford and the West End," he said. In turn, the Business District and the Asylum Hill Organizing Project link up to the West End Civic Association to comprise the Farmington Avenue Joint Committee. Toni A. Gold, a community investment consultant who convenes the joint committee, says its goals for the street include unifying its two neighborhoods, rezoning and the addition of light rail.
The Colonial Theater, she says, already reflects needed zoning standards such as architectural significance and potential use as anchor to numerous businesses. "It's complementary to the bigger picture," she said. "While the long-range plan could probably go forward without the Colonial, it would be helped a lot by that project."
But Business District member Alyssa Peterson emphasizes it was the Colonial that galvanized businesses. "It wasn't until the 11th hour of the auto parts store that they came out," she said.
Ms. Nelsen Larson suggests Colonial is already providing interest inother vacant buildings in the neighborhood. And Mr. Breetz, who teaches at the University of Connecticut Law School, says the college has created a clinical program for urban revitalization encouraged, in part, by Colonial's efforts.
Mr. Rulli underscores his center will support itself and subsidize its theater, further strengthening the latter's foundation money. In housing especially, Mr. Rulli emphasizes, Colonial will reflect the area's blend of social groups, businesses and educational facilities, owners and renters. "Beyond our project being a cultural center, and an economic revitalization," he says, "it makes people aware of the world around them today." He adds that neighborhood property owners generally live north of Farmington Avenue, renters to the south.
Mr. Will suggests that Colonial can build on the presence of a strong middle class, owners and renters, on both sides of Farmington Avenue.
Colonial is awaiting its initial funding, a $50,000 feasibility study grant which was approved by the state's Department of Economic and Community Development in late December. In addition to this initial boost, the corporation anticipates an extra $10,000 grant from the Hartford Economic Development Corporation, plus $10,000 in Federal Community Block Grant Development money, both for the study. The study, in turn, is critical to obtaining city and state support as well as Federal National Mortgage Association construction funding. Also eagerly anticipated is half of the $500,000 in state-managed Urban Act Funds, applied for by the West End association. The association will turn over $250,000 to Colonial, where its uses will include demolition, asbestos abatement and the installation of temporary parking, facade work basic to Fannie Mae, debt reduction and tax repayment.
In addition, the corporation hopes these funds will help in its acquisition of adjacent properties. In early January, it agreed to purchase the structure immediately east of the theater, and expects a March closing.
The temporary parking lot wouldraise not only cash, Ms. Larsen Nelson emphasized, but also the perception of progress. A self-described optimist, she maintains only good can come out of the project. "In the long run, even if we end up with a tiny, homespun theater that puts on wonderful children's programs, we'll be better off than we are now," she said.
Mr. Rulli has bigger plans. "I'm satisfied," he says, "that once the study is completed, the city and state will appreciate it is a priority project."
With overall cost estimated at $30 million ($10 million for the theater alone), the initial funding and studies are just a start. Colonial, emphasizes Mr. Rulli, must be a combination of public, private and foundation monies. If Fannie Mae financing is obtained, he says, the corporation will pursue both traditional financing and foundation grants based on the presence of a children's theater in an urban area.
Hartford City Councilman Steven Park, also a West End resident, says he has been involved in talks among Colonial, Fannie Mae, the city and state. "Funding is the critical challenge," he says, adding city funding won't help unless it can be leveraged into greater assistance. Mr. Park adds there has been a shift at City Hall, from dictating to the neighborhoods to listening to them. "I try to give the message that this is one of the city's priorities."
The project, Mr. Rulli realizes, will not attract a huge anchor retail chain like the Nordstrom at nearby Westfarms mall. What it will do is boost the block with specialty shops, arts and entertainment, all within walking distance of each other.
Mr. Park cautions that "We're still in the struggling, early stages." Compared to other city neighborhoods like areas of Frog Hollow and the North End, the West End is seen as calm. Still, he thinks the time to move is now. "An urban planner would say it's a place that needs stabilization to prevent it from becoming one of those embattled zones," he explained.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Anchor for a once-gracious avenue? The Colonial Theater in Hartford is the focus of several groups hoping to revitalize a not-yet-embattled, but sliding, neighborhood. (Photographs by George Ruhe for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: COLONIAL THEATER RENAISSANCE CORP RENAISSANCE CORP LTD (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLONIAL THEATER RENAISSANCE CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD (CONN); HARTFORD (CONN); UNITED STATES (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: THEATERS (BUILDINGS); RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL REAL ESTATE (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); CITY LIFE (76%); ROBBERY (74%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (74%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (67%); FASHION DESIGNERS (56%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE PREVENTION (52%); 

PERSON: PURDY, STEPHEN L DONALD TRUMP (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1998



16 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 1; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 3051 words

HEADLINE: Suddenly, Not Just a Plan

BYLINE: By JENNIFER PRESTON 

DATELINE: HILLSBOROUGH

 BODY:
When Patricia Curran was growing up near this sprawling township in southern Somerset County, she remembers buying raw milk from the dairy farmer down the road. Towering green cornstalks covered the gently rolling hills. Tractors slowed down the few cars that traveled along narrow country lanes.
"It was all farmland as far as you could see," said Mrs. Curran, 44, who moved to the Belle Meade section from nearby Franklin Township 14 years ago. "It was absolutely beautiful. Now, it is houses. That's it. Houses, traffic, traffic lights. There is no beauty left in this area. The only beauty that is left is over on the west side of the township. If they ever open that up, all the beauty that the people came here for will be gone." 
 Determined to preserve at least part of the community's rural character, Mrs. Curran and other residents banded together two years ago to try to curb development in the township's vanishing countryside.
The group, calling itself the Friends of Hillsborough, is now fighting a developer's proposal to turn 756 acres of farmland just west of Route 206 into a 3,000-unit retirement community. Mrs. Curran said she feared the project would overwhelm the town's already congested roads, drive up property taxes and pave the way for even more suburban sprawl.
Their battle is viewed by New Jersey Future, a nonprofit statewide organization that promotes open space and managed growth, as a test of whether state government is serious about helping shape what New Jersey will look like for decades to come.
Governor Whitman offered new hope to those working to slow suburban sprawl by devoting much of her inaugural address last month to their concerns.
In her speech, which began her second and final term, Governor Whitman vowed to curtail development in rural corners of the state and new suburbs while promoting it in areas where there is existing infrastructure, like roads and sewers.
She promised to direct state money to support development and redevelopment in cities, older suburbs and communities that have been designated "town centers." She further pledged to spend $400 million to help cities reclaim abandoned buildings. And she said the state would preserve 300,000 more acres of farmland and other open space during her next term with an ultimate goal of protecting 1 million acres over the next decade.
Most important, she renewed her commitment to the State Development and Redevelopment Plan. Originally approved almost six years ago, the plan has been largely ignored by the very state agencies that are supposed to depend on it to determine where government dollars should be spent on infrastructure improvements and where they should not, where development should be encouraged and where it should be controlled.
"It is what I have been waiting to hear some governor say for 15 years, and she finally said it," said James G. Gilbert, the former chairman of the State Planning Commission who oversaw the creation of the State Development and Redevelopment Plan adopted in 1992. "I think that she has finally realized that her core constituency supports the notion of an overriding strategic plan for the state so that we do not continue to move in a foolish direction."
Patrick O'Keefe, executive director of the New Jersey Builders Association, sees it differently. He said Mrs. Whitman had only added confusion to a system that already makes it difficult for developers and builders to do business in the state.
"It would be difficult to disagree with the Governor's overall goal of balancing the various demands that are made on the economy and on the state, in terms of development and land preservation," he said. "Where it breaks down is, what the Governor wants and what the plan proposes are almost diametrically opposed. The state plan doesn't work."
 
The War Ended. The Boom Began.
It was not until World War II that municipalities in New Jersey began to use local zoning laws to restrict where houses and businesses could be built. Until then, most New Jerseyans lived in thriving city neighborhoods, small towns or rural villages.
But the new zoning laws had little impact on New Jersey's landscape as the post-World War II boom spilled urban residents into the countryside. With the G.I. Bill of Rights providing returning soldiers with low-cost mortgages, the state's residents dispersed in pursuit of the popular ideal of a house and car in the suburbs. They moved west and south, along suburban rail lines and new highways, transforming sleepy agricultural communities into burgeoning suburbs.
Shopping centers and office parks soon followed. Suburban malls vanquished downtown department stores. The cities began their long decline. In 1940, the state's six largest cities accounted for 33 percent of the state's population. Today, it is 12 percent. Only 3.6 percent reside in Newark, the state's largest city.
New Jersey has had a long history of drawing up statewide plans, beginning in the 1930's, but they were not used to manage growth effectively. Virtually all decisions about development were made by local officials.
There was little consideration given to adopting a more comprehensive regional approach that could have taken account of the broader impact of various development projects on neighboring communities. As a result, roadways became congested. Property taxes skyrocketed to meet the growing demand for public schools. The cities deteriorated while 210,000 acres of farmland disappeared between 1970 and 1995.
Then, in 1985, the Kean Administration and the state Legislature agreed to put together a comprehensive statewide plan.
What New Jersey came up with is not a regulatory document like the growth-management plans adopted by other states. It was never intended to be used by the state as a hammer to halt development. For the most part, land-use decisions remained in the hands of municipalities, in keeping with New Jersey's long tradition of home rule.
Rather, the state plan was envisioned as a way to give state agencies a way to fuel or slow development through decisions on how money from the state's capital budget should be spent and where affordable housing, required under the Mount Laurel decision, should be built.
Take sewers as an example. With them, developers can increase their profits by building at a much higher density on undeveloped land. Without them, their construction options -- and their profits -- are limited. State and local governments restrict the use of one possible alternative, septic systems, because of concern about the impact on ground water and water quality. And those same government officials have the final word on where sewers are built.
Then there are decisions about highways. When the state built Routes 287, 78, 80 and 295 in the 1960's, development followed, opening even more rural regions to residential and commercial building.
"The Interstates demonstrate very clearly what happened," said Candace Ashmun, a longtime environmental activist and member of the Pinelands Commission. "They destroyed the rail system, and just gave us sprawl."
It took almost six years before the state Planning Commission adopted a State Development and Redevelopment Plan in 1992. Officials say it is one of the few state plans that is a "bottom-up" document because it was created after consultation with each of the state's 567 municipalities and 21 county governments.
In the plan, the state seeks to channel infrastructure and new development into "centers," ranging from the state's largest cities to its older suburbs to rural villages. It also seeks to control development in primarily rural areas and in sections of the state designated "environmentally sensitive."
State agencies were supposed to change their policies, and regulations, along with their budgets, to help support the plan.
But that did not happen right away, and some would argue, it has not happened at all. It was not until two weeks before Gov. Jim Florio left office in 1994 that he issued an executive order, directing state agencies to conform with the plan.
Even now, senior Whitman administration officials acknowledge that the plan has pretty much gathered dust, sitting on a shelf, for the last four years. They say it has been disregarded in the development of zoning ordinances by too many municipalities and in decisions on spending by state agencies.
"What we concluded is that they are implementing the state plan, at the margins," said Barbara Lawrence, executive director of New Jersey Future, a nonprofit organization that was formed in 1987 to promote the plan and growth management policies. "The heart of their programs, from capital spending to regulatory programs, have not been touched by the state plan. In each case, the department gives out small grants to promote it. That's lovely. But that's not enough."
Ms. Lawrence said she was heartened by Mrs. Whitman's promise to direct state government agencies to use the state plan as their "fundamental guide." But she said that much remains to be done before it is used effectively.
"It is not written as a document that can be readily translated into a yes or no," she said. "It is a filter through which other things have to pass. That is a lot of work. It will require each department to use the state plan in a much more sophisticated way."
Mrs. Whitman chose her words carefully in her speech. She never said that the plan would be used to block development. But she said that her administration would expedite permits and other approvals for developers and towns as long as their projects are in areas that the state plan recognizes as appropriate for development. That does not mean, however, that her administration would necessarily oppose development in an area designated, for example, as "rural." Those projects would just fall to the end of the line during the approval process.
Mr. O'Keefe, who represents the builders, said that Mrs. Whitman's inaugural address only further muddled an already confusing and complex process for developers.
"The plan has been on the books for five and a half years," he said. "No matter which way you go, the plan is not working. Throughout her first term, Governor Whitman had the plan on the books. Her speech implied that it is working. Yet her agencies say they are not using it. They will do it sometime in the future; therefore, they are contradicting the Governor. The citizenry has no way to know how the laws are being interpreted and how decisions, like permitting decisions, are being made."
The Governor's renewed commitment to the state plan is certain to prompt a flurry of lawsuits and perhaps debate in the Legislature over the role that statewide land-use planning should play in New Jersey.
Assemblyman Gerald J. Luongo, a Republican who is mayor of Washington Township in Gloucester County, said that he intended to introduce legislation giving municipalities more power to impose a two-year moratorium on development projects if local officials determine that their schools, roads and other municipal services just can't handle any more new residents. He said that some communities embrace development without recognizing the huge costs over the long term, particularly the effect on property taxes.
The spotlight that Mrs. Whitman shone on the state plan also raises questions about how aggressive New Jersey should be in shaping its future.
Do taxpayers want to give the state more power to rein in suburban sprawl and protect open space? Are they willing to give up some local control of their communities? Do they want to limit the options that the market now offers them about where they can choose to live? How does the state provide equity to farmers and landowners who want to sell their property to developers at a price that farmland preservation programs can't offer? If the state is encouraging redevelopment and sending infrastructure dollars back to cities and older suburbs, how can their public schools and other services be enhanced to attract more young families? And what about the economic impact on construction workers and others whose livelihoods depend on continued growth?
"When it comes to the development of areas around the state, you have to balance the economic realities with what we have," said Assembly Speaker Jack Collins, a Republican who lives on a farm in rural Salem County. "I could support the total shutdown of development around me because I love my life. I love that all of this is going on around me. That's nice to say because I have a teaching job. What about the jobs that depend on a further economic expansion?"
Mr. Collins said that he welcomes Governor Whitman's vision and her plan to speed up permits and approvals for those areas that have been designated to be appropriate for further development. "We do have a plan that needs to be responded to. But to go further, to put some teeth in it, then you need the Legislature. I don't know if that would happen."
In Hillsborough, the Governor's words offered new hope to citizens who are concerned about protecting their community's rural character. But it is unclear what impact Mrs. Whitman and her administration will ultimately have on what their town will or will not become.
New Jersey Future, the advocacy organization, filed a lawsuit last year that challenges a decision made by a state agency, the Council on Affordable Housing, in support of a portion of the project that many here oppose. That state decision bolstered the developer's efforts to one day make the 3,000-unit retirement community on Mill Lane a reality.
"We chose it to take a stand because you can see the role of the state agencies when the state agencies are not following the state plan," said Ms. Lawrence, who heads New Jersey Future. "Since the real teeth in the state plan is having state agencies abide by it, here is a case, where you can say state agencies are not abiding by the plan, and here are the consequences."
 
756 Acres And the Bottom Line
Ninety-five percent of the 756 acres of farmland under consideration for the project is designated "rural" under the state plan, which recommends that such property be protected from high-density development.
To help win early support for the proposal from the township committee in 1991, the developer promised that the complex would include 160 units of affordable housing, meeting the town's requirement to provide such housing under the Mount Laurel decision.
The Council on Affordable Housing approved the affordable housing component of the township's plan, even though the new units would be built on land designated "rural" and did not conform with the state plan. The lawsuit, brought by New Jersey Future, argues that the council violated its own policies by approving a project inconsistent with the state plan. The courts have now sent the matter back to the council for another review.
Township officials, over the years, have waffled on their support for the development. Last year, they withdrew their recommendation that sewers be extended onto the property. So the developer, U.S. Homes Corporation, the fifth-largest home builder in the nation, has filed its own request for sewers with the state Department of Environmental Protection. Its decision is expected in the next few months. Without sewers, the project is dead.
Meanwhile, the debate has created divisions between some of the township's newer residents and some of the older ones, particularly those landowners who want to sell their farms to the developer. There are five different farmers and landowners who have decided over the years to combine their 756 acres to sell for development of the retirement community.
Many of the farms have been in the same family for generations.
"They would like to have it for nothing," said Richard Doyle, 83, about the residents who want him to keep the 175-acre farm that has been in his family for five generations. "Pretty much, that's what it adds up to."
Mr. Doyle, who decided to sell a decade ago, said that he and other farmers in the area can no longer earn enough money by cultivating the land, while selling it would insure financial security for him and his three grown children. He said he liked the idea of his land becoming a retirement development so older residents would have an option to remain in Hillsborough.
"I was trying to keep open space as long as I could," he said. "But you can't earn enough from the farm. Your insurance is high. The taxes are high."
For now, it is a waiting game on both sides. The citizens group is closely watching whether the state will approve the sewer expansion. In the meantime, Gregory A. Snyder, president of the New Jersey division of U.S. Homes, said his company was drawing up blueprints and maps to pursue further town and state approvals. Mr. Snyder would not discuss what his company had agreed to pay for the land. But town officials estimate that the market price ranges from $5,000 to $20,000 per acre.
Describing what he believed the project would bring to Hillsborough, Mr. Synder said: "It allows residents of Hillsborough to be able to move from larger homes and enjoy a home in a community with recreation centers, clubhouses, social activities, exercise rooms, and an indoor-outdoor pool. As far as the benefits to the township, once this community is built out, because of the age restriction -- 55 and over -- it will produce no children, but the tax revenues will be there."
Brett A. Radi, mayor of Hillsborough, said he could not comment on the matter because it is in litigation. He said he did not know whether the township committee and planning board would ultimately approve the project, even if the state did allow the sewer expansion.
Mrs. Curran said she doesn't want to see the farmers hurt financially. But she asked whether government dollars should be used to significantly increase the land's value by putting in sewers and making other infrastructure improvements. And she wondered why the state would grant such approvals when the state plan seems to recommend otherwise.
"I am not telling the farmers what they can and cannot do," she said. "They have their rights. But they also have to follow the laws."

GRAPHIC: Photos: ENOUGH? Hillsborough is growing, as these homes at the Pike Run development attest. Some residents want to stop another project on Mill Lane; pipes block an entrance to the land, above right. At top left: farm country meets suburbia in Plainsboro. (Photographs by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 1); In Pennington, a small slice of rural New Jersey is for sale. The state lost 210,000 acres of farmland between 1970 and 1995. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)(pg. 9)
 
Chart: "The Shape of the Future?"
The state plan gives the highest priority for state dollars, development and infrastructure improvements to sections of the state already designated metropolitan and suburban areas. It recommends limiting development in the areas designated as "fringe," rural or environmentally sensitive, and directing growth, when necessary, to centers where development has already begun. Map of New Jersey shows land designations across the state.
 
Breakdown of planning areas by total acreage
 
METROPOLITAN 17%
SUBURBAN 11%
FRINGE 4%
RURAL/ENVIRONMENTALLY SENSITIVE 8%
ENVIRONMENTALLY SENSITIVE 21%
OTHER 25%
 
(Source: New Jersey State Planning Commission)(pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

CITY: SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND (69%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; RURAL AREAS; URBAN AREAS; SUBURBS; AGRICULTURE; LAND USE POLICIES RURAL COMMUNITIES (91%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); SUBURBS (90%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); CITIES (87%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (86%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (77%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (77%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (77%); INFRASTRUCTURE (73%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (72%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (70%); PROPERTY TAX (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); APPROVALS (66%); 

PERSON: WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV); PRESTON, JENNIFER PATRICIA CURRAN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1998



17 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: OFF THE SHELF;
A Real-Life Toy Story, Animated Nonetheless

BYLINE: By DEBORAH STEAD 

 BODY:
FEBRUARY is a big month for toy makers -- a time to wheel, deal and show their stuff at shows like the American International Toy Fair, held annually in Manhattan. So it makes sense for G. Wayne Miller to start his story of Hasbro Inc. at a toy show held two years ago this month, when the company was at a crossroads of sorts.
"Toy Wars: The Epic Struggle Between G.I. Joe, Barbie and the Companies That Make Them" (Times Books, $25), begins at a 1996 toy conference buzzing with the news of Mattel's attempted merger with Hasbro, the Pawtucket, R.I., parent of G. I. Joe and Mr. Potato Head. Then the book draws back the curtain to show how Hasbro -- and the toy industry -- got to that point. 
 Ignore the subtitle. Mr. Miller, who writes for The Providence Journal-Bulletin, doesn't really give equal time to both Fortune 500 companies. He concentrates on the home team, Hasbro, which granted him generous access. Nor is the struggle to rule toyland really "epic" here.
But while the drama is a bit forced, the narrative isn't. This is an absorbing, lively chronicle of a family-owned company and its inanimate offspring -- some famous, some flops. It's also a look at changing notions of how children should play, and the marketing deals that determine what children will clamor for.
Hasbro began early in the century as Hassenfeld Brothers, after Hillel and Henry Hassenfeld were persuaded by pogroms to leave their Polish shtetl in 1903. The two settled in Rhode Island, lured by its history of religious tolerance. They made pencil boxes and, eventually, the pencils that went inside them. By the time Henry's son took over in 1943, the company had branched out into toy nurse and doctor bags and cosmetics boxes for little girls. The signature toys began showing up in the 1950's, when Hassenfeld became Hasbro and bought Mr. Potato Head from a Brooklyn inventor; back then, the toy required a real potato.
Mr. Miller is entertaining and informative in writing about this and Hasbro's subsequent hits and flops: We learn that Flubber, a bouncy substance introduced in 1962 after a Disney movie, failed because it caused rashes. The problem had not surfaced during safety tests on inmates at Alcatraz.
G. I. Joe, a hit the next year, was never to be called a "doll," even internally, and was advertised as a miniature composite of real-life Medal of Honor winners. In fact, the author says, the model was "a good-looking but otherwise ordinary guy."
There is also an accounting of more recent Hasbro toys that came from the factory floor, as well as from acquisitions and licensing deals -- a rare chance to read about grown men strategizing earnestly over products with names like "No More Boo Boos Betsy."
The book is also a family saga, with a focus on the two modern-day Hassenfeld brothers: Steve, who modernized the company's inventory, cash-flow and product strategy after he took over in 1974, and Alan, 49, who became chief executive after his brother died in 1989. (The author describes affectingly Steve's secret, brave battle with AIDS.)
"Toy Wars" also looks at America's increasing tolerance for violent toys and the movie and fast-food links that dominate the industry.
This engagingly written book is marred somewhat by its jump-cut organization: the numerous flashbacks, thumbnail biographies of minor characters and asides-within-asides. All this dilutes the Hasbro-versus-Mattel drama, as the two giants fight for licenses, markets and dominance in toyland. But while the denouement falls rather flat, with Mattel withdrawing its 1996 stock-swap bid after a short time, the details are well told. We're there for the hostile faxes, the harried meetings and the relief afterward, when Hasbro executives joked that they survived "Barbies at the Gate."
 
FROZEN ASSETS February is also the month of the World Economic Forum in the mountains of Switzerland. The perfect time -- as top executives and bankers schmooze and ski with world leaders -- to settle in with a novel about Swiss banking.
"Numbered Account," by Christopher Reich (Delacorte, $24.95), a smart and sophisticated financial thriller, will more than make up for the fact that your invitation to Davos got lost in the mail.
Talk about following the money. Nick Neumann, a Harvard Business School star, takes a job at a Zurich bank to unravel the financial threads that led to his father's murder years earlier. Meanwhile, a mysterious account-holder, his identity protected by Swiss law, is transferring cash -- and depositing corpses -- around the globe. As drug enforcement agents lean on the bank to give up its secrets, as Nick searches the bank's archives for answers and as a rival bank threatens a takeover, the plot elements commingle smoothly.
The author, who once worked in Swiss banking, creates a wonderfully credible premise, in part by providing a primer on how "numbered accounts" work. But he is also at home with the demands of his genre: the tough-guy hero (Nick is a former Marine), the depraved villain, the international intrigue.
The action moves swiftly and satisfyingly through Zurich and Beirut, with greed, sex, betrayal and murder mussing up everybody's business suits. And how often do you read a thriller that ends with an annual meeting?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: TOY WARS (BOOK)

TICKER: HAS (NASDAQ) (96%); MAT (NASDAQ) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (90%); SIC3942 DOLLS & STUFFED TOYS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (88%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); PAWTUCKET, RI, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: HASBRO INC (96%); MATTEL INC (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); PAWTUCKET, RI, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS; TOYS TOYS & GAMES MFG (91%); DOLL & STUFFED TOY MFG (90%); CHILDREN (90%); TOYS & GAMES (90%); WRITERS (77%); BOOK REVIEWS (76%); LITERATURE (75%); FAMILY (74%); FAMILY COMPANIES (71%); COSMETICS (68%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (64%); RELIGION (50%); NURSES & NURSING (50%); 

PERSON: STEAD, DEBORAH; MILLER, G WAYNE WAYNE F MILLER (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1998



18 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 14; Page 2; Column 5; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: F.Y.I.

BYLINE: By DANIEL B. SCHNEIDER 

 BODY:

Fur-Coated Cinema
 
Q. What was the name of the strange movie theater on the East Side that featured "love seats" when it opened many years ago?
 
A. It was called the Park Avenue Theater, and opened in 1946 with the film "Anna and the King of Siam." It was one of the few movie theaters ever to operate on Park Avenue. 
 Lying on the east side of the avenue between 59th and 60th Streets, the 587-seat theater was, according to a news release, "subservient to the principles of luxury and comfort of the same order the prospective clientele enjoys in its own home."
Foremost among the Park's dubious luxuries was the smoking mezzanine, equipped with 125 love seats designed to accommodate two people in "homelike lounge-chair comfort." Instead of vulgar advertisements, the lobby was adorned with "sculpture, rare jewels, ceramics and glass, as well as paintings." The lounge area had tables for backgammon, gin rummy or bridge, and in the ladies' lounge, a beauty technician, trained by Charles of the Ritz, aided patrons in "the art of makeup."
Best -- or weirdest -- of all, the Park Avenue Theater offered "seats without waiting," which it somehow sold by subscription a year in advance. Each patron received a plastic ID card with a seat number engraved on it, and upon arriving at the theater simply took the appropriate place in the auditorium.
The Park's self-conscious excesses were a dismal failure. Within a year, the subscription plan was abandoned and the theater was sold, said Richard J. Sklenar, director of the Theater Historical Society of America in Elmhurst, Ill. In the late 1950's the theater was still doing business, he said, showing low-budget films made by Universal International Pictures.
 
Classical Medicine
 
Q. The upper sections of four monumental Corinthian columns, each about seven feet tall, sit in the courtyard outside the men's shelter at Bellevue Hospital. Why?
 
A. The weathered capitals are all that remain of the Cornell University Medical College building, which stood across First Avenue from Bellevue from 1900 until 1968. "I salvaged them," said Dr. Arthur Zitrin, an emeritus professor of psychiatry at New York University School of Medicine, a Bellevue affiliate.
Designed by Stanford White, the Renaissance-style building at East 28th Street and First Avenue was occupied by Cornell until 1932 and by the N.Y.U. School of Medicine from 1933 until 1955, when Dr. Zitrin studied there. N.Y.U. was followed by an unlikely succession of tenants, including a training school for flight attendants. It was leveled in the Bellevue South urban renewal.
Contemplating the rubble in 1968, Dr. Zitrin noticed that the upper sections of eight tall columns -- which had stretched across the First Avenue facade -- had survived the demolition. With Dr. Arthur C. Fox, a fellow alumnus, he arranged with the demolition company to extract four. The six-ton relics were transported to the courtyard of what was then the Bellevue Psychiatric Hospital, where Dr. Zitrin was director.

Electricity on the F Train
 
Q. Last Saturday, as I rode the F train, I noticed that the conductor spoke in an uncommonly seductive voice, smooth and velvety, with the hint of a French accent. When he whispered "East Broadway," some women in my car looked as if they were going to faint. Can you tell me who the voice belongs to?
 
A. Antoine D. Mingot. He works from noon to 8 P.M., Saturday through Wednesday, making two complete trips on the F train from Coney Island in Brooklyn to Jamaica, Queens, and back. He spoke French and Creole while he was growing up in Jacmel, in southern Haiti, and learned English after he arrived in New York in 1977. He does not sing.
After Mr. Mingot started working as a conductor for the Transit Authority six years ago, he noticed that his voice -- which might be described as a blend of Teddy Pendergrass and Yves Montand -- had a disconcertingly amorous effect on many of his passengers.
"At first I thought it was something about the P.A. system," he said modestly. Now, even when he is far from the F train and out of uniform, people recognize his voice, though his accent seems to confuse them. "They think that I'm German, French, Israeli . . . Swedish," he said.
Mr. Mingot is somewhat abashed by the effect of his voice, and insists that its so-called seductive qualities are entirely unintentional. "I'm not trying to be sexy," he said. Mr. Mingot lives with his wife, Rosaline, in Valley Stream, N.Y., and they are expecting the birth of their first child. DANIEL B. SCHNEIDER

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHARLES OF THE RITZ GROUP LTD (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (84%); MOVIE THEATERS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); HISTORY (77%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (66%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); PSYCHIATRY (60%); THEATER (58%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (50%); 

PERSON: A ANTOINE D MINGOT (68%); ARTHUR ZITRIN (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1998



19 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 14; Page 4; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORKERS & CO.

 BODY:

Bye-Bye Pants, Hello Lounge
Plunging into the current of his neighborhood's gentrification, Joseph Lipstein closed his men's clothing store, Pants World, at 222 East 14th Street, between Second and Third Avenues, and opened the 222 Lounge at the same location a month ago. 
 The lounge seats 75 people and has six beers on tap. In what he described as "an uptown look on the Lower East Side," Mr. Lipstein furnished the lounge with sofas, two decorative fireplaces (one of which holds a jukebox) and seven-foot palm trees in the back.
"Small mom and pop stores like the one I had are disappearing and have no way of staying alive in New York," Mr. Lipstein said with a sigh. After 21 years in business, he found it impossible to compete with Bradlees, Kmart, Gap and other chain stores that have been moving into the neighborhood.
Mr. Lipstein's family immigrated from Cuba in 1961 and shortly thereafter his grandfather, father and uncle opened the family's first store on the block, Herman's Shoe Store, at 224 East 14th Street, which closed in 1984.
 
Bringing Back the South Bronx With Burgers and Fries
The South Bronx Overall Economic Development Corporation, or Sobro, has teamed up with the McDonald's restaurant chain to build two restaurants in the South Bronx. Construction began in mid-January on a McDonald's at 19 West 183d Street, at Davidson Avenue, in University Heights, in a building built and owned by Sobro. The restaurant is to open next month. In December, McDonald's signed a lease on an empty lot, which the development corporation bought from the city, at 164th Street and Third Avenue in Morrisania. McDonald's plans to begin building next month, pending the receipt of a Buildings Department permit.
Sobro was founded by six New York banks in 1972, "when the Bronx was burning, to stem the tide of business flight," said Bill Bollinger, the corporation's assistant vice president for planning and development. The organization has bought or leased and developed several South Bronx properties for industrial, commercial and residential uses.
 
Two Partners From Egypt Offer Upscale Pizza
Pizza by the slice has yielded to designer pies with the opening of Giorgio's Pizza at 38 Union Square East, between 16th and 17th Streets, three weeks ago.
Among the specialties are pizza topped by portobello and shiitake mushrooms, and goat and gouda cheeses baked in a brick oven. The place was formerly Prima Pizza, a standard pizza place.
This is the second Giorgio's, owned by Mohamad Albakry and Adnan Hassan. They also run the Giorgio's at Second Avenue and 70th Street, with the same concept of brick oven pizza served from the counter. The partners, originally from Egypt, met while working at a restaurant in the Netherlands and embarked for the United States eight years ago.
"Everyone outside America has the American dream," Mr. Albakry said. "That's what happened with us."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (85%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); EGYPT (85%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (97%); EGYPT (85%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: FAST FOOD (90%); MEN (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); MEN'S CLOTHING (78%); RETAILERS (78%); MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (78%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); SHOE STORES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (73%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (63%); CHEESE (60%); 

PERSON: JOSEPH LIPSTEIN (85%); MOHAMAD ALBAKRY (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1998



20 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 14; Page 8; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 494 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: VINEGAR HILL;
The 2d Battle of Vinegar Hill

BYLINE: By AMY WALDMAN 

 BODY:
Once an enclave for Irish immigrants, Vinegar Hill is named for a battle site in Ireland. That seems appropriate, given that during the last five months, this tiny, cobblestoned waterfront district between the Manhattan Bridge and the old Brooklyn Navy Yard has been shaken by a battle of its own.
On its face, the combat has been over whether to change zoning in the area, where quaint, historic residences coexist with manufacturers and warehouses, from primarily manufacturing to primarily residential, as the City Planning Department proposes. But the combatants say it raises larger issues about the city's future: how to balance livelihoods and quality of life, whether to focus on residential space or manufacturing, and how to preserve history and character while protecting and promoting commerce. 
 Vinegar Hill is roughly nine square blocks, with perhaps 225 residents and about 19 commercial or manufacturing buildings, as well a sprinkling of mom-and-pop stores. A year ago, the neighborhood was named a historic district, a move that followed the destruction of several local historic buildings by businesses wanting the lots for commercial purposes. One particular demolition, of a 135-year-old church by Tocci Brothers, a waste-treatment company, angered residents.
"We are in danger of losing the neighborhood to the waste industry," said Margo Hirsch, who, like most Vinegar Hill residents, supports rezoning.
Paul Tocci, the president of Tocci Brothers, said he thought he was doing the neighborhood a favor when he tore down the abandoned, decaying church. He now uses the lot for equipment storage, but city officials said the rezoning was motivated in large part by the fear that Tocci Brothers would start treating waste on the lot, across the street from a row of historic houses.
Mr. Tocci said he felt residents were trying "to impose their will on our properties." Other business owners expressed concern that the rezoning would limit their ability to expand and limit the resale potential of their properties.
On Jan. 21, the City Planning Commission voted in favor of a modified rezoning plan that redrew the boundary slightly and created a manufacturing island in the center, removing several businesses from the residential zone. Mr. Tocci's lot was left in the residential zone.
"We bent over backward to accommodate business concerns," said Joseph B. Rose, the City Planning Commissioner. The goal, Mr. Rose said, was to "maintain the balance that has historically existed in this community, which mixes residential and industrial uses in a harmonious way."
Last week, however, neither side seemed particularly happy with the compromise. Some residents said they were disappointed by the residential zone's smaller dimensions.
The rezoning plan must still be approved by the City Council. Mr. Tocci said that should the Council approve the plan, he would consider filing suit to stop it. AMY WALDMAN

GRAPHIC: Photos: A year ago the nine-block neighborhood was named a historic district. A proposed rezoning has raised larger issues in Vinegar Hill. (Photographs by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); IRELAND (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: PLANNING COMMISSION (NYC) TOCCI BROTHERS (73%); CITY COUNCIL (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: PLANNING COMMISSION (NYC) CITY COUNCIL (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); IRELAND (90%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; ZONING CITIES (90%); TRENDS (90%); ZONING (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (87%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); CITY LIFE (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); NAVIES (72%); APPROVALS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%); 

PERSON: WALDMAN, AMY PAUL TOCCI (87%); JOSEPH B ROSE (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1998



21 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 5; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: Forget the Money. Show Us You Care.

BYLINE: By ADAM BRYANT 

 BODY:
NOW that the Super Bowl is over, football players can sit back and dream about the higher salaries that are guaranteed as part of the National Football League's recent $17.6 billion eight-year television deal. And the spiraling salaries are certain to prompt greater demands from athletes in other sports, too.
But will the quality of play improve as contracts grow fatter? Will players hustle more? Perhaps it's time to change the way professional athletes are paid. Why not borrow a page from corporate America's playbook and compensate athletes like chief executives, with a heavy emphasis on pay for performance? 
 Most everyone agrees that the current system for paying pro athletes is out of line. It's not so much what athletes are paid -- the talent of a Michael Jordan is rare, after all. It's how.
Players often get millions in long-term contracts that are guaranteed regardless of whether they win or lose or put out real effort. Ken Lehn, a finance professor at the University of Pittsburgh, found in the 1980's that the average number of days that professional baseball players spent on the disabled list jumped from 4.7 a season to 12.6 after they signed long-term contracts.
Outsized pay for superstars can also make teamwork difficult to foster. Matthew C. Bloom, an assistant professor of management at the University of Notre Dame, found that the most successful baseball teams from 1984 to 1993 had a narrower range of pay among all the players.
There's already some pay for performance in sports. There's a strong incentive for players to perform well to negotiate a better contract when their current one expires. (Even though playing for individual statistics alone is not always in the best interest of the team.)
And some incentives are built into contracts now. But as a percentage of base salaries, they amount to little more than a tip -- less than 3 percent of total payroll for Major League Baseball, for example. And even the larger carrots often reward quantity of work, not quality. Darryl Strawberry, for instance, recently signed an incentive-heavy contract with the New York Yankees that calls for potential bonuses adding up to more than half his base pay of $750,000 depending on his number of plate appearances: in effect, he'll be getting paid extra just to show up.
"Players are not hungry enough under those contracts to really perform," said Robert D. Tollison, an economics professor at George Mason University.
The same complaints used to be made of chief executives. But in the 1980's, big shareholders started pushing to tie executive pay to performance. Stock options, which reward executives for higher share prices, became hugely popular. It made sense in theory, although the bull market has rewarded a lot of executives for simply putting in the occasional sleepless afternoon. Incentive pay would probably work better in professional sports. There's always a winner and loser, so people aren't richly rewarded for mediocre work. And it is much easier to track individual contributions.
So why not give incentive pay -- real incentive pay -- a try with athletes? "There should be some way to distribute money to players based on their performance both as individuals and for the team as a whole," said Paul C. Weiler, a Harvard law professor and an expert in sports and labor law. Here's how it might work:
Teams could give players more modest base salaries that still reflect their relative value; the rest of their pay could then be put at risk. Half their potential earnings would be based on targets customized to their role on the team (Dennis Rodman the rebounder versus Michael Jordan the scorer). The potential to earn the other half would be based on games won.
Teams could reduce guaranteed pay, but give players a stake in the company. Pat Riley, the Miami Heat coach, has a 10 percent ownership stake. Why not give a percentage to players? That would be an incentive to stick around longer and help build the franchise, rather than take the money and run. Teams whose stock is publicly traded, like the Boston Celtics and the Florida Panthers, could even give their players stock options.
Teams could also give players a share in the ticket revenues. Attendance clauses are not unheard of in sports. Teams that sell out their seats all season long could instead give players bonuses based on games won. If the team is losing, ticket prices would drop. But if the team is winning, they would go up.
What fan would object to paying a modest success tax for their team?

GRAPHIC: Photo: Darryl Strawberry in 1997. Camps open this month. (Scott Martin for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE PROPERTIES INC (58%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (91%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (91%); UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (55%); UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (54%); UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (91%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (91%); UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (55%); UNIVERSITY OF PITTSBURGH (55%); UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (54%); UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; WAGES AND SALARIES; CONTRACTS; ATHLETICS AND SPORTS WAGES & SALARIES (91%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); BASEBALL (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (87%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); STOCK OPTIONS (62%); SHAREHOLDERS (60%); 

PERSON: BRYANT, ADAM MICHAEL JORDAN (56%); MICHAEL JORDAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1998



22 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 1; Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1410 words

HEADLINE: Dives No Longer, New Gay Bars Let In the Light

BYLINE: By DAVID COLMAN 

 BODY:
ALMOST every gay man, it seems, has a story about the first time he opened a door and stepped across one of his life's major thresholds -- into a gay bar.
However liberating crossing that threshold may have been over the years, many men remember that the atmosphere left much to be desired.
Throughout the city, across the country, gay bars have seemed to thrive under some perverse set of rules decreeing that there be no comfortable seats, no natural light, derelict bathrooms and an aroma of stale beer and smoke. Those who wonder why Bette Davis's line "What a dump!" from the 1949 film "Beyond the Forest" is such a camp staple probably have not set foot in many gay bars. 
 But the end credits may finally be rolling on this scenario. A new generation of gay bars like G and Baracuda, both in Chelsea, and Hell, in Greenwich Village, have all but jettisoned dark and dingy interior designs for cleaner, airier, more creative spaces. Others, like Splash, also in Chelsea, and Dakota, in Murray Hill, are following suit with renovations, keeping pace with popular restaurants and coffee bars, like Candy Bar and Big Cup, both in Chelsea.
Plushest of all the bars is the Jungle, which opened in January on West Street (12th Street) in Greenwich Village. Despite a foreboding exterior, the inside boasts leopard-print carpeting, upholstered armchairs and zebra-patterned booths draped in mosquito netting.
What outwardly seems a new movement in decor mirrors a broader change in attitude among patrons of gay bars: a self-confidence about being openly gay, a rising economic prosperity and less fear of harassment.
Traditionally, gay bars have been windowless dives that cloaked patrons in anonymous darkness while protecting them from the scrutiny of passers-by. The most significant feature of G, at 223 West 19th Street, is not the juice bar serving protein shakes, the sleek blond wood paneling or the modular seating in the front room, but the enormous arched windows, inset with french doors, which give onto the street.
"We're kind of saying that we're not afraid to have people look in and see that this is a gay bar," said Jim Bartholomew, the architect who designed G and Che 2020, a restaurant, also in Chelsea. "It seemed like we always had the dregs of places to go out. We wanted to create a place that was more comfortable, more elegant and worthy of your time."
Evan Lobel, a Wall Street portfolio manager who was socializing at the bar recently, said: "It's not about hiding in the shadows. Most bars have been sort of about that. It's optimistic."
The popularity of these new watering holes illustrates that many gay men appear to be embracing some of the values and freedoms of mainstream society, from which they have often been excluded. Although such bars still function as they always have -- as pickup places -- they are now also attractive meeting places for friends, where a gay man can bring a heterosexual acquaintance without fear of complaint and even where gay couples can go, free from a heavy cruising scene.
At a time when more gay men seem to be establishing lasting relationships, many welcome the change in bar culture.
"We're catching up in our subculture," said Thomas K. Duane, a City Councilman who represents Chelsea and Greenwich Village and who is openly gay. "Things seem to be much more relationship-oriented, less about transient relationships. People are much more open to be with someone now, even introducing them to their families."
There is no end of difference between the clean, well-lighted places flourishing in New York and their sometimes notorious predecessors. At Baracuda, at 275 West 22d Street, the back room is a large open space furnished with colorful thrift-shop sofas and chairs, presided over by harlequin-patterned walls and a shimmery 1960's-era curtain of Plexiglas disks. It is a far cry from the back room at the owners' previous establishment, Crowbar, a club in the East Village that closed in 1996. There in a featureless grim space, beneath a dim bulb, men could engage in virtually anonymous sex, former patrons said.
In the last decade, many gay sex clubs and back rooms -- a feature of gay bars once synonymous with sex -- have closed, having come under pressure from health authorities and from gay organizations concerned about the spread of AIDS.
But the more wholesome-looking digs have not been universally embraced. The closing of back rooms has been attacked by Sex Panic, a vocal gay group that advocates sexual liberation, for representing a crackdown on the freedom of gay men. The organization's stance has itself been taken to task by some gay people like the writer Larry Kramer.
Others have groused that the newer bars -- like the obsessions with muscles and clothing that symbolize the Chelsea gay scene -- bespeak a growing complacency among some gay men about political issues. For those who came of age with John Rechy's influential 1977 book, "The Sexual Outlaw," which linked gay sex (in some states a criminal act) with civil disobedience, the seedy-bar esthetic, with its liquor, cigarettes, drugs and sex, has been sacrosanct.
By contrast, Prof. Andrew Ross, the director of the American studies program at New York University, described a new attitude among some gay men as being "very comfortable with consolidating good middle-class taste in the public establishments that they frequent and own."
Jaime Adner, a screenwriter living in Los Angeles after having left New York three years ago, was surprised by the changes he observed during a recent visit to G. "It's very homogeneous, very Banana Republic," he said. "All the commodities that have been marketed to gays are here. We've bought it."
Most other patrons interviewed at G seemed less cynical. Asked whether gay men were embracing bourgeois values, Jack Newman, an enrollment director at a music school, said, "That's what we've always claimed to be fighting for, and now we have it."
Mr. Lobel, the portfolio manager, said: "Any radicalism is a function of marginalization. As the gay community is moving into the mainstream, we're growing up, and we're starting to take responsibility for ourselves." Part of taking responsibility, he added, is moving beyond casual sex with multiple partners and cultivating a social life more in the tradition of heterosexual couples -- boyfriend included.
Mr. Duane says that having a steady boyfriend can be a political statement, too -- about the right of gay men to go public with their choice of partners. "It used to be that straight people didn't like to imagine us having sex at all, and gay men didn't tell their co-workers, families, even close friends if they were involved," he said. "So sure, you can say you're gay, but the way you prove it is by having a boyfriend. We no longer have to be 'confirmed bachelors.' "
Cliff Bradshaw, an owner of Hell, at 59 Gansevoort Street (Washington Street), where the chandeliers and blue-gray banquettes are more speak-easy than dungeon, and Big Cup, the coffee bar, at 228 Eighth Avenue (21st Street), made no apology for the atmospheres that he and his business partner have created. He had less than fond memories of dark cruise-oriented bars of old.
"I was not the poster boy for a homosexual," Mr. Bradshaw said. "I was a tall, skinny, lanky kid with glasses, and those places were intimidating to me. I don't believe in doing that to people. Nobody has to be intimidated to come here."
SOME people are skeptical that there really is less cruising going on in the new places. Bob Pontarelli, an owner of Baracuda, said that the existence of "nicer" gay bars doesn't necessarily mean that the clients have different priorities. " 'Nice' is a weird word, because it implies that people are behaving themselves," he said. "I don't think the community has sanitized itself. Everybody still has the same interests and desires, and they're still finding them satisfied, but they're just doing it in more comfortable environments."
Still, these environments are attracting an element traditionally held to be a bane to cruising: heterosexual customers. Mr. Bradshaw said that at his two establishments, heterosexuals make up about 30 percent of the clientele. "Come in here on Sunday, and see the strollers," he said of Big Cup, a brightly lighted place with a dessert case and periodicals strewn about and where no alcohol is served. "We even have P.T.A. meetings."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Window seats: the designs of Big Cup, left, a popular coffeehouse, and G, a gay bar, both in Chelsea, reflect a broad change in attitude among customers of gay establishments and a self-confidence on their part about being openly gay. (Photographs by Philip Greenberg for The New York Times)(pg. 1); The front room at G, with its sleek blond wood paneling, modular seating and enormous arched windows. (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times); At Baracuda, the back room has colorful thrift-shop sofas and chairs, harlequin-patterned walls and a shimmery curtain of Plexiglas disks. (Miles Ladin for The New York Times)(pg. 4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BARS; HOMOSEXUALITY; INTERIOR DESIGN DRINKING PLACES (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); RESTAURANTS (77%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (72%); 

PERSON: COLMAN, DAVID MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1998



23 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1301 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS;
The Costs of Doing Business

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY MIDDLETON 

 BODY:
THE convenience of mutual fund ownership increasingly comes at a higher and higher price.
Basic expense ratios -- the day-in, day-out charges for overhead and investment talent -- have steadily crept up in recent years. Separate marketing costs, known as 12b-1 fees in the language of financial regulation, can add as much as $100 in annual expenses to a $10,000 investment. And when a fund offers multiple classes of shares, one group of investors may pay more for the same merchandise than the next group pays. 
 But that isn't all: After two decades of gains by no-load mutual funds, the load industry -- that is, the companies that sell their funds with sales charges, or loads, through brokers -- is marketing its funds aggressively.
Shareholders get nothing of value from these higher costs, and indeed receive lower overall investment returns, critics contend. "Studies show that mutual funds that charge high fees don't continue to perform well," said Steven Heston, assistant professor of finance at Washington University's Olin School of Business in St. Louis.
Loads and 12b-1 fees are used to pay the brokers who sell the funds -- meaning that in the fund business, the cost of sales is borne by the customer, not the funds. Craig Israelsen, associate professor of consumer and family economics at the University of Missouri, said a direct result of these expenses was lower shareholder returns.
"Over a five-year period that ended Dec. 31, 1996, pure no-load funds had average annual returns of 13.1 percent, and load funds returned 11.7 percent," he said. "Expenses come directly off of returns."
In 1980, when mutual fund assets totaled $134.8 billion, the average annual expense ratio among both stock and bond funds was nine-tenths of 1 percent, said D. K. Malhotra, assistant professor of finance at the Philadelphia College of Textiles and Science, who has published articles on the subject in financial journals. At the end of last year, when assets were $4.5 trillion, that average had increased to 1.1 percent.
"Clearly, fund companies have not shared economies of scale with the investor," he said.
Peter DiTeresa, associate editor of Morningstar Investor, the newsletter of Morningstar Inc., noted that the growth of mutual fund supermarkets at firms like Charles Schwab, Fidelity Investments and Jack White had come at a price.
The supermarkets make it easy to buy and sell the shares of various fund complexes. But to participate in a supermarket, fund companies must pay the sponsoring firm. Jack White charges funds an annual fee of 25 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, for assets of its customers. Fidelity charges 35 points, and Schwab says it bargains for a rate from 26 and 34 points.
As a participating mutual fund, "You have to cover that 35 basis points somehow," Mr. DiTeresa said. "It either comes out of your pocket, or you're going to have to add it to the expense ratio."
SOME mutual funds do not participate in these marketplaces for just this reason.
Homestead Value, a $380 million fund that has Morningstar's highest ranking, five stars, has an expense ratio of eight-tenths of 1 percent -- little more than half the industry average for equity funds -- and it spurns Schwab and Fidelity. It is available, however, though Jack White.
"We don't want to pay a high price for being part of these distribution outlets," said Peter Morris, the fund's co-manager. "We're attracting business the way it is; the other way is an expensive way to go."
Fee structures have become increasingly complex among funds with loads, often depending on the class of shares purchased.
The differences express themselves mostly in the loads themselves, which are one-time charges, and 12(b)1 fees, which are collected annually.
It is common for load-fund complexes to have four pricing tiers. The Oppenheimer Discovery fund, for example, has the following four levels:
* Class A shares have an upfront load, or sales charge, of 5.75 percent. The annual expense ratio of 1.22 percent is lower that the ratio for class B and C shares, reducing the cost of long-term ownership.
* Class B shares impose a back-end load which starts at 5 percent for shares that are quickly sold and declines to nothing after six years. The expense ratio, 1.99 percent, is cut as the shares convert to class A when the back-end load ends.
* Class C shares have a smaller rear load, 1 percent, but the relatively high expense ratio, 2.03 percent, continues forever, making them most suited to short-term ownership.
* Class Y shares of Oppenheimer Discovery are no-loads, sold only to institutions.
"Different investors like to pay for the advice they receive in different ways," said Jim Ruff, president of Oppenheimer Funds Distributors. "We want to manage the money," he said. "We don't want to get into how the client pays the registered representative for advice."
Similarly, at Dean Witter Health Sciences, the front-end load on class A shares is 5.25 percent, but the 12b-1 fee is only 0.25 percent. Class B and C shares have 1 percent annual charges, but maximum back-end loads of between 1 and 5 percent. Class D shares, which are for institutional investors, are purely no-load. Its expense ratio is lower, too, 1.31 percent, compared with 1.57 percent for the A shares, 2.25 percent for the B and 2.31 percent for the C.
Investors can avoid such decisions by buying no-load funds directly from a fund company. But many turn to brokers for advice and wind up buying load funds, which have never lost their dominance in the marketplace.
According to the Investment Company Institute, among equity and fixed-income funds, load funds accounted for 54.9 percent of total assets as of Nov. 30, while no-load funds had 45.1 percent.
Increasingly, load funds charge lower upfront fees than they did 15 years ago -- typical commissions of less than 6 percent currently, compared with more than 8 percent then. But the 12b-1 fees, which were adopted in their current form in 1993, actually increase the total cost of fund ownership.
"Since I first started in the business in 1977, loads have come way down, but the 12b-1 fees are getting more and more prominent," said Mark Mershon, the president of Triple Check Financial Services, investment counselors in Montrose, Calif.
Some funds, meanwhile, are losing their no-load status altogether. The no-load Mutual Series funds managed by Michael Price were bought by Franklin Resources and now carry loads for purchases by new investors.
INVESTORS are being charged more in other ways, too.
Many no-load funds are being sold by so-called fee-only financial planners, who impose their own charges. For an investor with a $100,000 portfolio, the payment of a 1 percent management fee to a planner is equivalent to accepting $1,000 less in annual returns.
Nor can no-load funds be relied on to be free of charges. Funds can call themselves no-loads if they impose 12b-1 fees of a quarter of 1 percent or less.
When the stock market is delivering double-digit average annual growth, as it has for more than a decade, fees of 1 or 2 percent don't loom particularly large. But if fixed-income investments, where returns are typically in the single digits, were to outperform stocks -- as they have in recent months -- the issue of fees would take on more urgency.
"This year, you'll find more money flowing into bond funds," said Professor Malhotra. "Expenses there have a large impact on returns to investors."
And even in equity funds, he said, expenses are the sole performance variable that individuals control.
"Returns you cannot predict; they are very volatile in nature," he said. "But with expenses, certainly you can predict. Lower expenses mean more returns to investors."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "A Heavy Load to Bear" shows expense ratios for 2,355 U.S. diversified stock funds, both load and no-load.
 
Chart: ". . . and there are other costs, too."
In addition to expenses, many funds sold by brokers levy sales charges, known as loads. And in recent years, both load and no-load funds have begun imposing 12b-1, or marketing fees. Here is how the costs break down:
 

<2U.S. Diversified Equity Funds	 	EXPENSE	AVERAGE	Front load	4.81	Deferred load	3.31	Expense ratio	1.41	Administrative fee	0.09	Adviser/Mgmt. fee	0.73	12b-1/marketing fee	0.35		 	Domestic Bond Funds	 	Front load	3.74	Deferred load	3.08	Expense ratio	0.99	Administrative fee	0.09	Adviser/Mgmt. fee	0.50	12b-1/marketing fee	0.30	
(Source: Morningstar Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (80%); SCHW (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (80%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (80%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (80%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (74%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (74%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (74%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (74%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (90%); 

CITY: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (80%); FMR CORP (74%); CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (58%); UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (54%); UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (54%); UNIVERSITY OF MISSOURI (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); MISSOURI, USA (90%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); MUTUAL FUNDS MUTUAL FUNDS (95%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); BONDS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (87%); BOND FUNDS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); SCHOOL BONDS (71%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (68%); PUBLISHING (61%); 

PERSON: MIDDLETON, TIMOTHY PETER DITERESA (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1998



24 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 14; Page 5; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: MANHATTAN UP CLOSE -- BUZZ;
Shocked, Shocked That We're Shocked

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY 

 BODY:
THE SETTING: A few of the bars and bistros favored by the city's expatriate French population, where the choice chatter focuses on the details and detritus of the Presidential sex scandal, the allegations of some sort of sexual relationship and cover-up between President Clinton and Monica Lewinsky, a former White House intern.
The denizens of the French quarter say the controversy has left them deeply concerned. In their own way, of course. 
 THE BUZZ: "Oh, my God, yes, I'm shocked," said Francois Raud, 37, who was enjoying a plate of cassoulet and a bottle of Bordeaux at the bar at Provence, a French restaurant on Macdougal Street in SoHo. "Just three girlfriends? In eight years? And he's the President? He is obviously not a good lover."
(Mr. Raud could not explain his exact accounting. "One is named Paulie, no?" he said.)
The bartender, Marc Rinet, agreed with his customer.
"She's a woman, and he's a man, so?" said Mr. Rinet, a French native who sported a blue bandanna and a red and white shirt. "I think it is comedic, crazy to want to fire a President just for sex. It is not sex with animal."
Both men pointed out that the French people openly accepted the flings of Francois Mitterrand, the late President, who fathered a child by his mistress, Anne Pingeot. "And Clinton is much better-looking," Mr. Raud said.
"It is droit du seigneur," said Mr. Rinet, explaining his country's singular history of personal politics. "The right of kings."
"But, of course, Americans are too prude for that," Mr. Raud added, with a nudge and a wink.
For some of the younger crowd hanging out at Jules, a candlelit bistro at 65 St. Marks Place in the East Village, the President's troubles seemed more clever than clumsy.
"I don't know if he did it, but if he did it, he did good," said Romain Brisson, a student from Provence who is studying photography in New York. "Because everybody is talking about it."
Some were even less couth.
"It is good news," said Pascal Jatteaux, an unemployed visitor from Marseilles. "It proves he is not a homosexual."
"For me, it is not a problem," Mr. Jatteaux continued. "It is only a problem for his wife."
Others saw the whole affair (or alleged affair) as indicative of deeper problems in the nation.
"There are serious problems in the world, and the American papers are full of this?" said Natalie, who refused to give her last name. "I feel like saying, 'What's wrong with you?,' the same way you tell someone who is crazy."
For other Frenchwomen, the issue was slightly more oblique.
"I am confused by it," said Emile Luguern, 23, a waitress from Paris who works at Cafe Gitane on Mott Street in Little Italy. "Is it illegal in America to have a love affair?"
No, it was explained, it is only illegal to lie under oath.
"But everyone lies about love affairs," answered Ms. Luguern, with a note of disbelief. "Why would you tell the truth? That would be completely amazing."
At Provence, the boys at the bar said that while the characters in the President's latest ordeal were new, the story was familiar.
"Sex and politics are from the basement of the world, from the beginning together," Mr. Raud said. "What do you expect?" JESSE McKINLEY

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the 1996 funeral of former French President Francois Mitterand, his wife Danielle, left, grieved with his mistress, Anne Pingeot, second from right. Alleged Presidential hanky-panky made for front-page fodder all last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (54%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (54%); 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: PROVENCE-ALPES-COTE D'AZUR, FRANCE (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (54%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); PROVENCE-ALPES-COTE D'AZUR, FRANCE (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FRENCH-AMERICANS; PUBLIC OPINION; SEXUAL HARASSMENT DRINKING PLACES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); SEX SCANDALS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); SCANDALS (77%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (72%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); MCKINLEY, JESSE; LEWINSKY, MONICA; JONES, PAULA CORBIN BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1998



25 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 12; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1647 words

HEADLINE: EARNING IT;
Why Do People Quit Their Jobs? Because They Can

BYLINE: By DAWN GILBERTSON 

DATELINE: PHOENIX

 BODY:
MIKE MITCHELL was perfectly happy last spring in his job as an employee communications specialist here for the Phelps Dodge Corporation.
He liked his boss, had a lot of independence and felt challenged. He had just had his one-year review and it was positive. He received a raise. 
 Even so, Mr. Mitchell quit in July, accepting a position as marketing communications manager with AG Communication Systems, a Phoenix-based joint venture of Lucent Technologies and GTE.
Mr. Mitchell, 35, initially resisted AG's overtures, as he had those of other companies that approached him. But this offer proved irresistible. He is making 20 percent more than in his previous job, works in a hot industry, telecommunications, and is rounding out his resume with advertising and marketing skills.
"Because I was happy, I needed to be swayed that this was a significantly better opportunity than where I was," he said.
Figuring out how and why people quit their jobs has long puzzled managers. But in these days of low unemployment -- 4.7 percent nationally -- answering the question has become paramount as employers try to retain workers.
The effort may be difficult. Consider this dispatch from the front lines: 53 percent of American workers expect to leave their jobs voluntarily within the next five years, according to a recent poll by Louis Harris & Associates.
"It's amazing -- the fact that employees have this kind of propensity" to quit, said Peter Hom, a management professor at Arizona State University who studies turnover and is co-author of a human resource management book, "Employee Turnover" (South-Western College Publishing). "I've never seen it expressed in these numbers before."
David Opton, executive director of Exec-U-Net, a Norwalk, Conn., networking organization, sees it first-hand. Mr. Opton, whose business caters to executives with six-figure salaries, says 60 percent of its 5,000 members have jobs. When the business was founded nearly 10 years ago, all the members were unemployed.
"They see more options," he said, including the opportunity to become "Me Inc." -- a reference to self-employment.
Still, the idea that good-paying jobs are plentiful, and going begging, may be difficult for some workers to grasp. Economists point to a recent decline in the Labor Department's "quit rate" -- the share of the unemployed who left their jobs willingly. As unemployment falls, the quit rate normally rises; but the rate fell significantly in the last quarter, from 12.8 percent in September to 10.3 percent in November, before rebounding to 10.8 percent in December. Some economists attribute the fall to the uncertainty of looking for work in a job market still rife with downsizing, though they note that comprehensive information on quitting is not available.
EVEN if some employees are skittish, an increasing number seem to be learning the lesson that their services are more in demand. The message for managers is equally clear: many employees have designs on, or will be drawn to, the exit door.
Some turnover is unavoidable: People relocate, for example, or start a family and opt to stay home.
And some turnover is desirable. Few managers balk when a chronically late or absent worker walks out the door, or when a prima donna exits stage left.
But in general, voluntary turnover is expensive and time-consuming. It's a rare manager who doesn't cringe -- inside at least -- when an employee gives notice. The boss knows that the weeks ahead will be filled with recruiting, training and, until a replacement is found, a sag in production. The situation can also hurt morale, as other workers are expected to pick up the slack.
What are worried managers to do so they don't need to keep a corporate headhunter on speed dial?
To start, management professors and other experts say, they should discard the traditional thinking on how and why people quit -- the idea that an employee grows dissatisfied with his job, stews about it, slowly looks for a new company and leaves when a better offer comes up.
Plenty of people still take this route to the door but, Professor Hom said, "we are finding that there are all kinds of ways of abandoning the workplace."
Understanding these circumstances and which ones are prevalent in an organization is crucial to keeping valued employees, he and others say.
Thomas Lee, a professor of human resource management and organizational behavior at the University of Washington in Seattle, has studied employee departures since 1990, reviewing turnover patterns in professions including nursing, engineering and accounting. He and his colleagues concluded that no formula could predict whether a particular employee is going to quit. But they did determine four general themes, or "paths," to quitting, three of them considered nontraditional.
The common thread in those three paths could be called "shocks to the system."
"It's a jarring event, expected or unexpected," Professor Lee said. "It's something that prompts the deliberation process."
On the first path, the event prompts a natural next step in an employee's career script. For a nomadic engineer bent on working on the latest projects, it might be a job offer from a rival company with a challenging assignment, Professor Lee said. For a salesman with management aspirations, it might be acceptance to business school. Or it might be as simple as an employee's long-planned trip around the world, as one nurse gave as her reason for quitting.
Though a manager may appear helpless in situations like these, steps can be taken to try to retain the employee. To discourage job-hopping, for example, the engineer's company could assign him other projects and tie pay to their completion. The salesman's boss could suggest an executive M.B.A. program that accommodated a new work schedule. The nurse could have been offered a sabbatical.
The second path involves what Professor Lee calls an abhorrent event: something that drives an employee to quit hastily, often without another job in the wings. Common causes include ethical breaches, sexual harassment and inadequate training.
He cited the case of another nurse, who quit after she was thrown into assisting emergency surgery, work for which she was ill-prepared. "It was the straw that broke the camel's back," he said.
Indeed, some such events hardly seem dramatic -- but they cause frustrations that make employees leave. An employee's placement on a poorly planned work team is an example. According to K. Dow Scott, director of workplace studies at Loyola University in Chicago, a successful team helps reduce turnover because people feel committed to the group. Work on an unsuccessful team, however, can send an employee packing.
If employees "don't have high expectations for their teams," he said, "that increases their likelihood of quitting."
In such cases, a good system for airing grievances is essential, Professor Lee said, so potential problems are known before an employee has reaches his or her limit.
The third path involves a shock from the outside, often in the form of an unsolicited job offer. Professor Lee says this route is of particular concern to businesses in hot job markets, because workers with "high potential or proven records are more likely to be enticed with attractive external alternatives" and might be harder to replace.
Mr. Mitchell falls into that camp. He sent a resume to AG at the urging of a former colleague, who worked there. He expected that would be the end of it.
Indeed, when AG called for an interview and offered him a job almost on the spot, with a 10 percent raise and slightly better retirement benefits, Mr. Mitchell declined.
But a couple hours later, he said, AG executives called back, offering even more money. "At that point I said, 'I really need to consider this,' " Mr. Mitchell recalled.
His boss at Phelps Dodge said she wanted him to stay but could not match the offer. Mr. Mitchell gave his notice.
Faced with such situations, companies have a few options, Professor Lee said. One, of course, is to match the salary. "For some people, money is everything," he said.
But not for everybody. In a recent survey of managers by the Society of Human Resource Management, 89 percent of the respondents cited salary as a reason for employees' leaving. But close behind on the list was the potential for career advancement, cited by 85 percent, and employees' feelings that they were not appreciated, 79 percent.
FOR Steve Gomez, it came down to career ambitions. In 1996, Mr. Gomez quit his job as a marketing director for the Dial Corporation, the consumer products company based in Scottsdale, Ariz., because he did not see a future there.
Dial had hit a financial rough spot, leaving little money for his projects. And nobody was suggesting alternative assignments.
"I like to look a couple years down the road and say, 'Where am I going to be with this company?' " Mr. Gomez said. "It just didn't seem like, long term, there would be anything there for me."
Mr. Gomez, who is 40, quit to work for a start-up laundromat chain in Arizona. Early last year he took a new job, as director of ethnic marketing for the Schering-Plough Corporation in Madison, N.J.
Professor Hom of Arizona State acknowledged that it was difficult for managers to "gauge the genuine feelings and cognitions" of employees. He and others suggest that managers stay in touch with workplace morale by conducting opinion surveys and exit interviews, not to mention one-on-one discussions with workers. This is especially important in light of his research that shows that once employees start job searches, they are as good as gone.
The bottom line for companies, Professor Lee said, is relatively simple. "You have some people who you believe are just so important," he said. "Figure out what's important to them."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mike Mitchell liked his old job, but got a 20 percent pay increase by moving to a new company. At home in Phoenix, he tended to his yard. (Jeff Topping for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FCX (NYSE) (91%); ALU (PAR) (72%); ALU (NYSE) (72%); ALU (BIT) (72%); HPOL (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS331410 NONFERROUS METAL (EXCEPT ALUMINUM) SMELTING & REFINING (91%); NAICS213114 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR METAL MINING (91%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (91%); NAICS212222 SILVER ORE MINING (91%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (91%); SIC3341 SECONDARY SMELTING & REFINING OF NONFERROUS METALS (91%); SIC3331 PRIMARY SMELTING & REFINING OF COPPER (91%); SIC1081 METAL MINING SERVICES (91%); SIC1044 SILVER ORES (91%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (91%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (91%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (72%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (72%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (65%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (57%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (53%); 

CITY: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO; PONTIAC DIVISION OF GENERAL MOTORS CORP FREEPORT-MCMORAN COPPER & GOLD INC (91%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (72%); EXEC-U-NET INC (65%); AG COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS CORP (57%); HARRIS INTERACTIVE INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: HONDA MOTOR CO; PONTIAC DIVISION OF GENERAL MOTORS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); ARIZONA, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (53%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS RESIGNATIONS (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); EMPLOYEE TURNOVER & RETENTION (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (78%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); WRITERS (69%); PUBLISHING (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (55%); 

PERSON: GILBERTSON, DAWN MIKE MITCHELL (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1998



26 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 14; Page 1; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 3330 words

HEADLINE: Cruising the Corridor

BYLINE: By CHARLIE LeDUFF 

 BODY:
CHUCKIE and his crew were cheap. That's what the ladies at the topless bar said after the bachelor party filed out into the darkness. Chuckie was to be married in two days, and he and the boys from the Sanitation Department had had a good time. Meanwhile, the dancers who had endured the groping and the unsociable things said about their ancestors received $1 tips. "Not a player in the bunch," one lady said.
The Fiddle and Bow has a long history on the Roosevelt Avenue corridor in Queens, and it is has an unsophisticated atmosphere of domestic beer and Plexiglas mirrors. It is a long shot from the Times Square and Chelsea scenes that Dominic Briggs, a trash man from Long Island who was among Chuckie's group, once prowled. 
 "It's no secret that they really cleaned Manhattan up," Mr. Briggs said, a tall man with large, bovine hands that were working over a beer bottle. "Naturally, you're never going to get rid of everything. So it's pretty simple mathematics that the night life is going to move somewhere else."
And if the Thursday night crowd at the Fiddle and Bow, or the cars from New Jersey and Long Island lined up on Roosevelt Avenue, or the Spanish-speaking pimps, or the whispers and catcalls of "girls" and "cocaine" are any indication, then north central Queens has become the preferred destination for debauchery.
Though the police have put a lid on the visibility, the scene has moved behind the blackened windows along the Roosevelt Avenue corridor. The action takes place between 65th Street in Woodside to the west, across Jackson Heights and ending around 108th Street in Corona to the east.
But the corridor is more than that. To spend 48 hours on Roosevelt Avenue is to stand in the revolving door between the American dream and the raw naked hustle of storied New York. The place where America meets the world, and the people of the world meet Jim Beam. It is less a neighborhood anymore than a vast disembarkation zone. It may offer early hints of what New York is to become, a sanitarium for the unwashed masses to gather their faculties before fanning out across the country.
The ill-lighted corridor beneath the elevated tracks of the No. 7 train has absorbed and regurgitated such a huge wave of immigrants and refugees in the last quarter century -- more than any other area in New York, according to Census statistics -- that some residents call it the new Ellis Island, with its grimy underbelly drawing it the moniker Outer Borough Babylon. As capitalism would have it, nefarious elements compete not only with the police but also with one another. Every few blocks, it seems, has its own economy, language and criminal enterprises. The Mexicans have arrived. Its mafia element, authorities say, is dripping in from the streets and jailhouses of Los Angeles, filling a vacuum left by the once-dominant Colombians and creating a skittishness among the Puerto Rican and Dominican gangs.
Add to this mix a cat-and-mouse game between a police force bent on sweeping the sidewalks clean and an underworld determined to occupy the cracks.
After 2 A.M., the beat cops go home, and many on the avenue know this. Except for the taco stands, the streets are mostly empty. Outside the club doors, across from the police van on 92d Street, young Mexican men pass out small tickets with brothel addresses in bold lettering. The police know this. "It's a funny thing," says Officer John Romano of the 115th Precinct. "It used to be the Colombian gangsters who worked the brothels, now it's Mexicans."
At 3 A.M., Chuckie and his eight-man crew head to a cathouse on 84th Street below a beauty salon.
The brothel is a basement affair of cinder blocks and paneling, and consists of one large room and perhaps a dozen small cubicles with doors. The johns enter single file, go to the cash register and pay a man $25. They are given a paper ticket or receipt to be given to the women before services rendered. A few men order Heinekens and sit on folding chairs, the room lit by a stark fluorescent tube. The women, perhaps 12 of them, very young, parade about in tight skirts and negligees chirping in Spanish or awkward English, waiting to be called.
A shrine to the Virgin Mary is displayed prominently in a corner, and must be of great import, because another cubicle could easily have been constructed in its place. The basement stinks of Spaghettios and tobacco.
Elisa, 22, comes from the central Mexican state Aguascalientes. The daughter of poor farmers, Elisa said that like everyone else she knows, she came for a better life. And like most every other immigrant loitering around the bottom rungs of American society, she says, "I want to make money to go home."
She said she had been in New York for two years. She came illegally in a trunk and has been working in her present occupation for six months. She is a moonfaced woman with pleasant features who neither drinks nor smokes. "I would like to be married and have babies," she said behind one of the paneled doors in a room with a bed, chair, night stand, ashtray. "But not like this. Who would want me like this?"
She gets $12 for every ticket she returns, plus tips. "It's not so bad," she says. "Always condoms and no kissing. I'm very safe that way." A very good night is $150, she said. "And a car home."
Mr. Briggs did not go through with it, and sat in a metal chair, wringing the life out of a bottle, waiting for Chuckie the groom.
Elisa emerged from the basement at 5:15 in the morning wearing blue jeans, a down coat and a vinyl handbag. Daylight had not yet arrived and a black Lincoln Town Car was waiting to take her somewhere. She kissed the driver on the lips.
Down the avenue at 73d Street, on the island below the tracks, a family of rats were breakfasting on the grains left for the pigeons.
 
Hoping for the Irish To Come By
 The men without working papers start to line up at 6:30 A.M. Hundreds of them. They come from everywhere: India, Guatemala, Poland, Ecuador. To stand along the intersection of 69th Street and Roosevelt. Waiting for work on the streets. It is a tough street, the men say. Not one of a dozen can say who "Ruservelt" was, but they can point out the bloodstains of an Asian boy who was stabbed in the head on New Year's Eve.
They huddle against the cold and the rain and inside the Uruguayan bakery. They laugh at the image of Bill Clinton on the front page of The Daily News. His calamity is worse than theirs, at least, they say.
"I'm hoping for some Irish to come by," says Herman Gavilanes, 33, an Ecuadorian from the capital city, Quito. The Irish pay twice as much as other Americans, he says. Maybe $100 for eight hours of hauling bricks on their backs or breaking up cement slabs or carting Sheetrock up a five-story walkup. "They understand," Mr. Gavilanes says.
When a van does pull up, it is swarmed by 50 men, each undercutting the next, driving down the wage. Every man knows this is not a good negotiating tactic, but it's the way it is when so many are desperate.
Mr. Gavilanes, who appeared three years ago, is an educated man who studied at a university. But since he has not had regular work in three months, he has failed to send money home and has bounced from couch to couch to train. The police prohibit sleeping on the subway trains anymore, and to do so may well earn you a size 11 in the backside. A lean, handsome man with gray flecks of hair, Mr. Gavilanes is ashamed of having to pull at sleeve cuffs and pick through bags of clothes. His father is ashamed. He said his children are hungry.
He was a chauffeur in Ecuador and had to leave his home and wife and three children when inflation devastated the economy. He has never met his youngest son.
"I am lonely," he said. "If you don't see your wife in two years, you are going to visit the sick girls," the prostitutes. "But besides that," he said, "I try to stay indoors at night. There are the Mexican gangs, and they are very hard."
Above the street where the day laborers congregate is Resumen, a Spanish weekly newspaper owned and edited by Fernando F. Rojas. The office opens promptly at 11 A.M. and Mr. Rojas is at the window, his silk tie undone, staring down at the dripping wretches in the rain.
"This neighborhood has always had its immigrants and a little bit of an underground class," said Mr. Rojas, excusing his English, which is excellent, however. "But that's all changed." The streets are bursting now. "It's noisy and wide open, now," he says. "Every man for himself."
No one knows the corner better than Mr. Rojas, who fled Castro's Cuba in 1959 and for 30 years has been running his paper from this small yellow office. Last Friday, he was preparing his papal coverage.
"Bad things go on for bad reasons here," Mr. Rojas said. "Nobody sells drugs or robs because they are hungry. That's the old country. Here it's for shoes and clothes, and they think that's what an American does."
There were slightly more than 100,000 people living in the corridor around 1970, 90 percent of European white heritage. By 1997, the Census estimated that there were 137,000 legal residents in the area, with less than 46 percent of European white heritage and that more than two-thirds of the overall population was foreign born. Many houses and apartments are now subdivided, and packed with families and extended families and illegal immigrants trying to make their way.
"The shift was so massive, so quick, that in a generation the place has become a bubbling cauldron of foreign groups," said Andrew Beveridge, a sociology professor and demographer at Queens College. "It's become a turnstile. The first stop U.S.A. And those who do well move on and others keep coming to take their place."
 
Traces of Los Angeles On the Avenue

Many hard-working people have come, but so, too, has the crime. Billions of dollars worth of cocaine flowed through Jackson Heights in the last 15 years. Travel agents and wire transfer centers laundered the cocaine profits back to Colombia.
"The Colombians ran things here for 10 years or so," Mr. Rojas said. The cartels ran things into the early 90's until their leaders were either killed or imprisoned. Then money transfer operations were limited to $700 transactions without having to file statements with the Federal authorities. The fronts along Roosevelt began to close down.
"There was a lot of blood, and I think the Colombians lost their stomach," Mr. Rojas said.
It appears that the Mexicans are taking their place, Federal investigators say. Federal drug agents in Queens searched an 18-wheel tractor-trailer with Texas plates last March and found nearly 3,600 pounds of cocaine concealed inside a load of carrots.
This was the largest cocaine seizure in New York in a decade, and resulted in the arrest of Geraldo Gonzales, a Mexican, and eight others identified by law-enforcement officials as major cocaine traffickers. The arrest led to a search of an apartment in Corona, which yielded what investigators said was $1.3 million in narcotics profits from Mr. Gonzales's operation. It was the first time in New York that a Mexican cocaine trafficking gang had been caught in a criminal endeavor long dominated by Colombians and Dominicans, said an investigator who worked on the case, speaking on condition of anonymity.
"Most cocaine makes its way through Mexico," the investigator said. "In the 80's it was all Colombians. But since '95, the Mexicans have been paid to transport it. And they're being paid in cocaine and in turn selling it through their own networks."
It is either a sophisticated business decision on the part of the Colombians to deal only with distribution and leave it to the Mexicans to take the risks, or the Mexicans are taking it upon themselves to fill the vacuum left when extradition treaties and arrests crippled the Colombians, the investigator said.
"Either way, Queens is a major thoroughfare of narcotics, and in terms of new ways to launder, we're looking at a lot of these new Mexican restaurants along Roosevelt Avenue that seem to have very few customers," the investigator said.
 
The Police Response: Taking On Crime Inside
 "Just three years ago, the place was Dodge City," said Capt. Anthony Izzo, the commander of the 115th Precinct in Jackson Heights, the neighborhood in which he grew up. "Through diligence and circumstance, it's a much nicer place to live."
Maybe just as important as the Colombians' losing ground, Captain Izzo said, was the crackdown on quality-of-life crimes. The police no longer tolerate urinating in the streets, or prostitutes conducting business in the alleyways, or dope dealers on the streets. Major crime dropped 14 percent.
"This is the most diverse community in the city and probably the world," Captain Izzo said. "The primary concern here is to hold the streets down so women can walk with their babies."
The next step, he said, is to take on crime inside the buildings. Jackson Heights is the neighborhood where 50 deaf Mexicans were discovered being held in indentured servitude last summer in a one-family house, living in squalor and forced to sell trinkets on the trains. And even though 30 prostitution houses were shut down last year, they don't disappear, the police admit, they just move around. And then there is the cocaine.
The Mexican gangs from Los Angeles have started filtering into New York, taking over the indoor prostitution rackets and the dope dealing. They are the next target. "It's always dangerous going inside," the captain said with resignation. "But we're ready for them. There won't be a Welcome Wagon."
Over the past six months, graffiti tags have appeared in the corridor: M-18, Vida Loca, Mara Salvatrucha and Logan Cali-30, Latin-American gangs with their beginnings in East Los Angeles and probable ties to the Mexican drug cartels. Authorities began to notice the growth of Mexican-American gangs when a rash of screwdriver stabbings were reported last summer.
"We suspect a connection between these gangs and the Mexican Mafia," said Mariela Stanton, the chief of the anti-bias and youth gangs bureau for the Queens District Attorney's Office.
"It's too soon to know how many are here, but we know they are migrating from Los Angeles because the pickings are relatively easy here," she said.
About six months ago, while New Yorkers were in a hysteria over reports that the Bloods and the Crips gangs were spreading east -- an exaggeration, law-enforcement officials now say -- Los Angeles judges had begun issuing injunctions against convicts suspected of gang activity. They were prohibited from congregating in known gang hot spots, wearing gang colors or carrying beepers. With heavy police pressure and the threat of prison time, some gang members have left Los Angeles and fanned out across the United States in search of virgin territory.
"They frequent the corridor, but they don't tend to be violent," said Capt. James McCool, commander of the Criminal Intelligence section of the New York Police Department. "They're involved in prostitution, drugs and fraudulent documents."
As the Mexicans move into new territory, they upset the existing balance of power in the neighborhoods. Things aren't violent yet, said Ramon Escalante, 24, sitting on a crate underneath a garage awning waiting out the afternoon rain to cook himself a fix of heroin. Mr. Escalante said he is a member of the DeePees, the Dominican Posse, whose territory begins east of Junction Boulevard along the corridor. It is also the territory tacitly shared with the mostly Puerto Rican Latin Kings. Three years ago, an armistice was reached between the gangs when too many young men died and the police brought the whip down.
Ramon Escalante said: "You got the Mexicans coming in thinking they got it locked down. If the authorities don't take care of it, we going to do it ourselves."
Still, that did not stop Mr. Escalante from patronizing the long-distance telephone office to pick up a dime bag of black Colombian heroin from the Mexicans. Business is business, and a pincushion needs its needle.
 
The Old Crowd Recalls a Different Time
 Nearing 6 o'clock at O'Hanlon's Bar, the crowd starts to file out of the last Irish pub on the corridor. It's getting dark, the rain now the color of mercury. An old man stares through the window, making sure his pal with the cane makes it into the cab. The last man in is Don Hall, 60, an out-of-work printer, delivering a depressing monologue over a glass of whisky on the rocks.
"It's all ruined," he said. "I lost my job. Meanwhile, someone from another country comes and gets the grants, the money, imports his family. In the meantime, what do they do for me? My pop was killed in World War II, a brother in Korea, a brother in Vietnam. There are no more real Americans. Veterans Day, hah! You can't count eight men walking in the parade. Forget the Alamo. No one wants to know. America is no more. Walk around here at night if you dare. You better carry a gun, I'm telling you. It's not red, white and blue. It's about green. No one knows. What I got to say don't sell papers."
The bartender nodded his head favorably. Mr. Hall put his money on the counter and made his way to the door. "It was a hell of a place to be a kid," he said. He adjusted his cap and was gone.
A man with mirrored glasses came in after him, ordered a beer and sat silently in the corner.
 
Drinking Whisky, Remembering Inflation
 Herman Gavilanes, the day laborer, had procured some whisky. Jim Beam. He had to steal away from the place he was staying, on a couch in the home of Christians who took pity on his sleeping on the trains. They do not approve of whisky. The rain had turned to sleet. At 10 P.M., Mr. Gavilanes trooped over to the apartment of friends who had grown up with him in Ecuador.
Three men lived in the two-room Corona apartment, the beds doubling as furniture. Football played on the television and a rendering of Christ on the wall. One man works as an asbestos remover, another an ironer of clothes, the third a dishwasher. All have wives and children and dreams, all waiting for them back home.
"I was a policeman in Ecuador," said the asbestos remover, Miguel Narvaez, 56. "Inflation caused my pension to go from $1,000 a month to $150. I had no choice to come. The United States is a good place. I have sent my children to university. But now there are too many men here and not enough work. I am tired and I will go home. I have not seen my wife in eight years."
In the corner, Mr. Gavilanes was greedily drinking the liquor with cola. His problems are worse, he said. But he does not discuss them in groups. He wanted to drink and get on with the happiness. Between the men, the bottle was emptied in less than an hour. Mr. Gavilanes, soporific but aggressive, was asked to leave. They kittied up $23 for him.
Walking through the sleet, Mr. Gavilanes spoke of his empty dreams, of nothing realized. Passing the gay bars and the fancy nightclubs with meringue spilling out and the Indian restaurants with their strange smells, he chose what he said was a Mexican mob joint on 97th Street. Nothing sobers a man up, he says, like a good Mexican beer. The waitress was a pretty woman with wings tattooed on her ankle.
He ordered a bowl of pig's feet and a Corona. He devoured the rubbery soup, lighted a cigarette and suddenly burst into tears. "I am ruined," he sobbed. "God help me. I have holes in my pants and I sleep on the trains while my children go hungry."
He had embarrassed himself in front of a room full of men, who were staring by now. For the second time that evening, he was asked to leave. The bulk of the train rumbled high above Roosevelt, the sleet falling like stones. His lean, huddled figure slipped into the night.
The next morning at sunup, there he stood on 69th Street, waiting for work, his eyes glistening. Broke again, and hung over.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Where the rest of the world meets the new. The streets are safer now but the underside has moved inside, and new turf battles are emerging. (Photographs by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. 1); FIGHTING FOR SCRAPS Waiting for back-breaking work for a few dollars. Herman Gavilanes, Ecuadorian immigrant; Capt. Anthony Izzo of the 115th Precinct; Fernando Rojas, owner of Resumen, a weekly newspaper (Photographs by Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. 10); THE LAST IRISH PUB At O'Hanlon's Pub, memories of the old days. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times); ROOSEVELT AND 89TH The area has become an immigrant turnstile. (Steve Hart for The New York Times)(pg. 11)
 
Map of Queens shows the Roosevelt Avenue corridor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; JACKSON HEIGHTS (NYC); WOODSIDE (NYC); CORONA (NYC); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS) CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); TRENDS (73%); BEER & ALE (73%); REFUGEES (66%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (65%); IMMIGRATION (63%); CENSUS (50%); 

PERSON: LEDUFF, CHARLIE MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1998



27 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: SPENDING IT;
Whither the Customer In an Airline Alliance?

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL 

 BODY:
THE airline alliance proposed last week between Northwest and Continental drew praise from Wall Street analysts, yet the deal -- in which Northwest has agreed to buy control of Continental for about $311 million in cash and $208 million worth of stock -- leaves a number of unresolved questions for consumers.
For example, how will the alliance affect flight operations and service? 
 Continental promotes its leadership for two consecutive years in the J. D. Power & Associates customer satisfaction survey for flights of more than 500 miles. It also has one of the best on-time records. Some industry observers say this reputation might erode through affiliation with Northwest, which has been beset recently by customer complaints and poor on-time performance.
Indeed, last year Northwest fell sharply in the Power survey, placing "below the industry average," according to a Power spokesman, in both long and short flights. In 1996, the carrier placed second to Continental on long flights, and was first in short flights.
"Continental could be the big loser in this alliance, if Northwest begins imposing its standards," said Joe Brancatelli, who is a columnist for Trip.com (www.thetrip.com), a World Wide Web site for business travelers. In a recent column, Mr. Brancatelli excoriated Northwest's customer service and vowed not to fly the carrier again.
Others say such a situation is unlikely. "Northwest's outlay is a little over $311 million, less than a quarter of their liquidity," said Samuel C. Buttrick, an airline analyst with Paine Webber. "So it's hard to see how a 25 percent reduction in their cash position could remotely affect service standards."
Joseph Berman, an analyst with Avmark, an airline consulting company in Arlington, Va., said that contrary to Northwest's low standing in Department of Transportation rankings, which are based on customer complaints, the airline has gotten "a bum rap" -- especially since hiring a new head of customer service less than a year ago.
Continental does not appear worried. "We think we understand the formula for achieving customer satisfaction," said David Messing, a spokesman for Continental. "We think Northwest also understands the formula, and they're working very hard to achieve it."
Northwest said it, too, was committed to providing excellent customer service. "We made a significant investment to address these issues," Kathy Peach, a spokeswoman, said. "The difference in the ratings among airlines is very small."
The carriers' frequent-flier programs are expected to be linked by June 1. While many details are still to be worked out, the prospects seem to benefit the consumer.
"This alliance offers frequent-flier members a lot more choices than in their individual programs, especially since there's so little overlap in their routes," said David S. Stempler, president of the Air Travelers Association in Washington. Adding KLM Royal Dutch Airlines, Northwest's partner, extends that frequent-flier reach even further, he said.
Continental's program is considered among the industry's most generous: its elite level -- which confers upgrades and other benefits -- is reached at 20,000 miles flown, and accrued miles face no time limits on their use. With some exceptions, Northwest's program requires 25,000 miles flown for similar perks; miles expire after three years.
Mr. Messing said the two programs would probably function "the way our program with America West does." Travelers enrolled with either Continental or America West can redeem miles earned flying on the other airline.
Signals of an airline's service quality range from the condition of airplane interiors to in-flight food. But Mr. Stempler said the surest indication was the number of flights canceled for reasons other than weather.
"Carriers with reliable service usually spend a lot of money having mechanics and spare parts available at airports away from their hubs," he said. "That way they can fix minor mechanical problems there on the spot, even if it causes delays." Airlines that cut back, he said, must cancel flights to take planes back to their maintenance bases.
Another sign might be any sharp change in top staff. "This transaction does represent a change of control that will result in the immediate vesting of all management stock options at Continental," Mr. Buttrick said. "In effect, the golden handcuffs come off, so management of Continental Airlines will be freer to pursue other opportunities."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Analysts disagree on how the Northwest-Continental affiliation will affect the two airlines' flight operations and customer service. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (68%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: NORTHWEST AIRLINES; CONTINENTAL AIRLINES UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (92%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTHWEST AIRLINES; CONTINENTAL AIRLINES

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (68%); VIRGINIA, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES AIRLINES (92%); AIRLINE ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (91%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); MARKETING SURVEYS (90%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (89%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (89%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (77%); LOYALTY MARKETING (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1998



28 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 3100 words

HEADLINE: Second-Guessing The Economic Doctor

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
ALL over Southeast Asia, people are complaining that a cabal of heartless bureaucrats at an institution many have come to loathe -- the International Monetary Fund -- is worsening their economic misery. Here in Washington, the I.M.F. isn't a lot more popular, but for very different reasons.
Almost every night in Thailand, a stream of television commentators chafe at the humiliation of witnessing their country's leaders negotiate every element of national economic policy -- from interest rates to budget deficits -- with economists who work largely in secrecy out of the I.M.F.'s offices off Pennsylvania Avenue here. 
 Outside a McDonald's in Jakarta, Indonesia, last month, a clutch of young professionals argued that the fund, which had just forced President Suharto to terminate government subsidies that kept the price of fuel and food low, is simply a tool of an American, Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin.
"There's a rumor that this is all a game started by America," said a 27-year-old advertising executive named Doli, repeating a version of an oft-heard conspiracy theory in which Washington secretly plotted to destroy Asian competitors. "America should not have let the rupiah keep dropping," he said, dismissing suggestions that Indonesia might bear some responsibility for the 80 percent plunge in its currency.
Indeed, throughout Asia these days, people talk about the I.M.F. as if it were a branch of the Clinton Administration, and as if it -- with Washington's connivance -- aspires to run the region today the way Gen. Douglas MacArthur ran it a half-century ago. Around Asia, one hears variants of the same lament: The fund is imposing too many conditions, often the wrong ones, and providing too little real financial support in Asia's moment of need.
Seven thousand miles away, on Capitol Hill, the I.M.F. is also a target of growing criticism -- but for exactly the opposite reasons. Here, the call is for far more American intrusiveness in I.M.F. programs, and a far smaller American contribution to solving Asia-style crises. At the extreme ends of both parties, there are calls to kill off the I.M.F. altogether. While that is hardly likely, Congress has the opportunity in the next few months to send a message that will be heard in markets around the globe. It will be debating the question of whether the United States should fulfill its commitment to provide $18 billion in additional contributions to the fund so that it can handle new outbreaks of the kind of the economic contagion that is still whipping through Asia. If Congress balks, few doubt that the rest of the world will, too.
Rarely in its 52-year history has the fund been under such concerted attack from so many quarters. Liberals complain that its actions in Asia chiefly benefit the likes of Citicorp and J. P. Morgan, to say nothing of Japan's biggest banks, often at the expense of workers -- both abroad and in the United States -- whose jobs are threatened by its policies. Conservatives say that the emergency help for South Korea, Indonesia and Thailand interferes with free markets, and that they undercut American jobs by encouraging the afflicted countries to export their way out of trouble. Many economists say the I.M.F.'s prescriptions are only making things worse, though because they are economists, they disagree forcefully on what prescriptions would make things better.
CAUGHT in the uncomfortable middle is Mr. Rubin. For three years, since the United States stepped in to rescue Mexico, he has been struggling to get nations around the world to prepare for future crises by bolstering their contributions to the I.M.F. and agreeing that international consortiums, not the United States, serve as the lender of last resort. In Asia, the I.M.F. has taken the lead -- with plenty of behind-the-scenes coaching from Mr. Rubin and his deputy, Lawrence H. Summers -- although the United States has committed several billion dollars in backup financing, called a "second line of defense," to South Korea and Indonesia. (None has been disbursed.)
The backup financing is chiefly an exercise in market psychology, intended to reassure investors that the United States is willing to play a big role in stabilizing markets. But that same act of symbolism only incenses many American lawmakers, who ask why taxpayers should bail out faraway nations. The Administration fears that the more it supplements the I.M.F., the greater the risk that Congress will pull the plug on contributions altogether.
The public case for deeper American participation was made by President Clinton in his State of the Union address on Tuesday, when he argued that a prosperous Asia would help American exporters. "These countries are our customers," he said, "and if Asia sinks into recession, they won't be able to buy the goods we'd like to sell them."
The private case, one of Mr. Clinton's top aides noted recently, will have to be made by Mr. Rubin. "Basically, it comes down to this," the aide said. "Bob is going to have to say: 'If the Asian meltdown comes to Wall Street, do you want the blame?' "
On the streets of Bangkok, Jakarta and Seoul, the I.M.F. era looks pretty grim -- and the popular sentiment, right or wrong, is that the I.M.F. is making it grimmer.
The search for a scapegoat is understandable: Economic activity has ground to a halt. The cranes towering over half-completed buildings don't move, and tens of thousands of workers who headed back to their hometowns last week for the end of Ramadan and the Chinese New Year have been told not to return. The Thai stock market, which had a market capitalization of $133 billion in 1993, the height of the Southeast Asian boom, is now worth about $22 billion. When it comes to buying overseas goods, Indonesia's currency buys 20 percent of what it did a few months ago. The crisis, in short, has hit the streets.
"Things are a lot worse than people expected, and they could get worse yet," said Teera Phutrakul, who runs an investment firm along one of Bangkok's busiest commercial streets. "That's because of a lot of bad decisions made here in Thailand. But now, along comes the I.M.F. to impose some discipline, and it's very, very politically convenient. The Government can say, 'We have no choice -- Michel Camdessus made us do this,' " he said, referring to the I.M.F.'s managing director.
In Thailand, though, Mr. Camdessus comes off a lot better than President Clinton and Mr. Rubin, whom many in the country's leadership contend were indifferent to Thailand's call for help last summer and only got serious about the Asian crisis when it began to sweep through the continent and around the world. "The Thais felt quite hurt that they saw no signs of support from the U.S.," Defense Secretary William S. Cohen said after returning from a recent tour through Asia. "It left some wounds" -- including some suggestions from Thai officials that they may not be so accommodating the next time the United States needs to move its military forces through Thai air bases.
The I.M.F. program in Thailand is typical of the institution's approach in Asia. Weak financial institutions are being closed down. Interest rates have been pushed up sharply, so that investors have an incentive to buy the local currency. To comply with the I.M.F.'s mandate against budget deficits, the Thais have cut their spending by roughly 30 percent, killing many social programs and public-works projects.
Financial firms are being required to use internationally accepted accounting procedures and to disclose far more data than they ever have before. The new rules are intended to expose the kind of under-the-table deals that have long fueled Asian economies while enriching the politically connected. Real regulation is being imposed, including bank supervisors who are supposed to make sure that money is being lent to sound projects, rather than to cronies.
But this new regime of openness in business, and a war on crony capitalism, requires a huge cultural change in the way Asia has always operated -- a change that is hard to impose from half a world away. And it carries with it a lecturing tone that is already stirring up a popular and political backlash.
The United States, of course, is celebrating any changes that move the Asian economies closer to the American model of capitalism and further from the Japanese model. But for ordinary people, the benefits of such a shift are difficult to see through the swirl of fleeing foreign money and plummeting currencies.
So it is hardly surprising that many Asians are seizing on criticisms of the I.M.F. Jeffrey D. Sachs, the Harvard economist who is a longtime critic of the fund, attracts more Asian reporters than a Hong Kong pop star when he shows up at conferences to make his case that the policies are only making matters worse. High interest rates and rampant bank closures, he says, have simply frozen economic activity. "Even healthy companies cannot get letters of credit to make the exports they need to generate revenue," he says. "Does this make sense?"
OTHER critics, however, say the problem is the I.M.F.'s inability to handle the huge overhang of private, dollar-denominated debt that local companies cannot pay back. In South Korea, this problem is being addressed through an accord with foreign banks that resulted in a tentative deal last week, but there has been no equivalent process in Thailand and Indonesia.
Still other I.M.F. critics, including George Soros, the international financier, say the real problem is the absence of global regulation of global markets. In their view, the international economic and financial order created in the aftermath of World War II, at the Bretton Woods Conference in New Hampshire, needs to be overhauled. That system, of which the I.M.F. and its sister institution, the World Bank, are central elements, worked well for most of the last half-century. But today, these people argue, it has been overwhelmed by 24-hour trading and needs to be updated so it can keep up with the terrifying speed at which money flows in and out of countries.
All of this has left the I.M.F. reeling. It has adjusted its programs slightly to quiet some of the criticism. But its defenders, including Mr. Rubin, say that while Asia is burning, no one should be reorganizing the fire department.
I.M.F. officials, meanwhile, are starting to answer their critics. "None of this will be easy," Stanley Fischer, the No. 2 official in the I.M.F., said in a speech last week. The currency depreciations, Mr. Fischer said, have not "occurred by I.M.F. design" and clearly have gone too far. But "without I.M.F. support as a part of an international effort to stabilize these economies, it is likely that these currencies would have lost still more of their value," he added.
Turning to Congressional critics -- whom he was careful not to name -- he said, "Simply letting the chips fall where they may would surely cause more bankruptcies, larger layoffs, deeper recession and even deeper depreciations than would otherwise be necessary to put these economies back on a sound footing."
THE I.M.F.'s troubles in Washington start with the conservative right in Congress, which has long mixed a suspicion of Wall Street and big banks with a streak of isolationism. To some on the right, the problem with the I.M.F. is not just the way it has dealt with the Asian crisis, but the institution's very existence.
Republican critics, like Senator Lauch Faircloth of North Carolina and Representative Ron Paul of Texas. say I.M.F. bailouts have proved ineffective and, worse, have distorted the workings of the free market.
They are a form of welfare for the rich, these skeptics contend, insulating banks and investors from losses they deserve to suffer for misjudging risks in overseas markets. Furthermore, the critics say, the rescue efforts sow the seeds of future disasters by reassuring lenders and investors that even if they repeat their mistakes, the fund will always be there to cushion the blow.
By this line of reasoning, the much-hailed Mexican bailout was actually a failure, encouraging investors to roll the dice again in Asia.
"The I.M.F. is welfare for the very rich investors, and serves only to keep afloat reckless political institutions which have policies that destroy their own economies," said Mr. Paul, once the Libertarian Party's candidate for President and perhaps the most vocal Congressional critic of the fund.
"The big bankers and investors quite correctly support the notion of less government and economic liberty when we talk about their profits, but when losses occur they are quick to call for the Government to socialize the burden," he said on Wednesday, introducing a bill calling for the United States to leave the fund.
While the Clinton Administration views Mr. Paul as the enemy, in private, some officials concede half his point. It is virtually impossible to salvage an ailing economy without also benefiting the banks and investors that poured cash into it. Before the Asian storm clouds turned into a typhoon, Mr. Rubin often raised alarms about the "moral hazard" of encouraging reckless investments.
EVEN now, Mr. Rubin takes pains to distance himself from saving big banks and burned investors. "I would not give one nickel to help any creditor or investor," he said recently, noting that the Asian crisis had hurt profits at J. P. Morgan, Chase and Citibank. But in the next breath, Mr. Rubin noted that the issue is "complex" because "any action to force investors and creditors involuntarily to take losses" would cause all investors to pull their money out of a country -- just at the moment that it needed fresh capital.
Conservatives, however, are hardly the I.M.F.'s only critics in Washington. Some liberals argue that the agency does not demand enough in the way of political and social changes in return for its aid. They want to make the assistance contingent on improvements in human rights, working conditions and environmental standards.
"The American people are going to be very skeptical of any plan to bail out international speculators and repressive regimes that simply encourages them to repeat the same pattern of abuse and excess all over again," said Representative David E. Bonior of Michigan, the Democratic whip. "We cannot support a bailout that imposes an economic stranglehold on working people, tramples democratic rights, ignores the underlying causes of instability and then asks the American taxpayer to foot the bill."
The I.M.F. is increasingly sensitive to the criticism that it is props up dictators. In Indonesia, it has forced the breakup of monopolies and an end to Government aid to business ventures run by President Suharto's family and friends. But it has steered clear of making political demands -- that Mr. Suharto, for example, lift the repression in East Timor, which was seized two decades ago. And it has not uttered a word about the delicate question of political succession, even though that is the central issue affecting Indonesia's economic future.
"We can attack crony capitalism," a senior I.M.F. official said. "But it's a stretch to make an economic case for an end to human-rights abuses, beyond urging 'good governance.' "
The Administration hopes to steer clear of these arguments in its effort to persuade Congress to approve $18 billion in new American contributions to the I.M.F. But members of both parties say the price it might have to pay is a severe restriction on its freedom to use the Exchange Stabilization Fund, a $40 billion American kitty for dealing with international currency crises. Now, the Administration can lend the money at its discretion -- just as it did to Mexico in 1995. That prompted Congress to impose a restriction on the use of the exchange stabilization fund that expired just as the Asian crisis broke. Legislation introduced last week would reimpose such a restriction, requiring Congressional approval for dipping into the fund for more than $250 million.
IF Congress worries that I.M.F. bailouts are out of control, Asia worries that Washington secretly runs the I.M.F. And despite Washington's denials, the Asian concerns are not exactly baseless.
The United States has the strongest voice within the fund, an 18 percent voting share, three times that of any other country and enough to wield a veto over major decisions by the fund's board. Moreover, it is often able to persuade other big industrial countries to vote with it, giving Washington a 40 percent voting bloc. Early in the Asian crisis, a senior Administration official boasted this fall, one phone call from Mr. Summers changed key conditions on the Thai bailout.
Still, American power is not absolute. The United States pushed the I.M.F. to provide additional financial aid to Russia two years ago to help prop up the Government of President Boris N. Yeltsin, but the agency's management refused, saying it had lent Russia all that its rules allowed.
Other countries have carved out their own spheres of influence. France considers development of French-speaking nations its prerogative, and Britain has championed an initiative to reduce the debt loads of poor nations.
But when a big crisis arises, the United States usually takes charge, as the fund's handling of the most recent crisis in Indonesia illustrated.
Last month, the United States and the fund worked together to send Mr. Camdessus, Mr. Summers, Defense Secretary Cohen and Mr. Fischer, the I.M.F. official, to Jakarta to pound home a crucial message to President Suharto. In a series of meetings over two days, they pressed upon the Indonesian leader the need to agree to tough terms for emergency loans -- and to implement them promptly.
I.M.F. officials said it was no accident that they all carried the same message to Jakarta -- a message that had also been backed up by phone calls from President Clinton to the Indonesian leader.
"We agreed there had to be a major effort," said a senior Fund official. "We had to get to Suharto, and we had to get him to realize the seriousness of the situation."
That message was put together in the White House at a meeting presided over by President Clinton, with Mr. Rubin, Mr. Summers and a range of State Department and National Security officials in attendance. Soon Mr. Suharto received calls from leaders around the world, politely telling him he had no choice.
"A remarkable coincidence of timing," a senior American official deadpanned during Mr. Summers' trip to Jakarta.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Suharto of Indonesia assented to I.M.F. demands under the gaze of Michel Camdessus, the fund's director general. A bank worker in Seoul, South Korea, protested austerity measures imposed as a condition of an I.M.F. loan. (Photograph by Naum Kazhdan/The New York Times)(pg. 1);Treasury Secretary Rubin finds himself caught in the middle of a debate on the International Monetary Fund. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. 9)
 
Charts: "Many Ailments, One Prescription"
The International Monetary Fund, typically working in concert with Washington and other Western capitals, has prescribed the tough medicine of austerity as the cure for one sick economy after another. Now the Fund is under attack on many fronts: in Congress, by economists, and on the streets of Asia.
 
CASE
Mexico, 1994-95
 
SYMPTOMS
Collapse of the peso amid rampant imports, dwindling foreign reserves and high inflation in an overheated economy.
 
PRESCRIPTION
Austerity, including a clampdown on credit and wages, in exchange for loans and guarantees led by the United States and backed up by the I.M.F. and other institutions.
 
CONSEQUENCES
Widespread bankruptcies. Massive job losses. Increased income inequality, poverty and social strife. But the peso stabilized relatively quickly, and within months Mexico regained the trust of foreign lenders.
 
CASE
Indonesia, 1997-98
 
SYMPTOMS
Collapse of the rupiah amid an explosion of foreign debt and a sharp stock market slide.
 
PRESCRIPTION
Austerity and economic restructuring -- including an end to special deals for businesses linked to President Suharto's family, the forced break-up of monopolies, the closure of failing banks and tight limits on government spending -- in exchange for billions in aid from the I.M.F., the United States and other industrial nations.
 
CONSEQUENCES
Remain to be seen. Analysts expect inflation, unemployment and bankruptcies to skyrocket. The military stands ready to put down social unrest as political opposition to Mr. Suharto begins to emerge. The I.M.F. projects a stagnant economy this year, but renewed growth in 1999. Meanwhile, the rupiah continues to fall.
 
CASE
South Korea, 1997-98
 
SYMPTOMS
Collapse of the won and the stock market under staggering foreign debt in a sheltered economy built on crony capitalism.
 
PRESCRIPTION
Austerity and economic restructuring -- including deep cuts in public spending, tight credit, markets thrown open to imports and foreign investment and the removal of government props for bloated conglomerates -- in return for the biggest I.M.F.-led bailout ever.
 
CONSEQUENCES
Remain to be seen. Growth is screeching to a halt, and analysts expect a boom in unemployment and bankruptcies. Social unrest remains possible, but the stock market has rebounded and the won has steadied. (pg. 1)
 
"A World of Troubles"
International Monetary Fund programs take a variety of forms, depending on the depths of a country's economic woes and its ability to repay loans. But hardly a corner of the world has gone without I.M.F. assistance in the last five years. World Map shows countries where the International Monetary Fund has intervened in the last five years.
 
Program A
Stand-by Arrangements
Cover periods of one to two years and focus on macro-economic policies, like monetary and exchange rates, though they can promote restructuring.
 
Program B
Extended Fund Facilities
Programs of three to four years intended to overcome balance-of-payments difficulties and restructure economies.
 
Programs C or D
Structural and Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facilities
Low-cost loan programs to support economic restructuring of low-income countries.
 
Letters below indicate the type of I.M.F. intervention in each country.
 

	1993	 	B	Peru	$1,398	A	Poland	654	B	Egypt	549	A	Hungary	467	A	Pakistan	365	A	Vietnam	199	A	Latvia	107	A	Czech Republic	106	D	Burkina Faso	73	D	Benin	71	A	Moldova	71	A	El Salvador	65	D	Kenya	62	D	Albania	58	D	Mongolia	56	D	Laos	48	A	Dominican Rep.	44	A	Kyrgyzstan	37	A	Lithuania	36	A	Costa Rica	29	D	Equatorial Guinea	18	A	Estonia	16		 	 		1994	 	B,D	Pakistan	$1,439	B	Philippines	1,155	A	Turkey	891	A	Algeria	667	D	Vietnam	529	D	Ivory Coast	487	A	Poland	487	A	Romania	468	B	Jordan	276	A,D	Senegal	260	A	Ecuador	254	A	Bulgaria	204	B	Lithuania	196	C,D	Sierra Leone	188	A	Kazakhstan	181	D	Uganda	176	D	Nicaragua	175	A	Slovakia	169	D	Bolivia	147	D	Kyrgyzstan	129	D	Cambodia	123	A	Cameroon	118	A	Croatia	95	D	Togo	95	D	Guyana	78	A	Gabon	56	A	Congo Republic	34	A	Niger	27	A	Chad	24	A	Central African Rep.	24	A	Malawi	22	A	Lesotho	12		 	 		1995	 	A	Mexico	$17,942	A	Russia	6,411	B	Algeria	1,738	A	Ukraine	1,482	C,D	Zambia	1,313	A	Pakistan	836	A	Belarus	292	A	Kazakhstan	276	D	Ghana	244	A	Uzbekistan	185	B	Gabon	164	A	Panama	125	A	Georgia	107	A	Papua New Guinea	106	A	Cameroon	100	A	Moldova	87	A	Azerbaijan	87	A	Costa Rica	77	D	Chad	74	D	Malawi	68	A	Armenia	65	D	Mauritania	64	A	El Salvador	56	A	Latvia	41	A	Macedonia	33	A	Haiti	30	A	Estonia	21	D	Guinea-Bissau	16	A	Lesotho	11		 	 		1996	 	B	Russia	$9,924	A	Venezuela	1,403	A	Argentina	1,035	A	Ukraine	860	A	Bulgaria	575	B	Kazakhstan	445	B	Peru	432	A	Egypt	390	A	Hungary	380	B	Jordan	342	D	Georgia	239	D	Tanzania	232	B,D	Azerbaijan	219	D	Kenya	215	B	Moldova	194	A	Yemen	190	D	Armenia	146	A	Uruguay	144	D	Haiti	131	D	Ethiopia	127	D	Madagascar	117	D	Mozambique	109	D	Congo Republic	100	D	Mali	89	D	Niger	83	D	Burkina Faso	57	A	Latvia	43	D	Benin	39	A	Tajikistan	22	A	Estonia	20	A	Lesotho	10	A	Djibouti	9		 	 		1997	 	A	S. Korea	$21,108	A	Indonesia	9,993	A	Thailand	3,949	B, D	Pakistan	1,549	A	Ukraine	543	A	Bulgaria	505	B,D	Yemen	505	B	Croatia	481	A	Romania	411	D	Cameroon	221	A	Uruguay	170	B	Panama	163	D	Uganda	137	D	Guinea	96	D	Macedonia	74	A	El Salvador	51	D	Mongolia	45	A	Latvia	45	A	Estonia	14	
 
Figures are for loans extended to each nation, in millions, including amounts added to a given program in later years. The full amount may not have been drawn down.
 
(Source: International Monetary Fund)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (96%); INDONESIA (94%); ESTONIA (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); LESOTHO (93%); UKRAINE (93%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); BULGARIA (93%); CAMEROON (93%); KAZAKHSTAN (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (93%); MEXICO (93%); THAILAND (93%); LATVIA (93%); AZERBAIJAN (92%); BURKINA FASO (92%); LITHUANIA (92%); GABON (92%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (92%); KYRGYZSTAN (92%); KENYA (92%); URUGUAY (92%); MALAWI (92%); UGANDA (92%); HAITI (92%); NIGER (92%); CROATIA (92%); ARMENIA (91%); JORDAN (90%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (79%); GHANA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); TAJIKISTAN (79%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); MAURITANIA (79%); ALBANIA (79%); ZAMBIA (79%); CENTRAL AFRICA (79%); BELARUS (79%); SLOVAKIA (79%); PAPUA NEW GUINEA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); TOGO (79%); EQUATORIAL GUINEA (79%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%); COTE D'IVOIRE (79%); SENEGAL (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); DJIBOUTI (79%); GUINEA-BISSAU (79%); MALI (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); MADAGASCAR (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (54%); 

CITY: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (71%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (68%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND F IS (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (99%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (99%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; UNITED STATES (97%); ASIA (96%); INDONESIA (94%); ESTONIA (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); LESOTHO (93%); UKRAINE (93%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); BULGARIA (93%); CAMEROON (93%); KAZAKHSTAN (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (93%); MEXICO (93%); THAILAND (93%); LATVIA (93%); AZERBAIJAN (92%); BURKINA FASO (92%); LITHUANIA (92%); GABON (92%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (92%); KYRGYZSTAN (92%); KENYA (92%); URUGUAY (92%); MALAWI (92%); UGANDA (92%); HAITI (92%); NIGER (92%); CROATIA (92%); ARMENIA (91%); JORDAN (90%); SIERRA LEONE (79%); LAO PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (79%); GHANA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); TAJIKISTAN (79%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); MAURITANIA (79%); ALBANIA (79%); ZAMBIA (79%); CENTRAL AFRICA (79%); BELARUS (79%); SLOVAKIA (79%); PAPUA NEW GUINEA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); TOGO (79%); EQUATORIAL GUINEA (79%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%); COTE D'IVOIRE (79%); SENEGAL (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); DJIBOUTI (79%); GUINEA-BISSAU (79%); MALI (79%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); MADAGASCAR (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (54%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (71%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (68%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID; CREDIT INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); TRENDS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (68%); LEGISLATION (64%); INTEREST RATES (55%); BUDGET DEFICITS (55%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; STEVENSON, RICHARD W; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1998



29 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 6; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: The Nation;
Read Between the Lines for a Partisan Message

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
PRESIDENT CLINTON used the word Democrat just once in his 74-minute State of the Union address last week -- exactly the same number of times he mentioned the word Republican. They were twinned in a sentence warning Saddam Hussein that the nation was united in demanding that he comply with United Nations weapons inspections.
But the term bipartisan appears eight times -- a none-too-subtle signal to the public that Mr. Clinton wants to put himself above the petty party brawling that preoccupies lesser politicians. 
 Despite the subliminal above-the-fray subtext, this year's State of the Union speech was a highly partisan document that laid a minefield for Republicans and shows how adept the President has become at casting an aggressively partisan message in the nonpartisan terms that are now the fashion of the day.
In the past the President made a Republican thunder-stealing proposal to put more police officers on the street. Last year, the President and his wife, Hillary, played host to a conference on child care at the White House.
In the State of the Union, Mr. Clinton proposed that any budget surplus be reserved for propping up Social Security, thereby setting a trap that Republicans will have difficulty evading.
Mr. Clinton has given himself a ready answer for virtually any Republican plan this year. A capital gains tax cut? Not until the nation's sacred pension fund is safe. More money for the military? Not this year. Roads and bridges? That's robbing the future.
 
A Beauty of a Plan
 The President also proposed $21 billion in new spending to hire 100,000 teachers and build new classrooms for the children of the baby boomers. He wants to expand Medicare to cover 55-to-64-year-olds who have lost their jobs or their health insurance. He proposed a bill of rights for the 150 million Americans who are members of managed health care plans.
Reform the Internal Revenue Service. Hike the minimum wage. Keep guns out of the hands of young criminals. Subsidize child care for working families. Support international efforts to salvage the Asian economies. Clamp down on smoking by teen-agers.
What's not to like?
The beauty of the President's plan is that all of his expensive programs are supposedly financed without increasing the deficit or drawing down the surplus, but not one dime is left for any Republican priorities. Of course, all this depends on a Republican Congress closing corporate tax loopholes that it has rejected several times before, and enacting a huge tobacco tax that is hypothetical at best.
Republicans complain that Mr. Clinton's program will cost $50 billion a year and predict that most of it will never pass. But every time they vote down an Administration proposal, Mr. Clinton will be able to mount the pulpit and decry it as an assault on children, moms, schoolteachers, laborers or poor granny in the nursing home. Demonizing the opposition worked wonders for Mr. Clinton two years ago when Republicans proposed a modest reduction in the rate of growth in Medicare spending.
"These things just torture the Republicans," Paul Begala, one of Mr. Clinton's top political advisers, said with glee. "They'll either pass them or they'll wish they had."
Mr. Begala noted that if Republicans vote with the President -- and four out of five Americans -- on tobacco taxes or gun control, they jeopardize two of their chief sources of funding, the cigarette companies and the National Rifle Association.
Mr. Begala also suggested that the Republicans' only other avenue of attack -- questions about Mr. Clinton's morals -- are unlikely to sway an electorate that appears to like his policies and continues to reward him with high approval ratings. After the State of the Union Speech, a CBS News poll recorded its highest approval of Mr. Clinton's Presidency -- 73 percent. For the moment, at least.
 
A Progressive Agenda
 The White House believes Mr. Clinton is on solid ground in advancing what is for them a broad "progressive" agenda; polls show that the public by a large margin believes that any budget surplus should be used to shore up Social Security and Medicare or to pay down the nation's $5 trillion long-term debt. White House polling shows that less than 15 percent of the public believes that across-the-board tax cuts are warranted now.
Taking a well-worn page from the Republican playbook in response to the President's message, Trent Lott, the Senate Majority Leader, said Mr. Clinton was proposing to take America back to the discredited era of Federal activism.
"The choice is between Big Government or families. More taxes or more freedom," Mr. Lott said, choosing starkly partisan terms at time when they are turning off the public.
The Republican consultant Kenneth M. Duberstein, who served as White House chief of staff in the Reagan Administration, tipped his hat to Mr. Clinton's clever political positioning. He said few of the President's programs would ever be enacted -- but that's not the point.
"He gave a very appealing, politically refined, poll-driven State of the Union address that trots out a lot of popular ideas to grow Government," Mr. Duberstein said.
"This is to provide aid and comfort to liberal Democrats in Congress who are up for re-election," he added. "This is a campaign document; it is not necessarily a governing manuscript."
Another factor is at work in the President's new embrace of old-fashioned Government activism. As the Monica Lewinsky sex-and-perjury scandal plays out, he is going to need all the support he can muster from party loyalists, whom he has often spurned in the past, as he staked out a centrist position. Mr. Clinton will need a core of Democratic support.
 
Rally Round
 Thus he endorsed Senator Edward M. Kennedy's call for an increase in the minimum wage and proposed an expensive program supported by Representative Richard A. Gephardt to aid workers displaced by foreign trade deals.
After all, it only takes 34 votes in the Senate to acquit a President in an impeachment trial.

GRAPHIC: Photos: For Republicans, the State of the Union address was a tactical challenge. From left, Representatives Gerald Solomon, Bill Archer and Peter King. President Clinton's supporters cheered his partisan message. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times; Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US); PUBLIC OPINION; ELECTION ISSUES; LAW AND LEGISLATION US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); HEALTH INSURANCE (87%); LAYOFFS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); DEFENSE SPENDING (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); INSPECTIONS (73%); ADOLESCENTS (73%); CHILDREN (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); FAMILY (72%); CHILD CARE (72%); BUDGETS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (71%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (70%); MEDICARE (68%); JUVENILE CRIME (68%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (68%); SMOKING (67%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (65%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (65%); TAX AUTHORITIES (65%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (63%); WAGES & SALARIES (62%); MINIMUM WAGE (62%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BRODER, JOHN M BILL CLINTON (93%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1998



30 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 14; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 358 words

HEADLINE: In a Reversal, More Blacks Are Moving To the South

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 31

 BODY:
Reversing a half-century exodus from the South, blacks are returning to the region in record numbers, attracted by an improved economy and a more hospitable racial climate, a new study says.
In the first half of the 1990's, the South gained 368,800 black residents, according to the study, while the Northeast lost 233,600 blacks, the Midwest 106,500 and the West 28,700. 
 "For the first time in any five-year period, the South saw net gains of black migrants from the Northeast, Midwest and West," said William H. Frey, a sociology professor at the University of Michigan and the report's author.
"Black professionals and blue-collar workers, as well as blacks who have retired, are reversing decades of migration from the South by moving to the South's economically vibrant rural and urban areas," Mr. Frey said.
The analysis appears in the February edition of "Population Today," published by the independent Population Reference Bureau in Washington.
"Certainly economics is important in migration, but the racial climate has also changed in the South," Mr. Frey said in a telephone interview. The black out-migration between 1910 and the late 1960's was largely a result of the South's hostile racial climate, coupled with the economic pull of Northern cities, he explained.
"Two things have changed since the 1970's: the deindustrialization in Northern manufacturing, the central cities, and the very different racial climate in the South," Mr. Frey said.
In the 1980's the South began to gain black migrants from the Northeast and Midwest, Mr. Frey said, and in the first half of this decade, as California's economy weakened, migration also occurred from the West.
"Most black migrants to the South are of working age, and about one-fifth are college graduates," Mr. Frey said, and they contributed to the growth of the black middle class in cities like Atlanta and Charlotte, N.C.
He reported that the South's population grew faster than any other region's from 1990 to 1996, registering 46 percent of the nation's total growth. In that period, 65 percent of the nation's black population growth occurred in the South.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (91%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: NORTHERN MANUFACTURING CO INC (54%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); POPULATION REFERENCE BUREAU (55%); POPULATION REFERENCE BUREAU (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); POPULATION REFERENCE BUREAU (55%); POPULATION REFERENCE BUREAU (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDWEST USA (91%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (74%); SOCIOLOGY (72%); WRITERS (69%); 

PERSON: FREY, WILLIAM H (PROF) WILLIAM H FREY (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1998



31 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 2; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1308 words

HEADLINE: Europe Envies America;
Now, Teen-Agers Turn to Crime

BYLINE: By ALAN COWELL 

DATELINE: BONN

 BODY:
IN Berlin, a youngster is robbed on the street by knife-wielding teen-agers who covet his designer-labeled American backpack. In London, a headmaster is stabbed to death by a pupil outside his school. In the Netherlands, a 30-year-old man is trampled to death by teen-agers because he tried to talk them out of tipping other people's motorcycles into a canal. In Strasbourg, France, young people are blamed for setting 100 cars afire last New Year's.
What has happened to Europe's youth? 
 Across much of the continent, governments, police and social workers are challenged by a phenomenon they have difficulty explaining, still less combatting: While overall crime figures are down, crimes by teen-agers are increasing relentlessly. They range from shoplifting to mugging and even to murder.
Embedded in this grim chronicle is a particular irony: the United States, long viewed by many Europeans as a criminal nesting ground, is cast increasingly as a potential model for crime control, thanks to policies like New York City's crackdown on minor offenses and California's life-imprisonment laws for three-time convicted felons. Those practices, Europeans believe, have begun to erase crime from the political agenda across the Atlantic.
While the street-chic of juvenile crime still looks to America for its basketball shoes, baseball hats and baggy pants, Europe's elders see other attractions: In the past few weeks, high officials from Paris and Frankfurt -- Germany's most violent city -- have traveled to New York to examine America's recipe for fighting crime.
This isn't to say, of course, that the actual crime figures for America and Europe have been reversed; however frightening Frankfurt's murder rate is for Germans, it is still only one-sixth the murder rate in New York, where 13.4 murders are committed each year for every 100,000 residents.
What disturbs Europeans, though, is the trend line -- a rise in crime among European youths at the very moment that violent crime among America's teen-agers has begun to drop a bit (even if the drop is far less than the drop in overall American crime). Throughout the 1990's, indeed, violent crime by young Germans has been running ahead of similar crime in the United States.
In 1993, according to German figures, violent crime among German teen-agers, measured by the number of youthful suspects per 100,000 people, was almost 50 percent higher than similar crime in the United States. And just last December, the French police reported a 14 percent leap in juvenile crime in 1996, adding to an 18 percent increase the year before.
Each of Western Europe's nations has its own dynamic, drawn from an explosive mix of racial tension, poverty, envy, drug abuse, broken families, unemployment and alienation. But beyond that there is a broader malaise: Europe is entering a "post" period -- post-welfare state, post-cold war, post-industrial society, post-baby boom.
The days when the middle classes, at least, could guarantee their offspring better, more prosperous times are over. And just as unemployment -- particularly among the young -- seems to have become endemic, slick advertising and peer pressure have come to exert enormous pressure to acquire the unaffordable and perishable icons of the consumption era: this season's sneakers, this month's CD. Why else would the single most prevalent crime among young people in Germany not be drugs but shoplifting?
 
Broken Pledges
 And the postwar years have left some of Europe's societies singularly ill-equipped to cope.
In Britain, schools designed in the heyday of the welfare state to provide every child with a solid education stand today as forlorn reminders of unredeemed pledges. According to British police figures released late last year, semiliterate school-age truants accounted for 40 percent of street crime in London.
In Italy, the judicial system is so broken that almost half the 50,000 people in prisons are awaiting final sentencing. Yet even there, the statistics show a near-doubling of juvenile convictions for violent crimes between 1991 and 1995.
In France, suburban housing projects in some cities have become known as the liberated zones of drug dealers, preying on the unemployed descendants of North African immigrants and the perennially jobless.
Yet the idea of a "three strikes and you're out" crackdown still causes misgivings, colliding with the stubborn sense that Western Europe should have more liberal values than America on how best to treat convicted criminals.
"The security wave breaking over Europe comes from America," the commentator Jean-Gabriel Fredet wrote in the French magazine Le Nouvel Observateur, arguing that prescriptions of mandatory harsh punishment contradict a traditional leftist view of the delinquent as the marginalized victim of "iniquitous" and "exclusive" consumer societies.
In Britain, where Tony Blair's New Labor party has promised a crackdown on juvenile crime, critics argue that America has overcome its crime problems only by creating a prison population of 1.6 million, which reflects a far higher incarceration rate than that of Britain, with a prison population of 60,000.
The politics of crime, of course, is never just about law-breaking. It is also about social values and political agendas: Cracking down on voteless youngsters scores points with an older electorate that feels threatened by rebellious youth. It is also about race.
When Manfred Kanther, Germany's hard-line Interior Minister, unveiled a nine-point plan for "Security Year 1998," much of it assumed that crime equaled illegal immigration. Cut down on unwanted foreigners, the argument went, and you will reduce crime. The idea, however, does not tally with the figures: According to Germany's own police, juvenile crime, which seemed to be on the retreat in the 1980's, is now increasing more rapidly among German citizens, particularly eastern Germans, than among foreigners.
It is in France that juvenile crime is most closely linked to postwar demographic shifts that have not only transformed housing projects into criminal ghettos but have also brought some Europeans up short against their histories: Once colonial powers, Britain and France seem to have failed singularly to absorb those former underlings who seek a new home in the mother country.
Much of the torching of cars in Strasbourg and other French cities is blamed by the authorities on disaffected young people of North African descent; not too long ago, Britain's top police official rekindled suspicions of police racism by bluntly stating that most of London's muggers were black.
 
Looking Abroad
 But does the leveling off in juvenile crime achieved in the United States mean that American get-tough policies are appropriate on this side of the Atlantic?
For some Europeans -- particularly in Germany with its memories of Nazi and Communist dictatorship -- the balance between civil liberty and public order may never be allowed to tip very far in favor of the police and prosecutors. And many cling to the notion that young criminals need crime prevention programs, personal help and rehabilitation as much as punishment.
In Odense, Denmark, crime fighters have instituted such far-reaching and intrusive cooperation between the police, social workers and government officials that crime-fighters routinely visit the parents of young people to warn them that their offspring might be on the brink of criminal associations.
After a visit to New York last month and a meeting with Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, Petra Roth, the mayor of Frankfurt, was asked if American practices could make the leap to Europe. "A lot is not transferable," she said, citing the idea that "the poorest and the weak" needed help more than punishment. "I'm going a European way," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Europe, teen-age crime is increasing. A young man is frisked in Hanover, Germany. (Eberhard Wedler/Action Press/Saba)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (99%); GERMANY (93%); FRANCE (93%); NETHERLANDS (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALSACE, FRANCE (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (90%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (57%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); PARIS, FRANCE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; NEW YORK CITY; CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (99%); GERMANY (93%); FRANCE (93%); NETHERLANDS (92%); WESTERN EUROPE (78%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALSACE, FRANCE (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (90%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (57%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); PARIS, FRANCE (57%); 

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS HOMICIDE (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); CRIME RATES (90%); VIOLENT CRIME (89%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (89%); MURDER (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (89%); CRIME STATISTICS (88%); TRENDS (88%); FELONIES (78%); ROBBERY (78%); DEATHS (77%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (76%); POLICE FORCES (75%); JUVENILE CRIME (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); SHOPLIFTING (70%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (69%); JAIL SENTENCING (69%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (66%); BASKETBALL (50%); 

PERSON: COWELL, ALAN

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1998



32 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1171 words

HEADLINE: DIARY

BYLINE: By David Rampe

 BODY:

DEALS
Another Goliath or Two
The upstart Compaq Computer has agreed to buy the declining Digital Equipment for $9.6 billion, the largest takeover ever in the computer industry. Compaq is the No. 1 maker of personal computers, and the deal marks the ascendancy of PC's over the behemoths that dominated computing in the 1970's. It also suggests that the future of the industry lies not only in small computers but also in networks of machines that span a full range of sizes, prices, scale and power, all linked together . . . SmithKline Beecham ended merger talks with American Home Products. It said its new partner would be Glaxo Wellcome; combined, they would be the world's biggest drug company. 

AT&T
Churchill's Lesson
AT&T, a little bloodied, has re-entered the ring. C. Michael Armstrong, right, its chairman since November, plans to cut 14 percent of the company's jobs, but has also announced plans to offer cheap phone calls over the Internet and wireless phones that will receive calls free. The company says it will spend billions to upgrade its communications network and to introduce a wireless phone with a battery that lasts eight days. The estimated 15,000 to 18,000 job cuts were described as important medicine for the company, which is still reeling from an onslaught of competition. In battle form, Mr. Armstrong recalled Churchill's view of early victories in Africa. "This is not the end," Mr. Armstrong said, paraphrasing the wartime leader. "This is not even the beginning of the end. It is perhaps the end of the beginning." (Article, page 5.)
 
ECONOMY
Fed Sees a Silver Lining
Asia's financial meltdown will soon be felt in the United States, Alan Greenspan has predicted. "Before spring is over," he said in testimony before Congress, tumbling currency values will cause "reductions in demand for our exports and intensified competition from imports." That points to a moderating of economic activity in the United States, and moderating doesn't bother the Fed chief a bit, because the economy is exceptionally healthy and a slowdown would squeeze out any risk of inflation derailing the seven-year-old expansion. The remarks left the strong impression that the Fed was likely to hold interest rates steady for months to come. In the fourth quarter, the economy grew at a 4.3 percent annual rate; growth for the full year was 3.8 percent, the best since 1988. Inflation registered its smallest yearly increase -- less than 2 percent -- in three decades.
 
MARKETS
Earnings Give a Lift
Wall Street cast off recent worries about Asia. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed to a new high during the week, as the markets drew confidence from solid fourth-quarter earnings at companies like Walt Disney and Ford and from the prospects for lower inflation. "Investors went back to the tried-and-true blue chips," said Robert Freedman of John Hancock Funds in Boston. The Dow Jones industrial average ended the week at 7,906.50, up 205.76 points for the week.
 
STATE OF THE UNION
Clinton Changes the Topic
President Clinton ignored the sex scandal that threatens his Administration when he addressed Congress in a 74-minute State of the Union address that proposed billions of dollars in new spending on popular programs. The money would come from closing unspecified tax loopholes and from tobacco taxes that are not certain to be enacted. With tax receipts already pouring in from the strong economy, Mr. Clinton asked that "every penny" of any budget surplus be reserved "until we have taken all the necessary measures to strengthen the Social Security system," rather than indulging in a free-for-all of new spending and tax cuts.
 
ASIAN CRISIS
Some Breathing Room
South Korean banks have won agreement to extend payment on $24 billion in short-term loans. The Seoul Government agreed to guarantee repayment of the loans, which have been the focus of intense concern because a failure to pay threatened to topple the country's damaged economy. Next Korea will need to sell a multibillion-dollar bond issue. Deutsche Bank, Germany's largest, has set aside $777 million to cover potentially soured loans in Asia -- the most yet by a Western bank as a cushion against possible defaults. "It is inevitable that other banks will follow," an analyst in London said.
 
JAPAN
Changing the Guard
Japan's Finance Minister, Hiroshi Mitsuzuka, right, and his department's top bureaucrat stepped down, unsettling the powerful ministry as it copes with a bribery scandal and tries to steer the nation out of an economic quagmire. Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto chose as Mr. Mitsuzuka's replacement a longtime legislator, Hikaru Matsunaga, who started his career as a public prosecutor. The other departing official, Vice Finance Minister Takeshi Komura, may have had more influence on Japan's economic life than anyone else in the country, even the Prime Minister.
 
UNDER INVESTIGATION
Media Secrets
Federal prosecutors are investigating whether an American unit of Reuters commissioned computer specialists to steal confidential information from Bloomberg's corporate computers. At issue is whether Reuters obtained pieces of Bloomberg's computer operating code, the backbone that governs how the company's data terminals work. The two companies -- by far the largest in the financial-terminals business -- have been battling for investment institution customers. Reuters said it was cooperating with the inquiry.
 
AIRLINES
Fight for Dominance
Northwest beat a bid by Delta to get control of Continental, creating a giant airline network to compete with the country's biggest carriers, United and American. Northwest and Continental plan to maintain separate identities and managements, but they will merge flight schedules. The deal may usher in new consolidations, as small carriers form alliances to compete against strong national and international ventures. (Article, page 11.)
 
SUPERSELLERS
Grisham Time, Again
If bookstores somehow missed out on the Christmas bounty, they get a second chance next Wednesday. That is when the ninth John Grisham novel comes out, with 2.5 million hardcover copies landing at chains, small shops, supermarkets and airports. The new opus, "The Street Lawyer," will get a big marketing push from Doubleday to further stoke interest. Full-page ads will print half the book's first chapter and offer the rest via E-mail. Mr. Grisham is a brand name, and virtually review-proof. The latest plot concerns a young lawyer and a homeless man.
 
GREEN TREE
Never Mind the Bonus
Green Tree Financial, a big lender for mobile homes and a high-flier on Wall Street, is encountering stormy weather. It is restating its reported earnings following a change in its accounting methods and is taking charges totaling $390 million against the value of some asset-backed securities. The stock has plunged and the chairman, Lawrence M. Coss, is being forced to repay part of his whopping $102 million bonus for 1996.

GRAPHIC: Photos: C. Michael Armstrong (Reuters); President Bill Clinton (Agence France-Presse); Hiroshi Mitsuzuka (Agence France-Presse)
 
Graphs show daily closes of Green Tree Financial (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets); Consumer Price Index and Gross Domestic Product, 1996 and '97. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Drawing (Tom Bloom)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (57%); PFE (NYSE) (57%); DIS (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (57%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (57%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (57%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (57%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (50%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (50%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (50%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (92%); AFRICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: PFIZER INC (57%); AMERICAN HOME PRODUCTS HOLDINGS PLC (57%); WALT DISNEY CO (50%); ECONOMY FED (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMY FED (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (92%); AFRICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); COMPUTER MAKERS (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); COMPANY EARNINGS (86%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); MERGERS (78%); LAYOFFS (75%); INTERNET TELEPHONY (74%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (60%); INTEREST RATES (60%); CURRENCIES (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (59%); ALAN GREENSPAN (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1998



33 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 8; Page 11; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 799 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times;
Fairness and Riding a Golf Cart

BYLINE: By IRA BERKOW 

 BODY:
I WAS all for Casey Martin's losing his case and not being allowed to ride a cart in PGA tournaments -- until 1964.
I was all for Martin, who has circulatory problems in his right leg that hinder his walking, to be defeated in his lawsuit against the PGA in his trial that begins tomorrow in Eugene, Ore. -- until that dramatic, scorching 98-degree last day in the United States Open at the Congressional Country Club in Washington in 1964. 
 The most stirring golf story of fortitude and stamina is generally told about Ken Venturi's victory in the Open in 1964. As Arthur Daley wrote in this newspaper about that event: "The slim little guy in the white linen cap looked wilted and worn. In the blistering heat . . . he walked with the leaden steps of an old man, the strength sapped from him. He had virtually collapsed after the morning round and a physician accompanied him on the final tour of the course, watching with anxiety.
"Some inner force kept driving Ken Venturi onward until he had reached his date with destiny."
The greatest argument, espoused recently by such golfing deities as Arnold Palmer and Jack Nicklaus, against Martin's using a golf cart in tournaments is that stamina is a major part of golf; sometimes a golfer has to walk as many as five miles and up and down hills.
Venturi had struggled mightily to complete the day's final rounds, which were then a single-day 36-hole conclusion.
The following year, the PGA decided to break that test of stamina into two days of 18 holes each. It did so because television wished it, for commercial purposes. "The stamina has been removed," Daley wrote in 1965. "Only the skill remains."
While Palmer and Nicklaus disagree -- and, apparently, Venturi does, too, since he will be testifying for the PGA with the other two -- the Congressional began to put a different slant on things.
In recent years, some equipment changes in golf have also made a difference in the play. The Big Berthas, for example, the metal clubs that have added some 30 yards to many players' drives. It has made players of all sizes hit longer without cranking up, and expending the kind of energy they needed when using hickory-shaft clubs, or even the graphite cudgel. And it contributes to lesser players hitting straighter.
The P.G.A. Championship was also changed, from match play to medal play, because of the demands of television.
An argument is that all these changes were across the board, and all players were equal because they were playing the same number of holes on the same days, and they could use whatever clubs they wanted to use.
In turning down the PGA's request to dismiss the lawsuit, and sending it to court for trial, Tom Coffin, the Federal magistrate, said that the PGA Tour is a public entity and that under the Federal Americans With Disabilities Act it must provide reasonable accommodations for someone with a permanent disability. Golf courses during tournaments, he said, are "places of public accommodations" as defined by the disabilities act.
Coffin added: "What is the PGA Tour? It is an organization formed to provide and operate tournaments for the economic benefit of its members. It is part of the entertainment industry, just as all professional sports are."
His reasoning here isn't compelling. After all, when talking about professional golfers, one speaks of self-employed businessmen, not amateur performers. And what is most important is the level playing field -- even if it is one, in this instance, with hillocks and valleys. But that doesn't go to the heart of the issue, which is this: Does use of a cart change the nature of the game of golf?
No one is certain. But some presume, and heavyweight golfers like Nicklaus and Palmer must be respected, that the physically disadvantaged Martin would have a golfing advantage.
Others presume that Martin would have a golfing disadvantage, because walking loosens up the body for the next shot, instead of riding in a carriage that stiffens the limbs.
But rule changes have transformed most sports. Tennis is not the same since the oversized racquet. Baseball is not the same since the designated hitter and artificial grass. Football is not the same since receivers can wear gloves.
Yes, yes, say the critics, but it's fair for everyone. One player using a cart is a different story.
With that the case, then, as Marie Antoinette might have said, let them all ride in carts if they wish.
As for the PGA Tour executives upholding the bastion of tradition in the Royal and Ancient Game, it should exclude Casey Martin only when the true test of stamina -- 36 holes on the final day of competition -- is returned.
Which will be never, because the PGA takes its marching orders -- a felicitous phrase, no? -- from television.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ken Venturi's stamina was on the wane during his victory in the 1964 United States Open. (Associated Press); Casey Martin, right, and his playing partner, Ben Bates, heading for the green during the first round of the Nike South Florida Classic on Jan. 15. (Gary I. Rothstein for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: EUGENE, OR, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: PROFESSIONAL GOLF ASSOCIATION (PGA) P G I (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: PROFESSIONAL GOLF ASSOCIATION (PGA)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); OREGON, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); EUGENE, OR, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: GOLF; HANDICAPPED; SUITS AND LITIGATION; GOLF CARTS GOLF (93%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); LITIGATION (89%); ATHLETES (78%); WALKING & JOGGING (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); SPORTS (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION (75%); 

PERSON: MARTIN, CASEY; BERKOW, IRA ARNOLD DANIEL PALMER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1998



34 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: Florida Tomato Pickers Take On Growers

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO 

DATELINE: IMMOKALEE, Fla.

 BODY:
Jose Rocillo, who first came here from Mexico in 1981 to do farm work and at 67 still picks tomatoes, can look around this town of migrant workers these days and say that things are better. The streets are cleaner, he says, and there is less crime.
But financially, Mr. Rocillo is caught in a time warp. Seventeen years ago he made 45 cents for each bucket of tomatoes he picked; now he makes 35 cents. He used to save and send money back home, he says, but now the pay, less than $10,000 a year, is barely enough to live on. 
 "Things are more expensive and the job pays less," Mr. Rocillo said recently as he sat on a rock drinking juice at the store parking lot where buses let out workers whose shirts were stained with the green of tomato at the end of the workday. "You make enough to eat poorly."
The plight of about 2,500 nonunionized tomato pickers here -- mostly Haitian, Mexican and Guatemalan immigrants -- is similar to that of other farm laborers in the nation whose wages, in real or inflation-adjusted terms, have fallen over the last two decades. But in this, the second-largest tomato-growing area in Florida, the state that produces nearly half of the nation's winter tomato crop, workers seeking higher wages are staging work stoppages and hunger strikes, and meeting with public officials and concerned residents to call attention to what they see more as a human rights issue than a pay dispute.
In mid-January, former President Jimmy Carter, whose Carter Center in Atlanta is devoted to resolving conflicts, added his voice to that of Gov. Lawton Chiles and Roman Catholic church officials who have urged a dialogue between growers and workers.
Mr. Carter's intervention ended a 30-day hunger strike by six workers, but the growers have yet to respond to demands for discussions. So far the 10 tomato companies that operate here have maintained through their trade association that their wages compare favorably with those of growers around the country, and they contend that they are going through hard times because of increased competition from Mexican tomato growers under the North American Free Trade Agreement.
The Florida Fruit and Vegetable Association, which represents the farmers, estimated that foreign competition had forced more than half of Florida's tomato farms out of business in the last five years, shrinking the industry to 80 farms from 200. Only since 1995, when a settlement agreement set a minimum price for Mexican imports so that domestic growers could remain competitive, has the industry gained some stability, the companies say.
"Farms are holding on in a very tight competitive market," said Ray Gilmer, a spokesman for the group. "Volume out of Mexico remains very high. The only farms that are able to survive are the very large farms that can achieve economies of scale."
But good times and bad times in farming have made no difference to those at the lowest rung. Agricultural economists and some surveys have found that over the last two decades the wages of the nation's more than two million farm workers have declined, some by 20 percent or more, after accounting for inflation. They attribute the decline to factors like a surplus of workers and the diminishing clout of labor unions. Also, it is estimated that 40 percent of agricultural workers are in the United States illegally and are thus easier to exploit.
Immokalee, a town of about 20,000 people in southwest Florida with one of the biggest and poorest labor reserves in the state, sits in sharp contrast near wealthy municipalities like Naples. Tomato pickers in Immokalee say all production costs have gone up except their pay, with growers covering their higher costs by saving on pickers.
Depending on the time of the picking season, which runs from September to May, workers can make as much as $100 a day or as little as $30, they say, but by year's end most of them average a salary of $8,000 to $10,000, well below the poverty level of $13,300 for a family of three. That is enough for a life style of crowded housing conditions, often in trailers, with no telephone, no car and no meat on the table most days. There are no health, vacation or pension benefits, either.
Pressing their case through the Coalition of Immokalee Workers, a grass-roots group with about 750members, the tomato pickers are seeking an average raise of 20 cents a bucket, to 60 cents, which they say would have a negligible impact on tomato prices. They also want to end a practice called "day and a dime," which pays a flat wage for the day plus 10 cents per 32-pound bucket picked. Coalition members say that the system encourages workers to pick more but that at the end of the day it pays less than the piece rate.
"Our focus is to restore our salary to the equivalent of what it was 20 years ago -- that's 20 cents more per bucket," said Lucas Benitez, 22, a former picker who now works for the coalition. "We're not asking for an increase or any benefits."
Last year 2,000 workers signed cards supporting the coalition's call for a raise. In December, 700 to 1,000 workers participated in three one-day strikes, a calibrated action that is used sparingly because most workers cannot afford to miss a day's pay. But only one grower has even acknowledged the workers' request to meet.
That grower, Gargiulo Inc., one of the biggest, agreed to raise the pay per bucket by 10 cents, to 50 cents over the next year, an action the coalition says shows that its salary demand is one growers can afford. Gargiulo and other tomato growers in the area contacted for comment did not return telephone calls.
Mr. Gilmer, of the growers' group, said a recent survey of tomato growers in the area showed workers making $6 to $12 an hour, with the average worker making $8 to $9 -- higher than the national average for farm workers of $7.31. But coalition members counter that the figures are inflated and that the implied annual salary, more than $16,000 for a 40-hour week, 52 weeks a year, is not representative because picking is not a regular job. If the growers wanted to pay workers an annual salary, the coalition says, pickers would gladly accept less, like $15,000.
Greg Asbed, a coalition staff member, said: "You can work anywhere from one to seven days a week, for two to ten hours in a day, due to weather conditions, crop conditions and availability of labor. But there's still an unspoken contract between growers and workers, which is, 'You be there every day even if I don't have work for you.' What needs to be done is to make it a viable occupation by increasing the wage for when they do work."
The coalition, which has some victories to its credit, including exposing harsh working conditions and dissuading a company from lowering wages by staging a five-day strike in 1995, plans to step up actions with more hunger strikes, boycotts and even union organizing if the growers continue to ignore them. The pickers are also planning to send a delegation to Washington to meet with members of Congress and the Department of Labor.
Workers like Mr. Rocillo support the coalition's work -- he participated in two of the work stoppages -- but harbor no hope of a better life. In the end, he said, "the ones that rule are the companies."
After trying his luck in the Carolinas picking cucumbers and earning even less because of rains and the small size of the crop, Mr. Rocillo is staying put and plans to work "as long as the body takes it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tomato pickers in Immokalee, Fla., are hoping to make 20 cents more a bucket than they do now. The average picker makes less than $10,000 a year, advocates say. But the workers have begun to press their case. "You make enough to eat poorly," said Jose Rocillo, 67, a picker. (Photographs by Phillipe Diederich for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (96%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA; IMMOKALEE (FLA); UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GUATEMALA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (96%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; HUNGER STRIKES; TOMATOES; MIGRANT LABOR; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS FARM LABOR (94%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); MIGRANT WORKERS (90%); MISC VEGETABLE FARMING (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); STRIKES (77%); IMMIGRATION (73%); RIOTS (72%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (69%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (64%); RELIGION (63%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (54%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (53%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); 

PERSON: NAVARRO, MIREYA JIMMY CARTER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1998



35 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-13
 
Britain to Press Case Against Iraq at U.N.
After talks with Madeleine K. Albright, Britain's Foreign Secretary said he would ask for a Security Council resolution to find Saddam Hussein "in breach of his obligations." The request could be made this week and would precede any military attack on Iraq. It may be coupled with an expansion of the oil-for-food program. 6
 
In the Persian Gulf, American commanders said they were preparing to receive possible reinforcements, including strike aircraft. 4 

Ties on Iran's President
Iran's president, Mohammad Khatami, is by far the most popular man in Iran. But just a few months after his election, he is surrounded by extraordinary obstacles. He lacks a knowledge of economic affairs, and is without a political apparatus. He is confronted by powerful enemies, and the constitution gives supreme authority to another ayatollah. 1
 
Asian Crisis Is U.S. Opening
Asia's financial crisis may well result in a greatly expanded American business presence in Asia. Experts say the Americans may find an open door in banking and other areas. 1
 
Landmark Suit for Texaco
Ecuadoreans say Texaco left behind a $1 billion trail of environmental damage, and they are trying to collect in American courts. The case would be a landmark if they win. 12
 
Pinochet Keeps His Grip
Gen. Augusto Pinochet, Chile's longtime dictator, was to retire as army commander. Now he is balking, to the dismay of the elected Government, because of a lawsuit asking to deny him the title Senator for Life. 3
 
NATIONAL 14-22
 
The Clinton Story: Blurring the Boundaries
For almost two weeks, newspapers and news shows have been dominated by the story of accusations that President Clinton had a sexual relationship with a former White House intern. The story, which has been rife with sensational elements, appears to many in journalism to have blurred the boundaries between mainstream and tabloid news. 1
 
Democrats who only days ago feared that the White House sex scandal would cripple their candidates in a midterm election year now say that, to their amazement, the crisis may be galvanizing party loyalists and bolstering efforts to raise money. 1
 
The lawyer for the former White House intern Monica S. Lewinsky has conceded that his client sometimes embellishes the truth and disputed some of the more sensational second-hand accounts of her relationship with the President. 18
 
The upheaval swirling around the President has brought his original team of loyalists back to the lunch spots of power in Washington. And where a subpoena was once a Scarlet S to be borne in shame, it is now so common that the bonds among the victims of Kenneth W. Starr, the independent counsel, are almost worthy of a support group. 18
 
Truckers Find Old-Time Religion
With close to six million truck drivers in the United States and Canada, truckers' chapels are growing. 1
 
Ailment Strikes Bald Eagles
Since 1994, 59 bald eagles have died at DeGray Lake and Lakes Ouachita and Lake Hamilton in Arkansas in what Federal wildlife officials say is the deadliest plague in the history of human observation of the birds. 14
 
NEW YORK/REGION 23-29
 
CUNY Standards Raised
While Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has been attacking the City University of New York for admitting unprepared students to its community colleges, some of the system's senior colleges have been quietly raising their admissions criteria over the last two years. 23
 
Concerns at Veterans Hospitals
More than two dozen controversial cases have raised serious questions about the medical care and management at two veterans hospitals in the Hudson Valley. 23
 
A Gracious Culture Clash
For more than 30 years Gracious Home has helped the Upper East Side remain, well, gracious. Now, the sprawling housewares and hardware store's plan to expand to the Upper West Side is fomenting something of a culture clash. 26
 
NEEDIEST CASES 29
 
OBITUARIES 30-31
 
Carl Gorman
A Navajo artist who valiantly talked his way through some of the fiercest fighting of World War II as one of 400 Navajo code talkers used by the United States Marines. He was 90. 31
 
TV Update 29
 
Weather 30

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); ASIA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CHILE (79%); GULF STATES (78%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (77%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY (55%); AMERICAN BUSINESS ADVERTISING (55%); AMERICAN BUSINESS MACHINES (55%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); ASIA (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); CANADA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CHILE (79%); GULF STATES (78%); INDIAN OCEAN (77%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); TRUCK DRIVERS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); ARMIES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); ELECTIONS (75%); LAWYERS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); SEX SCANDALS (73%); SUBPOENAS (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (67%); SCANDALS (67%); LITIGATION (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (51%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1998



36 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 8; Page 5; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1299 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL: NOTEBOOK;
Could It Be? The Red Sox and the Cubs in the 1998 World Series? Nah.

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS 

 BODY:
Think of how the fans of the Boston Red Sox and the Chicago Cubs must have felt last October when the fledgling Florida Marlins won the World Series in only their fifth year of existence. Hardly a Red Sox fan is alive who was there when the team last won a World Series. That was 1918, and the team the Red Sox beat was the Cubs, whose adoring but masochistic fans have waited in vain since 1908 for another championship.
To their credit, the 1998 descendants of those distant winners have gone about their business in a manner opposite the champion Marlins. They have actually tried to put together teams that can win. 
 Can the Red Sox and the Cubs win it all? The instant answer to that question is of course not. Why should this year be any different from all of the others that have been played since they last won the World Series? All right, forget the World Series for the moment. Can the Red Sox and the Cubs win their division titles? Considering the circumstances in their respective divisions, it is not beyond the realm of possibility.
First, the moves the teams have made this winter.
The Red Sox have made the biggest splash of the off season, trading for Pedro Martinez, the National League Cy Young award winner, then making him the highest-paid player in baseball history. They also added Dennis Eckersley, who can still get batters out in the ninth inning.
The Red Sox, who finished 20 games out of first place last season, had to do something with their pitching staff. Theirs was one of the American League's worst last season, struggling with a 4.85 earned run average. In contrast, Martinez breezed through the National League with a 1.90 e.r.a.
Martinez will not be a one-man staff, but he will be the anchor of the rotation, just as Eckersley figures to be the closer. Tom Gordon, who was moved into that role last season after the Red Sox traded Heathcliff Slocumb, wants to continue as the closer, but the Red Sox didn't sign Eckersley to be a setup man.
As important as adding the pitchers, the Red Sox began making peace in the family last week by completing a four-year, $25 million contract with John Valentin. Ousted as the team's shortstop a year ago, Valentin had wanted to be traded and had expected the Red Sox to want to trade him, but he's happy now and hopes that the club can make peace, too, with Mo Vaughn, his fellow Seton Hall star and infield mate.
First baseman Vaughn has a contract for this year, so he will continue to be an imposing force in the Boston lineup. But Valentin knows that a contract extension would make Vaughn happy, too, and could only bode well for the team's chances.
Despite a report that quoted General Manager Dan Duquette as saying the two sides had agreed to financial terms but not length, Tom Reich, Vaughn's agent, said there has been no agreement on anything.
"The only sure thing," Reich said, "is Mo cares plenty for Boston. We haven't talked for two months about this contract and nothing was ever resolved. When it broke off, there had been no components agreed to. I wouldn't be surprised if there weren't some discussions in the near future because it's still where Mo wants to be."
A happy Vaughn and Valentin are important to the Red Sox because they are key parts of the offense that was one of the league's best last season.
The Cubs have apparently grown tired of being lovable losers. They have gone out this winter and shaken up the team that finished not only last in its division, but also tied for the National League's worst won-lost record. They haven't made the kind of economically dramatic moves the Marlins made a year ago, but they have been busy.
With Ryne Sandberg retiring a second time, presumably for good, the Cubs acquired Mickey Morandini from Philadelphia to play second base, and they have installed a new shortstop as well, Jeff Blauser, who brings with him the Atlanta experience of six successive post-season appearances.
Two other newcomers are heavy hitters. Henry Rodriguez, the new left fielder, hit 62 home runs and drove in 186 runs the last two seasons. Rod Beck, the new closer, has amassed the second most saves in the major leagues the last five years.
The Cubs play in a division that has no apparently dominant team. The defending champion Houston Astros suffered a major loss when Darryl Kile, their No. 1 pitcher, fled to Colorado. The St. Louis Cardinals have been viewed as the division's best team on paper, but not even Manager Tony La Russa is predicting a first-place finish this year. The division has a new team, the Milwaukee Brewers, but no self-respecting N.L. franchise is going to allow an American League defector to win the division title in its first year.
The Red Sox will have tougher division rivals to deal with, particularly the Yankees and the Baltimore Orioles. But the Yankees right now have half an infield manned by Luis Sojo and Scott Brosius, while the Orioles have lost their closer, Randy Myers, and their winning manager, Davey Johnson.
Should the Red Sox and the Cubs reach the playoffs, could they meet in the World Series? Get serious.
 
Still Available: Mark Lemke
 Pitching has been the key to the Atlanta Braves' six-year run of post-season appearances, but once they reached those October games, they often found Mark Lemke getting a big hit or driving in a critical run. Now, after eight years, Lemke is no longer Atlanta's second baseman.
He is a free agent, and he is one of the few free agents still seeking a job. Of the 138 players who filed for free agency last November, only 10 continue to look for jobs. "We're talking to a lot of teams right now, waiting for the right situation," Lonnie Cooper, Lemke's agent, said. "We've had some serious discussions with some teams, but nothing has reached the point of being formal. It only takes only one club and one offer. A few teams are waiting for certain things to happen."
In other words, Lemke's immediate future could depend on if, when and to whom the Minnesota Twins trade Chuck Knoblauch.
The Yankees, Cooper said, are not a possibility for Lemke. "Right now, they're pretty pleased with their roster," the agent said.
 
Mightier Than Jordan
 Two years ago yesterday, Ken Griffey Jr. became the highest-paid player in baseball ($8.5 million a year). Now he doesn't even make the top 10. In fact, if Bernie Williams wins his salary arbitration case with the Yankees, the top 10 will consist entirely of players who earn $9 million or more a year.
Griffey, however, can claim a distinction not many athletes can: he outdid Michael Jordan. In the recently completed balloting for the National Basketball Association All-Star Game, Jordan led all players with 1,028,235 votes, a paltry sum compared with the 3,514,340 votes Junior received in last season's baseball All-Star election.
But Griffey didn't just outpoll Jordan; he received more votes than were cast in the entire N.B.A. voting. That total was 3.3 million, less than one-third of baseball's 1997 total of 10.65 million.
 
Rose Shadows Shoeless Joe
 The latest attempt to have Shoeless Joe Jackson removed from baseball's ineligible list so that he can be voted into the Hall of Fame would have a greater chance of success if Pete Rose were not also on the ineligible list. If baseball's executive council cleared Jackson, Rose and his supporters would use that move to hound baseball to do the same for him, and the cases are not the same.
Hall of Fame officials, on the other hand, are being disingenuous by saying the matter is out of their hands because their rules do not permit entry by a player on the ineligible list. They changed the rule to its present reading to keep Rose off the writers' ballot, and if they so desired, they could change it back.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Boston re-signed infielder John Valentin to a four-year contract last week. Outfielder Henry Rodriguez was acquired by the Cubs in a trade with the Montreal Expos. (Photographs by Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (59%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (88%); QUEBEC, CANADA (59%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (59%); 

COMPANY: BOSTON RED SOX; CHICAGO CUBS CHICAGO CUBS (94%); BOSTON RED SOX (94%); BOSTON RED SOX (94%); FLORIDA MARLINS (90%); FLORIDA MARLINS (90%); MONTREAL EXPOS (59%); MONTREAL EXPOS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX; CHICAGO CUBS CHICAGO CUBS (94%); BOSTON RED SOX (94%); BOSTON RED SOX (94%); FLORIDA MARLINS (90%); FLORIDA MARLINS (90%); MONTREAL EXPOS (59%); MONTREAL EXPOS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (59%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (88%); QUEBEC, CANADA (59%); BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (59%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL BASEBALL (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); ATHLETES (76%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY JOHN VALENTIN (63%); PEDRO MARTINEZ (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1998



37 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 2291 words

HEADLINE: Worsening Financial Flu in Asia Lowers Immunity to U.S. Business

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Jan. 31

 BODY:
Picture Mom, Dad and the kids in an upper-middle-class Asian family in 10 years' time:
After loading up with cash at the corner Citibank, they drive off to Walmart and fill the trunk of their Ford with the likes of Fritos and Snickers. On the way home, they stop at the American-owned Cineplex to catch the latest Disney movie, paying with their Visa card. In the evening, after putting the kids to bed, Mom and Dad argue furiously about whether to invest in a Fidelity mutual fund or in a life insurance policy issued by American International Group. 
There's only one way to settle the dispute: they stalk off to sign on to their respective America Online and Dow Jones accounts, each to gather evidence of the other's stupidity.
Well, it may not happen exactly like that, except in the dreams of the United States Commerce Department. But many experts believe that one of the most far-reaching consequences of the Asian financial crisis will be a greatly expanded American business presence in Asia -- particularly in markets like banking that have historically been sensitive and often closed.
"This is a crisis, but it is also a tremendous opportunity for the U.S.," said Muthiah Alagappa, a Malaysian scholar at the East-West Center in Honolulu. "This strengthens the position of American companies in Asia."
Market pressures -- principally desperation for cash -- and some arm-twisting by the United States and the International Monetary Fund mean that Western companies are gaining entry to previously closed Asian markets.
And the timing, from the United States' point of view, is perfect: regulations are being eased just as Asian banks, securities firms, even airlines are coming on the market at bargain prices.
As a result, while American companies are hurting now because of the turbulence in Asia, American banks and insurance companies and others could eventually emerge as beneficiaries of the crisis.
"Most of these countries are going to go through a deep and dark tunnel," said Jeffrey Garten, dean of the Yale School of Management. "But on the other end there is going to be a significantly different Asia, and it will be an Asia in which American firms have achieved much deeper penetration, much greater access."
"You would have seen a lot of this anyway over the next decade or so," Mr. Garten added. "But it's going to happen at an order of magnitude and with a degree of speed that nobody could have conceived of just six months ago."
Still, it will take time for American companies to build their presence, and no one knows how they will do in unfamiliar markets. Moreover, even if they thrive, this may not do much for the American trade accounts or for American employment, for the Fords sold in Asia will be mostly made in Asia, and virtually all of the bank and insurance company staff will be local as well.
One central question is whether an increasing American presence will spark antagonism toward the United States, which is seen as pushing its commercial interests as the price for throwing a lifeline to Asian economies.
The United States insists that the main beneficiaries of open markets will be local residents -- who will probably get new kinds of insurance and banks that offer better service. But the changes may set off alarm bells about economic colonialism.
"All our stocks and companies are dirt-cheap," said Jusuf Wanandi, the head of a research institute in Jakarta, Indonesia. "There may be a tendency for foreigners to take over everything." Perceptions that this is happening, Mr. Wanandi warned, could lead to a "new nationalism."
And now the gates are giving way.
 
Early Evidence Of Asian Acquiescence
Among the most important beneficiaries as Asian markets open are the American financial service companies, especially those like Citibank that have already been building their presence in Asia.
Opportunities are also expected for industrial companies like General Motors or large retailers like Walmart that operate in sectors where barriers to entry have been common. All these companies, whether banks or other businesses, bring superb technology and cost-control procedures to the new markets, but they will be hampered by lack of local experience.
"There is a place for everyone," said Emilio T. Antonio, director of the Institute for Economic Policy Research at the University of Asia and the Pacific in the Philippines. "Local firms know the market much better than foreign firms, and so they may have an advantage in some areas."
"Look at fast food here in the Philippines," he added. "There is a local firm, Jolibee, that went head-to-head with McDonald's, and Jolibee seems to be doing better. So foreign firms have an edge in some areas, but they won't take everything."
Asian countries have been steadily opening their economies in recent years, but they have generally been much more willing to admit McDonald's than Citibank. Governments in the region have sometimes owned banks and almost always controlled them, and leaders frequently regarded pinstriped American bankers as uncontrollable, untrustworthy and unpredictable barbarians at their gates.
A clear indication that the Asian crisis would further the American agenda came in December, when 102 nations agreed to open their financial markets to foreign companies beginning in 1999. It is unclear how the pact will be carried out, but it marks an important victory for the United States, which excels in banking, insurance and securities.
Fundamentally, that agreement and other changes are coming about because Asian countries, their economies gasping, are now less single-minded in their concern about maintaining control. Desperate for cash, they are less able to pick and choose, less able to withstand American or monetary fund demands that they open up. More broadly, in some countries there is a disgust at the old corporate oligopolies and a movement for free competition.
In South Korea, as a direct result of the crisis, the Government is talking about selling two of the biggest banks to foreigners, and teetering local securities firms are searching for foreign takeovers. Under an agreement with the monetary fund, foreign banks will be able to compete in Korea beginning this year, and the Government is considering ways to ease the restrictions that prevent foreigners from buying Korean land. Walmart is studying whether to open outlets in the country.
In Thailand, under pressure from the I.M.F., the Government was forced to scrap a regulation that limited foreign corporations to a 25 percent stake in financial companies. Citibank has signed a memorandum of understanding on the purchase of a major bank, First Bangkok City Bank. Thai Government officials have predicted that foreign companies will soon dominate Thailand's financial sector.
Indonesia has said foreign banks can take a stake in a new bank that will be formed from several weaker, smaller ones. The national car project is also losing key benefits, which effectively opens up the auto market to foreign competition.
Almost two weeks ago Hong Kong, already the most open market in Asia, resolved an 18-month domestic negotiation by announcing the end of a local company's monopoly on long-distance telephone service. The result will be virtually complete liberalization of the territory's telecommunications market.
As for Japan, it agreed on Friday to a landmark package, resisted for many years, to liberalize air travel links to the United States. The aviation agreement will mean more opportunities for American airlines, which are much more efficient than their Japanese rivals.
In the financial arena, Merrill Lynch is talking about buying part of the branch network of Yamaichi Securities, a Japanese giant that collapsed in November. In December, Fidelity Investments opened counters in Japanese banks to sell mutual funds to Japanese customers, and foreign companies succeeded last year in doubling the amount of Japanese money that they manage, to a total of more than $20 billion.
This activity in Japan does not all arise directly from the Asian financial crisis, and the aviation accord had been under discussion for years. But the new moves do reflect Japan's long economic downturn and a growing sentiment within Japan that, at least in theory, the way to restore growth is to open markets and foster greater competition.
One consequence of that changing mood is the "big bang" opening of Japan's financial markets, beginning April 1, which is intended to reinvigorate the national economy. The big bang is expected to create new opportunities for American and European banks and securities firms.
"I agree with the big bang," said a Japanese banker, "but I'm not so sure about the timing. I'm worried that the American banks will come in and take over everything."
 
U.S. Apples in Japan: No Barrel Spoilers
It may be instructive to recall the similar gloom when American apples were first admitted to Japan three years ago. Despite predictions that cheap American apples would wipe out Japanese apple farmers, it turned out that many Japanese consumers did not much like American apples. So American apples have gained an important presence in Japan, but the market is still dominated by Japanese apples.
Still, American banks and securities firms have some major advantages over their Thai, Indonesian and even Japanese counterparts; it may be that in a decade American banks will be almost as common in Asia as McDonald's. American financial institutions are well served by their technology, product range, marketing skills and ruthless efficiency.
"Asian financial institutions are out of date for the present task," said Masaru Yoshitomi, a prominent Japanese economist at the Long Term Credit Bank Research Institute. "The efficiency of those Asian institutions has to be increased."
In Tokyo, for example, Citibank has gained customers in part because it is the only major bank whose cash machines operate all the time. Other banks' cash machines are turned off at night.
In addition, with domestic financial institutions crashing left and right, these days consumers have much more faith in the solvency of international banks.
The United States Government insists that it is not a predatory beast forcing its companies on Asia, and many officials and outside economists alike argue that the policies of greater openness advocated by Washington are good for the countries on the receiving end. Although Washington pushed for more open markets, American officials say, that effort has been secondary to the effort to bail those countries out.
"Narrow self-interest was not a major element in our approach," said Stephen Bosworth, the American Ambassador to South Korea. "I think the driving force of our approach to the region has been that we believe that the best thing that can happen for American economic interests is to be dealing with strong, healthy economies in Asia."
Not everyone is so confident of American motives. A United States business expansion in Asia has long been regarded as a nightmare by nationalists in the region. Thus, for some nations trying to preserve their identity and autonomy, the American market-opening pressures smack of economic colonialism.
"We must realize the great danger facing our country," Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad of Malaysia declared in a televised speech a few days ago. "If we are not careful we will be recolonized."
 
No to American Shoves, Yes to Globalization
 Still, at least for now, much of Asia seems to accept the growing presence of Western financial institutions as an inevitable consequence of globalization. Mr. Yoshitomi, the Japanese economist, said that although the United States had been "stupid and colonial-style" in pushing its interests during the crisis, the new opportunities for American banks were primarily the result of economic factors, not of American shoves.
"It's already taking place, and it's a quite clear trend," Mr. Yoshitomi said of the increasing presence in Asia of American banks. "It's a result of the economic crisis and of market forces."
Even in Korea, which has often been deeply suspicious of United States trade intentions, there is surprisingly broad acceptance of the opening of financial markets as a reflection of broad market forces and not just American machinations.
"We think the entry of U.S. banks and other financial institutions into Korea is just a sign of the times," said Choo Won Suh, chairman of the Korea Federation of Bank and Financial Labor Unions, although he is clearly apprehensive.
"I hope that U.S. banks that acquire Korean banks will respect the culture and practices of Korean banks," he said. "I cannot speculate on how many Korean bank workers may be laid off after being taken over by a U.S. bank, and I am aware of the fact that layoffs will occur."
While most analysts agree that Western companies will have historic opportunities, some say the question is whether they will be aggressive about seizing them.
Asia is now being buffeted by turbulence, with its political and economic prospects profoundly uncertain. And Western companies are cautious about announcing major investments in countries that could still declare a formal debt moratorium or erupt in riots.
A result is that American companies are apprehensive about investing in Asia, just when some specialists emphasize the bargains to be had. Stock prices and currencies have now plunged so far that it may cost less than one-fifth last summer's prices to buy an Indonesian or Thai company.
"This is the best time," said Divyang Shah, an economist in Singapore for IDEA, a financial consulting company. "It's like a fire sale."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Western companies are gaining entry to previously closed Asian markets. A familiar logo on a Seoul street signals a new Korean accord with the International Monetary Fund to open competition to American banks. (Paul Barker for The New York Times)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (84%); AIG (NYSE) (71%); 8685 (TSE) (71%); CGX (TSX) (57%); AOL (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (71%); NAICS512131 MOTION PICTURE THEATERS (EXCEPT DRIVE-INS) (57%); SIC7832 MOTION PICTURE THEATERS, EXCEPT DRIVE-IN (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (56%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (97%); MALAYSIA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (73%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (79%); 

CITY: HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (84%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (71%); CINEPLEX INC (57%); DOW JONES & CO INC (56%); AOL INC (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); EAST-WEST CENTER (54%); EAST-WEST CENTER (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%); EAST-WEST CENTER (54%); EAST-WEST CENTER (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (97%); MALAYSIA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (73%); HAWAII, USA (79%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BANKS AND BANKING; INSURANCE; MULTINATIONAL COMPANIES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TRENDS (78%); LIFE INSURANCE (75%); INSURANCE (75%); MUTUAL FUNDS (75%); INSURANCE POLICIES (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (70%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); 

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1998



38 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 159 words

HEADLINE: Schools Aren't Factories, Pupils Aren't Products;
Bonuses to Families

 BODY:

To the Editor:
As well meaning as the New York City Partnership and Chamber of Commerce's plan is to supplement salaries to superintendents, principals and teachers if they are able to raise student academic performance, it is good money in a wrong place (front page, Jan. 27). 
 The home is the most effective environment to develop children's interest in reading and learning. Therefore, bonuses should be given to families whose children's academic performance improves to standard levels. This is an economic incentive to families, particularly those at the lower economic level, and could be a catalyst for more parent involvement in their children's education.
Such a program would be more costly than the $30 million proposed by the partnership, but it would require fewer remedial teachers and security people in future years and would result in fewer disciplinary problems.
 
BERNARD SCHARFSTEIN
Hoboken, N.J., Jan. 28, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; BONUSES; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; TESTS AND TESTING STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); FAMILY (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (88%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: SCHARFSTEIN, BERNARD

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1998



39 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: Britain to Urge U.N. to Find Iraq in Violation of Arms Terms

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Sunday, Feb. 1

 BODY:
Stressing that Britain and the United States are united in their commitment "to prevent a brutal dictator from acquiring weapons of mass destruction," Britain is seeking a Security Council resolution to find Saddam Hussein "in breach of his obligations" to the Council, Foreign Secretary Robin Cook said in London on Saturday.
After a meeting with Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright, Mr. Cook suggested that such a resolution -- which could be introduced next week and would come before any military attack on Iraq -- might be coupled with an expansion of the oil-for-food program. 
 Under that plan, Iraqi oil is sold to buy food, medicine and other relief items needed by ordinary Iraqis.
"The objective is to find as tough a resolution as is possible making it clear that Saddam Hussein is in breach of his obligations and the authority of the Security Council is on the line here," Mr. Cook said.
Ms. Albright met with British officials before traveling here for talks on the Middle East peace effort.
While the United States and Britain say they need no further authority for an attack, such a resolution could provide additional legal and international support.
Among the permanent members of the Security Council, the United States and Britain most strongly support a military option. France has moved closer to that position while Russia, which has sent envoys to Baghdad, and China have pressed for continued diplomatic efforts.
At the same time, Mr. Cook said, in views similar to those expressed by French officials, it is important to demonstrate that the world is confronting Mr. Hussein's intransigence over United Nations weapons inspections and not trying to punish ordinary Iraqis.
President Jacques Chirac of France, while supporting the American view that force might be necessary as a last resort, has proposed quadrupling the oil-for-food program to allow $4 billion worth of oil to be sold every three months.
While repeating the American view that the time is fast running out for diplomacy, Ms. Albright said the United States supported the idea of a resolution, and said Washington had proposed the oil-for-food program in the first place.
"It shows we care more for the Iraqi people than Saddam Hussein does himself," she said. "There is not a civilized person in the world who would use women and children as human shields."
A unified statement from the Security Council condemning Iraq could be useful, Ms. Albright said.
"We would welcome such an act," she said, "because I do think it's important to send the strongest possible signal to Saddam Hussein that he is in breach and in contravention to the will of the international community."
But she also said the United States would be prepared to act alone, if necessary, to try to force President Hussein to allow United Nations weapons inspectors to do their job in Iraq without conditions.
If they are not allowed to do that job, American officials have said, the United States and Britain will try to destroy as many of the suspected weapons sites as possible and damage Mr. Hussein's "ability to threaten his neighbors."
Both Mr. Cook and Ms. Albright said they preferred a diplomatic solution that would let United Nations inspectors continue their work.
With Iraq's nuclear program essentially dismantled and its ballistic missile program nearly so, Mr. Cook said, "it is very important that we not leave the job half done," and insure that Iraq's chemical and biological warfare programs are also destroyed.
How that can be accomplished if an attack on Iraq causes Mr. Hussein to expel United Nations inspectors is not clear.
But American officials say that Mr. Hussein is not letting them do their jobs now in any case, and that if diplomacy is not working, force or the threat of force might.
Mr. Cook suggested that his meeting with Ms. Albright was "part of intense efforts to find a diplomatic resolution to the current crisis."
But Mr. Hussein cannot be allowed to continue to produce enough anthrax every week for two warheads and to produce VX nerve gas "on an industrial scale," Mr. Cook said.
"The best prospect of a diplomatic solution," he said, "is to leave Saddam Hussein in no doubt about our resolve to win this struggle, and that all options remain open to us."
Mr. Hussein has about two weeks to ponder his options, Mr. Cook said.
"We've been at diplomacy for several months," Ms. Albright said, "and it looks as though diplomacy is not working, and that is the basic issue and problem."
While the United States is content for others, like the British, French and Russians, to take the lead now diplomatically, she said, "there is no doubt in my mind that the time for diplomacy is fast expiring."
After arriving in Jerusalem Saturday evening, Ms. Albright spent about four and a half hours with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu over dinner.
Most of the discussion was on the stalled Israeli-Palestinian peace process, but she also briefed the Israelis on the Iraq crisis, said her spokesman, James P. Rubin.
Dinner broke up at 1:30 this morning, and Ms. Albright canceled a planned press conference and went to bed.
American officials traveling with Ms. Albright said her meetings were a follow-up to the Washington sessions President Clinton held with Mr. Netanyahu on Jan. 20 and Mr. Arafat on Jan. 22.
The Americans are proposing a phased withdrawal of Israeli troops from a portion of the West Bank in parallel with specific Palestinian moves to improve their fight against terrorism and their security cooperation with Israel.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Foreign Secretary Robin Cook and Madeleine K. Albright met yesterday in London, and said the Iraq crisis was deepening quickly. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); FRANCE (86%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (95%); FRANCE (86%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (78%); INSPECTIONS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (70%); 

PERSON: COOK, ROBIN (SEC); ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (SEC); ERLANGER, STEVEN; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); JACQUES CHIRAC (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1998



40 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1421 words

HEADLINE: Flushing Out the Foul And the Frustration;
A New Vista for a Dead-End Canal

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN 

 BODY:
For more than 35 years, as Cobble Hill, Park Slope, and other Brooklyn neighborhoods of brownstone and old brick have revived, a mile-long corridor through the middle of the area has continued to crumble, collect weeds and drive people away.
The dead zone extends for several blocks along the banks of the malodorous Gowanus Canal, a dead-end waterway -- nicknamed "Perfume Creek" and "Lavender Lake" by nearby residents -- that was carved in the 1860's to drain swamps and provide a passage for barges but that today serves mainly as a catch basin for sewage when rainstorms overwhelm treatment plants. 
 Now the canal is due for a big flush.
An 87-year-old pump and a long-forgotten brick tunnel that can funnel relatively clean water from New York Harbor through the stagnant canal have been repaired after lying unused since the early 1960's.
By June, city environmental officials expect to complete the last step in the $10 million project: clearing 2,000 tons of pollution-tainted mud from the spot where the tunnel meets the canal.
The pump, powered by a 12-foot-diameter bronze propeller, will begin to churn, sending up to 300 million gallons of oxygen-rich water coursing along the waterway every day, reviving the ecology, and possibly reviving prospects for the long-suffering neighborhoods around it.
After decades of skepticism that anything would be done to clean the Gowanus, community groups and business owners along its banks are talking seriously of renewal, even of canal-side coffee bars, bird-watching and kayaking.
No one expects an instant transformation. The new flow of water will only dilute, not eliminate, pollution. Sewers will still overflow into the canal after heavy rains.
But George Magnifico, who owns an electronics company on the banks of the canal, said he might finally achieve a long-delayed dream: piloting his 48-foot powerboat, the Elegant Annie, from his Long Island home to work. "Once that flow starts, the Gowanus Canal is going to become the Gowanus River," Mr. Magnifico said. "This would be a great place to keep my boat. I could see a marina over here really easily. I can see people fishing."
Some residents of the Gowanus neighborhood are reviving dreams of a Brooklyn-style variant of Venice. Chief among them is Salvatore Scotto, a lifelong resident.
"It's been agonizingly slow, but we are going forward," said Mr. Scotto, a founder of the Gowanus Canal Community Development Corporation, a private group seeking to build housing and bring new businesses to the canal corridor. He has been hearing promises of a canal cleanup from City Hall since the administration of Mayor John V. Lindsay.
At the turn of the century, the canal bustled with barge and tug traffic, but its waters were insufferably fouled by sewage, oil and industrial pollution.
Around 1910, city sanitation engineers traveled to Milwaukee and Chicago to examine pumping systems that flushed polluted waterways.
For just under $1 million, the city carved a 6,300-foot tunnel through the sandy underpinnings of Red Hook and Carroll Gardens, creating a brick-lined conduit linking the harbor with the canal's end. A salvaged ship's propeller driven by an electric motor could run forward or backward, flushing the canal in either direction, synchronized with the tides.
The "flushing tunnel" was turned on with much fanfare on June 21, 1911, with parades of boats and automobiles celebrating the prospect of fresh air and clean water.
But in the 1960's, the shaft driving the propeller broke. It was never fixed because city engineers concluded that a sewage treatment plant planned for Red Hook would eliminate the infamous aroma of the Gowanus once and for all by capturing contaminants before they spilled into the waterway.
But even after the treatment plant opened in 1987, the canal remained a smelly backwater. City officials say that that should change in June, when the pump should begin pulling water from the harbor 24 hours a day and sending it coursing through the canal.
For some residents, half a lifetime has come and gone as they have sought to transform abandoned lots, truck graveyards and warehouses along the waterway.
Many sidewalks along the canal remain cratered and cracked, discouraging all but the most determined dog walkers. At one vacant lot recently, the only activity was in an overturned van, where several homeless people had encamped.
A few businesses have moved in, like Mr. Magnifico's company, Amtronics, which builds small parts for electronic appliances and employs 65 people. But the canal has always been a detriment.
Mr. Magnifico said he has explained to prospective employees, as they eyed the opaque water, that the canal was due for a change. But the change has never come.
The water is cleaner than it was 25 years ago, when scientists detected organisms that cause typhoid and cholera. But on hot summer days after a rain, residents and city officials say, the smell is the same.
Mr. Scotto said the city never took the canal cleanup seriously because officials were always focused on reviving industrial activity rather than parks or bike paths.
"New York City never learned to use its waterways for people," Mr. Scotto said. "Maybe they're finally beginning to understand that the Industrial Revolution is over."
Officials of the City Department of Environmental Protection said that the repairs to the pump and tunnel were delayed by a variety of factors, including a prolonged search for a contractor able to build a new propeller for the flushing system.
The city also had to comply with a complicated array of state and Federal environmental regulations covering dredging and the discharge of pollution into coastal waters like New York Harbor.
The flow in the canal and in Gowanus Bay, the inlet where the water re-enters the harbor, will be tested for a year to be certain that no pollutants trapped in the canal's silty bottom are stirred up.
Some environmental groups and some residents remain concerned that the pumping program will not eliminate the core problem causing the smells -- the occasional release of raw sewage into the canal every time the city sewers become overburdened with runoff from storms.
Mr. Scotto's organization has called for construction of underground tanks to capture sewage overflows before they enter the canal. But city officials said that would be far too costly.
Some environmental groups also say that the amount of monitoring of the resurgent canal is insufficient, with no checks planned for bacteria or other harmful organisms or chemicals.
Past tests of mud from the canal bottom have found lead and other harmful heavy metals, more than 10 kinds of insecticides, high levels of PCB's -- an industrial chemical that is suspected of causing cancer -- and harmful sulfides produced when sewage decomposes.
Other groups have urged that the entire waterway be dredged, to remove decades of toxic deposits and to make the canal more fit for boat traffic. But as with the rest of the harbor, there is still no consensus on how to deal with contaminated mud.
Over all, in an informal survey of some New York City environmental groups, it was hard to find anyone totally opposed to reactivating the pump. John C. Muir, the executive director of the Brooklyn Center for the Urban Environment, a private group, said: "Should they not turn it on? I'd be the most unpopular man in Brooklyn if I said that. No one wants that. We've waited far too long for clean water.
"The Gowanus is the back of beyond as far as the waterfront goes," said Mr. Muir, a distant relative of the naturalist John Muir, who founded the Sierra Club. "It's not only been a hidden secret, it's been a dirty secret."
Even with the canal in its current condition, with oxygen so rare that no fish can live in the water, trees still take root in the oil-soaked banks, Mr. Muir said. With a new pulse of harbor water starting this summer, he said, "the birds and fish will return." And soon after, he predicted, the canal will be reclaimed by people in nearby neighborhoods, where the only park, Carroll Park, is primarily asphalt.
Mr. Scotto's group has counted 250,000 people residing within a short walk of the canal, many of whom are eager for space to walk and for untainted air to breathe.
"Clean it and they will come," Mr. Muir said. "My favorite image is of a row of willow trees with their fronds trailing in the water showing the current passing. It could really happen."

GRAPHIC: Photos: John C. Muir, director of the Brooklyn Center for the Urban Environment, checks a water sample from the canal. (John Sotomayor/The New York Times); The Gowanus Canal, seen from Hamilton Avenue, is lined by moribund industrial sites. Manhattan is in the background. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times); Barges rimmed the Gowanus Canal in 1940, when it was an active waterway. (Brooklyn Public Library)
 
Diagram: "After 30 Years, Cleaning Up A Smelly Blight"
Cleaner water will soon flow into the end of the Gowanus Canal, in Brooklyn, flushing it out after more than 30 years. A tunnel, long out of order, will be opened in June to let water flow from New York Harbor into the canal. Map of Brooklyn shows the Gowanus Bay and the Flushing tunnel.
 
1. INSTALLATION OF PROPELLER
The water will be pulled by a new propeller. The original, from a ship, broke down in the early 1960's and was never fixed.
 
2. DREDGING
To let the water flow from the tunnel, 2,000 tons of mud and sewage will be removed.
 
3. TUNNEL OPENING
After dredging, the artificial current coming from the tunnel will let water circulate through its 1.2-mile length.
 
PUMP MOTOR
A 400-horse- power motor drives the propeller.
 
FLUSHING TUNNEL
The tunnel, constructed in 1910, will draw 300 million gallons of water a day from New York Harbor into the canal.
 
During heavy rainstorms, runoff from sewers in the area goes into the canal. The clean water flowing from the flushing tunnel will wash the waste water out.
 
(Sources: Hazen and Sawyer; New York Department of Environmental Protection.)(pg. 28)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: GOWANUS CANAL COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT CORP (81%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; GOWANUS CANAL (NYC); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: WATER POLLUTION; ODORS; PUMPS; BRIDGES AND TUNNELS WATER POLLUTION (90%); RIVERS (90%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (78%); BOATING & RAFTING (76%); MARINE VESSELS (76%); MAYORS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (73%); CITIES (72%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (71%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (67%); ELECTRONICS (64%); BIRDING (50%); 

PERSON: REVKIN, ANDREW C GEORGE MAGNIFICO (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1998



41 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 2894 words

HEADLINE: BENEATH THE TURBAN: A special report.;
Mullah Who Charmed Iran Is Struggling to Change It

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO 

DATELINE: TEHERAN, Iran

 BODY:
The mullah wore beautiful shoes.
Simple, elegant black leather shoes with laces, not the rough slippers favored by Iran's ruling class of clerics. 
 The shoes complemented the crisp gray pin-striped robe and matching black cloak and turban. So did the string of small turquoise-colored prayer beads that he dangled in his left hand.
During a recent chance encounter with an American guest in the glittery presidential compound, President Mohammad Khatami was radiant, even regal. As is the custom between Iranian Shiite clerics and women who are not close family members, he did not shake hands.
But unlike the late Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, the leader of Iran's revolution of 1979, and his successor, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who sat far away and turned their gaze from this visitor during interviews years ago, Mr. Khatami smiled broadly and looked straight at his guest in an armchair close by.
The 54-year-old cleric spoke passionately about the need for women's advancement and for communication among cultures. He showed off his English, saying that he reads it better than he speaks and that he reads a lot.
"We say we love all the people in the world and we want them to love us in return," he said. "Resentments should be turned into kindness and love."
All-we-need-is-love may not be enough. Granted, Mr. Khatami is by far the most popular man in Iran, a soft-spoken, speed-reading, Internet-literate leader who has dared to say that many revolutionary policies must change.
But five months after taking office, he is finding extraordinary obstacles as he moves within the constraints of the Islamic Republic in which he believes. He admits that he knows little about the economy, whose direction is determined by a five-year plan that he inherited. He lacks a political apparatus or party to give cohesion to his goals. He is confronted by powerful political enemies who are determined to deprive him of the power to shape policy and to reach out to the United States.
Most crucial, under Iran's Constitution Ayatollah Khamenei, the "Supreme Leader" of the Islamic Republic, is more important than the President, with control over the armed forces, the judiciary and the security, intelligence and broadcasting services. On many issues, the two men have sharply different views.
And in the eyes of the Clinton Administration, Mr. Khatami has yet to prove he has the power or the will to curb groups and individuals engaged in activities the United States defines as terrorism and in programs to develop nuclear, chemical and biological weapons and a ballistic missile capability.
He has yet to articulate his view on Ayatollah Khomeini's decree that the British writer Salman Rushdie insulted the prophet Mohammed in a novel and should be put to death.
"More than at any time in our revolution we need a person like Mr. Khatami," said Ezzatollah Sahabi, a layman who was a member of Iran's ruling Revolutionary Council early in the revolution and now runs an opposition magazine. "He has tremendous popular support, but it is not organized. The other side has all the power. He is under tremendous pressure."
 
The Early Years
Envied Upbringing In a Clerical Family
Behind a wall in the small, dusty village of Ardakan in central Iran is the spacious mud-colored house with a stone terrace where Mohammad Khatami was born. His mother, the daughter of a wealthy landowner, was only 15 when she married his father, a learned ayatollah who became the leader of Friday Prayers in the provincial capital, Yazd, and one of the country's most beloved religious leaders.
Sitting in the house in Yazd where she lives with one of her daughters, the President's mother, 77-year-old Sakineh Ziai, tells this story: Years before the revolution, the security police summoned Ayatollah Khatami for questioning. "But as he entered all the people bowed to him and kissed his hand," she said, laughing. "The authorities told him to go home."
The Khatami family lived an exceptionally comfortable life for a clerical family. In addition to the large residence in the center of town, they owned a summer house a few miles away with a lush garden of pomegranate trees and an enormous, deep concrete pool -- for water storage, but, more important, for swimming.
"We had no restrictions on anything," said Maryam Khatami, the President's 48-year-old sister, who is a schoolteacher in Yazd. "We could spend as much as we wanted."
Still, the Khatami children were encouraged to earn their own money, said Ali Khatami, 44, the President's brother, a businessman who lived in Fort Lee, N.J., for a year and a half while he was getting his master's degree in industrial engineering. "We made good money on the pomegranates," he said.
Unlike other clerics, Ayatollah Khatami allowed his family to listen to the radio (the news, not the music) and to read -- poetry, novels, newspapers, even books banned by other clerics.
As a child, Mohammad Khatami talked about becoming a doctor. But it was clear his father wanted him to become a cleric.
He went to Qom when he was a teen-ager to study religion; but when he wanted to study philosophy as well, his father sent him to the best university in the field, in Isfahan. It was there he was exposed to Western ideals of freedom and civic responsibility could be incorporated into Islam. He also became a disciple of a firebrand preacher named Ayatollah Khomeini.
Although some clerics avoided the military, Mr. Khatami fulfilled his two-year mandatory military service as a junior lieutenant in the Shah's army. "He looked at the military as an education he should have," said his sister Fatimeh, 60, a women's rights advocate for Ardakan. "It wasn't considered support for the Shah."
As was the custom in religious families, his marriage was arranged by his family, recalled his wife, Zohreh Sadeghi, 48.
The First Lady is an articulate woman, the daughter of a famous professor of religious law. Seated in an armchair in the sumptuous Pink Palace, which used to belong to Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlevi, she opened her head-to-toe chador to reveal a printed head scarf, tinted brown hair and a black tailored jacket with white piping. She was wearing a heavy layer of foundation and a hint of blush.
"My father went and spoke to him and then he came to our house," she recalled, giggling. "I met him just once before we married. I do not remember how long our meeting was, but it was longer than 10 minutes. I fell in love at first sight." Two months later, they were married.
Mr. Khatami played only a peripheral role in the revolution. As the head of Iran's cultural center in Hamburg, he organized Iranian students studying abroad and wrote leaflets in opposition to the Shah, learning German along the way.
Although he briefly served as head of a publishing house and was elected to the first Parliament after the revolution, it was only after he was appointed Minister of Islamic Guidance and Culture in 1982 that he earned a national reputation for easing restrictions on films, music, art and literature.
During that decade, he was obsessed by his work. "In comparison with other fathers I can say he never in his life had enough time to be with his children," said his daughter Leila, 22, a mathematics major in Teheran and the oldest of his three children.
But he was not strong enough to prevail, and in 1992 the Parliament forced him to resign. In an impassioned resignation letter, he complained of threats and ill will and called the "creation of "a superior culture" a "weighty responsibility" that, he said, had become impossible for him.
"He did what he had to do," said his sister Zahra Khatami, 32, a schoolteacher in Yazd. "When he felt he couldn't continue, he resigned."
He was banished to the National Library in Teheran and faded from public view. He developed a passion for the Internet, envisioning a time when Iranians in remote villages could log on to the information contained within the library walls.
He also wrote two books. In one, "Fear of the Wave," he proclaims Islam superior to Western thought, but acknowledges that the West offers something "that is one of the basic needs of human beings: freedom." Because of this freedom, he adds, the West enjoys strong economic, political, military, scientific and technical power.
His other book, "From the World of the City to the City of the World," is a survey of several Western philosophers, including Plato and Aristotle. "No intellectual who studies philosophy and politics can deprive himself of these two sources," he wrote.
 
The Path to Power
A Victory Achieved The Western Way
Mr. Khatami was not supposed to become President. Ali Akbar Nateq-Noori, another mid-level cleric with the same rank -- Hojjatolislam -- and the powerful Speaker of the Parliament, was the designated winner who enjoyed the endorsement of the religious establishment and the majority of Parliament and the bazaar merchants.
By contrast, Mr. Khatami entered the race reluctantly, after no other viable opposition candidate surfaced and after he received permission from Ayatollah Khamenei. More than 230 other candidates put their names forward, but in the restrictive, elitist system of Iran's clerical politics, only four, including Mr. Khatami, were not struck down.
Many of his close family members were initially unhappy with the decision. "I didn't agree with it," said his daughter Leila. "I didn't want my father to become father of all the people."
Initially, he was supported only by an odd coalition: the former radical revolutionaries who seized the American Embassy in 1979 and the reform-minded officials and technocrats close to President Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani, who was not eligible for re-election for a third term.
But Mr. Khatami ran a Western-style people's campaign, traveling around the country, giving lengthy interviews and addressing many of his remarks to young people and women. He talked about his hobbies -- table tennis and swimming -- his favorite philosophers and how he wished his wife knew how to drive.
Mr. Khatami had other advantages. Iranians resented the official endorsements of Mr. Nateq-Noori. Pledges by both Ayatollah Khamenei and President Rafsanjani that the election would be free caused a larger turnout. And unlike Mr. Nateq-Noori, who wears a white turban, Mr. Khatami wears a black turban, the sign of a direct descendant of the prophet Mohammed.
Still, his political advisers were stunned that his views resonated so loudly, so quickly.
"We thought we were speaking to the intellectuals, and that it would take years to succeed," said Reza Khatami, 38, the British-educated brother of the President, who is a kidney specialist, Deputy Minister of Health and one of his closest political advisers. "But we were wrong. The people got the message."
Even toward the end of the campaign, the consensus in Iran was that Mr. Nateq-Noori would win. But Mr. Khatami was so confident that the day before the election he prepared his acceptance speech.
At midnight on election day, after it became clear that Mr. Khatami had won, his sister Maryam called him at his home in Teheran to congratulate him. But he was already asleep.
"Tell your father to sleep calm tonight because it will be his last night of sleep," she recalled telling his daughter Leila.
 
The Cares of Office
Will the Changes Be Enough?
Mr. Khatami's aides acknowledge that he is extraordinarily pressured as he pushes his platform: the rule of law, tolerance for opposing views and the creation of a civil society. When he feels unfairly criticized, he issues public reminders, warnings even, that he has the people of Iran behind him.
When the Iranian soccer team qualified in December for next year's World Cup -- in which it will face the United States team -- Iranians poured into the streets of Teheran to celebrate. They wrapped themselves in the Iranian flag, danced and bought candies and flowers for strangers. Some women even threw off their head coverings in full view of the police, who went home. The event was a stunning demonstration of the power of the people in the face of authority, a power that could be mobilized in Mr. Khatami's favor should he be threatened.
The man who most threatens Mr. Khatami's success is Ayatollah Khamenei, 58, a cleric who lacks both the religious credentials of Ayatollah Khomeini and the charm of the new President. People close to Ayatollah Khamenei seem to resent that he gets so little favorable press coverage abroad. "Iran is not just Mr. President," said Abbas Maleki, an English-speaking former Deputy Foreign Minister who is now working for Ayatollah Khamenei. "The leader -- he's artistic. He knows about culture and civilization, I believe more than Mr. Khatami."
Years ago, Ayatollah Khamenei was not so rigid in his views, but he began to turn inward after he succeeded Ayatollah Khomenei, who died in 1989.
"He used to be very reasonable, very open-minded," said Mr. Sahabi, the opposition figure, who has known Mr. Khamenei for more than three decades. "He played the sitar. But the clerics around him became more defensive. They monopolized power. Little by little he became distant from us."
Aides to both Mr. Khatami and Mr. Khamenei insist the two get along well. Both are clerics only a few years apart, men of ideas and descendants of the Prophet who are opposed to political ties with the United States and are determined to strengthen Iran's Islamic system of government. But they have different roles under the Constitution, different styles and different constituencies.
"President Khatami has never considered himself going beyond the Leader," said Ayatollah Abbas Ali Amid-Zanjani, an expert on Iran's Islamic Constitution. "But Mr. Khatami believes that the more freedom we have and the more rationally we treat the West, the more we will have an enlightened future. There are many high officials in our country who are not very enthusiastic about this idea. They are afraid it will turn into a wolf-sheep relationship."
The Khamenei and Khatami families are close, a relationship that was forged when Ayatollah Khamenei, as a teen-age religious student in Mashad, became a devoted disciple of Mr. Khatami's father. Mr. Khamenei made special trips to Ardakan to visit and the Khatami family vacationed with the Khameneis in Mashad.
"He was a unique person and there was a special closeness between us," Mr. Khamenei wrote about Ayatollah Khatami after his death. "Even though we were 30 years apart, our ideas were just the same."
As President, Mr. Khatami consults with Ayatollah Khamenei at least once a week. But he does not tell him everything. Aides insist that Mr. Khatami's "message to the American people," including his proposal for cultural ties with the United States, via an interview with CNN in early January, was shared with Ayatollah Khamenei only in broad terms.
Nowhere do the two men disagree more than on their view of the United States. Where Mr. Khatami sees the benefits of using the best from the Americans, Ayatollah Khamenei wants to prevent the return of cultural colonialism, particularly because Iranians are already so hooked into America.
"Go talk to the Iranian people and see how many of them want to go to the U.S.," Mr. Maleki said. "Then go to the American people and ask them how many want to go to Persepolis. In this area we don't have the upper hand."
Mr. Khatami has succeeded in lifting some restrictions on publishing and the arts. The Iranian newspapers are more open. Women are wearing makeup and showing some of their hair. Even the Revolutionary Guards are smiling.
But even his supporters ask how long he can keep the confidence of the people in a country where housecleaners earn more than college professors, inflation is running at 30 percent, about 20 percent of the population is unemployed and more than half the population is under 21.
"People are not poking their noses into other people's business as much," said Saied Rajaie-Khorasani, an adviser in the Foreign Ministry. "But the President has not been able to bring about very significant change. The red lines have not changed."
A heavy air of uncertainty hangs over the people around the President, and there is an unwillingness of his ministers and aides to commit themselves to fixed positions.
Even the First Lady seems to feel that uncertainty. During the interview, she suddenly interrupted herself to comment about the flower arrangement on the table beside her.
Sticking up in the middle of the bowl of yellow, purple and white flowers was a single pink rose. She appeared to notice that attached to it was a hidden microphone. "There is a microphone here," she announced. "Is somebody listening to what we're saying?"
The official interpreter omitted the comment from her translation. In the hallway outside, three men with headsets were recording the interview.
So creating a civic society that begins with more openness at home and abroad takes time. Mr. Khatami himself is not certain he will prevail.
"Politicians speak to the outer level of the spirit," he said in the conversation in his office. "There is a need to have more in-depth dialogue, with a deep meeting of minds. This is my hope. But maybe I'm not capable of carrying it out."

CORRECTION-DATE: February 2, 1998, Monday

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about President Mohammad Khatami of Iran misstated the year of the next World Cup soccer tournament, in which Iran's team will play. The tournament is this year, not next year.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Iran's President, Mohammad Khatami, has dared to say that many policies must change. (Associated Press)(pg. 1); SCENES FROM FAMILY LIFE -- Ayatollah Khatami, in white, a revered religious leader and the father of President Mohammad Khatami of Iran, at the front during the war with Iraq. Ayatollah Khamenei, now "Supreme Leader," is on his right. President Khatami with his daughters when they were young. As a junior lieutenant in the army of the Shah. (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; Special Report

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN (58%); 

CITY: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN; IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN (58%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (58%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS RELIGION (92%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); POLITICS (76%); WOMEN (75%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (60%); TERRORISM (60%); WRITERS (60%); IRAQ WAR (60%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (60%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (60%); 

PERSON: KHAMENEI, ALI (AYATOLLAH); KHATAMI, MOHAMMAD (PRES); SCIOLINO, ELAINE ALI KHAMENEI (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1998



42 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 6; Page 38; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 4855 words

HEADLINE: Hong Kong, Feeling Flu-ish

BYLINE: By Ian Buruma; Ian Buruma is working on a book about Chinese political dissidents. His most recent article for the Magazine, about Poland's Jewish community, appeared in August.

 BODY:
On first sight, nothing much has changed in Hong Kong since the British colony -- or "territory," as late colonial officials preferred to call it -- was returned to China at midnight on June 30. No one has been arrested for his political views. The People's Liberation Army keeps out of sight, inside the Prince of Wales Barracks. The corporate skyscrapers still glitter in the wintry sun, and the history of British rule still casts its shadows. The noonday gun, originally from a Jardine Matheson opium brig, is fired every day as a ritual token of respect to the Royal Navy; in Victoria Park, a bronze Queen Victoria watches serenely over picnickers and annual Tiananmen massacre mourners.
For the moment, political anxiety has been masked by bad economic news. Property prices are crashing, tourists are staying away from an overpriced city and the stock market has lost almost half of its value in less than six months. In some neighborhoods, real-estate offices dominated the shopping streets only a year ago. Now many of them are boarded up. And since the Hong Kong dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar, services are becoming prohibitive for people from countries with debased currencies -- that is, all of Southeast and East Asia. I have lunch with a Western stockbroker who used to be one of Hong Kong's greatest boosters, a regular talking head in the international media, telling the world that the place would continue to go up and up. Now, fresh out of a job, he looks pale as he says Hong Kong could be in for a very rough time. 
 The most ominous development has been the collapse of Peregrine Investments Holdings, Hong Kong's cockiest brokerage house. It went bust because of one colossal loan ($260 million) to a dodgy entrepreneur with connections to the daughter of Indonesia's strongman, President Suharto. This was the kind of deal that made much of Asia tick, and Peregrine rich. Peregrine's founder, Philip Tose, was one of the noisiest promoters of capitalism, Asia-style, based on authoritarian rule and crony connections. Now this system looks highly vulnerable, if not bankrupt. Hong Kong, under British control, with its relative fastidiousness about the rule of law, was neither as raw nor as corrupt as other countries in the region. But now that Hong Kong has been handed back to Beijing, whose politics and economics are as unaccountable and corrupted by cronyism as any in Asia, things could unravel fast. Hong Kong's economic future depends to a large extent on the political future of China. The question is, To what extent can Hong Kong affect that future?
After the hand-over in June there was a brief attempt to blot out the symbols of colonial humiliation with a crude coat of modern Chinese patriotism. Hong Kong TV stars turned out for variety shows wearing Chinese Army uniforms and singing patriotic songs. A propagandistic movie about the Opium War was screened around town. And Hong Kong's Chief Executive, a shipping tycoon named Tung Chee-hwa, spoke incessantly about the need to uphold "Chinese values."
But this layer of patriotic paint never really took. It was too ham-fisted, too plodding, too plain boring. Hong Kong is a speedy Cantonese town with its own distinct brand of Westernized Cantonese pop culture. Official patriotism is a northern product, a mixture of Soviet-style agitprop and Beijing arrogance. Neither goes down well in the capitalistic south. People find it absurd to hear Tung ramble on awkwardly in Mandarin to please the northern comrades. And he was widely ridiculed recently when he decided to hold a vote by asking delegates to clap hands, Communist-style.
And yet Hong Kong is now indisputably a part of China. The fortified border blocking Hong Kong off from the "mainland" still functions to keep unwanted Chinese masses out, and Hong Kong democrats in -- to contain their infectious ideas. Hong Kong, as a special administrative region of the People's Republic of China, is governed in Hong Kong, but ruled from Beijing. Politics, or indeed the economy, in Hong Kong cannot be separated from China's. But this is still a one-sided affair. Hong Kong's citizens, despite exhortations to feel patriotic, are not allowed to engage themselves with the way China -- and thus ultimately Hong Kong -- is ruled.
Hong Kong, then, can perhaps best be described as a Chinese colony. Yet it is a very strange colony; for Hong Kong, allegations of "self-censorship" in the press and a very limited electoral system notwithstanding, is still far freer and more democratic than the imperial metropole. Colonies are normally shaped after the metropolitan models. Legal and political institutions are imported to the colonies from the center. But in the case of Hong Kong and China, many hope it will be the other way round, that tiny, sophisticated Hong Kong will show huge, backward China the way toward freedom and prosperity. It is an odd proposition, which might conceivably work -- if tiny Hong Kong doesn't get crushed first.
The uncertainty of Hong Kong's relations with China has always made this city of refugees and fortune hunters prone to panics. These panics are a useful barometer of economic confidence. The Hong Kong dollar is pegged to the U.S. dollar because of a sudden run on the banks in 1984, when the end of British rule was announced. I am told about the latest panic by Liu Kinming, a fine local journalist with a sharp eye for the bizarre. We meet at the Mandarin Hotel, which, in the Christmas spirit, smells of roasted chestnuts. We order cappuccinos. Liu tells me about the "cake run."
In the fall, a Japanese food store based in Hong Kong went bankrupt. The store rented space to a chain of bakeries called St. Honore. It is customary in Hong Kong to give wedding guests coupons to buy cakes. These coupons are often hoarded. Perhaps vague memories of revolutions, civil wars and famines still haunt Hong Kong; in a crisis, people tend to cash their hoards in, all at once. So after the collapse of the Japanese store, long lines began to form at branches of St. Honore. And people emerged from the shops staggering under piles of cakes. Some could barely carry their loads, let alone eat their way through them. But eating wasn't the point. When the apocalypse comes, you cash in. Liu shakes his head. "Crazy!" he says. "Just crazy." His face creases in a melancholy grin. "I am still a self-hating Chinese," he says. Why? "Well, because Chinese people will come out to get their cake, but not to defend their freedom."
Liu is a little harsh on his fellow Hong Kongers. There are still people prepared to promote democracy and defend civil liberties. And when the occasion feels right -- the Tiananmen Square protests, say -- Hong Kong's citizens will come out en masse.
The most vociferous defender of democracy in Hong Kong is Emily Lau. She was a councilor in the elected Legislature under the last British Governor, Chris Patten. When that Legislature was replaced in July by a handpicked so-called provisional legislature, Lau was out of a job. But donations picked up in street collections enabled her to keep a tiny office for her party, the Frontier, in a seedy part of Kowloon. Lau is a handsome, tireless, noisy and sometimes abrasive woman who irritated the British authorities and fills the Chinese Government with loathing. She is also the most popular politician in Hong Kong.
One of the myths about Hong Kong, long cherished by British officials and Hong Kong businessmen, is that "ordinary people" don't care about politics. To watch Lau operate in the poor suburban housing projects where her constituents live is to see the myth explode. On a damp, gray Sunday afternoon, I watch her take part in a public meeting about police brutality. We are in a small shopping mall, surrounded by massive tower blocks. Discarded plastic bags whip by in the wind. Posters and newspapers tacked onto notice boards offer evidence of police abuses: people being held without charge, beatings, forced confessions. A microphone is passed around as people discuss the problem. A similar scene in China is impossible to imagine.
At another meeting, earlier that same day, I am introduced to a keen supporter of Lau's party. He is a man in his 60's, slim, casually dressed in corduroy pants and a maroon sweater. He says he is about to retire from the police force, on which he has served for 30 years, and wants to run for election as a district board councilor. I later ask him why. He answers by telling me a story.
He has an old relative who likes to drink tea every day at the same time in the same tea shop in Kowloon. One day, several cops burst in and arrest the old man, believing him to be a drug pusher. They have no evidence, but hoping to get a confession they give him a terrible beating. When he is finally released, the man can hardly walk. "And that," the retiring police officer says, "is when I realized that without democratic rights, we are delivered to brute force."
He had presented the Hong Kong problem, or the China problem, or indeed the human problem in a nutshell. The immediate question in Hong Kong is, Whom must democracy be defended against? I heard many people, including senior civil servants, say that the people they fear most are not the Chinese leaders in Beijing, but the local leaders in Hong Kong.
There is no question that Tung Chee-hwa and some of his closest advisers are skeptical, to put it mildly, about democracy. Their skepticism comes in the guise of "Chinese values" but is in fact a throwback to British colonial myths. Leung Chun-ying, 43, is a good example of the kind of man Tung likes to have around him. Leung, who oozes a rather unattractive self-confidence, says that before the hand-over there had been "too much pandering to public opinion by the Legislature." In future, he says, "it will be an advice and consultation body only."
This is what Tung means by a more "executive-style Government." He wants to "depoliticize" Hong Kong. This is also what he means by "Chinese values," harking back to an idealized Confucian patriarchy. The Singapore of Lee Kuan Yew is his model, a city-state run by an autocratic elite of business-minded mandarins whose aim is not to protect individual rights but to impose their idea of the collective good. Lee has often behaved as though Singapore were too small for him. But Tung never ran anything more than a business. And that, according to people who work closely with him, is how he intends to run Hong Kong, too, as a paternal corporate boss.
Tung likes to describe himself as a Chinese patriot. Patriotism in Communist China is a code word. President Jiang Zemin once put it nicely: "In contemporary China patriotism and socialism are in their nature indistinguishable." There is much speculation in Hong Kong about whether Tung and his advisers are members of the Communist Party. Some may be. But nobody seriously believes that these business tycoons are socialists. Tung's patriotism is indistinguishable from Jiang Zemin's in at least one respect, however. Both believe that democratic politics and parliamentary debate are divisive, subversive Western practices. This is where the Communist autocrat and the capitalist plutocrat find common ground. It is also precisely the kind of Government that fostered the economic crisis in Asia: rule by unaccountable business cronies.
One of the sharpest minds in the democratic ranks is Margaret Ng, a lawyer who will run in the legislative elections in May. She speaks in the precise, clipped English of a London lawyer. She is worried about the erosion of the rule of law in Hong Kong and the lack of popular representation. Ng sounds almost nostalgic for the late British empire. "Consultation," she says, "was part of the colonial style. But under British rule, we had the moral high ground. So they had to be careful to take all opinions into account. Tung's idea is that now Hong Kong rules itself, there is no more reason to consult."
The problem faced by British-trained democrats like Ng, or Martin Lee, the leader of the Democratic Party, is that the "patriots" often dismiss them as Westernized remnants of the colonial period. As Ng puts it: "The British regime still had to take us seriously. This Government can ignore us as leftovers of the British gang."
So it might be tempting to contrast the "Westernized" democrats, who thrived briefly under Chris Patten's belated democratic reforms, with the Chinese "patriots," like Tung and his men, who might be less democratic but are more in tune with Chinese culture and the feelings of ordinary Chinese people. But in fact, as Emily Lau's supporters show clearly, such a contrast would be wrong. When they were given the right to vote, in 1991 and 1995, "ordinary Chinese people" voted for the democrats and not for the patriots. And as far as educational and professional background is concerned, Tung and his advisers are as Westernized as Lee or Ng. Tung himself was educated in Britain and lived in America. Tung's most senior councilor is the 80-year-old Sze-yuen Chung, a longtime British colonial official who argued in London against handing Hong Kong back to China before becoming a last-minute patriot and dropping the "Sir" before his name.
What separates the democrats from the patriots is neither culture nor patriotism but politics. Christine Loh, a well-known politician in the democratic camp, once told me that Hong Kong needed to be "de-colonialized." She meant that Hong Kong's citizens had to be weaned from their colonial subservience. But it isn't Hong Kong's people who need to be weaned; it's their self-appointed and Beijing-approved leaders. Tung's belief that Hong Kong must be "de-politicized" is precisely what the old colonial order was about: a "territory" without politics, ruled from afar, but managed by local grandees. Tung's patriots are a mixture of old colonial grandees and aspiring new ones. Their focus has merely shifted from London to Beijing. Or as a former employee of the last British governor said about Sze-yuen Chung, "From a garden party in Buckingham Palace to a banquet in Beijing, without even stopping on the road to Damascus."
In fact, Chung never really needed a conversion. Hong Kong was effectively managed by Chinese tycoons for a long time under the British. It was they, as much as the British, who resisted any attempts to introduce democratic institutions. Like most businessmen, not just in Hong Kong, they saw politics as an unnecessary hindrance to the main purpose at hand, the production of wealth. Beijing wishes Hong Kong to continue just as it was under the British before Patten came along with his dangerous notions about giving every working citizen the right to vote. But in fact, official Chinese patriotism could pose a greater danger to the long-term production of wealth than an increase in local democracy would.
The democrats will be tolerated by Beijing only as long as they remain a minority, insulated in Hong Kong. By devising a complicated electoral system, which cuts by two-thirds the number of seats chosen by direct vote, Hong Kong's rulers have made sure the democrats will remain a minority in the Legislature. The other seats are chosen by corporate votes and pro-Beijing committees. And while the businessmen make deals in China, and the patriots cultivate their contacts in Beijing, the democrats are not even allowed to cross the border. So the democrats may worry about local tycoons (and their Beijing masters) destroying Hong Kong, but it is the businessmen who talk about "new opportunities" and about Hong Kong changing China.
To hear some businessmen talk, the border between Hong Kong and China might as well not exist. Their optimism could well be misguided, but it makes a change from the lawyerly gloom of some democrats. I meet Daniel Ng at my hotel. He is the man who set up McDonald's in China. Ng is proud to have been the first foreign businessman to go to Beijing right after Tiananmen. McDonald's did well. The first hamburger joint opened in 1990, in Shenzhen, just across the border from Hong Kong, and another opened a year later in Beijing. Ng is a fixer, a man who knows how to operate in China's cowboy economy. No rule of law? "There's no use complaining about that," he laughs. "You take advantage of it." Corruption? Bureaucracy? "Sure. You just deal with it. I relish outmaneuvering them every day."
Ng is not as crass as he might seem, however. He knows China has a terrible human rights record. In fact Ng is in favor of direct elections in Hong Kong and China. He might even support Emily Lau. But he thinks Hong Kong can change China by example, by testing things out: "We are beneficial to China, by being ourselves, by showing them how to deal with foreigners, without being a bully or a coward. With an election here, we can even show them that democracy is O.K."
I decide to take another look at the border between Hong Kong and Shenzhen, where there are now nearly 30 branches of McDonald's. I wanted to see Hong Kong from the other side, so to speak. The first time I peered across that border, through binoculars, in the 1970's, Shenzhen was a village surrounded by rice fields. China was the dark, forbidden land beyond the watchtowers and barbed-wire fences. The fences are still there, and so are the towers. But now a brand-new city of skyscrapers looms as you enter the train station on the border. You walk out the other side of the station, into China, past a sign saying "Love the Motherland!" And the first thing you see is a huge billboard with the Marlboro man. My hotel is about a five-minute walk from the station. In that five minutes I am offered a young girl at least a dozen times: "Hello, you, hello. . .miss, you want miss?" In Shenzhen, I was told by a Hong Kong businessman, everything is for sale, including the government.
Shenzhen is a town of fixers and deal-hunters. It is strictly controlled, yet as wild as Tijuana. Young people from all over China go down to work there, to get away from their families, to make money and contacts and perhaps to go abroad. The least-educated ones work in the factories, manufacturing electronics for Chinese, Western or Hong Kong companies. They live in crowded concrete dormitories outside town, which are freezing in winter, stifling in summer. They make the equivalent of about $150 a month. The prettier girls often leave to make easier money. The prettiest might find businessmen from Hong Kong to set them up as weekend mistresses. And the ones who don't make it beg in the streets or make their children beg for them.
A popular meeting place for young people with cash is the Henry J. Bean's bar at the Shangri-La Hotel. There I meet Simon Fang from Beijing. He is a stocky regular kind of guy who seems to know everybody in Shenzhen. We talk with one eye on an American basketball game on a TV screen. Simon has done all right. His main business now is to book musical acts from other parts of China. He offers me a tour through the city, which he describes as a "nowhere sort of place." We set off on his Japanese motorcycle. His choice of things to show me is interesting: an American fitness club, a new department store and the largest McDonald's in town.
Back at Henry J. Bean's we meet up with a friend of Simon's, another Shenzhen success story. Richard Xia, a compact man with narrow, intelligent eyes, is also from Beijing. After graduating from college, he moved to Shenzhen, where he worked for a company, learned English and applied to school in the United States. It took him three years to get a visa. After several years of study and work on the West Coast, he is living in Hong Kong, trading metals in China. Like Daniel Ng, he points out the lack of legal protection in China and the propensity of Chinese partners to break contracts. "It happens all the time," he says. But the margins are good, so you live with it. And he repeats the businessman's mantra: "China will change, have more freedom. Hong Kong will have a big influence. Things will be better in both places -- they will meet somewhere in between."
Simon Fang and Richard Xia act and talk like young Chinese in Hong Kong, or Taiwan. What makes China so exciting and disturbing at the same time is the discrepancy between Fang's and Xia's get-up-and-go optimism and the other stories one hears, of mass executions, corrupt officials and the gulag with millions of prisoners. Shenzhen clearly has been influenced by Hong Kong, but so far only on a crude, material level. I don't really see how Hong Kong can meet China halfway. For Shenzhen to become more like Hong Kong would be a step forward. But for Hong Kong to become more like Shenzhen would be a retrogressive step into a more brutal, more lawless form of capitalism, the kind of economics that is coming unstuck in the rest of Asia.
We end the night in a disco called House. There are male and female hookers in the lobby, hookers at the bar on the first floor and hookers going in and out of private rooms, where businessmen from China and Hong Kong make a lot of noise and drink Cognac and expensive French wines. The music is deafening, the green strobes are blinding and the dance floor is packed with a sweating, heaving mass of dancers. When my eyes get used to the light, I notice an odd detail. In every corner, and in front of every door, armed men in uniform stand guard: strict control in the midst of anarchy. I watch three tall Chinese girls in bikinis dancing on a stage. They move like gymnasts, without much feeling but with frenzied, almost demonic energy.
If "right" means favoring authoritarian government, then the Hong Kong right is pro-Beijing. Workers are not only cheaper in China but also enjoy fewer rights than their counterparts in Hong Kong, and this suits many Hong Kong businessmen just fine. It is not surprising, then, that the most radical opposition to Beijing comes from the left -- from independent trade unionists and various left-wing activists.
Lau San-ching is a Trotskyite. He is also a Chinese patriot of the unofficial kind. In the early 1970's, he became active in the student movement against colonialism in Hong Kong and "bureaucratism" in China. In the late 1970's, he went to China to join the Democracy Wall activists, one of whom was Wei Jingsheng. But his true hero was Wang Xizhe, a Marxist who believed that the Chinese Communist Party could be reformed to produce "democratic socialism." Wang was jailed for this incendiary idea, and so was Lau, who spent 10 years in a Chinese prison. He is back in Hong Kong, where he has formed a union for welfare workers.
A slight, thoughtful man with a high-pitched voice, Lau explains why he is, in a way, more of a patriot than the liberal democrats -- let alone the tycoons. "We can't divide Hong Kong from China," he says. "We must criticize both. The Chinese are afraid that the liberals will use Hong Kong as a counterrevolutionary base. But actually Martin Lee and the others are afraid of China. When I went to China 20 years ago, I went as a Chinese, not a Hong Kong-ese." Lau feels he is fighting the same enemy in China and Hong Kong: business-led authoritarianism.
It is difficult to imagine a man like Lau posing much of a threat to Beijing. And yet Lau and his allies prick the Chinese leaders where it hurts. The patriotic and socialist slogans that justify Communist rule seem especially hollow when they are attacked by patriots who stand up for the welfare of workers. And the welfare of workers is a very sore point, with ever more millions of jobless Chinese roaming the cities. Spontaneous, popular patriotism, as opposed to the official kind, is something Beijing fears. Waves of popular nationalism have turned against discredited Chinese Governments for at least 100 years, or longer, if you count rebellions against the Manchu or Mongol dynasties. Hong Kong has played an important role in such rebellions and could do so again. When a million Hong Kong citizens -- that is one out of six people in the territory -- demonstrated in 1989 in support of the students in Tiananmen Square, this was a demonstration of Chinese patriotism as well as political solidarity. Lau insists that the Communist Party does not represent the Chinese people. In that view he is not alone.
Once a week, millions of people in China can tune in to Radio Free Asia to hear one of the most remarkable voices in Hong Kong. It belongs to Han Dongfang, the founder, during the Tiananmen Square protests, of the first independent labor union in China. His message on the square in 1989 was that the plight of factory workers was the biggest, most explosive issue facing China. The students didn't take him seriously enough -- what were workers' concerns compared with those of intellectuals? But the Chinese Government knew that Han was right, and therefore very dangerous. He spent 22 months in jail, where he almost died.
Han was sent to the United States for medical treatment -- the usual tactic when a dissident becomes too famous. But then he did something unusual. He returned to China, was refused entry and decided to stay in Hong Kong, even after the hand-over, knowing he would be high on Beijing's hit list. Han denies having any political ambitions, or even being a political dissident. And yet labor is a highly political issue. In his newsletter, The China Labor Bulletin, and his weekly radio broadcasts, he keeps people informed on the problems of workers in China: unemployment; lethal working conditions; pitiful wages; abusive, sometimes murderous bosses, and so on. And he advises people who call the radio station from all over China on ways to improve their conditions.
Han lives with his wife and two sons on an island off Hong Kong called Lamma. It is cheaper than central Hong Kong and popular with young Westerners, journalists and others not on corporate salaries. We take the boat together as darkness falls. Behind us are the skyscrapers of Hong Kong -- the international banks and hotels and business headquarters -- a neon blur of corporate logos. A Christmas reindeer blinks red, white and gold from I.M. Pei's Bank of China building. Ahead of us is the ocean dotted with islands, beyond which lies the coast of China. Beyond that sprawls the Chinese continent, with its lurching economy and threatening chaos. We are in China, but it doesn't yet feel like it. Han tells me how strange it is to go home, to spend Christmas with his children, who will receive gifts. When he grew up in Beijing, where his mother was a construction worker, he never possessed a single toy.
"The most important thing," he says in a sudden fit of passion, "is that we must get organized ourselves. We cannot rely on the intellectuals. The Communist Party was the work of intellectuals. We helped them come to power. And look what happened to the workers. We are poor and oppressed." I ask him whether he fears being arrested. He answers that the Hong Kong government still sticks to the law. "As long as that is so, I'm not afraid. I'm not breaking any law. But I am prepared for the worst all the time."
The next day a senior civil servant tells me that "one Han Dongfang in Hong Kong is enough." This statement says much about the predicament of Hong Kong. Freedom of speech is indeed still protected by law. And the Hong Kong government is not worried about Han's activities in Hong Kong. But it is worried about upsetting China. For if China gets upset, Hong Kong's liberty is at risk. And even if China isn't upset, that it might be is a perfect excuse for Hong Kong's own authoritarians to limit dissent.
It is of vital importance to the future of Hong Kong and China that they don't get away with it. For Hong Kong is the only part of mainland China where all shades of opinion can still be openly expressed. And as long as this is so, Hong Kong could indeed have a positive influence on China. The businessmen, as the practitioners of sophisticated capitalism, should see the importance of this as much as the radical activists: the price would be high for businessmen, too. Without the rule of law, they would be vulnerable to the corrupt, strong-arm tactics that prevail in cowboy capitalism. Without open government and a strong judiciary, Hong Kong would slowly come to look more and more like Shenzhen.
Things could be worse. China's economy is highly unstable, and in the event of a crash, its problems would spill over into Hong Kong, making it hard to remain insulated from popular rebellions and violent crackdowns. The freedom to speak would be among the first things to go. But possibly, just possibly, things will play out the other way around. Political reforms in China might lead to more open forms of government. Then the Hong Kong democrats would finally be able to break out of their isolation and follow the businessmen into China, where they would have at least as important a role to play. In such an event, China will need as many Martin Lees and Han Dongfangs as it can get.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The more things change, the more they may or may not stay the same: In the days before Hong Kong was handed back to China, a parade float put a patriotic face on the matter, it was business as usual on the futures exchange and the buck clearly stopped at the Hong Kong border with Shenzhen.; Changing of the guard: The hope, for capitalism's sake, is that Hong Kong will have more influence on China than China will on Hong Kong. (Photographs by Reagan Louie)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HONG KONG (99%); CHINA (96%); ASIA (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); INDONESIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: SOUTH CHINA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

COMPANY: PEREGRINE INVESTMENTS HOLDINGS LTD (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HONG KONG; CHINA; HONG KONG (99%); CHINA (96%); ASIA (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); INDONESIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS CORRUPTION (89%); POLITICS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); BRITISH MONARCHS (78%); BRITISH ROYALTY (78%); REAL ESTATE (75%); HOME PRICES (73%); US DOLLAR (73%); TRENDS (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); CURRENCIES (71%); NAVIES (71%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (70%); ARRESTS (57%); 

PERSON: BURUMA, IAN PRINCE CHARLES (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1998



43 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 1, 1998

SECTION: Section 7; Page 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1343 words

HEADLINE: Hot Spots

BYLINE: By Alan Ryan; Alan Ryan is the author of "John Dewey and the High Tide of American Liberalism."

 BODY:

The Warrior's Honor
 Ethnic War and
 the Modern Conscience.
 By Michael Ignatieff.
 207 pp. New York:
 Metropolitan Books/
 Henry Holt & Company. $24.95. 
 It is not easy to categorize Michael Ignatieff. He has no academic position, but he writes something very like moral philosophy. He has been the host on an up-market television talk show, but so much more thoughtfully than 90 percent of those who have worked in the same genre that it would be absurd to describe him as a television journalist. Twenty-five years ago, he was a historian of ideas, and a talent for historical exposition marks everything he writes today. Cultural commentator is near the mark, but perhaps public moralist would be the proper description, if only it were not so likely to be misread -- if only it did not convey the impression of someone who gazes on the world around him with pursed lips and censorious eyes.
"The Warrior's Honor" inspires such anxious reflections because it is itself a mix of reportage, history of ideas and moral and political speculation. It consists of five essays, reprinted and sometimes reconstructed, from lectures and from articles in magazines like The New Yorker and Social Research. All but one of its chapters are no more than two or three years old. The opening essay, "Is Nothing Sacred?," dates back to 1985, but its doubts about the ethics of television journalism are as apt after Somalia, Rwanda and Bosnia as they were in the aftermath of the Ethiopian famine. In any case, it makes an appropriate start, because one of Ignatieff's themes is the feeling of impotence that has overtaken the rich, liberal, militarily powerful Western world in the years since the fall of Soviet Communism. Thanks to television, the inhabitants of Western Europe and the United States daily have their faces rubbed in the horrors perpetrated in the collapsing states of sub-Saharan Africa, the Balkans, Chechnya and Afghanistan. It is impossible that they should not respond by wanting to do something to prevent those horrors. It seems equally impossible to intervene in ways that do not make matters worse.
The structure of Ignatieff's argument is simple, and to my mind irresistible. The collapse of the Soviet empire left no competitor to the United States as a global superpower; the United States was part of, though indisputably also the leader of, an alliance of liberal states with the economic and military resources to impose their will on any government in the world. It was no surprise that George Bush could hail the dawn of a new world order -- one dedicated to peace and prosperity, the protection of human rights, the inviolability of national integrity and the reconciliation of national minorities.
President Bush may have despised the L-word, but the idea of a new world order was, as Ignatieff insists, an essentially liberal one. Consistent conservatives, after greeting the end of the cold war with a sigh of relief, would tend to think that the United States Government's job was to protect United States citizens against foreign invaders, terrorists or whomever else, that death and destruction in other countries were none of their business and especially none of their Government's business. Washington should not be acting as combination cop and nursemaid to the rest of the globe. Faced with the worldwide enthusiasm for religiously and ethnically driven civil war, the conservatives' wish to keep out of other people's quarrels looks like basic common sense.
Liberals of the stripe of Ignatieff (and myself) are therefore on shaky ground. The essays in "The Warrior's Honor" explore that ground with admirable sensitivity to its shakiness, but without emerging onto anything firmer. A chapter entitled "The Narcissism of Minor Difference" starts in a command post in eastern Croatia, where Ignatieff tries to get a Serbian militiaman to tell him what he has against his former Croatian neighbors. The man "looks scornful and takes a cigarette pack out of his khaki jacket. 'See this? These are Serbian cigarettes. Over there,' he says, gesturing out of the window, 'they smoke Croatian cigarettes.' "
Feeling, perhaps, that this is not a large enough issue over which to kill one's neighbors, the young militiaman returns to the topic. "Look, here's how it is. Those Croats, they think they're better than us. They want to be the gentlemen. Think they're fancy Europeans." But, he continues, Serbs and Croats are all really just Balkan garbage. As Ignatieff says, this sort of incoherent wavering between thinking that our neighbors are alien and thinking that they are exactly like us is commonplace in these situations. It is not only puzzling, of course, but damaging to the kind of theories that social scientists are so fond of. Contrary to Samuel Huntington, Ignatieff says, it's hard to believe that a deep theological and civilizational rift had opened up in eastern Croatia.
All the same, it is not easy to know what rift had opened up, and why it should be so hard to close. Ignatieff comes as close as common sense allows, I think, when he suggests that there is a two-stage process. One is what he calls the Hobbesian stage; to the other he gives no name, but the inspiration comes from some of Freud's reflections on the horrors of World War I.
Thomas Hobbes, pondering how atrociously ordinary people behaved during the English civil war of the 1640's, said that when government collapsed, what followed was a war of all against all, in which no holds were barred. Deprived of the protection of government, men would do anything to preserve themselves.
Freud's addition to that discomforting thought was that even when physical security was in place, we were inclined to protect ourselves psychologically by pushing our personal insecurities onto others. It is always easier than it seems to get neighbors to kill each other. The fantasies of blood libel that Bosnian Serbs retailed about Bosnian Muslims were the fantasies that Rhinelanders had centuries earlier retailed about the Jews they had murdered. To ask whether Serbs now or Rhinelanders then really believed any of the nonsense they spouted is beside the point. The fantasy expresses the emotions it justifies, and nothing more.
If this is what we are all vulnerable to, what can prevent ordinary social tensions from degenerating into the hells of Rwanda or Algeria? Under the guise of reporting on a tour of Africa with the former Secretary General of the United Nations, Boutros Boutros-Ghali, and a visit to Kabul in Afghanistan to see how the International Committee of the Red Cross was faring under the rule of the Taliban guerrillas, Ignatieff tries to persuade us not to succumb to mere moral disgust. Even Boutros-Ghali came very close to doing exactly that on occasion, pointing out to the warring groups in Angola that it was their own people they were killing, and that the rest of the world had no obligation to save them from their self-inflicted fate.
But if we decide, as we might, that we owe the duty of simple humanitarianism to societies that now cannot govern themselves and are in the process of collapsing into the vilest sorts of internal violence, what can we do? It turns out that the title of this little book is almost a joke against its contents. Ignatieff's consideration of the Red Cross's attempts to render war, including civil war, less horrible without taking sides, without impugning anyone's right to fight and without attempting to assure anything other than the physical security of those caught up in conflict leads only to one thought: appeals to honor are hollow. Telling a teen-age boy with a Kalashnikov that a real warrior would not kill children and women and would not rape, torture or mutilate his victims cuts as little ice as handing him the collected works of John Stuart Mill. We end where we began, with the liberal looking at the horrors on the television screen, longing to act, but at a loss to know how, where and with what resources. Happy new millennium.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: WARRIOR'S HONOR, THE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); ETHIOPIA (79%); RWANDA (79%); EUROPE (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); AFRICA (79%); SOMALIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (69%); WESTERN EUROPE (68%); 

COMPANY: HENRY HOLT & CO PUBLISHING (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ETHIOPIA (79%); RWANDA (79%); EUROPE (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); AFRICA (79%); SOMALIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (69%); WESTERN EUROPE (68%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); LIBERALISM (89%); ETHICS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); HISTORY (78%); WRITERS (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); PHILOSOPHY (77%); JOURNALISM (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (73%); FAMINE (73%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); 

PERSON: RYAN, ALAN; IGNATIEFF, MICHAEL GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1998



44 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 2, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Page 7; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES;
A Tug of War Between Economic Philosophies: Free Market vs. Government

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER LEHMANN-HAUPT 

 BODY:

THE COMMANDING HEIGHTS
The Battle Between Government and the Marketplace That Is Remaking the Modern World
By Daniel Yergin and Joseph Stanislaw
Illustrated. 457 pages. Simon & Schuster. $26. 
 With the title phrase "The Commanding Heights," Daniel Yergin and Joseph Stanislaw are referring to a speech delivered by Lenin in 1922 at the Fourth Congress of the Communist International, in St. Petersburg, then called Petrograd. Defending his New Economic Policy, which permitted a resumption of small trade and private agriculture, Lenin acerbicly assured his audience that although the policy allowed markets to function, the state would still control the "commanding heights," or the elements of the economy that really counted. As the authors then add, "All this was before collectivization, Stalinism and the total eradication of private markets in the Soviet Union."
The phrase made its way around the world, and in time, political leaders everywhere came to agree with Lenin's course, Mr. Yergin and Mr. Stanislaw argue. Spurred on by the high prestige of the Soviet experiment, the seeming failure of free-market economies in the 1930's and the devastation left by World War II, governments around the world took control of the strategic parts of their national economies, their major enterprises and industries.
"By the beginning of the 1970's," the authors conclude, "the mixed economy was virtually unchallenged and government continued to expand. Even in the United States, the Republican Administration of Richard Nixon sought to implement a massive program of detailed wage and price controls."
Yet by the 1990's, the tide was running the other way. The Soviet Union had collapsed; the Berlin wall had come down; England had largely dismantled its welfare state; the United States had undergone the Reagan revolution; even China had turned partly to the marketplace. "Instead of 'market failure,' " write Mr. Yergin and Mr. Stanislaw, "the focus was now on 'government failure' -- the inherent difficulties that arise when the state becomes too expansive and too ambitious and seeks to be the main player, rather than the referee, in the economy."
What brought about this reversal, the authors want to know, and are the answers sufficiently absolute to predict what will happen in the future? In their view, the proximate causes seem clear enough. Both of them energy analysts -- Mr. Yergin wrote "The Prize: The Epic Quest for Oil, Money and Power" and is president of Cambridge Energy Research Associates; Mr. Stanislaw directs the company's international practice from its Paris office -- they do a thorough, and absorbing, job of analyzing economic trends around the globe.
They point to overwhelming debts and deficits, to chronic inflation and unemployment and to the pressures for globalization arising from the technological revolution. They cite the cumbersomeness of statism and contrast how the "implosion of the Soviet system -- the great lodestar for central planning -- discredited statism of all kinds" with how "the rise of prospering East Asian economies pointed toward a different balance between state and marketplace and underlined the virtues of participation in the global economy."
Their chronicle is repetitive in a sense, since it tells over and over the same story of disillusionment and enlightenment, from Britain to India to Poland to Bolivia to Italy. Yet what makes their book worth reading are the individual cases. For instance, they profile Keith Joseph, the British politician who arguably, the authors write, "did as much as any other single person around the world to reshape the debate about government and marketplace" and whose "agenda, in turn, was articulated and put into effect by his most important student, Margaret Thatcher."
And they touch upon the career of Mario Vargas Llosa, the Peruvian man of letters who had written an admiring doctoral dissertation on the Colombian novelist Gabriel Garcia Marquez. After Vargas Llosa had moved to the right politically and had come to disagree with Garcia Marquez's support of Castro, the two men got into an argument in a Mexico City theater, and Vargas Llosa punched the novelist, which, the authors write, "is something that one hardly ever gets to do to the subject of one's doctoral dissertation."
Yet despite the implicit celebratory tone with which they tell their story, Mr. Yergin and Mr. Stanislaw offer no clear answers to their ultimate questions: "Will the apparent triumph of the market endure? Or will government's role expand once again?" For one thing, they don't even try to analyze why the marketplace failed in the 1930's, except through their biographical sketch of Keynes, who, of course, argued that classical economics rested on the mistaken assumption that the balance between supply and demand would assure full employment, and that the state must compensate for the imbalance through the stimulus of deficit spending.
For another thing, the authors never really refute Keynesian theory, except by summing up the views of Friedrich von Hayek, the Austrian economist whom they call the pre-eminent "advocate of free markets," who said, in the authors' words, that Keynes's great work, "The General Theory of Employment, Interest and Money," "was not a general theory of economics at all but rather a dressed-up specific theory to get around a political impasse in Britain."
Yet in summing up Hayek's views, and those of the philosophically related Chicago school of economics, Mr. Yergin and Mr. Stanislaw offer us little more than a rehash of the great theorist of laissez-faire capitalism, Adam Smith.
The authors conclude that the future depends on people's confidence in market systems and whether it will be reaffirmed or eroded. But this guarantees nothing. So we are left with the sense that whatever the future holds, the only predictable thing is that events will happen first and then theories will be advanced to explain them.
And finally books like "The Commanding Heights" will be written to help us see more clearly what exactly happened.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: COMMANDING HEIGHTS, THE (BOOK)

TICKER: IHS (NYSE) (61%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (61%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (61%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: IHS INC (61%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ENGLAND (79%); GERMANY (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); LITERATURE (74%); WORLD WAR II (73%); ENERGY RESEARCH (72%); TRENDS (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (60%); 

PERSON: LEHMANN-HAUPT, CHRISTOPHER; YERGIN, DANIEL; STANISLAW, JOSEPH RICHARD NIXON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1998



45 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 2, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 414 words

HEADLINE: Financial Times Cuts Its Price On U.S. Newsstands by a Third

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH 

 BODY:
In its continuing effort to attract North American readers, The Financial Times of London cut its newsstand price in the United States on Friday to $1 from $1.50.
That price is still higher than those of most of its daily competitors -- The Wall Street Journal, for example, sells for 75 cents -- and C. Stuart Arnold, managing director of The Financial Times for the Americas, is adamant that the newspaper is not mounting a price war. Instead, he said yesterday, the price cut is just part of an effort to more than double North American circulation to 100,000 readers by 2000. 
 "We realized that when you are priced so much above the competition, you are artificially limiting your market," Mr. Arnold said.
The newspaper's push for market share has been brewing since the summer of 1996, when Marjorie Scardino became the new chief executive of Pearson P.L.C., which owns The Financial Times and is part- owner of The Economist Group. Ms. Scardino, who had recently used a combination of pricing and promotion to double The Economist's North American circulation to upwards of 300,000, almost immediately committed well over $200 million to the international expansion of The Financial Times.
"Until Marjorie came in, we had not targeted the United States for a circulation push," Mr. Arnold said.
The paper, which Mr. Arnold says is profitable in the United States, is scheduled to open a third American printing plant this spring in Chicago. It has increased its advertising and has mounted a big push to get the salmon-colored newspaper displayed next to local papers, rather than off in a corner with miscellaneous publications. The efforts increased circulation by 37 percent in 1997, reaching 47,800 as of this month. More than 43,000 of those readers are in the United States.
Only a fifth of The Financial Times readers pick up the paper at newsstands, and the newspaper has no plans to cut its home subscription price of $225 a year, or about 73 cents a copy. But, Mr. Arnold said, half of the new subscribers last year became familiar with the paper by buying it on newsstands. Thus, if the lower newsstand price woos more readers, many of them may be converted to subscribers.
No representatives of The Wall Street Journal could be reached for comment yesterday. Nancy Nielsen, a spokeswoman for The New York Times, said, "We welcome all voices in the newspaper market, and we don't expect their price cut to affect The New York Times."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PSON (LSE) (83%); PSO (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (97%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (97%); NAICS611710 EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT SERVICES (83%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: FINANCIAL TIMES (NEWSPAPER); WALL STREET JOURNAL FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (97%); PEARSON PLC (83%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (58%); THE ECONOMIST GROUP (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL TIMES (NEWSPAPER); WALL STREET JOURNAL THE ECONOMIST GROUP (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: NEWSPAPERS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) PRICE CUTTING (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); NEWSSTANDS (89%); MARKET SHARE (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (76%); EXECUTIVES (71%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (64%); 

PERSON: DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H MARJORIE SCARDINO (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1998



46 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 2, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1262 words

HEADLINE: Hong Kong Finds It Isn't Immune to Asian Distress

BYLINE: By EDWARD A. GARGAN 

DATELINE: HONG KONG, Feb. 1

 BODY:
Leung Pak Lau thought that life was pretty good. Then, Asia's economic and financial wreckage landed on his red-and-silver taxi.
A slight man in his mid-50's, Mr. Leung owns his own cab -- a fervent aspiration once, but now a choice he rues. 
 "Business is definitely bad these days," he said, piloting his stick-shift Toyota through the clotted streets of the Wanchai shopping district. What upsets him most is that when he bought his taxi license five months ago, he says, it cost $3.1 million (Hong Kong), or $397,000 (United States). "Now it's only worth about $2 million" (Hong Kong) or $256,000 (United States).
Shored up by hefty budget and trade surpluses, and $92.8 billion (United States) in foreign-exchange reserves, Hong Kong's economy has proved more robust than others in Asia. Its companies have comparatively small debts, and there are essentially no empty office towers. But the ripples of Asian distress are lapping at Hong Kong's shores.
Already, a major investment bank and a small brokerage firm have gone under. Retailers are hurting; unemployment is rising, and real estate development, a pillar of the economy, is slowing. Though some of this is a result of regional collapse, Hong Kong is being buffeted primarily by a problem of its own making: the territory's monetary policy.
The Hong Kong dollar is rigidly pegged to the United States dollar at a rate of roughly 7.8 to 1, a link that has forestalled currency instability here but has also begun to rattle some sectors of the economy. Even Tung Chee-hwa, the man chosen by Beijing as Hong Kong's chief executive, acknowledges that maintaining the link is causing problems.
"In the course of defending the linked exchange-rate system," Mr. Tung, a former shipping entrepreneur, told the Beijing-picked legislature about two weeks ago, the following situations will undoubtedly arise: the "Hong Kong dollar interest rate goes up; property prices come down; the stock market lingers at low levels; our tourism is in the doldrums; consumer spending sentiment diminishes; our economic growth in 1998 will slow down significantly, and our unemployment figures will be on the rise."
Yet Mr. Tung has repeatedly declared that the link with the United States dollar will be maintained at all costs. "It is vital for us to defend the linked exchange rate," he told the legislators. "This is a basic policy to maintain the economic stability and prosperity of Hong Kong."
Likewise, Deputy Prime Minister Zhu Rongji of China has told visiting officials that Beijing will defend not only the value of the Chinese currency but also Hong Kong's decision to preserve its peg to the United States dollar.
Although no one is talking about alternate monetary policies, the ramifications of keeping the peg are evident in the domestic economy.
Mortgage interest rates have already touched 12 percent, making monthly payments more expensive, depressing property prices, raising costs for retailers, dampening the stock market -- even undermining the value of taxi licenses, which are usually bought with bank loans that now carry sharply higher rates.
Not only has Mr. Leung's cab license slumped in value, but Hong Kong's famously, and many say ridiculously, high-priced real estate is taking a battering in the face of mounting interest rates. With prices now 20 to 30 percent below peaks of barely three months ago, several important companies' debt levels are stirring anxiety in the stock market, where property and development concerns are pillars of the benchmark Hang Seng index.
One of the territory's largest real estate developers, Sun Hung Kai Properties, has announced that it is halting work on 10 construction projects because of the current economic climate. And as the economy begins to contract -- the Government predicts a growth rate this year of 4 percent, down from 5.5 percent last year, and private analysts are more pessimistic -- a growing number of investment banks and brokerage houses are cutting jobs that were added in the boom years.
The brashest and newest of the breed, Peregrine Investments Holdings, collapsed recently. BZW Asia has disappeared after being acquired by Credit Suisse First Boston; Schroders Securities Asia Ltd. laid off 220 employees here after it shut most of its brokerage business, and Societe Generale Crosby has laid off employees and cut the salaries of senior executives.
On Jan. 19, a small brokerage firm, Capital Asia Pacific Ltd., filed for bankruptcy, endangering the life savings of hundreds of investors, 300 of whom besieged Government offices for three days seeking some sort of rescue.
Mr. Tung, who met the investors, said, "I am sympathetic for them and believe they deserve help." After a week of silence, the Government announced a rescue package for smaller investors.
Other businesses are feeling pain as well. Hong Kong's airline, Cathay Pacific, badly bruised from vast rows of empty seats on flights around Asia, has begun shedding workers, starting last week with 750, of whom 220 will be laid off here in Hong Kong.
Along Hong Kong's shopping thoroughfares, the mood is increasingly gloomy. In the mannequin-filled window of World Signs, a women's clothing store in Causeway Bay, a huge sign reads: "Up to 70 percent Off."
"People don't seem to care about shopping," said Alice Liu, the shop's manager. "They used to buy new clothes for the holidays, for Christmas and Chinese New Year, but this year it really doesn't matter. People can go without new clothes."
The situation has become so bad that Hong Kong's retail industry has called on landlords to cut rents by 40 percent. "The retailers in Hong Kong are having an extremely difficult time," said Philip Ma, the chairman of the Hong Kong Retail Management Association, a group that represents businesses employing more than half of the industry's 200,000 workers.
So far, none of Hong Kong's major landlords have responded to Mr. Ma's plea. However, the Hong Kong Housing Authority announced that it was freezing rents on commercial establishments in public buildings.
Public confidence in the economy is at a two-year low, according to Ming Pao, a leading Chinese daily, which conducts quarterly surveys of public opinion. "Economic confidence has fallen to the level of 1995," the paper said recently, "when China and Britain were in the midst of severe political conflict."
Despite rising public anxiety, however, most Hong Kong companies are not deeply enmeshed with other Southeast Asian economies; China is Hong Kong's backyard, and that is where most companies have invested. "Most Hong Kong companies have their operations, their manufacturing facilities, in China rather than Southeast Asia," said Richard Margolis, a first vice president at Merrill Lynch (Asia Pacific). "They just don't have the exposure, and that includes Hong Kong's banks."
And then there is tourism, which once helped fuel Hong Kong's economy, as visitors deluged every shop from China Arts and Crafts to Gucci to the night markets of Kowloon. Although official data are lagging behind, figures for November show a 22 percent decline in tourist arrivals from those of November 1996.
That seems destined to fall further when data arrive for December and January; both months have been battered by news of "bird flu" and a continuing regional financial meltdown. The Government estimates that 8 percent of the territory's gross domestic product is derived from tourism and that 360,000 people work in tourist-related businesses. All that is in jeopardy now.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Higher Rates, Harder Times"
Hong Kong's prime rate has jumped twice since October, making investment, home buying and the cost of debt about 20 percent more expensive than a year ago. Graph shows rate since January 1997. (Source: Datastream) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HONG KONG (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (94%); CHINA (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (78%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HONG KONG; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; HONG KONG (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); ASIA (94%); CHINA (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (78%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (88%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); RETAILERS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (73%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (73%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (71%); TRENDS (71%); MONETARY POLICY (68%); OFFICE PROPERTY (67%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (65%); INTEREST RATES (64%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (61%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (53%); EXECUTIVES (50%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); 

PERSON: GARGAN, EDWARD A TUNG CHEE-HWA (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1998



47 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 2, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1945 words

HEADLINE: Memos Said to Detail Reuters Effort to Obtain Bloomberg Data

BYLINE: By KURT EICHENWALD 

 BODY:
Federal prosecutors have obtained more than 100 written communications between an American subsidiary of Reuters Holdings P.L.C. and a consulting company that investigators believe was hired to steal information from the computers of a competitor, Bloomberg L.P., people in touch with the investigation said yesterday.
The communications from the subsidiary, Reuters Analytics Inc., include memos and other records requesting detailed information about technical programs for analyzing investments, these people said. 
 The consultant was then said to have electronically broken into Bloomberg's corporate computers and obtained the information. Afterwards, it was passed to Reuters, at times directly to the parent company's London headquarters, they said. Prosecutors were said to have also obtained the consultant's responses.
The computer consulting company, whose name could not be immediately determined, was said by people in touch with the investigation to have been founded by a former employee of Bloomberg. They said that the company is based near the Stamford, Conn., headquarters of Reuters Analytics.
Prosecutors obtained the documents during an undercover investigation of Reuters Analytics that has lasted about a year. In the investigation, at least one confidential informant helped the Government obtain an array of evidence, including tapes.
Robert Crooke, a spokesman for Reuters America, declined to comment.
The written communications are the first documentary evidence known to have been obtained by prosecutors in the case. Such written communications, including messages sent by E-mail, would be potentially critical evidence, because they could be used to establish which executives were connected to the purported scheme.
Already, Reuters has placed three executives in the subsidiary on paid leave in the wake of the scandal. According to people with ties to Reuters, they include Hubert Holmes, the unit's head, as well as Jeff Walker and James Feingold, two executives in the unit.
In telephone calls, Mr. Holmes and Mr. Feingold declined to comment. A home telephone number for Mr. Walker could not be obtained.
More than $6.5 billion is spent annually to keep computer terminals on the desks of Wall Street spewing out up-to-the-second bond and equity prices and currency values and offering complex analytical tools that combine years of historical and contemporary data to predict current trends.
Reuters Holdings, the largest and oldest competitor in the financial information services business, had more than a century's head start when Michael R. Bloomberg founded Bloomberg L.P. in 1981. But Reuters's brash competitor developed new analytic tools that Wall Street professionals regarded as well suited to their needs in an era of derivatives and other increasingly complex securities transactions.
According to people in touch with the investigation, prosecutors have obtained evidence that Reuters was stealing information from Bloomberg's operating code, the underlying software that governs the functioning of Bloomberg's data terminals.
As the head of Reuters Analytics, Mr. Holmes reported directly to senior executives at the parent company in London. For several years, he reported to David Ure, an executive director responsible for marketing and technical policy. Since late 1996, he has reported to John Parcell, who is executive director responsible for the financial information product line.
Executives in London maintained direct contact with the analytics division, occasionally traveling to Stamford to meet with Mr. Holmes and other executives. In recent months, investigators have been examining the travel of London executives to the subsidiary and their contacts with its American executives as part of an effort to determine if they knew of the purported scheme, people in touch with the investigation said.
Since announcing the grand jury investigation on Thursday, Reuters has declined comment on the extent of the inquiry. Reached by E-mail in Davos, Switzerland, where he was attending the annual World Economic Forum, Mr. Bloomberg, who is the chairman and chief executive of Bloomberg L.P., also declined comment. "Sorry, have nothing to add to obvious story," he wrote.
From its earliest days, Reuters Analytics has been faced with accusations that it used unsavory business practices to obtain other companies' technologies.
The subsidiary was originally an independent company with a mission to develop technology to compete with Bloomberg. It was acquired by Reuters after the settlement of a bitter 1993 lawsuit, in which the founders of the predecessor company, Capital Markets Decisions Inc., accused Reuters of secretly hiring its programmers and using their proprietary knowledge to build a clone of Capital Markets' software.
Mr. Holmes, Mr. Walker and Mr. Ure, the London executive, all played roles in that earlier dispute.
Mr. Crooke, the Reuters spokesman, said that the court records had to speak for themselves. Many of Reuters's documents are missing from the public record. However, in the records that do exist and in interviews at the time of the suit, Reuters executives denied all of the allegations made by Capital Markets Decisions, saying that no effort had been made to obtain any confidential information from the small company.
In 1989, Reuters, in its efforts to move further into the business of analytics, turned to J. Stephen Levkoff, a senior vice president at Smith Barney who had previously developed analytics systems.
Reuters asked Mr. Levkoff to develop a product equivalent to the Bloomberg terminal, and he agreed to join Reuters as a consultant through his own independent company, Capital Markets Decisions, according to the court documents.
Bloomberg had made rapid inroads into Reuters's business by offering fund managers and other institutions a data terminal that allowed traders to aggressively analyze purchases and sales of investments. Reuters had no such product, known as an analytics system, and did not have the programming expertise to develop one.
After his discussions with Reuters, Mr. Levkoff left Smith Barney to run Capital Markets Decisions, which would create a new analytics system for Reuters to sell.
According to the contract, Capital Markets Decisions would receive royalty payments on each terminal installed, and Reuters would supply its data for the system.
By 1991, Capital Markets Decisions had developed and released its system, known as Decision 2000 and nicknamed the "Bloomberg Killer." That year, Reuters began installing the new units on customers' desks.
Relations between the two sides began to break down in early 1993. According to court records, after repeated disputes about the contract between Reuters and Capital Markets Decisions, Mr. Levkoff and Mr. Ure renegotiated it, with handwritten revisions. But, when pressed for a final draft of that agreement, Mr. Holmes refused to provide it, according to an affidavit by Mr. Levkoff.
In 1993, Reuters declared Capital Markets Decisions in breach of contract for what it said were a variety of failures. But Mr. Levkoff believed the declaration was made in bad faith, as "an effort to break the contract or wear us down into selling the business to Reuters," according to court records he filed in the case. That would give Reuters ownership of the system, eliminating the need for royalty payments.
Employees of Capital Markets Decisions began hearing from Reuters employees that their company faced imminent demise. According to the court papers, employees began leaving Capital Markets Decisions without telling their colleagues where they would be working.
According to Mr. Levkoff's affidavit, a showdown occurred during a dinner with Mr. Holmes on Sept. 18, 1993, at the Homestead Inn in Greenwich, Conn. Mr. Holmes produced a draft letter, declaring Reuters's intent to terminate the contract immediately, despite a negotiated term that required six months' notice. Mr. Holmes informed Mr. Levkoff that Reuters had been working on Capital Markets Decisions' termination for a year, and had already paid a law firm $500,000 as part of the effort, the affidavit says.
During the meeting, according to Mr. Levkoff's affidavit, Mr. Holmes told him that several Capital Markets Decisions employees who had disappeared were working for Reuters. A number of employees with Capital Markets Decisions signed affidavits saying that Mr. Walker was personally involved in the effort to hire them.
One Capital Markets Decisions programmer, Tom Kokoska, had secretly joined Reuters after leaving Capital Markets Decisions for Bloomberg. To conceal Mr. Kokoska's work, he had taken the job under a pseudonym, Joe Pope. Memorandums written by Reuters executives at the time show the name Joe Pope was even used on internal communications. And an affidavit by another Capital Markets Decisions executive describes how a friend of Mr. Kokoska could reach him only at Reuters by knowing to ask for Joe Pope.
Why the subterfuge? According to Mr. Levkoff's affidavit, Mr. Holmes told him it was because Mr. Kokoska was working for almost a year on a secret project to make a clone of Decision 2000. Once it had used the knowledge of former Capital Markets Decisions programmers to make its own system, Reuters could take over the business, Mr. Levkoff said.
Mr. Kokoska did not return a telephone call to his home seeking comment.
But, as described in Capital Markets Decisions records filed in the United States District Court in Manhattan, Reuters, whose needs had spurred the creation of Capital Markets Decisions and its flagship product, was secretly hiring away some employees who understood its software. In turn, according to an affidavit by Mr. Levkoff, they were using that knowledge to develop a similar product.
Mr. Levkoff said in his affidavit that he was told of the effort by a Reuters executive. As a result, Mr. Levkoff said, the value of Capital Markets Decisions would be reduced, allowing Reuters to buy the company at a low price. That would give Reuters use of the Decision 2000 product without paying royalties.
Before the Homestead dinner was over, Mr. Holmes presented a copy of an agreement for Reuters to buy Capital Markets Decisions. Mr. Levkoff said in court papers that Mr. Holmes told him that with the clone project under way, Decision 2000 was no longer considered a valuable asset. "Every day that goes by, Decision 2000 is worth less to Reuters," Mr. Levkoff quoted him as saying.
Mr. Levkoff said in his affidavit that he refused the deal because Reuters was offering a lowball bid; Mr. Holmes stated in an affidavit that a deal was agreed upon.
On Oct. 19, three weeks after the Homestead Inn dinner, and after Mr. Levkoff rebuffed a second offer to buy his company, Reuters severed all communications links, including real-time data feeds, that Capital Markets Decisions needed to get access to the operational Decision 2000 product to update the data used by customers. It also changed the number for the Decision 2000 help desk, which had been at Capital Markets Decisions.
Mr. Levkoff brought suit, seeking $30 million in damages. After much battling, he won the right to depose many of the principals in the case.
But Reuters reversed course. It reached a confidential settlement, in which it purchased Capital Markets Decisions for an undisclosed sum that was acceptable to Mr. Levkoff. He then left the company.
Under the supervision of Mr. Ure, Mr. Holmes, along with Mr. Walker, began working with Reuters latest subsidiary, the newly named Reuters Analytics.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TRI (TSX) (94%); TRI (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (96%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (96%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (96%); NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (94%); SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (70%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

COMPANY: REUTERS HOLDINGS PLC; REUTERS ANALYTICS INC; BLOOMBERG LP BLOOMBERG LP (96%); THOMSON REUTERS CORP (94%); REUTERS AMERICA INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: REUTERS HOLDINGS PLC; REUTERS ANALYTICS INC; BLOOMBERG LP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (70%); CONNECTICUT, USA (70%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE AND PIRACY HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (77%); BONDS (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (68%); TRENDS (68%); ESPIONAGE (67%); CURRENCIES (50%); 

PERSON: EICHENWALD, KURT MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1998



48 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 2, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
Battle Plan for Gulf War II

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: DAVOS, Switzerland

 BODY:
If Saddam Hussein does not cave in to the sound of sabres rattling, the U.S. has little choice but to make good its military threats. What would Gulf War II be like?
Phase I would be an air attack heavier than the missile pinpricks that encouraged Saddam to challenge U.N. inspections. The word picked up at this year's World Economic Forum is that bombers would hit air defenses, military command and control facilities, perhaps a sampling of biowar sites. The mission would be to render Iraq unable to put anything in the air. 
 Saddam's counterattack would be psychological: to display the bloodied bodies of children on CNN (even if he had to stage explosions at hospitals himself), thereby to turn U.S. opinion against further bombing. Appeals to the Arab street would encourage demonstrations and terrorist attacks.
Phase II would be a bombing pause. Russian and French envoys to Baghdad would say the mad Americans cannot be restrained unless some compromise is reached. Mr. Clinton would maintain his resolve to win unconditional inspection. His bottom line: unrestricted inspections, often headed by American experts.
If that test of Saddam's submission was finessed by attempts to protract negotiations, Phase III would begin: sustained bombing of all suspected weaponry sites, including palaces occupied by civilians used as hostages. Industrial and oil facilities would be taken out as in Gulf War I.
This time Saddam would not only play on our revulsion at the pictures of innocents' bloodshed, but might escalate the war, aiming Iraqi missiles with poison gas at Israel and posing as a holy warrior.
This time, with no Arab cooperation to lose, the U.S. said it would not appeal to Israelis for restraint. Retaliatory commando raids might be an early option; if Saddam turned totally suicidal and tried germ warfare, he would invite a nuclear response.
But if Saddam chose televised victimhood, and was not overthrown in a coup by officers unhappy at Republican Guard losses, what then? He would be wounded, his people impoverished, but Iraq would remain triumphantly unoccupied with Saddam in command -- building his weapons of mass destruction and buying the missiles to deliver them.
For us, to fail to win would be to lose. If the U.S. went to war and stopped short of victory, it would be beaten. The measure of victory in Gulf War II: trying Saddam as a war criminal and showing Iraqis how to hold elections. That means we should be prepared to go to Phase IV: invasion.
If it comes to that, are we ready? No; the ground troops are not in place, and the will to send ground troops is not yet in the Clinton Administration.
Because Saddam knows Clinton is unprepared to go all the way to land war, he is willing to absorb aerial punishment until we give up. Only if we show our readiness to go all the way might we avoid the need to do so.
Because Clinton feels the need to act under a multilateral cloak, he cannot be expected to ask Congress for an old-fashioned declaration of war. However, since limited war is what he proposes to wage -- with casualties to be expected -- he must ask Congress, where the war power still resides, for an enabling resolution.
He'd get it and then some. Speaker Newt Gingrich made a brilliant speech in Davos yesterday urging the final disposition of Saddam. Congress should follow his lead and direct the President to take all air, sea and land action to conclusively remove the threat that this dictator will acquire weapons of mass destruction.
A week's serious Senate Foreign Relations debate would increase pressure on Saddam while preparing Americans for sacrifices. Dissenters could take their stand and -- should the majority support the use of all necessary force to remove Saddam -- the President would receive the constitutional mandate he needs for a fight to the finish.
I ran into Hillary Clinton at the Sara Lee reception last night. Though our brief chat was socially privileged, she told me that what we needed was not just allies to express concern but to make commitments. She's right.
If her husband is willing to tell the world what is at stake, and how long the road may be, he will find allies in Congress, in public opinion and in key capitals to join him in a commitment to save millions of lives threatened by this generation's Hitler.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (95%); ISRAEL (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); FRANCE (72%); 

STATE: GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (75%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

COMPANY: PHASE II (72%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (57%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (58%); UNITED NATIONS (58%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (57%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (95%); ISRAEL (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); FRANCE (72%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (75%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US BOMBINGS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INSPECTIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DESERT STORM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); ARMED FORCES (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); AIR DEFENSE SYSTEMS (78%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (77%); TERRORISM (77%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (77%); HOSTAGE TAKING (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); COUPS (72%); WAR CRIMES (72%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (70%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1998



49 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 2, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 648 words

HEADLINE: Bracing for the Asian Shock Wave

BYLINE: By James K. Galbraith; James K. Galbraith is an economist at the University of Texas. His next book is titled "Created Unequal."

DATELINE: AUSTIN, Tex.

 BODY:
So far, American workers have been helped, not hurt, by the Asian economic crisis. Prices are down; products like computers and televisions are cheap as rarely before. American stocks haven't fallen, and few working Americans had investments in Asia. More important, the crisis has eliminated fears of inflation and kept interest rates stable, so that our economy continues to grow and unemployment continues to fall.
But this Indian summer of the American Expansion could end soon. Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, predicted last week that the economy, hindered by increased competition from Asian imports and declining exports, would begin to slow by June. My colleagues at the Economic Policy Institute, a Washington research group, estimate that the drop in exports to Asia will cost more than a million American jobs next year. Falling Asian currencies also mean a rising dollar, which will hit the pay of those Americans -- like garment and electronics workers -- who compete directly with their Asian counterparts. 
 Worse could happen. Some American banks, weakened by losses in Asia, may be forced before long to tighten credit at home. The falling prices that now seem so appealing will dampen profits and raise real interest rates, discouraging consumers from spending on cars and appliances. And if the economy then slows, the Federal deficit will start to grow. Given the hard line on the budget that's now in vogue, new debts will surely panic politicians into new spending cuts -- accelerating the economy's decline.
In his State of the Union Message last week, President Clinton urged Congress to respond to the Asian crisis by supporting the International Monetary Fund. But the I.M.F. alone cannot forestall the grim chain of events that might lead to a recession. Its loans, while necessary as a cushion against debt defaults, will never be large enough to restore Asia to its former role as an engine of global growth.
The shock waves from Asia are thus certain to hit American workers. The question is whether we are ready to parry the blow. There are a number of steps that our Government could take to strengthen both our own economy and the world's.
Since 1993, American households have fueled growth through steadily increasing consumer spending, and they have the debt to prove it. Higher wages would help sustain their purchasing power, and for this reason a new increase in the minimum wage is a good idea. But lowering interest rates is the easiest and fastest way to keep consumers in the game. Such a move would counteract the tendency of falling prices to drive up real interest rates, helping businesses as well as workers. It would also help to keep the dollar from rising, and so strengthen our workers in world competition, while helping to ease the crisis abroad. The Fed should cut interest rates now, before the crisis reaches here.
But lower interest rates and higher wages may not themselves be enough to keep our economy growing. Against this contingency, the Government should start preparing now to resume its historical role as the demander of last resort. It should consider strong measures to increase its investment in schools, transportation, parks and museums. It should also be ready, if necessary, to cut taxes for those Americans who never benefited from the credit boom -- for instance, by expanding the earned-income tax credit again.
As for the balanced budget: too bad. But if the economy slows, we'll have deficits again anyhow. Better to act first.
One lesson of the crisis in Asia is that we need, here at home, a Government that works actively to develop our economy -- by raising wages, cutting interest rates and issuing the public debt necessary to meet public needs and to sustain full employment. Only then can we build a stable economy that responds to crises before they engulf us all.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (97%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (56%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (56%); ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; UNITED STATES (99%); ASIA (97%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; CURRENCY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RECESSION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); TRENDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%); NATIONAL DEBT (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); 

PERSON: GALBRAITH, JAMES K ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); BILL CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1998



50 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 2, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 204 words

HEADLINE: The Era of Big Government Lives Anew

 BODY:

To the Editor:
I remember President Clinton's saying not long ago that the era of big government was over. Well, it wasn't then and it will not be if he gets the new or expanded Federal laws, taxes and programs he proposed in his State of the Union address (front page, Jan. 28). In his speech he claimed that the Government is smallest in 35 years and that taxes for the typical middle-class family are the lowest they have been in 20. 
 Federal revenues as a share of the gross domestic product are at an all-time high, with the Government gobbling up almost 20.8 percent of every dollar produced. That's slightly higher than the 20.7 percent in 1981 and 1969 (when the Vietnam War surtax was in effect).
By only one measure -- the number of Federal employees -- is the Government smaller. That's because of military downsizing and the reduction of civilian support staff.
Twenty years ago government at all levels took 33 percent of the average American's income, according to the Tax Foundation. Today, that figure is 35 percent. President Clinton can't take all the credit for the Federal Government's share. He had help from the Republican-controlled Congress.
 
PAUL ECCLES
San Diego, Jan. 29, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; STATE OF THE UNION MESSAGE (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); POLITICS (73%); CIVIL SERVICES (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (70%); VIETNAM WAR (68%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ECCLES, PAUL BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1998



51 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 2, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: HUD Asks Money for Housing And Jobs for Urban Homeless

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 1

 BODY:
In its biggest budget request in 10 years, the Department of Housing and Urban Development will ask Congress on Monday to approve huge increases for programs to expand housing and job opportunities for low-income people in cities across the country.
As part of President Clinton's budget, the department is seeking $25 billion for the 1999 fiscal year, an increase of 4 percent over 1998.
But the core of the request is $1.8 billion in new spending for programs designed primarily for helping cities compete with adjacent suburbs, which have had more success in recent years creating jobs and stable neighborhoods through economic development. According to the Clinton Administration, only 13 percent of the 14 million jobs created in the last five years were in cities. 
 "Cities have been at a competitive disadvantage with outlying counties," Housing Secretary Andrew M. Cuomo said on Friday. "This will help level the playing field."
A major component of the budget request is a new $400 million program, the Community Empowerment Fund, which would combine several smaller programs to distribute grants to states and local governments as a way to leverage $2 billion in loans. The Administration is predicting that the fund would help create 280,000 jobs.
In announcing the fund at a meeting of the United States Conference of Mayors on Friday, Mr. Clinton said it "will provide capital to businesses who recognize the potential and the possibilities of the inner cities."
"This is the right way to help our cities," he added. "It is not a handout."
Other major components of the budget proposal include $585 million for more than 100,000 new housing vouchers for low-income people and a 40 percent increase, to $1.15 billion, in programs to fight homelessness.
While acknowledging the ambitious nature of the budget request, Mr. Cuomo said he expected a favorable reception in Congress, largely as a reward for the department's efforts to eliminate fraud and abuse from housing programs and to reduce the department work force to 7,500 by 2002. Currently, the department employs 9,200, compared with 13,550 five years ago.
Representative Jerry Lewis, Republican of California and the chairman of the housing subcommittee of the House Appropriations Committee, said he shared Mr. Cuomo's optimistic assessment, saying, "The Secretary's feelings about the budget are justified."
Mr. Lewis also said he believed that the proposed budget reflected the proper emphasis, highlighting help for urban areas, although he expressed some reservation about the overall efficiency of municipal public housing agencies. "I do have questions about them," he said. "Some do a good job. Some don't."
The new money sought for housing vouchers would provide 50,000 new vouchers for welfare recipients looking for work and 34,000 additional vouchers for homeless people moving from shelters to permanent homes, with the rest for elderly, disabled and low-income people on voucher waiting lists.
Additional money for the homeless would include programs to pay for education, job training and substance abuse treatment for people moving into permanent housing.
Other areas of the budget request would provide increased spending to eliminate lead paint hazards, to develop unused urban industrial sites known as "brownfields" and to raise the loan limit for Government-insured home mortgages.
"People are moving out of the cities," Mr. Cuomo said, reflecting a trend that has continued for decades. "But if the cities fail, the suburban districts fail. This budget solidifies the balance."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF MAYORS (55%); UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF MAYORS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF MAYORS (55%); UNITED STATES CONFERENCE OF MAYORS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: URBAN AREAS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; HOUSING; LABOR CITIES (94%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (93%); BUDGETS (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); HOMELESSNESS (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); APPROVALS (78%); MAYORS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); LABOR FORCE (76%); 

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); ANDREW CUOMO (78%); JERRY LEWIS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1998



52 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 2, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1442 words

HEADLINE: How Good Is It? As Good As It Gets, Governors Say

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr. 

 BODY:
By President Clinton's proud reckoning on Tuesday night in his State of the Union Message, these are good times in America. But by the reckoning of most of the nation's governors, that was understatement.
In a series of State of the State addresses last month that were striking for their relentlessly upbeat and optimistic tone -- even discounting that 1998 is a re-election year for many governors -- the chief executives of some 40 states painted a picture of a nation that not only is enjoying good times but in many cases, as they see it, is enjoying the best times ever. 
 Thanks mainly to the nation's booming economy, governors who a few years ago were bemoaning intractable problems, shortages of money and the need for sacrifice, now crow about spending new cash surpluses to solve old problems, about cutting rather than raising taxes and about giving out instead of rationing government goodies.
But most of all, the State of the State speeches of 1998, based on a review of most of those delivered thus far, were speeches about good times on a roll like seldom before.
As Gov. Terry E. Branstad of Iowa, a Republican whose 16 years in office make him the nation's senior governor, put it in his Jan. 13 address:
"We've come a long way. Today we stand stronger and taller than ever before. The condition of our state is as good as we've ever had it."
Then Mr. Branstad, who is not running for re-election, offered some persuasive proof. "Consider just a few facts," he said, beginning a litany that could have applied as easily to New York or Texas or California as to heartland Iowa.
"In 1997," he went on, "unemployment fell to the lowest level in history, and the number of working Iowans rose to the highest level. The number of jobs created by new businesses rose almost 19 percent. We had one-third fewer Iowans on welfare than four years ago. Land values increased for the 11th consecutive year. We created one of the best student-to-computer ratios in the nation and within a year every school district will be hooked up to the information superhighway. We ended the year with a state budget surplus of over $800 million -- the state's best fiscal position ever. And today every Iowa taxpayer is paying 10 percent less in state income taxes."
Other governors offered a similar message, even the governors of some states that traditionally have been depressed, economic laggards, like West Virginia. The detail and the wording varied, but not the ultimate conclusion.
"The state of our state is sound," said Gov. Tony Knowles of Alaska, a Democrat. "Our course is the right one. The future for most Alaskans is bright."
Gov. Tommy G. Thompson of Wisconsin, a Republican, said: "The most visionary, vibrant and vigorous state in America. We are young. We are bold. We are strong."
Gov. Roy Romer of Colorado, a Democrat, boasted, "We are now one of the premier economies in the nation, perhaps the world."
The Governor of Delaware, Thomas R. Carper, a Democrat, declared, "Our economy is as strong as an oak."
Gov. Cecil H. Underwood of West Virginia, a Republican, said, "We can now sing a song of hope."
Problems remain in all states, of course, ranging from low test scores in public schools and overcrowding in prisons to crumbling highways and hard-core, left-in-the-dust pockets of the poor, the homeless and the chronically unemployed. And in most of this year's State of the State speeches, governors acknowledged such difficulties, a few with acute bluntness.
For example, Gov. Benjamin J. Cayetano of Hawaii, a Democrat, spoke of struggling to lead a state tossing about in "stormy waters" and grappling with "unprecedented" problems, mainly because its main industry, tourism, has been hard hit by competition from other vacation destinations and by a sharp decline in visits by Asians, who have their own economic crisis to deal with. He warned: "What lies ahead may be the most difficult challenge our state has ever faced."
Yet despite such admissions of problems, taken as a whole the 1998 State of the State speeches portrayed a nation that, near the dawn of the 21st century, was graced from sea to shining sea by such wealth and plenty that one governor, Gary Locke of Washington, a Democrat, waxed wondrously not only about a state grown ever bigger, ever better and ever richer but also a state suddenly infused with a "growing sense that we are entering a time of moral renewal, a time when more and more Americans are coming home to the values of service to others, respect for our elders and sacrifice for our children."
In many of the speeches, governors called for increased spending on early childhood development, health care for the very young and day care programs for working parents, a reflection of the importance the nation's leaders are now according to recent studies indicating that the earlier a child's education begins and the more stable it is, the better the adult will turn out.
Many of the speeches also contained proposals for increased spending on highways, a reflection not only of growing concern about the aging of the nation's road network but also a reflection of the change in the way many of the nation's businesses now do business -- that is, many no longer maintain expensive warehouse inventories but instead depend on efficient communication and transportation systems to deliver goods within hours of need.
There were calls in a good many speeches for increased training of schoolchildren and workers in computer skills, lest a state be left in the electronic dust of the next century. And there were warnings in many speeches that a state that did not successfully recruit its share of high-technology companies could find itself left in the century's electronic dust.
Finally, this being an election year -- and an election year in flush economic times -- many of the speeches contained proposals for tax cuts. But many were for modest cuts, such as reductions in taxes on new cars.
That relatively cautious fiscal approach -- many of the spending proposals made in the speeches were equally cautious -- reflects a wariness from the last recession. It hit many states at a time when they had no budget surpluses to tide them over hard times, having spent heavily in the years leading up to the recession.
"They learned a hard lesson," said Raymond C. Scheppach, the executive director of the National Governors Association. "Now most are deliberately spending less than they take in each year to make sure they have a cushion for the next bad period, which inevitably will come."
But, meanwhile, the good times roll on.
In his State of the State speech to South Carolinians, Gov. David M. Beasley, a Republican, boasted that "there's never been a more exciting time to be a South Carolinian," then added:
"Our economy is going gangbusters. Just last year, more companies invested than ever before -- the most international business, the most new investment, the most expansions. Since 1995, job creation has risen 75 percent and we created more jobs last year than ever before, paying an average of over $30,000 a year. Unemployment is at its lowest point in nearly three decades. Consumer confidence is the highest on record."
On the West Coast, Gov. Pete Wilson of California, another Republican, struck a similar high note in his address, not only saying that the grinding economic recession of the early 1990's was a fading piece of history in California but declaring that the Golden State had forged ahead to become "the powerhouse of the Pacific, a beacon of industry and innovation that is lighting the path to an age of unimaginable incandescence."
But perhaps it was an East Coast governor, George E. Pataki of New York, still another Republican, who drew the strongest contrast between the state of American states in early 1998 and the state that existed during the darkest days of the recession.
In 1992, his predecessor in Albany, Mario M. Cuomo, a Democrat, lamented despairingly in his State of the State address that "New York, like other states, is struggling with a powerful force it cannot control, a national recession." Then, his rhetoric taking an even darker turn, he compared New York with a hostage in the hands of Middle East terrorists, struggling to maintain dignity in an all but hopeless environment.
There was none of that in Mr. Pataki's 1998 report on the state of New York State. Boasting about the state's sharp economic turnaround in recent years, he contended that hope had replaced hopelessness and despair, then said, "We have restored the dream. New York stands at the dawn of its greatest day."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IOWA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STATES (US); GOVERNORS (US); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS GOVERNORS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%); BUDGETS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (67%); TRENDS (64%); JOB CREATION (62%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (60%); INCOME TAX (60%); 

PERSON: AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR BILL CLINTON (92%); TOMMY THOMPSON (58%); TERRY BRANSTAD (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1998



53 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 2, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1171 words

HEADLINE: Aliens Would Get Food Stamps Back In Clinton Budget

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 30

 BODY:
In the budget he is to present to Congress on Monday, President Clinton will call for spending $2.5 billion in the next five years to provide food stamps to the hundreds of thousands of legal immigrants whose benefits were cut off by the sweeping Federal welfare law of 1996.
The welfare law removed 935,000 immigrants from the Federal food stamp rolls, according to Government estimates. While the states with the largest immigrant populations, including New York, California, Texas and Florida, have partly filled the void with their own programs, nearly 700,000 poor immigrants are still without food stamps. 
 And in New York City, where officials say 65,000 immigrants have lost the benefits, the President's plan takes on an even greater importance.
Since the day that he signed the 1996 bill, Mr. Clinton has advocated restoring some aid to legal immigrants who have not become citizens. With the Federal budget nearing balance and a strong economy pumping unanticipated tax dollars into the Government's coffers, the time is ripe, his aides argue.
But the proposal is expected to ignite a heated debate on Capitol Hill over its cost and over the role of the Federal Government in assisting noncitizens. Already, word of the President's plan has generated strong opposition from House conservatives, who charge that Mr. Clinton is trying to undermine the 1996 law by bits and pieces.
"Noncitizens should look to themselves, their families and their sponsors, not the American taxpayers, for financial support," said Representative Bob W. Goodlatte, Republican of Virginia, who is chairman of a House subcommittee that oversees the food stamps program.
But in New York City, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has been strenuously lobbying to restore the benefits. Officials there say that some families who lost their food stamps have been pushed to the brink of hunger, placing new burdens on already stretched food pantries.
The fight over restoring the aid could also spill over into New York's already contentious Senate race. Advocates of Mr. Clinton's plan are trying to prod Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato into carrying their fight to the Republican leadership, as he did last year in pushing to restore other welfare benefits for legal immigrants.
The advocates warn that Mr. D'Amato, a Republican who is running for his fourth term, will incur the wrath of immigrants who have obtained citizenship if he fails to lead the food stamp battle in Congress.
"He is pivotal," said Josh Bernstein, a policy analyst for the National Immigration Law Center in Washington.
Mr. D'Amato, who voted for the 1996 welfare bill, said in an interview that he supported Mr. Clinton's plan, although he had not seen details. "I will be joining with my colleagues to try to win this battle," he said.
Representative Charles E. Schumer, a Brooklyn Democrat who is seeking the Democratic nomination to challenge Mr. D'Amato, said he also supported Mr. Clinton's plan, though he wanted better Federal oversight of the food stamp program to prevent fraud and waste.
Except for a few small groups, including military veterans and recent refugees, the 1996 welfare law ended food stamp benefits for almost all immigrants, a number put at 935,000 by the Department of Agriculture. But more than a dozen states, including New York and New Jersey, have created locally financed programs that are helping to feed more than 240,000 immigrants -- leaving almost 700,000 without benefits.
The New York program provides food stamps to children, the elderly and disabled immigrants who came before Aug. 22, 1996, the day Mr. Clinton signed the welfare bill. The program has restored food stamps to about half of the state's 150,000 immigrants who had lost their benefits. The New Jersey program, which is similar to New York's, returned benefits to 10,000 of 16,000 households. Connecticut has not established such a program.
But advocates for the poor say that despite local programs, many immigrants are stretching their meager resources to feed their families by substituting canned goods for fresh produce and getting groceries from food pantries.
White House officials and people involved in budget negotiations say Mr. Clinton will call for restoring benefits to the elderly, the disabled and families with children. His plan would also provide assistance to some Hmong refugees. The Hmong are a Laotian mountain tribe that was allied with the United States during the Vietnam War. The Clinton plan would extend to seven years from five the time that refugees are eligible for food stamps after arriving in the country.
In his State of the Union Message on Tuesday, Mr. Clinton made an oblique reference to his plan, saying, "I also want to thank Congress for restoring some of the benefits to immigrants who are here legally and working hard, and I hope you will finish that job this year."
The plan is expected to cover many, perhaps most, immigrants who were in the country before Mr. Clinton signed the welfare bill. But White House officials said there was not enough money to cover all those immigrants.
Advocates for the poor say that if Mr. Clinton's plan is approved, states like New York could supplement the new Federal money with their own funds to provide food stamps to all immigrants. Aides to Gov. George E. Pataki said that he was unlikely to support giving food stamps to able-bodied, childless adults. But Tony Coles, a special adviser to Mr. Giuliani, said the Mayor would probably endorse that idea. New York State splits the cost of its $83 million immigrant food stamp program with local governments.
"The Mayor would support anything that would maximize coverage for legal immigrants," Mr. Coles said. "He will not be satisfied until we get 100 percent restoration."
Congressional sources who have reviewed portions of Mr. Clinton's budget said it would also significantly increase aid to New York City for job training programs, education, AIDS treatment and hospitals. Mr. Clinton is expected to propose eliminating Federal operating subsidies for Amtrak, but he will also call for a 44 percent increase in Federal aid to the city's mass transit system, the sources said.
Democrats say Republicans will be under pressure to support the food stamp plan to inoculate their party from charges of being anti-immigrant. Perhaps sensing that possibility, even Republican supporters of the President's proposal have begun questioning Mr. Clinton's motives.
"It's just a throwaway line in a speech," said Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, a Republican from the Miami area. "Unless he pushes it, it's not going to happen. And he's not pushing it."
But some moderate Republicans said they thought the plan had a strong chance of passing, though perhaps in restricted form. "We have a good cross-section of members supporting this," said Representative James T. Walsh, a Republican from Syracuse who sponsored similar legislation last year. "If it went to a vote on the floor, we'd get it." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK (76%); REPUBLICAN OF VIRGINIA (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (76%); REPUBLICAN OF VIRGINIA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: WELFARE (US); IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; FOOD STAMPS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; STATES (US) FOOD STAMPS (93%); IMMIGRATION (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); CITIZENSHIP (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); FOOD CHARITIES (77%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (77%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (77%); REFUGEES (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); MAYORS (73%); 

PERSON: DAO, JAMES; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%); BOB GOODLATTE (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1998



54 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 2, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1199 words

HEADLINE: INVESTIGATING CLINTON: THE OVERVIEW;
Lewinsky Would Take Lie Test In Exchange for Immunity Deal

BYLINE: By DON VAN NATTA Jr. and JOHN M. BRODER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 1

 BODY:
Monica S. Lewinsky, the former low-level aide at the center of the current White House investigation, is willing to submit to a polygraph examination in exchange for complete immunity from prosecution, her lawyer said today.
The lawyer, William H. Ginsburg, whose tone in a blitz of five television appearances sounded less hostile to President Clinton than it was just a few days ago, said Ms. Lewinsky would voluntarily take the test to prove the truthfulness of her account of a relationship with Mr. Clinton. 
 On the airwaves and behind the scenes today, a delicate dance between Mr. Ginsburg and Kenneth W. Starr, the independent prosecutor, was being played out. Mr. Ginsburg predicted that Mr. Clinton would emerge virtually unscathed from the political and legal frenzy.
"It'll go away; it'll pass," he said in one of his television appearances. "The President will remain in office, he'll do a good job, we'll all, hopefully, have a sound economy, keep our jobs, and I think everything's going to be fine."
To emphasize that point, Mr. Ginsburg portrayed his client today as a witness more sympathetic to the President than was assumed. This gambit might be intended to pressure Mr. Starr to moderate his hard-line attitude toward her as a potential witness. Mr. Ginsburg also said for the first time that he had spoken with White House lawyers.
Mr. Ginsburg said Ms. Lewinsky, a 24-year-old former White House intern, would submit to a polygraph exam only if Mr. Starr promised not to charge her with lying in an affidavit she provided for the sexual misconduct case against Mr. Clinton filed by Paula Corbin Jones.
However, Mr. Starr is balking at granting blanket immunity to Ms. Lewinsky until he is certain that she is a credible witness, lawyers involved in the talks say. Ms. Lewinsky's testimony is critical to the independent counsel's effort to establish whether Mr. Clinton carried on an extended sexual affair with Ms. Lewinsky and then sought to have her lie about it under oath.
In past discussions with Mr. Ginsburg, lawyers for Mr. Starr, reflecting doubts about Ms. Lewinsky's reliability as a witness, have said she should take a polygraph exam before they will consider accepting her offer to tell them everything she knows.
The difference over the timing of the polygraph exam has become a stumbling block to an agreement between the independent counsel and Ms. Lewinsky, lawyers involved in the case said today. Some members of Mr. Starr's legal team are also concerned that Ms. Lewinsky's "proffer," the summary of her proposed testimony, does not reflect some snippets of conversations that she claimed to have had with Mr. Clinton on 20 hours of tapes secretly recorded by a friend.
But one lawyer insisted that the omissions "are not significant."
Mr. Ginsburg provided the proffer verbally to Mr. Starr's legal team on Jan. 26, and since then there has been little communication between them.
The negotiations are further complicated by the Government's difficulty in acquiring evidence to corroborate accounts of Mr. Clinton's relationship with the woman and any effort he may have made -- including referring her to a lawyer and helping her find a job -- to persuade her to remain silent about it.
Vernon E. Jordan Jr., a close friend of Mr. Clinton, referred Ms. Lewinsky to a Washington lawyer and recommended her to three corporations based in New York for employment. Mr. Jordan was subpoenaed by a grand jury here but has not yet testified.
Mr. Ginsburg acknowledged today that he may not know the complete story, because he knows only what Ms. Lewinsky has told him, some of which contradicts what she may have told friends about the matter. Nor does he know what Mr. Clinton is prepared to say about his dealings with Ms. Lewinsky.
The President has emphatically denied having had sexual relations with Ms. Lewinsky or telling her to lie, but the White House has declined to elaborate on the accusations.
"I don't know the whole truth," Mr. Ginsburg said in an interview on the Fox television network. "I don't think anyone knows the whole truth, because I don't think anyone has seen all the pieces of the puzzle."
In her Jan. 7 affidavit in the Jones case, Ms. Lewinsky swore that she had not had a sexual relationship with the President. Mr. Ginsburg has hinted that she is prepared to tell a significantly different account if she is fully protected from prosecution, rather than granted more limited, or "use," immunity.
"If the prosecutor elects to give full immunity or a promise not to prosecute, you still tell your story, only in a little more relaxed and comfortable fashion," Mr. Ginsburg said in another of the television interviews he gave this morning. "And maybe the prosecutor can get more details than with someone who is under use immunity."
Over the last several days, Mr. Ginsburg has also denied or played down many of the more sensational details of Ms. Lewinsky's relationship with Mr. Clinton that purportedly were captured on tape-recorded telephone conversations between Ms. Lewinsky and a friend and co-worker, Linda R. Tripp, 48.
Mr. Ginsburg's recent tone contrasts markedly with his remarks when the scandal broke two weeks ago. Then he said the President would be a "misogynist" if the accusations of his relationship with the intern were true. He and his young client appeared to pose a lethal threat to Mr. Clinton's Presidency.
Again and again today, Mr. Ginsburg insisted that he had heard nothing on the proffer from Mr. Starr's office and that he intended to travel with Ms. Lewinsky to California to visit her father, Bernard Lewinsky, who lives in Beverly Hills. In an interview late today, Mr. Ginsburg denied that the trip was intended to signal an ultimatum to Mr. Starr.
"There's no strategy involved here," he said. He added that Ms. Lewinsky had been virtually imprisoned in her apartment in the Watergate complex here and needed a chance to escape the hothouse that Washington has become for her.
He insisted that Ms. Lewinsky is a "very reliable young lady" but that he is not going to let her tell her version of events to Mr. Starr's investigators without a firm promise of immunity.
But as in interviews late last week, Mr. Ginsburg suggested that much of what has been said about the case -- some of it in Ms. Lewinsky's own words on Ms. Tripp's surreptitious tapes -- may prove to be exaggerated or false.
"Seriously, all 24-year-olds and all 18-year-olds and 19-year-olds tend to embellish," Mr. Ginsburg said on CBS. "None of us can stand the scrutiny of dredging up our past in the wonderful way that the press does it."
On the talk-show circuit, Republicans continued to question Mr. Clinton's conduct and credibility. Senator Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, chairman of the Judiciary Committee, said that if Mr. Clinton engaged in a sexual relationship with Ms. Lewinsky and then lied about it to the nation, "it's an egregious breach of ethics."
"So if that happened to have happened, then, you know, we've got a big problem on our hands," said Mr. Hatch, who in his spare time composes gospel hymns. "We have perhaps the first Presidential canoodler in history."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Monica S. Lewinsky with her father, Dr. Bernard Lewinsky, a Beverly Hills oncologist, in an undated photograph that was shown on CNN. (Associated Press)(pg. A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (65%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; PERJURY; LIE DETECTORS; IMMUNITY FROM PROSECUTION IMMUNITY (91%); LAWYERS (90%); WITNESSES (89%); TESTIMONY (87%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); MISCONDUCT (73%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LEWINSKY, MONICA; GINSBURG, WILLIAM H; VAN NATTA, DON JR; BRODER, JOHN M BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1998



55 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 2, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1855 words

HEADLINE: Rural Elderly Create Vital Communities as Young Leave Void

BYLINE: By SARA RIMER 

DATELINE: RED CLOUD, Neb.

 BODY:
The Elm Street Center for the elderly was hopping the other day, a beacon of warmth and activity amid the frozen bleakness that is winter in this farming town. The lunch crowd had arrived.
At one table, widows in their 80's and 90's were dismissing their families' suggestions that they were at an age where they should be thinking about giving up their homes. 
 "One of my sons-in-law wanted me to move to Aurora -- I have four grandchildren there -- and go into a retirement place," said Myrtle Wilmot, 88, who arrived as a bride in 1927 and raised six children on a farm, without electricity or running water. "I told him, 'I'm not ready for retirement. Do you know what I'd give up if I left here?' "
Why does she need to go to Aurora, Neb., 90 miles away, anyway?
"Red Cloud," Mrs. Wilmot said, "is a retirement place."
It is one that was created gradually, by subtraction, as generations of young people sought jobs and opportunity elsewhere, leaving their parents, grandparents and great grandparents behind. Now, while many old people around the nation pack up their homes and move to Florida, North Carolina and Arizona, Mrs. Wilmot and her friends are aging together in a familiar, faded town.
The transformation is happening throughout the farm belt. In Nebraska, Illinois, Indiana, Kansas and other Midwestern states, the proportion of elderly is higher than the national average, according to the Census Bureau, primarily because of the exodus of young people. And the five states with the highest proportion of "oldest old" -- those 85 and older -- are all farm states: Nebraska, Iowa, the Dakotas and Kansas.
Across the Plains, small towns are graying. Some are dying, but others, like Red Cloud, are holding on.
"From a demographic perspective, they look like retirement communities of the Sun Belt," said Raymond T. Coward, dean of the School of Health and Human Services at the University of New Hampshire, who has studied the rural elderly. "They are, however, quite different and distinct cultural and social environments in which to grow old."
In towns like Red Cloud, where nearly half of the 1,105 residents are over 65, it is the older people who are sustaining the economy. On Sundays after church, Elavoni's restaurant here is packed with widows. The kitchen at the center for the elderly in Guide Rock, 10 miles east, keeps the local Food Mart in business.
The amenities that are part of planned retirement communities -- new hospitals, plenty of doctors and home health care workers, fitness centers, shopping malls -- are hard to come by in small rural towns. Jan Ferebee, 72, and her friends who enjoy water aerobics have to drive 40 miles from Red Cloud to the Y.M.C.A. in Hastings for classes.
But for all that may be missing here, older residents talk more about the community that Red Cloud remains for them.
"My neighbor just got back from visiting her family for a month in California," Mrs. Wilmot said. "She said she didn't realize how much it meant to be in a small town where everybody knows you and you know everybody.
"I know what it means. When I walk down the street, people call me by my name."
 
Someone To Watch Over Them
 It also means that after years of paying into the small-town version of Social Security -- volunteering at church, shopping on Main Street, cooking for the sick, being a good neighbor -- Mrs. Wilmot and her friends can count on people looking out for them.
"You got somebody in your neighborhood who's older, needs help, we do it," said Mrs. Ferebee's husband, Ralph, who is 75 and spent 40 years working for the local soil conservation district.
When it snowed recently, he took out his snow blower and cleared the driveways of his widowed neighbors, Naomi Doughman, Mary Lou McCracken and Sadie Rickard.
"They call me up and thank me and bring me stuff to eat which I can't eat," said Mr. Ferebee, who watches his cholesterol.
The blizzard that dumped 26 inches of snow in October was too much for Mr. Ferebee's snow blower. "Our younger neighbors came with shovels," he said.
At 83, Velma Splattstoesser has buried two husbands. But the calendar in her kitchen is full: Bridge games, trips to Hastings, meetings at the United Methodist Church, Sunday dinners at Elavoni's.
"We chum around," Mrs. Splattstoesser said of her friends.
 
Lots of Experience Toughing Things Out
 Mrs. Splattstoesser's age, and her white hair, might make her invisible in a bigger place. But in Red Cloud she is known, among other things, for her door-to-door campaign to raise money for the center.
"In a city everyone over 80 is kind of lumped together," said Mrs. Splattstoesser's daughter, Mitzi Aldrich, a social worker, who lives in Oklahoma. "It's more personal in a small town. You have a name, a background, a special place in the community."
When it comes to formal support services, Red Cloud, the Webster County seat, offers its older residents more than a lot of other small towns. The center makes up for the lack of public transportation by providing low-cost rides. Red Cloud has a 16-bed county hospital and two doctors. It is hard to find skilled doctors to live here, a three-hour drive from Lincoln, the nearest big city.
With the falling birth rate, the hospital stopped delivering babies about six years ago, and began offering home health care for the aging population. There is a well-run nursing home, with 44 residents, including Nettie Seems, who was born in a sod house 105 years ago.
More typical, though, is Guide Rock, with 240 people, and no medical facilities. "You have to be tough to live there," said Jerry Ryan, executive director of the Midland Area Agency on Aging, which includes Webster County.
The people of Webster County, in south central Nebraska, are used to toughing things out. They are the descendants of pioneers from Virginia, Norway, Germany and Czechoslovakia, whose struggle to carve new lives out of the wind-whipped land was immortalized in the novels of Red Cloud's most celebrated native, Willa Cather.
"The first wheat we ever planted looked beautiful in June," said Helen Hoit, 91, recalling the bitter harvest of 1935. "Then three hot windy days, and we didn't have any wheat crop. It all shriveled up."
Mrs. Hoit and plenty of others survived such droughts, as well as dust storms and the Depression. They raised children, went to church on Sunday and built Red Cloud.
As they got older, their sons took over the farms, and they made the ritual move to town, where the roads were better, and they could be nearer to stores and neighbors.
Now, many of the women are navigating widowhood together.
"The dust storms were bad, but we had each other," said Mrs. Hoit, whose husband, Leo, died in 1985, not long after their 57th anniversary. "Losing your husband is worse because you're alone for a while. I had never even stayed at home at night alone until he stayed in the hospital.
"You never, never, forget," she said. "You learn to carry on."
When her husband was alive, the couple would spend winters in Yuma, Ariz. "After he passed away, I just stayed put here," she said. "Yuma's one of those towns that's spread out all over the creation."
At the center, where the two friends were having lunch the other day, Mrs. Splattstoesser said admiringly of Mrs. Hoit: "She still mows her lawn -- with a push mower."
 
Young People Leave; Elderly Fill the Void
 By all accounts, Red Cloud has a high proportion of remarkably vigorous older people. "It seems like 75 isn't old here," said Terry L. Hoffart, administrator of the Webster County Community Hospital.
Studies show that older people who have a meaningful role in their communities are healthier, mentally and physically. "That's what rural communities do," Dr. Coward said. "When everyone else leaves, somebody needs to be mayor, head of the cemetery committee, and the school board. Older people step up, and do those jobs very well."
Mr. Ferebee happens to be chairman of the cemetery board. When their children were young, he and his wife helped to build a lodge for the Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts. Mrs. Ferebee recently helped raise $5,000 for badly needed renovations to the lodge.
The declining population means that everyone's labor is needed. There is no forced retirement in Webster County.
At 89, Eunice Fritz is the county school superintendent, an elected, part-time post she has held since 1974.
Worrell Reichstein, 72, drives the county snowplow.
Geri Shipley, 68, delivers meals to frail elderly people, making her way on icy roads even on the coldest days.
Jessie McDole, 77, puts in a five-and-a-half-day week at her late husband's welding shop. She was there the other afternoon, feeding the wood stove and visiting with her friend Yvonne Stephens, who runs the center.
The two women laughed about Mrs. McDole's refusal to set foot inside the center. "I'll do that when I'm old," said Mrs. McDole, who had insisted on giving Mrs. Stephens the chair in her office and was perched on a stack of books on the cold floor.
Gerontologists have a term for people like Mrs. McDole: the hardy elderly. "They make things work, even from the scarcest resources," Dr. Coward said.
That is pretty much the story of the six-year-old center, where women were working on a yellow quilt the other afternoon, one of a series they are making to sell for money to buy a dishwasher for the kitchen. Other quilts, and crafts, have paid for new windows.
Mrs. Stephens also raises money for the center by renting it out for weddings, family reunions and graduation parties -- at a bargain $35 a day. Teen-agers hold dances there at no cost.
 
The Future Wears A Youthful Face
Red Cloud, with Willa Cather's restored childhood home and other landmarks drawing thousands of tourists each year, is luckier than many other small towns. It is still alive.
Many real estate agents have begun to sell Red Cloud to former residents as a place to retire. They point out that Red Cloud even has a golf course, and a family membership costs only $325.
But there are worrisome signs. The senior class at the high school is down to 29 students -- half the size of the class 30 years ago -- and there is talk of closing it and building a consolidated county high school.
At 78, Reese Gates has watched her town, Inavale, eight miles west of Red Cloud, disappear, its main street shuttered, the high school closed.
"I wish we had something that would bring the young people back," said Mrs. Gates, who lost her husband last spring, and drives to the Red Cloud center for lunch and company.
Her friends in Red Cloud say they are grateful their town still has young families: the people missing from most retirement communities, and the ones who will insure Red Cloud's survival after the older generation is gone.
One of the joys of her days, Mrs. Splattstoesser says, is washing her dishes and looking out her kitchen window at the children playing across the street. "I hear them laughing and calling to each other," she said. "I'd just rather live where there are children."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lunch at the Elm Street Center in Red Cloud, Neb., whose population has grown increasingly elderly. (Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)(pg. A1); Jessie McDole, 77, who puts in a five-and-a-half-day week at her late husband's welding shop in Red Cloud, Neb., does not go to the local center for the elderly. "I'll do that when I'm old," Mrs. McDole said. (Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)(pg. A14)
 
Chart: "Staying Put on the Plains"
While Sun Belt states like Arizona and Florida have large proportions of old people, much of the Midwest has high percentages of elderly as well, as young people move away from rural areas. In many counties, elderly now make up one-fifth to one-quarter of the population. Map of U.S. shows age distribution across the country. (Source: Census Bureau, 1996 estimate.)(pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (93%); KANSAS, USA (93%); NEBRASKA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); 

CITY: LINCOLN, NE, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: CENSUS BUREAU SUN BELT RENTALS (52%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENSUS BUREAU US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); US CENSUS BUREAU (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWESTERN STATES (US); RED CLOUD (NEB); NEBRASKA; IOWA; NORTH DAKOTA; SOUTH DAKOTA; KANSAS; UNITED STATES (93%); MIDWEST USA (93%); KANSAS, USA (93%); NEBRASKA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); LINCOLN, NE, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: AGED; POPULATION; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS GRANDPARENTS (90%); AGING (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); TRENDS (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); FAMILY (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (74%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (74%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (74%); CENSUS (71%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (70%); HOSPITALS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); HEALTH CARE (60%); RETAILERS (50%); 

PERSON: RIMER, SARA SIR GEORGE YOUNG (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1998



56 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 2, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: Shore City Tries Cutting Red Tape to Grow

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN 

DATELINE: LONG BRANCH, N.J.

 BODY:
Over the years, this once-vibrant vacation spot watched both its sandy beaches and its tourism erode. Then came the fire in 1987 that destroyed the city's fishing pier, the boardwalk and an amusement park called Kid's World.
Now, after a decade that left it faded and abandoned, this stretch of Atlantic coast is on the brink of a comeback and, curiously enough, the cutting edge of urban planning. Five developers are negotiating with the city to build housing, a restored pier, an entertainment center, restaurants and shops all connected by resculptured streets lined with trees, walkways and bicycle paths. 
 But Long Branch's redevelopment plan, designed by the architects and urban planners who created South Street Seaport in Manhattan, has won attention not for its ambitious scope but because it persuaded the state to streamline its usually laborious approval process. In preparing a master plan that sets guidelines for developers, city officials incorporated all the state's development regulations into local zoning laws. That strategy guarantees that developers who meet local guidelines automatically comply with state law.
"We have paved the road for them," Mayor Adam Schneider said. "With this plan, you don't have to go out and hire a very sophisticated attorney. You don't have to go out and hire a very sophisticated architect. You don't have to hire a planner and an engineer and spend two years negotiating with the state. Their eyes light up."
In January, Gov. Christine Todd Whitman trumpeted Long Branch as a model for fast-track state approval of local development. "We'll create one of the greatest incentives state government can offer a town," she said in her inaugural address. "A pledge to get out of your way." She added: "We've tried it in one town, and it's working. Let's make sure it works everywhere."
For developers and municipalities, the Governor's pledge is a tantalizing prospect. New Jersey is the most densely populated state in the country and has the second-highest per-capita income, creating a seemingly boundless appetite for residential and commercial construction.
In late January, the Commissioner of New Jersey's Department of Environmental Protection signed into law a blanket permit for Long Branch's redevelopment plan. The arrangement, the first of its kind, is unusual because the state has granted approval based not on the developer's design for a specific building or project but rather on the city's master plan.
While Long Branch's approach will trim the bureaucratic process for developers, reaching the agreement with the state took more than three years of difficult planning.
The effort was spearheaded by Long Branch Tomorrow, a public-private partnership formed in 1993. The Thompson Design Group in Boston, which was hired by Long Branch to draw up the redevelopment plans, advocated a redevelopment plan that would comply with state law from the outset and would make even greater demands on developers for preserving the character of the city as a historical summer resort town.
But neither the partnership nor the designer expected the idea to be served up as a model for state policy. The primary goal was simply to succeed where previous efforts at redevelopment had failed.
"We didn't come up with this from a policy perspective," said Pratap Talwar, a senior urban designer at Thompson, which has long experience in complex waterfront projects. "We went out and did surveys and interviews with developers of every scale, finding out what were the barriers to entry, why wouldn't they embrace a plan that had so much public support and clear opportunities to make money?"
An attempt to revitalize the oceanfront in the mid-to-late 1980's, for example, resulted in a Hilton Hotel but nothing else after the plans bogged down in the approval stage.
But drafting a plan that would have both public and private support in Long Branch entailed its own complications, Mr. Talwar said. Mayor Schneider and two of his top aides, the business administrator, Howard H. Wooley Jr., and planning director, Carl Turner, flew to Boston to look at an initial model expecting Long Branch to be reborn as a glorious summer resort.
To their surprise, the Thompson plan included a large residential component. "We said: 'Where is the Ferris wheel? Where are the amusements?' " Mr. Wooley recalled. "We had seen it as a commercial, touristy kind of thing. They thought a year-round residential community would be a better approach." But Mr. Talwar and others prevailed, insisting that relying on seasonal tourism and commerce had been a main reason for Long Branch's decline.
From the project's inception, Long Branch had undertaken an enormous effort to attract attention and resources, with local officials seeking out allies in various state agencies like Environmental Protection, Transportation and Land Use Regulation. Only later did state officials realize that Long Branch might be onto just the sort of new policy initiative that Trenton was looking for.
One of the officials Long Branch sought out two years ago was Richard Kropp, who had recently become the director of New Jersey's Land Use Regulation Office. Invited from Trenton to hear about the ambitious plans, Mr. Kropp listened with surprise to the outline for revitalizing 140 acres of underdeveloped waterfront, realizing that at each step Long Branch had taken care to meet the state's strict specifications for coastal development.
Those regulations, included in the Coastal Area Facility Review Act, had often cast shoreline development projects into a long and arduous application process for state approval. The Whitman administration, particularly Mr. Kropp, had been thinking about ways to marry state and local interests without compromising the standards. "We had been looking for opportunities like this and this just fit the bill," Mr. Kropp recalled. "This just kind of fell into our lap as an excellent way to proceed."
But while there is growing interest in the Long Branch project, developers, local officials and urban planners say it may be difficult to replicate it as a model and perhaps impossible to meet Governor Whitman's goal of bringing expedited approval to projects statewide.
"You can't go to Hoboken or Union City or Parsippany and say, 'Do what Long Branch did and feel strongly about it,' " Mr. Talwar said.
The five developers negotiating in Long Branch said they hoped the approval process would be as smooth as officials had promised, but most expressed some skepticism.
"My experience is that nothing really plays out in detail until you are going through the process," said Mario Procida, president of a Bronx contractor that is seeking to put up commercial buildings in Long Branch as part of the redevelopment project. "Clearly the word is that it is an expedited approval process. If it is, it certainly will facilitate things."
Peter S. Reinhart, senior vice president and general counsel of K. Hovnanian Enterprises of Red Bank, which is negotiating to build residences, said the Long Branch plan might save time for developers but had added more work for the city.
"You are switching around the layers of a layer cake, but you still have to eat the whole cake," Mr. Reinhart said. "I don't know how you speed it up without reducing the number of layers and permits over all. The overall time probably isn't any shorter; it's just who spent it."
But Mr. Kropp expressed confidence that the Long Branch plan could be a model. "What we are concerned about is that we are going to have a line formed," he said. "Everybody is going to want to do this."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Part of the 140-acre redevelopment zone in Long Branch, N.J. Five developers are hoping to build housing, a restored pier, restaurants and shops. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. B6)
 
Map of Long Branch, N.J.: Long Branch lost its boardwalk and fishing pier in a 1987 fire. (pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ATLANTIC COAST CARTON (57%); THOMPSON DESIGN GROUP (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: THOMPSON DESIGN GROUP (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG BRANCH (NJ); NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL EROSION (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); BEACHES (90%); CITIES (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); APPROVALS (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); CITY LIFE (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (76%); POPULATION DENSITY (76%); ZONING (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (76%); COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (75%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (75%); MAYORS (74%); GOVERNORS (74%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (73%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (72%); HARBORS & PORTS (72%); RESTAURANTS (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (68%); LEGISLATION (67%); 

PERSON: HERSZENHORN, DAVID M CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1998



57 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 2, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1233 words

HEADLINE: Albright Rebukes Israeli and Palestinian Leaders

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, Feb. 1

 BODY:
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright scolded Israeli and Palestinian leaders today for delaying the fundamental decisions necessary to revive peace talks between them.
"We have been stalled at this point in the peace process, negotiating the same issues, for a long time -- frankly, far too long," Ms. Albright said at a news conference, in an exasperated tone. "There is far too much at stake for this to go on." 
 The issues at stake are difficult and complex, she noted, and she said both Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel and the Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat, had agreed to send envoys to Washington next week for further discussions.
"But I must say I had hoped we would get further on this trip than we have," Ms. Albright said. "It is no longer enough to simply talk about wanting peace. It is time to make the difficult decisions and exercise the leadership necessary to achieve it."
Ms. Albright also tried to calm Israeli fears over possible Iraqi missile strikes by renewing the United States' promise to help defend Israel against any Iraqi attack. She threatened "swift and forceful" retaliation against Iraq if it attacked Israel or any of its neighbors.
But what came across strongest today was her impatience with the slow and hesitant response of Israelis and Palestinians to the American call for courage and leadership.
In four hours of conversation on Saturday night with Mr. Netanyahu and two hours in Ramallah today with Mr. Arafat, Ms. Albright was even more direct, a senior American official said.
"With both of them, she said in different ways that 'I'm sick and tired of both of you putting forward a huge stack of complaints about each other, because we're really at a time for fundamental decisions to be taken,' " the official said, speaking on condition of anonymity.
Her talks were intended to follow up on President Clinton's discussions in Washington with Mr. Netanyahu on Jan. 20 and with Mr. Arafat on Jan. 22. The Americans are proposing a phased withdrawal of Israeli troops from part of the West Bank in a parallel effort to specific Palestinian moves to improve their fight against terrorism and their security cooperation with Israel. The two men returned home demanding detailed changes in the American plan, and American officials said they had offered "further refinements" at these meetings.
Ms. Albright, asked if she got "good answers" on this trip, said astringently, "I received some answers." She said the two leaders "are doing what President Clinton asked them to do -- to think through the ideas he presented to them, and they are increasingly realizing that they must make the hard decisions."
But after these meetings, American officials said, significant differences still remain over the size, timing and quality of the Israeli withdrawal, as well as over how to judge Palestinian security efforts and cooperation at each phase.
Both sides also disagree over whether a later withdrawal, as called for in the Oslo peace accords between Israel and the Palestinians, should take place even during new talks on a final settlement between the parties. Israel argues that it would not be necessary, while Mr. Arafat and the Americans insist that Oslo be fulfilled.
In a sign of some progress, Israel is now considering a first withdrawal that would total about 15 percent of West Bank land, officials say -- less than what Mr. Arafat wants but more than Mr. Netanyahu had appeared willing to offer.
This was also a day when some of the inevitable contradictions of Ms. Albright's trip, let alone current American policy in the Middle East, became visible. The Secretary has been threatening war on Iraq while trying to bring peace to the Israelis and Palestinians, and so far on this trip, the edge has gone to war.
In October and November, as the Iraq crisis built and moderate Arab nations boycotted an American-sponsored Middle East economic summit in Doha, Qatar, American officials said the stalemate in peace talks and Mr. Netanyahu's delaying tactics were damaging Washington's standing among Arab nations. The Israelis reacted angrily, saying they should not be blamed, but American officials insisted that there was a connection, especially in Arab public opinion.
Today, however, Ms. Albright said the two main challenges of her tour -- to insure that President Saddam Hussein of Iraq complies with unhindered United Nations weapons inspections, and to promote progress on the Palestinian-Israeli peace efforts -- were separate. "While these two problems are going on simultaneously, we have to deal with them independently, and we have to make our views on both known very clearly," she said. "I am not making any connection between the two."
Her strong statements today promising American retaliation if Israeli is attacked seemed intended to reassure Israelis that they would not be victimized by American policy against Iraq. And in contrast to the position in 1991, when the Bush Administration pressed Israel not to retaliate against Iraqi Scuds, Ms. Albright said, "It is always up to each country to determine its own way to defend itself."
The United States would retaliate quickly if Iraq attacked Israel or other Arab countries, she said. "If they do in fact threaten their neighbors and do damage to them, our response will be swift and forceful," she said of the Iraqis. "They should have no doubt about that."
Ms. Albright also reacted positively to reports that the United Nations Secretary General, Kofi Annan, after a study of Iraqi relief needs, is recommending that the oil-for-food program be increased from $4 billion a year to $10 billion. Some $7.2 billion would be spent on Iraqi relief, doubling the current amount, while the rest goes for war reparations to Kuwait and to pay for the program.
 
Kuwait Backs U.S.
By The New York Times
KUWAIT, Feb. 1 -- The Emir of Kuwait assured Secretary of State Albright tonight that his country would support the use of military force against Iraq if necessary, senior American officials said.
A Kuwait Government statement issued after an evening meeting with Ms. Albright said that "Kuwait supports the firm U.S. stand" and that it holds Iraq "responsible for all the negative consequences that may result from continuing its intransigence and its failure to comply with international resolutions."
Ms. Albright met with the Emir, Sheik Jaber al-Sabah, and the Crown Prince, Sheik Saad al-Sabah, to explain Washington's position on Iraq.
Ms. Albright "left the meeting well satisfied that she has the 100 percent support of the Government of Kuwait," said her spokesman, James P. Rubin.
 
No Uses of Bases, Saudi Says
 DUBAI, United Arab Emirates, Feb. 1 (AP) -- America's closest ally in the gulf -- Saudi Arabia -- could also be its toughest challenge in building support for a military attack on Iraq.
Saudi resistance, spelled out in comments today by a senior Saudi official, complicates United States efforts to get full cooperation from countries in the region.
"Saudi Arabia will not allow any strikes against Iraq, under any circumstances, from its soil or bases in Saudi Arabia, due to the sensitivity of the issue in the Arab and Muslim world," the Saudi official said on condition of anonymity.
Even United Nations approval of an attack would not change the Saudi position, the official said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright extending her hand to Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, yesterday after their talks in Ramallah. She said later that the Middle East peace effort had been stalled "far too long." (Associated Press)(pg. A10)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; IRAQ; MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); 

SUBJECT: PALESTINIANS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MISSILES PEACE PROCESS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); BOMBINGS (72%); TERRORISM (66%); PRESS CONFERENCES (57%); ARMED FORCES (50%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN; ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (SEC) BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1998



58 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 2, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1673 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-10
 
Albright Chastises Israelis and Palestinians
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright scolded Israeli and Palestinian leaders for delaying the fundamental decisions necessary to revive peace talks. She also renewed Washington's promise to defend Israel against any Iraqi missile strikes. A1
 
The executive committee of the Palestine Liberation Organization did not amend articles in the charter that call for Israel's destruction. Participants said the issue would be addressed at the next meeting. A10 

Diplomats Head for Baghdad
Russia, France and Turkey each sent envoys to Baghdad in a diplomatic effort to resolve the Iraq crisis without military force. International weapons experts met in Baghdad with officials from both the Iraqi Government and the United Nations commission in charge of the country's disarmament. A10
 
Although Kuwait has yet to advocate military action against Iraq, many top Kuwaiti officials seemed tacitly to support the American threat. And Kuwaitis interviewed at restaurants and parks suggested that they were ready and willing, even impatient, to see military action. A10
 
Confidence High in Swiss Alps
Business and political leaders from around the world gathered in Davos, Switzerland, for the annual World Economic Forum. Confidence rose that Asia's financial crisis would not spread to emerging markets in Central Europe and Latin America. Vast sums have been pulled out of Asia's most troubled countries, but investment has continued in countries like Hungary, Poland and Mexico. A6
 
Fraternal Rulers in Cuba
In the three months since President Fidel Castro of Cuba named his younger brother as his eventual successor, Raul Castro, left, has assumed a wider range of official duties in running the Government and the Communist Party. While some diplomats believe Raul is more pragmatic than Fidel on economic issues, Washington has said it will not lift its embargo if either remains in power. A3
 
Repartitioning of Bosnia
Local governments in Bosnia that were elected by exiled refugees last fall have been unable to overcome a campaign to keep them from operating, United Nations officials say. In elections next September, people will be allowed to vote only where they live. Diplomats fear that unless more refugees manage to return to areas controlled by other ethnic groups this year, the ethnic partition could be irreversible. A4
 
Balloon in a No-Flight Zone
Three Europeans seeking to fly nonstop around the world in a balloon spent five tense hours over Iraq, drifting briefly into the no-fly zone, their mission-control center in Geneva reported. They and their balloon, which crossed into Iraqi airspace without permission but later received clearance, drifted on to Iran. China, which is on their path, has so far denied them permission to enter its airspace. (AP)
 
NATIONAL A12-19
 
Clinton to Unveil Budget Tied to Tobacco Deal
President Clinton is to propose a $1.7 trillion Federal budget today. A significant share of Mr. Clinton's initiatives would be financed with tobacco funds -- $65.5 billion over five years -- even though Congress, with its Republican majority, has yet to enact the landmark $368.5 billion settlement of lawsuits against tobacco companies. But Administration officials said the budget was carefully constructed to set up political trade-offs that Mr. Clinton could use to goad lawmakers into action. A1
 
President Clinton will call for spending $2.5 billion in the next five years to provide food stamps to the hundreds of thousands of legal immigrants whose benefits were cut off by the sweeping Federal welfare law of 1996. A1
 
The Department of Housing and Urban Development will ask Congress to approve huge increases for programs to expand housing and job opportunities for low-income people in cities across the country, its biggest budget request in 10 years. A16
 
Intern Would Take Lie Test
Monica S. Lewinsky, the former low-level aide at the center of the White House investigation, is willing to submit to a polygraph examination in exchange for complete immunity from prosecution, her lawyer said. The lawyer, William H. Ginsburg, predicted that the President would emerge virtually unscathed from the political and legal frenzy surrounding allegations of a sexual relationship between Mr. Clinton and Ms. Lewinsky. Mr. Ginsburg also portrayed his client as a witness more sympathetic to the President than had been assumed. A1
 
Mr. Ginsburg, a medical malpractice lawyer from California who arrived two weeks ago in Washington as a Beltway nobody, did what few, if any, prominent figures had ever done: he appeared on all five Sunday morning talk shows. A19
 
Move to Abolish the I.N.S.
The four most influential members of Congress on immigration matters are moving toward a plan to abolish the Immigration and Naturalization Service, saying they are angered by a series of scandals and missteps at the troubled agency. A16
 
Murder Trial for Former Cadet
Opening arguments in the capital murder trial of a former United States Naval Academy cadet, Diane Zamora, 20, are to begin today in Fort Worth, Tex. Ms. Zamora, 20, is accused of joining her ex-fiance, David Graham, a former Air Force Academy cadet, in the killing of Adrianne Jones in December 1995. The authorities say the couple killed Ms. Jones because Ms. Zamora was upset that Mr. Graham had had a sexual encounter with Ms. Jones. Mr. Graham, 20, is to be tried separately. (Reuters)
 
Army Helicopter Crashes
An Army UH-60 Black Hawk helicopter crashed in mountains in Colorado during a training mission. Two of the six people aboard were seriously injured, officials at Fort Carson said. The accident, which happened shortly after takeoff, occurred near Leadville. (Reuters)
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-8
 
For Some on Madison Ave., The Aftershock Lingers
Madison Avenue might seem to be back to normal two months after falling bricks from an office tower closed a stretch of the street and forced residents to leave their homes. But a closer look at the block most affected -- the west side of Madison Avenue between 54th and 55th Streets -- revealed something quite different. Seven residents have not been allowed to return to their apartments, and some businesses have not been allowed to reopen. And none of the affected tenants or businesses have been reimbursed for out-of-pocket expenses, now totaling more than $20,000 for some individuals. Building inspectors plan to examine four apartments today. B1
 
An Illegal Trade in Legal Drugs
Doctors at Elmhurst Hospital Center in Queens have begun to worry about a drug trade they have not seen before: legal pharmacies that illegally dispense drugs to treat more common maladies, like the flu or ulcers. Health experts wonder if such illegal dispensing of prescription drugs could play a role in a growing bacterial resistance to antibiotics. There is also concern that illegally dispensed medications can cause fatal allergic reactions or simply worsen a patient's condition. B1
 
Protesting Police Cameras
More than 200 people rallied in Washington Square Park against the Giuliani Administration's increasing use of surveillance cameras to fight crime, saying the practice infringed on privacy. The hourlong protest came a month after the police installed two cameras on light poles along the southern edge of the park to discourage small-scale drug dealing. B3
 
 
NEEDIEST CASES B4
 
SPORTSMONDAY C1-10
 
ARTS E1-8
 
OBITUARIES A20-21
 
Renzo Mongiardino
A stage and screen set designer who also gained renown as the eminence gris of interior design, he was 81. A21
 
Bob Russell
An inveterate entertainer who sang, joked, composed, wrote, staged and M.C.'d his way through an eclectic half-century career, he was 90. A20
 
Hector Eduardo Cabanillas
A retired Argentine Army colonel who was responsible for the military Government's effort to hide the body of Eva Peron, he was 84. A21
 
Marshall W. Wiley
A retired career diplomat and expert on the Arab world who was Ambassador to Oman, he was 72. A21
 
BUSINESS DAY D1-12
 
Reuters-Bloomberg Inquiry
Federal prosecutors have obtained more than 100 written communications between an American subsidiary of Reuters and a consulting company that investigators believe was hired to steal information from the computers of a competitor, Bloomberg, people in touch with the investigation said. D1
 
Hilfiger Buying 2 Companies
Tommy Hilfiger announced that it would buy its Canadian distributor and a women's wear company for about $1.15 billion. A13
 
SmithKline-Glaxo Proposal
The proposed merger of SmithKline and Glaxo Wellcome, with a combined market capitalization of $166 billion, is sending a shock through the pharmaceutical industry. A British labor union urged the British Government to block the deal, saying it could result in the loss of 10,000 jobs in Britain and diminish the country's pool of scientists. A6
 
Magazine-Studio Deal
Buzz magazine plans to announce a deal today with Paramount Pictures under which the studio would provide Buzz with a discretionary fund to pay for in-depth articles with movie potential. In return, Buzz, an eight-year-old magazine based in Los Angeles that covers personalities, restaurants and fashion, would offer Paramount the first opportunity at buying options on those articles and others -- even before they were published. D1
 
Business Digest D1
 
EDITORIAL A22-23
 
Editorials: Time to try a new school year; half-measures to protect the Amazon; justice in the dark; architectural echoes of kindness.
 
Columns: Anthony Lewis, William Safire.
 
Bridge E4
 
Metro. Diary B2
 
Crossword E7
 
Weather A20

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%); 

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (97%); IRAQ (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (93%); KUWAIT (93%); EUROPE (92%); ASIA (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); CUBA (91%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); FRANCE (79%); MEXICO (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); HUNGARY (79%); TURKEY (79%); POLAND (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (70%); 

STATE: GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%); ALPS (57%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (58%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (58%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (55%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (58%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (58%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (55%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (97%); IRAQ (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (93%); KUWAIT (93%); EUROPE (92%); ASIA (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); CUBA (91%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); FRANCE (79%); MEXICO (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); HUNGARY (79%); TURKEY (79%); POLAND (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (70%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (79%); ALPS (57%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BUDGETS (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); REFUGEES (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (74%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); POLITICS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); MOUNTAINS (67%); ETHNICITY (60%); ETHNIC GROUPS (60%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); RAUL CASTRO (78%); FIDEL CASTRO (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1998



59 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 2, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 169 words

HEADLINE: METRO NEWS BRIEFS: NEW JERSEY;
Man Gets State Money For Casino Bus Shuttle

DATELINE: ATLANTIC CITY

 BODY:
An unemployed casino blackjack dealer received more than $60,000 in state funds Friday under a program intended to increase the number of minority residents who own minibus shuttles for gamblers in Atlantic City.
The dealer, Keith Davis, who is black, was the first beneficiary of the program, which was established by state casino officials in April after studies showed that most people who own Atlantic City shuttle franchises are white and from out of town. 
 Mr. Davis, 36, made a $300 down payment on the minibus, leaving state officials to cover the remaining purchase costs, as well as the price of license plates, a registration title, legal fees and membership dues in the Atlantic City Jitney Association, said Frances M. Santoro, the economic development director for the State Casino Reinvestment Development Authority, which sponsored the program. Mr. Davis is one of 15 minority residents who will receive state money to buy shuttle franchises by the end of this year, Ms. Santoro said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: ATLANTIC CITY JITNEY ASSOCIATION (91%); STATE CASINO REINVESTMENT DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE CASINO REINVESTMENT DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY (NJ); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; CASINOS; BUSES; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS) NEWS BRIEFS (90%); GAMING (90%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); 

PERSON: DAVIS, KEITH KEITH DAVIS (91%); FRANCES M SANTORO (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 1998



60 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Classified

LENGTH: 164 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
COHEN, ESTHER (NEE HEILIGMAN).

 BODY:
COHEN-Esther (nee Heiligman). Died on January 29, 86 years, at Kendal - at - Hanover Residence, New Hampshire. Devoted wife of the late Mayer (Mike). Loving mother of Aaron and his wife Ann of Newtonville, MA; her daughter Sophia of Barrington, RI. Dear sister of Sol Heiligman and cherished grandmother of Rachel, Rebecca, and Naomi Cohen and Maia and Nina Cohen-Connors. A graduate of Hunter College, she taught economics in New York City high schools prior to her marriage and moved to Burlington, VT. where she lived a socially committed life in her community active in many local and national organizations. She was elected to the Vermont House of Representatives for five terms, was a member of the New England Board of Higher Education and the National Board of OWL. Esther Cohen touched the lives of many and was dedicated to improving the way for children, women and the elderly in many areas. Funeral services and interment were held on February 1 in Burlington, Vermont.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Paid Death Notice

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: VERMONT, USA (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (72%); 

CITY: BURLINGTON, VT, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); VERMONT, USA (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (72%); BURLINGTON, VT, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); MARRIAGE (88%); HIGH SCHOOLS (87%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (86%); SENIOR CITIZENS (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (69%); 

PERSON: COHEN, ESTHER (NEE HEILIGMAN). NINA COHEN-CONNORS (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1998



61 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Page 4; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: That's Entertainment: Variety Goes Bicoastal

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN 

 BODY:
For Matthew C. Blank, the president and chief executive of Showtime Networks in New York, securing a copy of Daily Variety from Los Angeles has been an exercise in patience. A delivery service takes a day or even two to get him the newspaper. When he wants to read a Variety article first thing in the morning, he has to wait for his Los Angeles colleagues to wake up and pad over to their fax machines in their pajamas.
"I've always felt like a second-class citizen compared to my brethren in California," Mr. Blank said. "This is a deal-a-day type of business. And the Hollywood trades and Daily Variety in particular fill an important gap in your information stream." 
 Beginning on March 16, Mr. Blank will have it much easier. Daily Variety will be available for home delivery and newsstand sales in the New York region by 6 A.M. Monday through Friday.
A weekly Variety has been published in Manhattan since 1905. Now its daily West Coast edition, which has chronicled the entertainment industry for 65 years and made "box office returns" a part of the vernacular is coming to New York with a "Gotham" edition.
"It will be terrific to have it available in New York," said Ron Silver, the president of Actors' Equity. "It's essential."
Daily Variety Gotham, as it will be called, will feature increased coverage of topics specific to New York, like Off Off Broadway theater, Wall Street, sports, fashion, even economic development as it relates to entertainment. To handle this new load, Variety is hiring three additional reporters in Manhattan and three editors in Los Angeles. But Variety executives said the new edition would not be dramatically different from the Los Angeles version.
The motivation behind Daily Variety Gotham seems to be less creating a new New York paper than it is making the tried and true Daily Variety more accessible to people on the East Coast. "Think of it as a first edition," said Gerry Byrne, the vice president and group publisher of Variety. "Really what we're doing is nationalizing the daily."
Daily Variety expects to attract another 14,000 readers, Mr. Byrne said, bringing the daily's total circulation to about 43,000. He also said he hoped to attract advertisers in the New York metropolitan area. Last year, Daily Variety had advertising revenue of about $27 million, up from $12 million in 1992. And between the two publications, profit has increased from about $2 million to more than $20 million.
Daily Variety Gotham will be printed at the company's plant in Easton, Pa., where the weekly is produced. Variety will continue to publish its West Coast edition in Glendale, Calif.
Variety's executives said the moment seemed right for a New York edition, given the city's explosion in media consolidation, film and television production and independent film companies. "There is a quantifiable shift of talent to New York City," said Peter Bart, Variety's vice president and editor in chief.
At least three of the major movie studios report to Manhattan: Warner Brothers to Time Warner, Fox to the News Corporation and Paramount to Viacom. The networks are based in New York, as is most of the cable industry and book and magazine publishing.
And entertainment executives have become increasingly bicoastal, as has the industry itself. "There used to be a division between the talent and creative types on one coast and the money on the other coast," Mr. Bart said. "That's not true anymore."
In a sense, Daily Variety is coming back to New York. Its mother publication, the weekly Variety, was founded 93 years ago on West 46th Street by the Silverman family as a publication for the vaudeville business. In 1933, Daily Variety was started in California to track the film business, coining such expressions as cliffhanger, boffo, oater (a western) and ankle (to quit a job). In 1987, the family sold the company to Reed International, now Reed Elsevier, the British-Dutch company known mostly for its science and medical publications.
The New York edition is the latest in a series of new directions for Variety, including Variety Junior, started in October, which covers the children's entertainment business and comes out five times a year; On Production, re-introduced in November, which covers film, television and commercial production; and a Web site (variety.com) started last month.
Because Variety is aimed at the entertainment industry, it is difficult to anticipate the Gotham edition's competition. (In Los Angeles, it remains the 68-year-old Hollywood Reporter.) The trade press in New York includes Backstage, a weekly newspaper aimed at actors and stagehands, and a magazine started in September called In Theater, which the editor in chief, Kathy Henderson, described as "Entertainment Weekly for people who love theater."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter Bart, Variety's vice president and editor in chief. (Steve Goldstein for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (58%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: VARIETY (NEWSPAPER); DAILY VARIETY GOTHAM (NEWSPAPER) SHOWTIME NETWORKS INC (58%); NEW YORK (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: VARIETY (NEWSPAPER); DAILY VARIETY GOTHAM (NEWSPAPER) NEW YORK (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: NEWSPAPERS; MOTION PICTURES TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PUBLISHING (77%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (77%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (74%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (74%); FILM (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (73%); NEWSSTANDS (72%); THEATER & DRAMA (71%); TICKET SALES (68%); THEATER (65%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (61%); CITIES (60%); 

PERSON: POGREBIN, ROBIN MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1998



62 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
I.M.F. May Be Closer To Lending-Curb Idea

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE 

DATELINE: DAVOS, Switzerland, Feb. 2

 BODY:
The International Monetary Fund, looking for ways to avoid a future Asia-style financial crisis, may be moving in the direction of endorsing rules that would prevent another surge in foreign bank lending. Such a surge played a key role in the Asian crisis.
The Clinton Administration distances itself from such proposals, fearful they may draw criticism in Congress, which is considering an Administration request to approve $18 billion in financing for the I.M.F. The concern is that any attempt to discourage too much lending through controls may sound like tampering with free markets, a potential obstacle in Congress. 
 The possibility of an I.M.F. shift came Sunday in an interview with Stanley Fischer, the I.M.F.'s first deputy managing director, who was here for the annual World Economic Forum. Mr. Fischer, who is second-in-command at the I.M.F., insisted that he spoke only for himself, not the organization's directors. But his remarks were the first public acknowledgment by an I.M.F. official that discouraging the flow of short-term loans might be a good idea.
"The I.M.F. recognizes the problem of surges of short-term capital across borders and the need to find ways to deal with that," Mr. Fischer said. He then suggested that "the Chilean scheme is one that needs to be considered." Chile discourages short-term loans from abroad by taxing those of a year or less. The goal is to encourage long-term investment.
The I.M.F. usually pushes member countries toward unrestricted open market systems. That is certainly a condition of the huge I.M.F. bailout loans now going to South Korea, Indonesia and Thailand. In a speech last September, however, Mr. Fischer said that capital controls could be acceptable in emerging-market countries, but only for a brief "transitional" period. Yesterday, he greatly lengthened the period.
For countries that can make them work, he said, "capital controls could be acceptable to the I.M.F. for a transitional phase until the financial system of a country is sufficiently strong to deal with surges in short- term loans from abroad." The implication was that a developing country might apply capital controls for years while it constructed a financial system with all the checks and rules that exist in industrial countries like the United States.
Recognizing the problem, Mr. Fischer said, "None of what I am saying is a reason for a country to delay fixing its financial system."
He was among hundreds of government leaders, chief executives, financiers, investment bankers, artists, scientists and economists gathered here for a six-day version of the kind of Renaissance weekends that President Clinton has popularized in the United States. The Asia crisis was the main topic -- its causes, cures and how to prevent another.
There was wide agreement, for example, on the need for a monitoring system -- run by the I.M.F. or some other organization -- that would track the finances of countries much more closely than any international agency now does. A rating system might also be developed, one that might prompt foreign lenders to raise interest rates for countries with poor credit ratings.
"If we have sound surveillance and the right regulations," Jacques Santer, president of the European Commission, said, "then of course the free movement of capital takes place without the same risk."
Excessive short-term borrowing from abroad has appeared on nearly everyone's list of precipitating factors. South Korean banks and corporations, for example, amassed huge debts in yen and dollars. When the South Korean economy slowed, and the nation's currency, the won, began to lose value, the South Koreans had trouble repaying the billions of dollars coming due each month to Japanese, European and American banks. The banks responded by refusing to renew the loans, doing further damage to the economy. The I.M.F. bailout is partly intended to get South Korea's credit system functioning again and to help assure repayment of foreign debts.
Mr. Fischer's concession is aimed at discouraging so much short-term borrowing. Joseph E. Stiglitz, chief economist at the World Bank, the I.M.F.'s sister organization, also spoke in favor of considering capital controls. As an example, he said the controls might take the form of a big tax deduction for loans longer than a year, and a much smaller deduction or none for short-term loans, to discourage their use.
"If you believe there is a sufficient systemic risk," he said, referring to the danger that the Asian turmoil might spread, even to the United States, damaging its economy and markets, "then you have to believe that there is a need for prior action."
But most of the people here oppose capital controls, viewing them as unwarranted interference in free markets. A global economy, they argue, functions on free and rapidly flowing capital. The Clinton Administration officials here, spending part of their time promoting the President's request to Congress for $18 billion in I.M.F. funds, shared that caution. The Administration is trying to sell its case on two contentions: the I.M.F. is necessary when a crisis does occur, and a crisis that endures, because of a weakened I.M.F., can cost American jobs.
"The issue of inhibitions on short-term capital is one that requires careful study," said Lawrence H. Summers, the Deputy Treasury Secretary. "There is no question that where supervisory structures are inadequate or financial systems are immature, excessive inflows can create problems. But there are also real risks that controls can delay or prevent more fundamental adjustments."
Some, like Jeffrey Garten, dean of the Yale School of Management and a former investment banker himself, said that capital controls simply would not work.
"Global lending is so complex today," he said, "that to think you can block off one part and get the results you want is a level of hubris that is unrealistic. Capital finds ways to go flow around the stone."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); SWITZERLAND (75%); 

STATE: GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (75%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEMS LTD (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (97%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (93%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (56%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (97%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (93%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (56%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); SWITZERLAND (75%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (75%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; FOREIGN AID; BANKS AND BANKING INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (86%); BAILOUTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); INTERVIEWS (74%); TRENDS (74%); APPROVALS (71%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (73%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1998



63 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
G.M. and Daewoo Agree to Consider Variety of Business Ties

BYLINE: By ROBYN MEREDITH 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Feb. 2

 BODY:
The General Motors Corporation and the Daewoo Group of South Korea announced today that they plan to go steady while negotiating a prenuptial agreement.
After publicly courting each other for weeks, the two said they had signed a memorandum of understanding to consider a wide range of business ties. G.M. is considering taking a large equity stake in Daewoo's auto business, said Alan G. Perriton, president of G.M. Korea Inc., G.M.'s South Korean subsidiary. The companies also said today that they had already agreed to marry some of their operations: Daewoo dealerships will repair G.M. vehicles in 10 South Korean cities. 
 If a deal were to be reached, a G.M.-Daewoo combination would represent a high-profile consequence of the economic crisis that has ravaged the economy of South Korea and some other Asian nations. Fallen currency values and heavy debts have left many South Korean companies eager for outside partners.
The memorandum will allow G.M. and Daewoo "to discuss the various business opportunities that we think exist between G.M. and Daewoo, especially here in Korea and the Asia-Pacific region," Mr. Perriton said in a telephone interview from South Korea. G.M.'s strategy is to capture 10 percent of the Asia-Pacific market during the next decade.
While G.M. had been wooing Kia Motors and other South Korean auto companies as possible partners, the pact reached today effectively forces G.M. and Daewoo to break off talks with any other suitors. "We've agreed between the parties that our focus will be on intensive talks with each other," Mr. Perriton said.
Wall Street analysts said it was premature to say what deal might result, but were generally positive about G.M.'s move, particularly since the Asian crisis has lowered prices in dollar terms for Asian assets. G.M. stock rose $2.5625, to $60.50 today, as the stock market rose sharply.
"G.M. can probably get good value for every dollar invested because of the currency devaluation," said Scott F. Merlis, president of Merlis Automotive International, an independent automotive research firm based in Westport, Conn.
Some analysts said G.M.'s best bet would be to gain control of Daewoo's auto operations rather than taking a small stake or entering into a limited joint venture with the company.
"Somebody from General Motors will have to occupy the main chair," said Maryann N. Keller, an auto analyst at Furman Selz L.L.C., a New York investment banking and brokerage firm. A good model for a deal would be Ford's stake in Mazda, she said, in which Ford controls the Japanese auto maker but only owns 33.4 percent of the Japanese company.
G.M., which sold fewer than 1,000 cars in South Korea last year, is eager to gain a bigger foothold in that country's auto market of 1.6 million vehicles, the largest market in Asia after Japan.
The discussions between the two companies will be wide-ranging. "We're open to consideration of any and all possibilities," Mr. Perriton said. Even buying the Daewoo Group's auto business outright would be possible, although that has not yet been discussed, he said.
While many American companies have been looking at South Korean companies, most have refrained from buying so far because many of the troubled companies carry enormous debt loads and have Byzantine ties to South Korean conglomerates. Mr. Perriton said G.M. had not ruled out taking on some Daewoo debt, one of the discussion points in the talks.
The two companies will also discuss whether Daewoo's dealerships will eventually sell G.M. vehicles in South Korea. At the moment, the devaluation of the South Korean currency, the won, has made imported cars and trucks prohibitively expensive for many South Koreans, but if the market improves G.M. may resume selling vehicles there, Mr. Perriton said. He predicted the slowdown in South Korea would last 12 to 18 months.
G.M. has, however, ruled out selling Daewoo's vehicles in its United States dealerships, Mr. Perriton said. The talks are also not expected to include the possibility of G.M.'s buying Daewoo's factory in Poland, he said. Talks are continuing over whether G.M. will buy a Daewoo factory in Ukraine, he said..
Daewoo and G.M. already have five 50-50 joint ventures in South Korea building batteries, wiring harnesses and other parts.
Daewoo and G.M. had a broad joint venture arrangement for 15 years, but that collapsed in 1992. Mr. Perriton insists that it would be different this time. "Since 1992 the whole global marketplace and the Korean marketplace have changed significantly," he said, and the two companies' interests are more closely aligned.
Auto analysts echoed his remarks. "There is much more common interest between the two companies than there was in 1992," Mr. Merlis said. "It is unusual for a remarriage to take place after a divorce, but it could work."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (61%); 

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); ASIA (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; DAEWOO GROUP; KIA MOTORS CORP MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (94%); FURMAN SELZ LLC (61%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; DAEWOO GROUP; KIA MOTORS CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH KOREA; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); ASIA (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS PREMARITAL AGREEMENTS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (86%); MARRIAGE (78%); JOINT VENTURES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); DEVALUATION (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); CURRENCIES (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (72%); INVESTMENT BANKING (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (70%); TRENDS (68%); SECURITIES BROKERS (64%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (60%); 

PERSON: MEREDITH, ROBYN ALAN G PERRITON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1998



64 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: The President's Budget

 BODY:
President Clinton's budget shows admirable accommodation to political constraints. It sticks close to the tight limits set by last year's balanced-budget law and this year's Republican-controlled Congress. It generates a five-year string of surpluses without gutting important Federal programs to do so. It focuses more public spending where it is needed the most and deftly avoids squandering temporary surpluses on permanent tax cuts. The chief weakness is a speculative reliance on tobacco revenues and corporate tax hikes that may not materialize.
The Administration claims full credit for good budget numbers. It expects a surplus next year for the first time in 30 years, and to rack up over $200 billion in surpluses over the next five years. But a robust economy and the 1990 tax hike courtesy of George Bush account for much of the surplus. 
 The Clinton budget reflects sound priorities. It would increase National Science Foundation funding by about 10 percent, hire 100,000 more teachers and build or renovate about 5,000 schools. It would give welfare parents who go to work housing vouchers, and provide more tax credits for corporations that help build low-income housing. The Administration would ease the harsh 1996 welfare law by reinstating food stamps for many legal immigrants. Even those parts of the budget that are less well targeted, such as tax credits for child care, can be defended as a reasonable response to Congress's refusal to go along with a direct spending program. The budget plan does cleverly design this tax cut so upper-income families are ineligible to apply.
The most questionable part of the budget is a reliance on $13 billion a year from the tobacco industry to pay for Mr. Clinton's important new education and health initiatives. The speculative and uncertain payment might come either from an overall tobacco settlement approved by Congress or from imposing a new tax on the industry. Neither will be easy to achieve. Another danger is that linking a settlement to potentially popular programs may inadvertently give the tobacco lobby additional leverage in its campaign to gain immunity from future liability claims. But $13 billion is a small figure in the context of a $1.7 trillion annual budget, so even if the tobacco deal falls through, Mr. Clinton should be able to find other funds for his new programs.
The big fight will come over his proposed use -- or non-use -- of surpluses that the roaring economy is churning out but that Congress did not anticipate last year when it passed the five-year budget plan. Mr. Clinton says the entire surplus should not be used to cut taxes or raise spending until Congress reforms Social Security. That means he would use the entire surplus to pay off the Government debt, which would have the long-term impact of raising private investment and therefore lifting the economy. Mr. Clinton no doubt would prefer to use at least some of the money for his cherished public investment programs, but he knows the G.O.P. would choke over that idea.
By cloaking his plan under the guise of "saving" Social Security, though, the President has put an obstacle in the way of Republican plans to give away the money in a sweeping tax cut. The danger with a large tax cut is that early next century the budget is headed for large deficits as the baby boomers retire, cutting their tax payments and increasing their call on Medicare and Social Security. Taxes cut today would be very difficult to restore tomorrow, putting undue pressure on Congress to cut spending programs instead.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL PROGRAMS (58%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (56%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (56%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS; SMOKING AND TOBACCO; TAXATION BUDGETS (95%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX INCREASES (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (89%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (89%); APPROVALS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); SMOKING (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); LOBBYING (77%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (77%); PUBLIC HOUSING (76%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (75%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (74%); FAMILY (74%); SCIENCE FUNDING (73%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); FOUNDATIONS (69%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (68%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (66%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (66%); TOBACCO MFG (63%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1998



65 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 471 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Treasuries Decline Sharply as Stocks Rally in Asia and U.S.

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Treasury prices fell sharply yesterday, particularly among longer maturities, as the stock market surged on the heels of a rally in Asia, drawing investors away from bonds. The short end of the Treasury market, however, was also lower, but its losses were limited by a tame manufacturing report.
The selloff in bonds came on the eve of the start of a two-day meeting of Federal Reserve policy makers. Talks that the Fed might cut interest rates has faded in recent weeks, and with inflation still benign, most market participants expect no action at all this week. 
 The price of the 30-year Treasury bond dropped 13/32 , or more than $10 for each $1,000 invested in bonds, to 1039/32 . The bond's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 5.87 percent, from 5.80 percent on Friday.
The bond market was weighed down at the opening by a sharp rebound in Asian stock markets, which lured investors out of the relative safety of the Treasury market and back into equities.
Losses in bonds were somewhat trimmed after the National Association of Purchasing Management reported that its January index fell to 52.4 percent from 53.1 percent, weaker than expected. The prices-paid component of the index dropped sharply to 44.7 percent from 50.8 percent.
Maury N. Harris, chief economist at Paine Webber, said the purchasing managers' report indicated a trade-related moderation but not a drastic slowdown in United States economic growth. The price-paid component provided further evidence that overall price inflation should not be a problem despite the recent increase in labor costs, he said.
In addition to the Fed policy meeting, this week the market will also have to contend with the January employment report on Friday. "I expect a gain of between 265,000 to 275,000 jobs, with unemployment at 4.6 percent, and provided that there is no change on the domestic and international news, the market should trade in a narrow band until Friday," said Jack Regan, chief derivative strategist at Josephthal & Company.
The Treasury's weekly sale of three-month and six-month bills yesterday came in as expected. Following are the results of the auction:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Average Price	98.711	97.427	Discounted Rate	5.10%	5.09%	Coupon Yield	5.23%	5.29%	High Price	98.716	97.437	Discounted Rate	5.08%	5.07%	Coupon Yield	5.21%	5.27%	Low Price	98.710	97.427	Discounted Rate	5.10%	5.09%	Coupon Yield	5.24%	5.29%	Accepted at low price	96%	47%	Total applied for	$34,698,898	$38,287,901	Accepted	$11,514,298	$11,482,488	Noncompetitive	$1,504,797	$1,356,469	
 
Both issues are dated Feb. 5, 1998. The three-month bills mature on May 7, 1998, and the six-month bills mature on Aug. 6, 1998.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" tracks 3-Month Treasury bills at average discounted rate, from Oct. 1997 through Feb. 1998. (Source: The Bond Buyer)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: JOSEPHTHAL & CO INC (63%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS BOND MARKETS (93%); BONDS (93%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); INFLATION (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); INTEREST RATES (71%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1998



66 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 137 words

HEADLINE: J. Scott Howard, Risk Management Expert, 53

 BODY:
J. Scott Howard, a risk management expert who was a vice president of J. P. Morgan & Company in New York, died on Jan. 14 at Mount Sinai Hospital after a long hospitalization for cancer. He was 53 years old and lived in Hightstown, N.J.
Mr. Howard spent 27 years with J. P. Morgan. His company called him a pioneer in its Riskmetrics service, a data-based system for weighing investment risks, for which Mr. Howard designed a demonstration and training model. 
 He earned a bachelor's degree in economics and a master's degree in international finance from New York University. He served in Vietnam as an Army sergeant.
Mr. Howard is survived by his wife, B. Sue Mesner Howard; his parents, Mary Rowan and John H. Howard of Newport, R.I.; a brother, Jay, of Seattle, and a sister, Rowan Morse of Portland, Me.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (93%); JPM (LSE) (93%); 8634 (TSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (73%); MAINE, USA (50%); 

CITY: PORTLAND, ME, USA (50%); NEWPORT, RI, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (93%); NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (74%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (73%); MAINE, USA (50%); PORTLAND, ME, USA (50%); NEWPORT, RI, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); RISK MANAGEMENT (91%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (88%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (88%); 

PERSON: HOWARD, J SCOTT B SUE MESNER HOWARD (93%); J SCOTT HOWARD (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1998



67 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Japan's Bank Mantra: We're O.K., We're O.K. Right?

BYLINE: By SHERYL WuDUNN 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Feb. 2

 BODY:
From the stratospheric heights of their board rooms in glass-and-steel headquarters far above the narrow streets of Tokyo, Japan's top bankers once gazed with pride on the vast commercial empires they helped build.
Now when they look out, they see mountains of bad debt. 
 Japanese banks are the biggest on earth but they are swaying frighteningly in the Asian financial typhoon. The possibility that a giant Japanese bank might one day come crashing down to the ground, sending shock waves around the globe, is a recurring nightmare, not just for Japanese bankers but for treasury officials and bank executives around the world.
Is that going to happen?
Probably not, most bankers and analysts say. But they do not say so with as much confidence as they would like.
When the United States and the International Monetary Fund rushed to bail out South Korea last month, their ultimate concern was less South Korea than its potential impact on Japanese and Western banks. Some of the Japanese banks are already wobbly because of a crushing burden of bad debts; indeed, the sum of bad debts held by Japan's banks is greater than the value of the entire economy of China, not to mention South Korea.
"It's very unstable," Alicia Ogawa, a managing director and banking analyst at Salomon Brothers Asia Ltd. in Tokyo, said of the financial system in Japan. "Everyone knows there's a huge shoe that's got to drop. Nobody knows when, who's going to pay and who it's going to land on. So, of course, everyone's sort of frozen and trembling in the corner."
For all the worries about Indonesia or South Korea, Japan's economy is twice as large as that of the rest of Asia put together, and so many analysts say the key question that will determine the future of the Asian crisis is simply this: What will happen in Tokyo?
Sure enough, the new Finance Minister, Hikaru Matsunaga, promised this weekend that he would do his utmost to prevent any of the nation's top 19 banks from collapsing. Indeed, the money is there, for Japan is the largest creditor nation in the world, with assets that make the International Monetary Fund look like a pauper, and so it is not risking the kind of liquidity crisis that felled South Korea. With $800 billion in bonds, direct investment and other securities abroad, the Japanese Government is sitting on a comfortable cushion.
"Japan still has a heck of a lot of money," said Kathy M. Matsui, strategist at Goldman, Sachs (Japan) Ltd. "It's a cushion that most Asian economies don't have and it's the cause of a lot of Japan's problems. They know that they have a cushion and can engineer a soft landing."
Still, there are jitters lurking in the market. Though it is unlikely to happen, the nightmare that still haunts bankers and executives around the world is the failure of a large Japanese bank that provokes a run on deposits. That run could even spread to otherwise healthy banks that might in turn prompt a sudden liquidity squeeze and paralyze these giants and eventually the global financial system. Markets could be battered from New York to London. "There could be a systemic collapse, a meltdown," said James P. Fiorello, a banking analyst at ING Barings in Tokyo. "We're talking about a run that closes down proper banks."
The basic problem facing the Japanese banking system is bad debt, a mountain of it, and a subsidiary problem is that no one has a precise idea of how big the mountain is.
The banks report that they have $560 billion in bad or questionable loans, and they hold acres of boarded-up lots and half-empty buildings that they cannot sell but took possession of when loans went sour. When the stock and property prices fall, as they have been lately, the result is a further heap of bad loans piled on to the mountain.
Partly because of these bad debts, a few of Japan's major city banks are barely investment grade, and other banks are also being reviewed for possible downgrades by Standard & Poor's and Moody's Investors Service.
The bad debts have led to a series of incidents that could be called bank runs, except that the depositors lining up are so orderly that they do not seem very alarming. The authorities are closing down credit associations and small lending institutions around the country, and the vaults at the Bank of Japan, the nation's central bank, are swinging open as they never have before to provide cash for banks that anticipate withdrawals from depositors.
For months now, the Japanese have been switching a tiny portion of their 1,000 trillion yen, or $7.7 trillion, in savings from wobbly banks to the nation's top institutions and the Government-run postal savings system. In December alone, Japanese flooded the postal savings institution with about 3.3 trillion yen, or $25 billion, about as much as the deposits at a major regional bank.
More important, the mountain of bad debts creates fears within the banking community that one of their number will fail, while holding money belonging to other institutions. So there is a fear that commercial banks would suddenly perceive one bank to be at risk and pull back their funds from it in the interbank market, the circulatory system for the financial world. The cutoff of funds could create a panic that would put healthy institutions at risk.
"Japanese banks are trendseekers, so if someone thinks one bank is dangerous, all the other banks pull the credit lines," said Naoko Nemoto, a financial analyst at Standard & Poor's.
Some worry that in a panic, money might be drained from even the big international Japanese banks, and those banks would then scramble for cover by pulling their lines from other institutions. The result could be a squeeze that would put strains on the banking system here and abroad even before Wall Street awakened.
The Bank of Japan has already begun to pour billions of dollars worth of yen into the markets, just to prevent a squeeze. Nonetheless, many banks have suddenly become aware of the fragility of their base of funding.
The Government has stated that no more major financial institutions will fail, and it is issuing a 30 trillion yen bank bailout and a 2 trillion yen tax cut. Financial analysts and bankers say that the system will hold but that a couple of the weakest banks may be shut down, merged or absorbed by other institutions, perhaps even in the next few months.
"It is not desirable that you just drive them into a rock," said Paul Heaton, a financial analyst at Deutsche Morgan Grenfell, about the weakest banks. "It is better that you drop off a few lifeboats along the way."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); ASIA (92%); INDONESIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (97%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); ASIA (92%); INDONESIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; BANKRUPTCIES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); TRENDS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); BONDS (72%); 

PERSON: WUDUNN, SHERYL; MATSUNAGA, HIKARU (MIN) MICHAEL MCMAHON (94%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1998



68 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: MARKET PLACE;
The S.& P. 500 Breaks Through The 1,000 Mark

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
The American stock market, resilient despite worries about Asia, soared past a milestone yesterday as the Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks rose above 1,000 points for the first time.
The S.& P. 500's move to the millennium left the index more than twice as high as it was just three years ago, and served as a reminder that for the last year this index has been Wall Street's star performer, drastically outpacing the more widely followed Dow Jones industrial average. 
 The Dow also soared yesterday, rising 201.28 points, to 8,107.78, but it remains 1.8 percent below the high it set on Aug. 6, 1997. The S.& P. 500, which climbed 20.99 points, to 1,001.27, yesterday, is up 4.3 percent since Aug. 6.
That diversity of performance has both colored perceptions of the stock market and emphasized the way different types of stocks have reacted to the worries coming out of Asia.
"The Dow is the bellwether; you hear it on the radio," said Peter Canelo, an investment strategist with Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter. He contends that cash flows into stock mutual funds have been weaker than they were in early 1997 because of the perception that the stock market has not hit a high in almost six months.
The severe underperformance of the Dow began around the time that Asian worries started to emerge, a fact that is not coincidental. "The S.& P. gives a greater weight to defensive stock groups, such as drugs and foods and beverages," that would be hurt less if the economy weakened, noted Richard McCabe, the chief market analyst for Merrill Lynch. "The Dow is not weighted as heavily in the industries that have done the best."
Those groups have included stocks that would seem to have the least to fear from a falloff in Asian purchases and an increase in cheap Asian exports. Drug, telephone, media and entertainment stocks have all done well, while steel, oil and aluminum companies have been among the laggards.
From Aug. 6, the day the Dow peaked, through yesterday, only one-third of the 30 Dow stocks had risen, while two-thirds had declined. The strongest performers have been AT&T and Walt Disney, neither of which is in any danger of competition from cheap Asian imports or particularly vulnerable to the threat of a weak economy. The worst performer in the Dow -- Sears, Roebuck -- has its own performance problems that do not relate to Asia. But the others that are down at least 15 percent -- Union Carbide, International Paper and Boeing -- are either highly sensitive to the economy or in danger of losing sales to Asian customers.
By contrast, according to Bloomberg Financial Markets, 55 percent of the stocks in the S.& P. 500 have risen over the period. That index has a lower proportion of stocks that have alarmed investors for one reason or another in recent months.
The sharp variance in performance also highlights the fact that no index by itself can provide an accurate measure of the entire market. In fact, the S.& P. is the standout performer in the last year, compared with almost any other index. The Russell 2000, an index of smaller stocks, peaked in October and is still 6.6 percent below that peak.
In the nine months through the end of January -- a period that began just before the first hint of Asian problems emerged, with Thailand declaring war on currency speculators who it said were trying to drive down the value of the baht -- the S.& P. 500 rose 22.3 percent, while the Dow industrials gained 12.8 percent. The S.& P.'s outperformance, by 9.5 percentage points, is the greatest over any similar period since 1980.
Mr. Canelo argues that the Dow's period of underperformance may have ended -- it advanced 2.55 percent yesterday, compared with 2.14 percent for the S.& P -- because there is more optimism about an Asian recovery. He noted that the period of strong S.& P. outperformance coincided with a fall in the prices of industrial materials, a measure of worldwide industrial activity. Those prices now seem to be stabilizing and, in some cases, beginning to move up.
When the S.& P. rose above 1,000 yesterday, the move also emphasized just how rapid the rise has been in recent years. The index has doubled from the 500 level in less than 35 months. It took nearly nine years to go from 250 to 500. And the move from 62.50 to 125 required almost two decades, from Feb. 23, 1961, to Aug. 14, 1980.
In 1980, the S.& P. was hitting records while the Dow remained below the peak it had reached in 1973. That situation, however, was in some ways the exact opposite of the current one. That came as oil prices were soaring, amid worries of rampant inflation. At that time, the energy component of the S.& P. 500 was relatively high, and that helped drive the index to a record level. Now, energy stocks make up about 8.4 percent of the S.& P. 500, a little less than the 9.6 percent weighting of the three companies in the Dow that have major oil interests: Chevron, Exxon and DuPont.

GRAPHIC: Charts: S.& P. Milestones
Dates on which the S.& P. 500 index surpassed a centennial mark.
 
100: June 4, 1968
200: Nov. 21, 1985
300: March 23, 1987
400: Dec. 26, 1991
500: March 24, 1995
600: Nov. 17, 1995
700: Oct. 4, 1996
800: Feb. 12, 1997
900: July 2, 1997
1,000: Feb. 2, 1998
(Source: Standard & Poor's)(pg. D8)
 
"Double Time"
The time it takes the S.& P. 500 index to double is getting shorter.
 
62.5 to 125: 19 years,
2/23/61 to 8/14/80: 6 months
 
125 to 250: 5 years,
8/14/80 to 6/30/86: 10 months
 
250 to 500: 8 years,
6/30/86 to 3/24/95: 9 months
 
500 to 1,000: 2 years,
3/24/95 to 2/2/98: 11 months
(Source: Standard and Poor's)(pg. D8)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (55%); DIS (NYSE) (51%); BOE (LSE) (50%); BAB (BRU) (50%); BA (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (51%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (51%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (51%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (51%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (51%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (50%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%); WALT DISNEY CO (51%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (51%); BOEING CO (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (58%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; STANDARD & POOR'S STOCK INDEX; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS STOCK INDEXES (99%); CASH FLOW (78%); BONDS (78%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%); EXPORT TRADE (66%); MUTUAL FUNDS (66%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD PETER CANELO (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1998



69 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: Purchasing Index Is Off on Export Data

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 2

 BODY:
A closely watched gauge of manufacturing activity unexpectedly cooled in January as export orders slumped for the first time in two years.
The National Association of Purchasing Management's index declined to 52.4 last month from 53.1 in December, the group reported today. Analysts had expected a January reading of 53.3. 
 Separately, Commerce Department figures showed that growth in personal income and in consumer spending both slowed in December, winding up a strong year on a subdued note.
The broad economy remains resilient, though, analysts said, as the expansion moves into an eighth year. While the purchasing managers' index slid from the December level, a reading above 50 still represents growth. And the group's new-orders index increased in January, while the level of inventories remained little changed from December.
Taken as a whole, the figures suggest "there's not yet any reason to expect a significant weakening in manufacturing," said Christopher Low, an economist at HSBC Securities in New York.
The Commerce Department said that incomes rose by four-tenths of a percent in December after climbing by a revised seven-tenths of a percent during November. Spending rose by three-tenths of a percent in December after increasing an unrevised four-tenths of a percent in November. Analysts expected a three-tenths of a percent rise in personal income in December and a five-tenths of a percent gain in spending.
For all of last year, though, incomes rose 5.8 percent, topping the 5.6 percent increase of 1996. Spending in 1997 rose 5.4 percent, the strongest showing since 1994, after increasing 5 percent a year earlier.
The report also showed that disposable income, the money left over after taxes, increased five-tenths of a percent in December after rising seven-tenths of a percent during November. And the savings rate rose to 4.1 percent during the month from 3.9 percent in November.
In another report, however, the Commerce Department said spending on new construction rose at a slower-than-expected pace in December, as declines in public construction offset strength in private and residential building.
Construction spending rose a tenth of a percent, to a $611.8 billion annual rate. Analysts expected a gain of eight-tenths of a percent gain. That followed a revised decline of a tenth of a percent in November, previously reported as a decline of nine-tenths of a percent. For all of 1997, construction spending rose 5.6 percent, after rising 6.5 percent in 1996.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Construction Spending" shows total construction spending, from July 1996 through Dec. 1997. (Source: Commerce Department); "Personal Income" shows total personal income, from July 1996 through Dec. 1997. (Source: Commerce Department)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF SECURITIES DEALERS INC (58%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INCOME; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION) ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (89%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (78%); NEW ORDERS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); STATISTICS (77%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1998



70 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 472 words

HEADLINE: District of Columbia Expects Surplus of at Least $100 Million

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 2

 BODY:
For all its potholes, real and metaphorical, the District of Columbia has received solid proof that the financial and management changes of the last few years are finally turning the city around.
Anthony A. Williams, the city's chief financial officer, said today that he expected an audit for the 1997 fiscal year to show a budget surplus of $100 million to $150 million. It was predicted that the District would finish the year with a $74 million budget deficit. 
 "Our three problems were financial, fiscal and economic, and we have made substantial progress on the financial and fiscal," Mr. Williams said in an interview. "We still have a lot to do to get our management together to address the problems of the local economy."
The District has been reeling from high crime rates, crumbling schools, poor delivery of services and an exodus of residents to surrounding counties in Maryland and Virginia that has depleted the city's tax base.
For those reasons and more, Congress created a financial control board, a panel of five officials appointed by President Clinton that began work in the spring of 1995 and is required by law to remain in place until the city has balanced its budget for four consecutive years.
Mr. Williams said the surplus, the city's first since 1993, was largely the result of tighter spending policies by municipal agencies, a better performance than expected by city tax collectors and a strong national economy that raised the projected levels of income and sales taxes.
Some city residents have recommended using the surplus to finance spending programs or cut taxes, but Mr. Williams said the money would most likely be used to help offset the city's cash deficit of $500 million. That, in turn, could save the District money by not requiring officials to restructure the city's long-term debt.
The surplus could also affect this year's mayoral race, largely as an inducement to Marion S. Barry Jr. to run again. Now completing his fourth term, the Democratic Mayor has remained undecided about whether to seek re-election.
Three members of the City Council -- Harold Brazil, Kevin P. Chavous and Jack Evans -- are expected to seek the Democratic nomination in September. But strong evidence that control of the city could be returned to the Mayor from the control board a year ahead of schedule could draw Mr. Barry into the race.
One Democrat who will not be in the race is Mr. Williams, who said last week he was considering running. Today, citing personal and professional considerations, he announced that he would not run.
"I've spent a lot of time and effort building this office with top personnel," he said. "But it's still very fragile. The last thing I would want is a long, protracted argument between the Mayor and the control board over my successor."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); SALES TAX (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); CRIME RATES (72%); TAX AUTHORITIES (72%); 

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL; WILLIAMS, ANTHONY A MICHAEL J WILLIAMS (79%); BILL CLINTON (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1998



71 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 332 words

HEADLINE: THE CLINTON BUDGET: FOREIGN AFFAIRS;
A Warning About Chaos From Asia

BYLINE: By PHILIP SHENON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 2

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration's budget for foreign affairs is built on the assumption that prominent members of Congress will overcome their distaste for the United Nations and for American involvement in the bailout of faltering Asian economies.
The budget released today calls for an additional $18 billion in appropriations for the International Monetary Fund, which is overseeing the bailouts in South Korea, Indonesia and Thailand. 
 The budget report warned that without the extra money for the I.M.F., the chaos in Asia could spread to the United States.
"The U.S. economy is not immune," the report said. "These funds are urgently needed in case the emergency demand on I.M.F. resources depletes the I.M.F.'s liquidity so much that it cannot maintain international monetary stability."
But the request will face a tough fight in Congress, where many lawmakers oppose any increased American role in the Asian bailouts. The chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Senator Jesse Helms, Republican of North Carolina, said last weekend that he would oppose any request to raise American appropriations for the I.M.F.
There may be an equally bruising struggle over the Administration's request for $1 billion to begin repaying the nearly $1.5 billion that the United States owes to the United Nations in back dues. Mr. Helms and other prominent lawmakers have refused to free up the money without significant budgetary and administrative changes at the United Nations.
Legislation that would have allowed the Administration to pay some of the arrears stalled last year in Congress, "undermining U.S. diplomatic efforts to achieve budgetary reforms and leading to a serious loss of U.S. credibility in the U.N.," the budget report said.
The Administration called for the overall State Department budget to hold steady at about $5.3 billion, but proposed increases in several programs like financing for the Peace Corps, up 20 percent to $270 million.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (95%); INDONESIA (92%); THAILAND (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (72%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; UNITED NATIONS; STATE DEPARTMENT; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND UNITED NATIONS (94%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; UNITED NATIONS; STATE DEPARTMENT; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND UNITED NATIONS (94%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (95%); INDONESIA (92%); THAILAND (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (72%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); BUDGETS (92%); BAILOUTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TRENDS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); 

PERSON: SHENON, PHILIP; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1998



72 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Warning by Chip Maker Causes Its Stock to Tumble
National Semiconductor shares fell more than 16 percent after the maker of computer chips said results for the current quarter might fall below analysts' projections. 
 The warning reflected weakness in Asian markets and difficulties at Cyrix, a chip maker that National Semiconductor purchased last year. Page D2.
 
Rate of Growth May Be Slowing
The nation's manufacturing expansion pace unexpectedly eased in January, the National Association of Purchasing Management said in a widely followed monthly survey. In other signs of a possible slowdown, the Commerce Department said personal income, personal spending and construction spending grew at a slower rate in December. D2.
 
Bond prices fell sharply on a broad rally in stocks. But losses among shorter-term maturities were limited by the weaker-than-expected manufacturing report. D9.
 
Balanced U.S. Budget Proposed
President Clinton proposed the first balanced Federal budget in almost 30 years, cashing in on five years of cautious accounting and steady economic growth.. A1.
 
An additional $18 billion in appropriations has been proposed for the I.M.F., which is overseeing the bailouts of several Asian economies. A17.
 
The plan would use tax incentives for business to expand pensions and retirement plans, child care, energy-efficiency and corporate-sponsored education for workers. A18.
 
Drug Stocks Surge on Merger Talk
The merger discussions between Glaxo Wellcome and SmithKline Beecham, announced late Friday, led to a voracious demand for stocks of other big drug makers on the possibility of more such deals. D2.
 
Possible Change in I.M.F. Position
The I.M.F. may be moving toward endorsing rules that would prevent another surge in foreign bank lending. Such a surge played a key role in the Asian financial crisis. D4.

G.M. and Daewoo Ponder Ties
General Motors and Daewoo of South Korea said they had signed a memorandum of understanding to consider a range of business ties, including a possible G.M. stake in Daewoo. D4.
 
Reuters Inquiry Deepens
Federal prosecutors are said to be investigating the relationship between an American subsidiary of Reuters and Cyberspace Research Associates, a New York company they believe was commissioned to steal information from Bloomberg. D6.
 
New Chief At Nabisco Unit
Nabisco replaced the head of its cookie and cracker division, which includes the Oreo brand as well as Ritz and Snackwell's, in what Wall Street took as a significant move to freshen a sluggish business. D6.

Fewer Stores to Sell Apple PC's
Hurt by slow sales, Apple said it was withdrawing its personal computers from several major store chains to focus on promoting sales through CompUSA. D6.
 
Bigger Iraqi Quota Proposed
U.N. Secretary General Kofi Annan asked the Security Council to more than double the amount of oil Iraq can sell. A8.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 8,107.78 up 201.28
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.87% up 0.07
The Dollar -- 126.53 yen down 0.32

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (50%); SIC5734 COMPUTER & COMPUTER SOFTWARE STORES (50%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (92%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORP (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%); COMPUSA INC (50%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (92%); ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES ELECTRONICS (91%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (91%); COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); MICROPROCESSORS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); SEMICONDUCTORS (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); BONDS (76%); APPROPRIATIONS (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (73%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (73%); BAILOUTS (72%); BOND MARKETS (72%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (71%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); PERSONAL FINANCE (70%); TAX LAW (68%); TAX INCENTIVES (67%); RETAILERS (63%); CORPORATE TAX (51%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1998



73 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: From a Friend Indeed, Clinton Awaits a Visit

BYLINE: By WARREN HOGE 

DATELINE: LONDON, Feb. 2

 BODY:
The trip was planned months ago, but it is hard to think of a world leader whom President Clinton would be luckier to have as his White House guest this week than Tony Blair.
He arrives in Washington on Wednesday for a timely four-day visit that is expected to put on further display the remarkable camaraderie between the popular 44-year-old New Labor Prime Minister and his embattled 51-year-old New Democrat counterpart. The visit also brings to the President's side the leader of the only nation to pledge military assistance in Iraq at a moment when a strike on Saddam Hussein appears increasingly imminent. 
 "I freely confess to you that I happen to have a high regard for Bill Clinton," Prime Minister Blair said today in a shirt-sleeves interview in his private office. "I am delighted to call Bill Clinton a friend, and I believe what's more important than anything else is that he does a good job as a President, and for that he deserves all our support, so it's as simple as that really."
Mr. Blair said he suspected that the sudden growth of support for the President during the last week came from voters' impatience with "arrogant politicians and arrogant media" who, he said, like to "try to reverse the outcome of elections." He fully expected to encounter a President "focusing on the big picture," he said, and not "sidetracked by all that stuff which may be interesting to some parts of the media." He added, "Politics shouldn't be run at the level of a gossip column."
Mr. Clinton and Mr. Blair have frequently been compared because of the commonalities of their youthfulness, their appetites for policy discussions, their moving their parties more to the political center and their emphasis on government's shaping social policies in an era of global economic pressures and public distaste for taxes and spending.
In the area where the President is presently most vulnerable, the conduct of his personal and family life, Mr. Blair is unassailable, and British commentators in recent days have been speculating on how the Prime Minister might turn this to his advantage during the coming visit. The notion clearly makes Mr. Blair uncomfortable.
"I do not presume in any way to interfere with the American political process," he said. "I've made clear my support for the President, and let me say at once I've never pretended to be any better or different than anyone else."
Mr. Blair looks very much at home after nine months in 10 Downing Street, working with jacket off in a side room off the main entrance corridor. Putting his jacket on, he greets guests or Government ministers in the cream-colored Cabinet room next door, with its two fluted white columns at one end and three brass chandeliers spaced along the ceiling.
Busts of Benjamin Disraeli and William Pitt stare out from either side of the entrance as a reminder of what British prime ministers used to look like before the present informal incumbent. A portrait of a Labor Prime Minister, Clement Attlee, has been hung in the space that during John Major's term bore the likeness of a Conservative, Stanley Baldwin, and during Margaret Thatcher's years bore a picture of Churchill.
It is only five years since Mr. Blair -- then the shadow home affairs minister from a party that had lost four straight general elections -- went to Washington and watched the Democrats prepare for the first inauguration of their invigorating new leader, Bill Clinton. The two men didn't even meet then.
Mr. Blair returned to Britain and a year later became the leader of Labor with an aggressive agenda: to shed its socialist past and turn it into a center-left group willing to lend an ear to business and dedicated to capturing the middle class, which had seen the Conservatives as the only party that encouraged opportunity.
That transformation swept Mr. Blair and his party into office last May 1 with a majority of 179 in Parliament. He set out on an ambitious and activist program of social change and an attempt to settle the bloody conflict in Northern Ireland that have given him the highest job approval ratings of any British prime minister in history.
Mr. Clinton added London to his itinerary on a visit to Europe last June, and he and Mr. Blair emerged from 10 Downing Street to give a news conference in the Rose Garden that was much commented on for its quality of mutual admiration.
Two months ago, Hillary Rodham Clinton came to Northern Ireland and England with several Administration officials and spent a weekend at Chequers, the official retreat. Along with Mr. Blair and his wife, Cherie, who is a noted lawyer and part-time judge, a group of Cabinet members gathered for an extended discussion of common social policy challenges like juvenile crime, welfare to work, school class sizes, child care and public health.
Emblematic of this unusually close association, a similar session has been scheduled for the Presidential retreat at Camp David on Saturday, and Mr. Blair has chosen as his Government companions for the trip Cabinet members from the social policy field. He is to be feted at a dinner Wednesday night; have a working meeting at the White House and a visit to Congress on Thursday; breakfast at the State Department and give a news conference with the President on Friday, and possibly participate Saturday in the President's weekly radio address.
On Iraq Mr. Blair reiterated the British commitment, saying, "We will obviously want to give support in any way that is possible and feasible for us because we believe very, very clearly that at the end of the gulf war certain conditions were laid down for the way that Saddam Hussein conducted himself and those conditions have to be met, and if they are not met there will be far greater trouble in the world to come."
He praised Mr. Clinton's backing for British and Irish efforts to achieve a settlement in Northern Ireland, saying the President had been "absolutely as solid as a rock on it all the way through." In answer to a question about an accusation from a former United States Ambassador, Raymond G. H. Seitz, that the British suspected the White House of leaking security information to the Irish Republican Army in the early years of the Clinton Administration, he said, "I can't speak for the past because I am not in a position to do so, but as far as I am concerned, there are no problems on that score at all."
He said he saw Britain as a "bridge between the U.S. and Europe" and resisted the notion that Britain's perceived closeness to America prejudiced its relations with Europe. "It is not just Britain who stands as an American friend," he said, adding, "Europeans I can tell you, the ones that I talk to, are fully 100 percent behind a strong relationship with the U.S."
On Bosnia he said: "I would say to the American people that it is actually important that you are in Bosnia. It may seem distant and far away, but if we had let the possibility pass of getting involved there and we had let that civil war explode and spread, we would have had a real problem on our hands for the whole of Europe."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Tony Blair arrives this week in Washington. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED KINGDOM (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; NORTHERN IRELAND; UNITED KINGDOM (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); IRAQ (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; GREAT BRITAIN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLITICS (89%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); FAMILY (70%); 

PERSON: HOGE, WARREN; BLAIR, TONY (PRIME MIN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (94%); TONY BLAIR (91%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1998



74 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: THE CLINTON BUDGET: BUSINESS;
Companies Would Be Given Rewards for Retirement and Education Plans

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

 BODY:
Businesses could receive tax incentives for expanding workers' pension, retirement and education plans under the budget President Clinton unveiled yesterday. The budget also would give tax breaks to employees who lose their jobs.
On the other hand, it would end several devices that moderately wealthy Americans use to avoid paying estate taxes and would impose 39 tax increases on businesses. 
 To help workers save, the Administration proposed letting them use payroll deductions to contribute to Individual Retirement Accounts. To encourage businesses to allow those deductions, and to get more businesses to adopt 401(k) and similar plans, the Administration proposed new tax credits of up to $2,000 per company over three years, aimed primarily at small businesses.
Only about one-fourth of American workers have 401(k) or similar retirement plans, according to the Employee Benefits Research Institute, a nonprofit group in Washington.
These proposals are likely to find favor with Republicans, who have championed expanding retirement savings plans.
The Administration proposed to extend a variety of business tax breaks, including a welfare-to-work credit, educational grants to employees and a research and experimentation credit. It would also make permanent a provision of the 1997 Taxpayer Relief Act that allows companies to treat the costs of cleaning up toxic waste sites as expenses that can be immediately deducted, instead of capital investments that must be amortized over many years.
The Administration also proposed a variety of tax credits for businesses that invest in energy-efficient equipment and roof-top solar collectors. Buyers of very highly fuel efficient vehicles could receive $4,000 per vehicle in tax credits in 2002. Those buyers are likely to be corporations.
For workers who lose their jobs, the Administration would eliminate taxes on the the first $2,000 of severance pay. It is unclear whether this would be a boon to workers or simply encourage companies to reduce the size of severance packages.
The Administration also proposed extending the current law allowing up to $5,250 a year in educational aid to be taken as a deductible expense by employers, but not be counted as income for workers.
The Administration wants to expand a tax break for investors in about 80 companies licensed under the Black Capitalism program begun 29 years ago by the Nixon Administration. Investors who buy shares of Specialized Small Business Investment Companies would be allowed to roll over $2 million in capital gains, deferring taxes so long as they held shares of the specialized companies. The current limit is $50,000 per year, a figure that critics say is too small to create a significant capital market for minority and immigrant entrepreneurs. Only one of these companies, Freshstart Venture Capital Corporation of New York City, has publicly traded shares.
The plans to increase 39 business taxes drew prompt criticism from Bruce Josten, executive vice president of the United States Chamber of Commerce. "These are not the kinds of proposals that the greater business community is going to like because there are about $23 billion in new tax proposals that affect different slices and slivers of the business community," he said.
Mr. Josten, noting that President Clinton cited expanding exports as a major factor in the strength of the economy, also objected to a change in a tax on manufacturers that he said, "dings our exporters with $6.5 billion in new taxes and does so in a very convoluted way."
The estate tax proposals were completely unexpected, said Evelyn Capassakis, director of estate planning for the Coopers & Lybrand accounting firm. "It looks like they are taking the offensive against the Republicans, who want to repeal the estate tax," Ms. Capassakis said.
"The Administration is saying not only do we not want to repeal the estate tax, we want to tighten it up," she said.
One Administration proposal would require portfolios of stocks and bonds to be valued at market price, ending the growing practice of claiming discounts on publicly traded securities.
Few of the tax proposals are likely to get past Representative Bill Archer of Texas, chairman of the tax-writing House Ways and Means Committee, who said the budget was "a disappointment" and reiterated his pledge to continue closing loopholes, but to kill any tax increase.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TAXI (NASDAQ) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (60%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (60%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (60%); SIC6153 SHORT-TERM BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS EX. AGRICULTURAL (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDALLION FINANCIAL CORP (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LABOR; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TAXATION TAX LAW (94%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX INCENTIVES (91%); EMPLOYMENT (91%); PERSONAL FINANCE (91%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US 401K PLANS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); SEVERANCE PAY (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (79%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (79%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); ESTATE TAX (78%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (78%); LEGISLATION (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (70%); VENTURE CAPITAL (70%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (69%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (65%); SOLAR ENERGY (64%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (53%); 

PERSON: JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1998



75 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
The Asian Blues

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

DATELINE: ZURICH, Oct. 29, 1998

 BODY:
World stock markets crashed to record lows today, setting off what economists are calling "the Millennium Depression." The meltdown was triggered by the collapse of the Brazilian, Argentine, Russian, Indonesian, Mexican and Czech stock markets. These peripheral markets were dragged down after another devaluation by China made Chinese products so cheap that everyone else in Asia had to devalue again, and other emerging markets could no longer compete. In Tokyo, the entire senior staff of the Ministry of Finance were arrested and charged with incompetence. Their failure to stimulate growth, so Japan could absorb more of Asia's exports, resulted in all these goods flooding the U.S. instead, creating a record U.S. trade deficit and prompting Congress to pass the Smoot-Hawley-Gephardt Protectionist Act. With the Dow average having lost 6,000 points in two weeks, President Clinton sought to boost his poll ratings with the U.S. public by again seeing Monica Lewinsky.
Far-fetched, I know, particularly when Asian markets seem to be bouncing back. But be careful. In the next few months China, Japan and the U.S., the three main engines of the global economy, will still need to take some extremely tough decisions. How well they do will determine whether the Asian flu is really over or becomes a ragin' contagion. 
 Let's start with China -- a key factor in unintentionally triggering the Asian meltdown. China devalued its currency in 1993 and 1994. As a result, countries like Thailand, Korea and Indonesia, whose currencies were pegged around the rising dollar, became much less competitive. Any of their companies whose cost structure got out of line with that of China got hammered, making it hard for them to repay loans. Since the crash of the Asian currencies, the Thais, Koreans and Indonesians are again much more competitive with China. They are all hoping to export their way out of this crisis the way Mexico did three years ago.
Memo to China: Your economy is slowing, the Shanghai real estate market is slumping, and overseas Chinese are not pouring money in as before. But don't devalue. Instead, cut your interest rates and speed up plans for major infrastructure projects. It will keep your economy growing, maybe with a bit of inflation, but it's better than undercutting your neighbors' chances for recovery.
As for Japan, it's the world's second-largest economy, but it is currently being run by Herbert Hoover Hashimoto. Japan has huge reserves it could use to absorb imports from the Asian tigers, all of which are on export-or-die strategies. But Japan's brain-dead leadership has failed to stimulate the Japanese economy. The Japanese people are home alone.
Memo to Japan: Cut taxes deeply, enough to really put some money in the pockets of your consumers. Get your Parliament to pass the proposed $225 billion package to clean up and restructure your banking system, which is like a walking skeleton spooking everyone in Asia, and open your markets more to Asian exports -- now, not in 2005.
As for the U.S., the President needs to use his soaring job approval rating to persuade Congress to make its promised $17.9 billion deposit to the I.M.F. and to revive the fast-track free-trade legislation. This is no time for America to turn inward. Congress is right to be wary of I.M.F. bailouts, but both J. P. Morgan and Deutsche Bank have just announced huge losses on their Asian loans, so the banks are taking a hit. Alan Greenspan could help by cutting interest rates half a percent in this deflationary time to signal that what the world needs now is growth, sweet growth.
In the late 1920's it was competitive devaluations among the commodities producers of that early industrial era, and the protectionist responses to them, that made the Great Depression great. Today we are seeing the start of a similar cycle, leading already to a deterioration in the competitive situation of Latin America and Eastern Europe.
"If the U.S., Japan and China do the right thing now, this Asian deflation can be contained, Latin America and Eastern Europe won't be dragged into it and we can have lower global interest rates and higher growth," argues Ken Courtis, an Asian economist for Deutsche Bank. "But if they do the wrong thing, there could be real trouble."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: CHINA (97%); JAPAN (96%); INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (93%); THAILAND (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

STATE: EAST CHINA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); 

COMPANY: SHANGHAI REAL ESTATE LTD (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; JAPAN; CHINA; CHINA (97%); JAPAN (96%); INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (93%); THAILAND (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); DEVALUATION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); TRENDS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); PROTECTIONISM (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); MILLENNIUM (73%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (70%); ARRESTS (70%); TAX LAW (69%); INFLUENZA (51%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); BILL CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1998



76 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Asian Markets Rebound, Some Up 10% or More

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: BANGKOK, Thailand, Tuesday, Feb. 3

 BODY:
A streak of good economic news and sustained market rallies have raised hopes that the Asian financial crisis, if still a long way from the end, may have at least reached the end of its panic-stricken beginnings.
Improved trade statistics, relatively mild inflation and market-opening changes have contributed to a sharp rise in stock and currency values, the most notable rebound since intense selling began last fall. 
 The economies of the worst-affected countries -- Thailand, South Korea and Indonesia -- are still at least half a year from hitting bottom, many economists say. Bankruptcies and unemployment will likely surge in coming months. But there are signs that market sentiment, which frequently runs well ahead of the broad economy, has stabilized.
Stock markets in Hong Kong, Jakarta and Singapore all rose by roughly 14 percent on Monday, the first trading day after the Lunar New Year and the holiday ending the Islamic fast of Ramadan. Thailand gained 12 percent and the Philippines, 10 percent. Stocks in Tokyo were up modestly, gaining just under 1 percent.
The buying extended into this morning, most notably in Malaysia, where stocks rose 22 percent -- nearly as much as the Dow Jones industrial average gained for all of last year. South Korean stocks, which defied the trend on Monday by falling more than 4 percent, were down one-fifth of 1 percent today at midsession. And in Japan, the benchmark Nikkei index of 225 issues was up 243.86 points, or 1.45 percent, to 17,020.68 early this afternoon.
"You don't have to be a hero to put your cash to work in Asia now," said Bernhard Eschweiler, vice president of J. P. Morgan in Singapore. "For the first time in seven months, there's some promise."
The markets were bolstered by strength in local currencies. Shares in many Asian companies trade at a fraction of their levels a year ago and are attractive to some foreign investors, provided local currencies remain reasonably steady against the United States dollar.
In currency dealing, the Thai baht led a regional advance on Monday, as traders reacted favorably to the Bangkok Government's lifting of exchange controls. The Malaysian ringgit, Singapore dollar and Philippine peso all rallied. The Indonesian rupiah, considered the most vulnerable currency because of the country's staggering foreign debt, rose more than 21 percent against the dollar after remaining steady all last week.
The broad advance in Asian markets contributed to a global rally that pushed stocks to record highs in Frankfurt and London and helped the Dow Jones industrial average gain 201.28 points, its first finish above 8,000 in nearly two months.
Asian markets have been rising in the last few days, led by South Korea and Thailand, two of the three countries under the care of the International Monetary Fund. The Thai baht, for example, has hovered at exchange rates between 50 and 55 to the dollar since early in January after shedding 50 percent of its value last year. The Stock Exchange Index of Thailand has advanced nearly 20 percent so far this year after spectacular declines in 1997. And those gains have taken place despite worsening troubles in Indonesia, leading some economists to talk of a decoupling of regional markets.
Some improved economic performances help explain the shift in market sentiment. The Philippines reported on Monday that its economy grew at a 5.8 percent rate last year, well above expectations. Inflation in Thailand and South Korea, seen as an inevitable consequence of currency devaluations, has proved more moderate than anticipated, at least initially.
Indonesia, South Korea and Thailand have all shown sharp reversals in their trade balances. Seoul on Monday reported its third consecutive monthly trade surplus, which reached $1.6 billion in January. After years of running enormous trade deficits, Thailand's surplus -- it exported $1 billion more than it imported in November -- is well above International Monetary Fund projections. Trade surpluses help build dollar reserves, adding to the stability of local currencies.
Still, sentiment could easily swing back to the negative. The good news on trade hides some bad news: The gains result more from falling imports than rising exports. Thai and Indonesian banks are making so few loans that even some established exporters cannot get the cash they need to produce goods. Uncertainty still shrouds most currencies, as companies are desperate to buy dollars to repay foreign debts.
Perhaps the biggest risks are in Indonesia, where talks over rescheduling $65 billion in short-term debt owed by private companies to foreign banks are far from complete. "Indonesia's strategic position is so great that any failure there will certainly start a new round of selling," said Nicholas Kwan, regional economist at Merrill Lynch in Hong Kong.
Markets generally welcomed measures announced last week to rehabilitate weak Indonesian banks and guarantee depositors and creditors of local banks. Indonesia is also taking steps to help domestic companies renegotiate their foreign debts.
But those debt negotiations are at an early stage, and some Western bankers say they are pessimistic that the talks will succeed any time soon. Unlike in South Korea -- which reached agreement last week with foreign banks to stretch repayment periods for much short-term debt of its conglomerates and banks, the Government in Indonesia has little formal control over some private businesses.
Political uncertainty and ethnic tension also keep Indonesia on edge. Hundreds of people violently protested against high prices in two cities there on Monday, news reports said. The police detained 30 demonstrators in Pasuruan, more than 400 miles east of Jakarta, after the protesters threatened to attack fuel sellers.
"With things so uncertain in Indonesia, it's hard to feel confident about the region generally," Mr. Kwan said. "Optimists could still easily get burned."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A man clad in a traditional Chinese robe and wearing a mask unfurled a scroll at Taiwan's stock exchange yesterday wishing investors good luck in the new Year of the Tiger. At a Hong Kong bank, below left, two men check share prices, while a trader, right, studied the situation in Jakarta. (Agence France-Presse, Reuters)(pg. D4)
 
Graphs: "Signs of Strength"
Many Asian stock markets rebounded strongly yesterday giving investors something to cheer about after months of bad news. Graphs track stock markets yesterday for the following Asian markets: Hong Kong; Singapore; Indonesia; Philippines; Thailand. Figures are percentage changes for major stock indexes in each market since Dec. 31. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. D1)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); 

COUNTRY: PHILIPPINES (94%); INDONESIA (94%); HONG KONG (94%); THAILAND (94%); SINGAPORE (94%); MALAYSIA (93%); ASIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); TAIWAN (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: BANGKOK, THAILAND (92%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (88%); TOKYO, JAPAN (75%); LONDON, ENGLAND (66%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (55%); DOW JONES & CO INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; HONG KONG; INDONESIA; SINGAPORE; PHILIPPINES; THAILAND; JAPAN; MALAYSIA; SOUTH KOREA; GERMANY; GREAT BRITAIN; PHILIPPINES (94%); INDONESIA (94%); HONG KONG (94%); THAILAND (94%); SINGAPORE (94%); MALAYSIA (93%); ASIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); TAIWAN (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (92%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (88%); TOKYO, JAPAN (75%); LONDON, ENGLAND (66%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); TRENDS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); CHINESE NEW YEAR (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); EXTERNAL DEBT (77%); BONDS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); EXCHANGE RATES (76%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (70%); RAMADAN (68%); RELIGION (68%); 

PERSON: KAHN, JOSEPH

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1998



77 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2436 words

HEADLINE: TESTING OF A PRESIDENT: THE REACTION;
Nation Through a Looking Glass, Smudges, Cracks, Distortions and All

BYLINE: By Carey Goldberg; The following article was reported by Carey Goldberg, Dirk Johnson and Sam Howe Verhovek and was written by Ms. Goldberg.

DATELINE: BOSTON, Feb. 2

 BODY:
Major national events often serve as mirrors in which the country sees itself reflected in surprising new ways.
But the remarkable recent surge of support for President Clinton following two weeks of lurid allegations and furious counter-charges has produced an especially startling and contradictory reflection -- one that has baffled many analysts and prompted ordinary voters to pause and ponder their own feelings. 
 Polls show that the American public 1) generally believes its President committed adultery in the White House and 2) approves of his job performance more strongly than ever. Asked to explain seemingly incompatible views, a priest in Chicago, a school board president in rural Wisconsin, a social worker in Houston, a comedy producer in New York, a former state attorney general in Maine and dozens of others in interviews around the country cited deep-seated changes in the country's mores and political culture.
Many Americans no longer expect their President to be a moral paragon, some said. In a good economy, low inflation far outranks accusations of low behavior, said others. Some pointed to more permissive views on morality and sexuality; others to heightened public alienation from politicians and the overheated media coverage.
Public opinion is notoriously fickle, of course, and the ultimate public assessment of President Clinton will depend on how the drama plays out.
But in many ways, the response to accusations that the President had an affair with a White House intern and asked her to lie about it has caused the nation to look in the mirror and observe changes that preceded and will long outlast the current scandal, much as the O. J. Simpson case provided a stark reflection of the nation's division on race.
"This is a moment when we can glimpse in the swirl of events a changing public mind," said Michael Sandel, a Harvard University professor of government who writes about American democracy.
"It is sad but true," summed up James E. Tierney, a former Attorney General of Maine, "that Americans do not look to their President for moral leadership."
Mr. Tierney, a Democrat, said, "After the immediate shock and revulsion, people thought about it and said, 'Well, he's not the moral leader of the country, and I never asked him to be. Then I look at the other things I care about and believe in, and clearly his policies are strong on those.' "
Americans, it emerges, tend to want a President more like a corporate chief executive officer, deft and unflappable, rather than an embodiment of all the country's lofty ideals.
"The morality issue, 30 years ago, would have been much greater," offered John J. Merian, 39, owner of a tuxedo store in Brockton, Mass. "So that's got to be a statement on our own society -- that we separate the personal from the office. We really don't care if he had this affair or that affair or the other affair, so long as he's doing a good job."
In recent years especially, Americans have heard more about real or alleged adulterous frolics by John F. Kennedy, Franklin D. Roosevelt and Lyndon B. Johnson to the point that Presidential historians say it is extremely hard to name a President with a pristine public image.
The knowledge that unfaithful husbands can be great Presidents contributes to reactions like that of Patricia Riley, 38, a freelance writer and divorced mother of two in Sunrise, Fla. "He's done so much for the country," she said of President Clinton, "more than anyone else in my lifetime. It's the first time I've never felt oppressed by the Government. I don't care who he sleeps with."
 
Distractions Like War Can Help or Hurt
Of course, scholars of public opinion say, there are always several factors in the equation of a President's overall approval rating, and how each is weighted depends on circumstances. George Bush enjoyed tremendous popularity during the Persian Gulf war because he was seen as an able military commander, but as soon as it was over, attention shifted to the economy, and his ratings plummeted.
In the case of President Clinton, a great many commentators and citizens borrowed the battle cry from his first Presidential campaign, "It's the economy, stupid."
Robert Creedon, a Massachusetts lawyer and state senator, said a cab driver reacting to the scandal the other day told him: "Look, we're the only superpower left on the earth. We've got money in our pockets. Who cares?"
Diane Swonk, an economist for the First National Bank of Chicago, said the most important element in the allegations is that they have not affected pocketbooks.
"The reality is that people have just refinanced their mortgages, gone out and bought big-screen TV's to watch the Super Bowl and can buy all the beer and pizza they want," she said. "If times aren't good, the President can do whatever he wants -- go out and win a war -- it's not going to be enough."
"And when times are good," she said, "nothing else matters."
Nothing else matters? Nothing?
 
Defining Morality, And Redefining It
Clearly, people draw a line about what they will accept. But where they are drawing it in this case is a source of concern for those who see an erosion of American moral standards.
The Rev. Anthony Brancken, a Roman Catholic priest on the southwest side of Chicago, said he was already worried by the loss of guilt and shame in American culture, the loss of clear distinctions between right and wrong, the drift toward "moral relativism" even in the Catholic church, where a school of thought known as proportionalism holds that there are few "illicit or immoral acts in themselves," and much depends on the circumstances.
It is a view, he said, that tends to mitigate sinful behavior.
And now, Father Brancken asked, "Have we as a nation become so corrupted that, as long as we get what we want, as long as times are good and the money rolls in, that we don't care what the hell goes on?"
Steven Klein, an independent anthropologist based near San Diego who studies American culture, sees the Clinton scandal as not only reflecting the trend away from strict morality, but accelerating it.
"We're really relinquishing the fundamental Judeo-Christian values and reverting more to the legal understanding that so long as you don't violate any laws or hurt anybody, it's O.K.," he said. "Although what's extraordinary to me in this case is that people are even ignoring that, and saying, 'Who cares if he committed perjury?"
'It's become a question," Dr. Klein added, "of how far down the public is willing to ratchet their standard of acceptability -- is there a floor? -- to be able to perpetuate the economic status quo they're enjoying, and Clinton's putting them into a squeeze play."
Part of the public's unwillingness to condemn, it seems, comes from the shifting-sand nature of attitudes toward sexuality. Several voters said they did not condone adultery, but they also used terms like "bad boy" and "rogue" to describe the President -- disapproving but tolerant terms. And polls have indicated that among young people and immigrants there is genuine bafflement by the fuss.
"We wouldn't have governments in Latin America if our standard was that there should be no extramarital affairs for politicians," said Maria Jimenez, director of an American Friends Service Committee project that provides services to immigrants in Houston.
In Chicago, Scott Helman, 22, recalled that when he was in high school near Columbus, Ohio, students were taught to chant the ways that H.I.V. could be transmitted: "Blood, semen, vaginal secretions, breast milk; blood, semen, vaginal secretions, breast milk . . . "
"I can't fathom that anyone my age would be embarrassed by any of this," Mr. Helman said.
Several people interviewed also noted that questions about Mr. Clinton's sex life had been raised well before he was elected, and so accusations of adultery changed little.
"I think when we elected him, we knew we were electing a philanderer," said Nathan Kelly, a student at DePaul University in Chicago.
If one aspect of the past week brought the greatest expression of concern, it was the indications of a truly daunting level of national cynicism about the people who run the country.
In Norman, Okla., David L. Boren, the former United States Senator who is now president of the University of Oklahoma, said that when he asked his freshman American Government class about the scandal, almost all the students said they believed President Clinton was lying, and they tended to respond:
" 'All politicians are crooks, very few of them tell the truth, few of them are faithful to their spouses, so why not have one who's smart and knows how to get things done?' " he said. "That's almost an exact quote. The attitude is, we really don't respect him, but what do you expect from a politician?
"To me it's deeply disturbing," he went on, recalling the awe he felt when he saw his first President, Harry S. Truman.
"In times of crisis, times of hardship," Mr. Boren said, "a level of trust between the American people and their Government, particularly their leader, is an essential element of what's needed in the country. We have passed from anger about what's going on in our political system to cynicism and alienation. And to me, cynicism and alienation are more frightening than anger."
That cynicism, however, appears to be working in Mr. Clinton's favor.
"Most people feel like we haven't got anybody that's any better to replace him," said Rick Aurit, 47, the school board president in Dodgeville, Wis. "So people are anxious to have this be over. They just want to say, 'All right, he did whatever he did. Now let's move on and get going with life.' "
Also at play, several people said, is the powerful American respect for privacy. Sex lives are nobody else's business; phone conversations between friends should not be taped; zealous prosecutors are frightening; private tidbits about celebrities' lives -- including those of Presidents -- are delectable and despicable all at once.
 
Keep Out of Our Bedrooms, Please
"I do think some of the carte blanche authority the independent counsel has runs against the grain a bit in this country," said Sidney Milkis, chairman of the politics department at Brandeis University. "In a country so obsessed with rights and protection and government encroachment and privacy, some of this independent counsel's activities turn people off a little bit."
A married woman in rural Illinois, who declined to be named, put it this simply: "I don't want people asking questions about the President's sex life because I don't want anyone asking about mine."
Genia Vookles, 60, a Memphis caterer and mother of three grown children, said: "It's between Bill and Hillary and not me and not the media, and if she can accept it why can't we? Some of these people throwing stones don't have real good track records in their own lives, either. I'm really sick of all the scandal."
She is not the only one. Polls have shown that a strong majority of Americans think the scandal has been covered too heavily -- or at least, that is what they say -- and many found much of the coverage irresponsible as well.
"I think this scandal has just been blown up by the media," said Lisa Lewicki, a student at DePaul. "They only focus on candidates' personal lives now, not how they do the job. This case with Clinton is the extreme of that. In a perfect world, we would elect people on their ideas, not their personal lives."
In view of such skepticism toward the media, and the universally acknowledged dearth of publicly accessible proof of any wrongdoing by the President, a great many people say they are withholding judgment about the scandal until they have the facts.
For those who do not want to believe ill of the President, then, there is no reason to force themselves.
"People have a really strong sense of fairness, that the case hasn't been made," said George C. Edwards 3d, director of the Center for Presidential Studies at Texas A & M University.
Clearly, some of the response reflects the remarkable ability of Mr. Clinton to bounce back from adversity. "If Bill Clinton was the Titanic, the iceberg would have sunk," said Paul Green, who writes books on Chicago politics.
Pollsters also note that the President's high ratings may be owing partly to the usual "bounce" that comes after any major event, like a party convention; this time, it was his State of the Union address that did it. They also point to a certain "rally round the flag" effect: a common spike in support for the President during a crisis -- even if he is the cause of it.
Analysts add that President Clinton is seen by many as an embattled underdog these days, and that is also likely to add to his support.
On a hopeful note, for those who had warned that the instantaneous nature of news these days would distort public opinion, there is some good news in the American slowness to judge the President, some say.
"Who's insisting on the core values of journalism?" asked Jeffrey Abramson, a visiting professor at Harvard and an expert on the new media and politics. "That you don't rush to judgment, that you investigate, that you differentiate between allegations and facts, that you wait for more facts, that you want corroboration, that you say we don't know yet? It's more the person on the street or call-in radio, where you expect hothouse tempers. There are hothouse tempers around but we're all surprised that this so far hasn't been the kind of hothouse issue with the public that it was supposed to be," he said.
"We keep hearing that the space it takes to form public opinion will collapse under the pressure of the new media," he said. "It's not happening."
But instead of hothouse, the atmosphere surrounding the scandal might be described as funhouse, with the country awash in lewd jokes, aided by the presidential material that has become the mainstay of late-night television shows. The bawdy show is illustrative in itself. Jay Leno, host of "The Tonight Show," said he now tells jokes he could not possibly have told on the air just 10 years ago.
But both Mr. Leno and a producer for David Letterman suggested today that their humor may even have helped boost the President's ratings.
"This makes him look like a party animal," said Rob Burnett, executive producer of "The Late Show With David Letterman."
"In some ways," Mr. Leno said, "this makes the President look like one of the people. Even if you argue all the proposals are crummy, at least with the Democrats you get sex."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Rev. Anthony Brancken, Roman Catholic priest -- "Have we as a nation become so corrupted that as long as we get what we want, as long as times are good and the money rolls in, that we don't care what the hell goes on?" (Lloyd DeGrane for The New York Times); Maria Jimenez, Immigrant project director -- "We wouldn't have governments in Latin America if our standard was that there should be no extramarital affairs for politicians." (F. Carter Smith/The New York Times); David L. Boren, President of the University of Oklahoma -- "We have passed from anger about what's going on in our political system to cynicism and alienation." (Mark Graham for The New York Times); Rick Aurit, School board president -- "Most people feel like we haven't got anybody that's any better to replace him." (Allan Morris for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Mixed Reactions"
The latest polls show public support for the President and opposition to news organizations and Kenneth W. Starr.
 
QUESTION: Do you approve of the way Bill Clinton is handling his job as President?
 
1997, 12/6-9
APPROVE: 58%
DISAPPROVE: 33%
 
1998
 
1/10-12
APPROVE: 58%
DISAPPROVE: 29%
 
1/24-25
APPROVE: 56%
DISAPPROVE: 38%
 
1/26
APPROVE: 57%
DISAPPROVE: 35%
 
1/28
APPROVE: 73%
DISAPPROVE: 24%
 
2/1
APPROVE: 72%
DISAPPROVE: 22%
 
Do you think the allegation that Mr. Clinton had sexual relations of any kind with Monica S. Lewinsky is ...
 
DEFINITELY TRUE: 11%
PROBABLY TRUE: 44%
PROBABLY NOT TRUE: 27%
DEFINITELY NOT TRUE: 12%
(Gallup for CNN/USA Today)
 
Is it possible for Mr. Clinton to behave unethically in his personal life while maintaining integrity in his Presidential responsibilities?
 
YES: 59%
NO: 35%
(Los Angeles Times Poll)
 
Is the whole situation more of a ...
 
PRIVATE MATTER HAVING TO DO WITH CLINTON'S PERSONAL LIFE: 61%
PUBLIC MATTER HAVING TO DO WITH CLINTON'S JOB AS PRESIDENT: 31%
(CBS News Poll)
 
Is Kenneth W. Starr mainly interested in ...
 
CONDUCTING A FAIR AND IMPARTIAL INVESTIGATION: 26%
USING THE INVESTIGATION FOR PARTISAN, POLITICAL PURPOSES: 57%
(NBC News Poll)
 
In its coverage of the intern story, has the news media treated Mr. Clinton ...
 
FAIRLY: 39%
UNFAIRLY: 56%
 
(Washington Post Poll)
 
Based on nationwide telephone surveys. The earlier results for Mr. Clinton's approval rating are based on polls conducted by The New York Times and CBS News. The latest result is based on a CBS News poll conducted Feb.1 with 620 adults. The Gallup Poll for CNN/USA Today was conducted Jan. 30 and Feb.1 with 1,013 adults. The question from The Washington Post Poll was asked Jan. 30 to 31 with 383 adults. The Los Angeles Times Poll was conducted Jan. 29 to 31 with 1,314 adults and the NBC News Poll was conducted Jan. 31 with 405 adults. Margins of sampling error are between plus or minus 3 and 5 percentage points.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: MAINE, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (53%); UNIVERSITY OF OKLAHOMA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF OKLAHOMA (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF OKLAHOMA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF OKLAHOMA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); MAINE, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PUBLIC OPINION; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; ETHICS US PRESIDENTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); TRENDS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); ETHICS (74%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); LAWYERS (70%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LEWINSKY, MONICA; GOLDBERG, CAREY; JOHNSON, DIRK; VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE BILL CLINTON (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1998



78 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: THE CLINTON BUDGET: THE OUTLOOK;
Money Is Hypothetical, But Agenda Is Very Real

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 2

 BODY:
Eliminating the Federal budget deficit might help win President Clinton a place in tomorrow's history books, but his new tax and spending proposals just as clearly take aim at today's politics, offering a dissonant mix of conditional generosity and virtuous austerity.
Mr. Clinton has never been content to manage a Government of declining resources and influence, and he has more reasons than ever to want to be seen as active and engaged. So he took a budget that should show a modest surplus next year, thanks to a booming economy and the budget agreement he hammered out last year with the Republican-led Congress, and through a bit of legerdemain tacked on an expansive, shrewd set of spending proposals. 
 "We've done more than simply balance the budget, more than just line up numbers on a ledger," Mr. Clinton said today at a White House ceremony. "We have restored the balance of values in our policy, restored the balance of confidence between government and the public."
Mr. Clinton is sticking within the overall restrictions of last year's stringent budget agreement, and he has sought to burnish an image of fiscal prudence by insisting that any surpluses be put aside until the Federal Government solves the long-term problems of Social Security.
But to pay for new and expanded programs, including more teachers, classrooms, child care and medical research, Mr. Clinton has created two hypothetical pots of money, without which the budget would look a lot less generous.
The first is $65.5 billion that the White House assumes the Federal Government will reap over the next five years from a settlement with the tobacco industry -- a settlement that faces immense hurdles in Congress.
The other is $24 billion in measures to raise revenues over the next five years by closing tax loopholes and taking away tax breaks from powerful interest groups. Half of the tax proposals have been rejected by Congress in the past, and much of the other half will also generate intense opposition.
If those two pools of money -- plus another generated by cuts in a variety of programs, including veterans' benefits -- fail to materialize, the Administration will find it difficult, if not impossible, to pay for its new programs. And in the meantime, the White House budget is being criticized by the Republican leadership as a fantasy, if not a deception.
"I am having a great deal of difficulty understanding how the President of the United States can in a straight face tell the American people we're living up to last year's agreement, we're going to be in balance and have a surplus, but don't worry about a thing, we can spend $150 billion on new programs and tax credits and everything is going to be all right," said Senator Pete V. Domenici of New Mexico, the chairman of the Senate Budget Committee.
Mr. Clinton is hardly the first President to use the budget to set out a political agenda, and it is hardly surprising that he would push his partisan program as hard as possible in a year when Democrats plan to mount an aggressive attack on the Republican majority in the midterm Congressional elections.
"Anyone who thinks the budget process is about accounting or numerology should know that it's not," said Martha Phillips, the executive director of the Concord Coalition, a non-partisan fiscal watchdog group.
"It's political," Ms. Phillips said. "It's about developing your vision for the next 5 or 10 years, and working backwards from there to make the numbers add up."
In his budget, she said, Mr. Clinton "is being a Democratic President leading his party."
Indeed, Mr. Clinton's budget encompasses an ideological view of Government very different from that of most Republicans. Democrats hail the economic benefits from eliminating the deficit -- lower interest rates and more economic growth -- but also focus on the increased flexibility that balanced budgets provide in addressing problems through new tax and spending programs.
Most Republicans, by contrast, see both economic benefits and an opportunity to reduce the size and influence of the Federal Government.
"Republicans are asking Americans to make a false choice between big government and less government," said Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the Democratic leader. "Democrats believe the choice is between smart government and idle government."
In spite of his troubles, from accusations about his relationship with a former White House intern to criticism that he was allowing his Administration to drift, Mr. Clinton has had considerable success in setting this year's political agenda.
If the tobacco settlement comes together, Mr. Clinton would have a good shot at enacting at least some of his spending proposals, few of which Republicans would want to be on record as voting against. Even without the settlement, Mr. Clinton will have given Democrats a positive agenda to take on the campaign trail. And by invoking the need to fix Social Security before parceling out surpluses, he has complicated the task of Republicans in advancing the centerpiece of their agenda, tax cutting.
The entire debate would become moot if the remarkably positive outlook for the economy and the Federal budget that is now shared by both parties proves to be a mirage. Neither the White House nor the Congressional Budget Office is counting on unrealistically high levels of economic growth or tax revenues to wipe out the deficit. Both have factored in a moderate impact from the financial turmoil in Asia. But neither is anticipating any major economic downturn. And even a moderate recession could leave the budget projections unrealistic, as could a substantial drop in the stock market.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Tracking the Deficit" shows Federal surplus or deficit, from the 1960's through the 2000's. (Source: Office of Management and Budget)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; SMOKING AND TOBACCO; CLASS-ACTION SUITS; STATES (US) BUDGETS (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); HISTORY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (74%); SMOKING (72%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (71%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (68%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (52%); VETERANS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); STEVENSON, RICHARD W BILL CLINTON (92%); PETE DOMENICI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1998



79 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1612 words

HEADLINE: THE CLINTON BUDGET: THE OVERVIEW;
President Offers the First Budget To Balance in Nearly 30 Years

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 2

 BODY:
President Clinton unveiled the first balanced Federal budget in almost 30 years today, cashing in on five years of cautious accounting and steady economic growth to offer new spending initiatives while holding out the prospect of a surplus for the first time since Neil Armstrong stepped onto the moon.
With his opening bid in the annual political wrangle with Congress over the budget, Mr. Clinton proposed to increase Federal spending 4 percent, to $1.73 trillion, to hire 100,000 new teachers, provide more child care, bolster scientific research and offer narrowly distributed tax incentives. 
 In a ceremony in the East Room of the White House, Mr. Clinton tried to walk a line between hailing a new period of fiscal freedom and presenting himself as the squinty-eyed arbiter of budget discipline.
"This budget marks the end of an era," he said, "an end to decades of deficits that have shackled our economy, paralyzed our politics and held our people back."
Future budgets, Mr. Clinton predicted, would require no more cuts.
But, warning against a binge of Federal spending or tax cutting, Mr. Clinton also urged that any future budget surpluses be held in reserve until lawmakers shore up the Social Security system for the retirement of the baby boom generation.
"We don't need to take any short-term benefits," he said. "Before we do anything with that surplus, let's save Social Security first."
Particularly when Congress is controlled by the other party, any President's budget should be read less as a policy blueprint than as a series of bargaining positions, many of which will be abandoned or modified. Republicans were quick to stake out their own ground today, criticizing the President as returning to liberal, spendthrift ways.
"We can't go back to the days of skyrocketing Government spending," said Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the House majority leader. "But that's exactly what the President has proposed."
Republicans accused Mr. Clinton of calling for more spending than was permitted by the budget agreement of 1997, which envisioned a balanced budget by 2002.
Representative John R. Kasich, the Ohio Republican who is the House Budget Committee chairman, said that the President had balanced the budget with "his old friend smoke and mirrors" and predicted that Congress would not pass most of Mr. Clinton's proposals.
But Mr. Clinton's political advisers believe that Republican lawmakers will find it difficult to ignore the President's proposals or to push the big tax cuts that they have long favored. Among some Republicans, proposals to hire teachers and expand financing for research are popular. In Democratic polling, aides said, the public overwhelmingly favored reserving surpluses to protect Social Security.
In a sign of how orderly the Federal balance sheet has become, the Treasury Department announced today that it expected to pay off approximately $80 billion worth of the Federal debt between April and June. It has made such payments before, but never one that large.
For Mr. Clinton's aides, the budget presented the President with another opportunity to portray himself as absorbed in governing, and to deflect accusations that he had an affair with an intern, Monica S. Lewinsky, and asked her to lie about it. Indeed, it showed him managing the very issue, the stewardship of the economy, that pollsters say has sustained his public support through numerous crises.
After using a thick felt tip pen to draw a large black zero and an exclamation point on a sign marked "1999 Federal Budget Deficit," Mr. Clinton strode from the East Room with the applause still ringing from Administration officials and Congressional Democrats, drowning out a reporter's shouted question about Ms. Lewinsky. The Federal budget was last balanced in 1969; the last proposed balanced plan was in 1971.
A year ago, with questions about campaign finance practices buzzing around the White House, Mr. Clinton also did not take questions when he announced his budget. But he made his announcement in a briefing room, with no buffering audience between him and reporters.
In his remarks today, Mr. Clinton praised the "values" of his approach to budgeting. "We've done more than simply balance the budget, more than just line up numbers on a ledger," he said. "We have restored the balance of the values in our policy, restored the balance of confidence between Government and the public."
In predicting budget surpluses for years to come, the Administration forecast continued moderate annual economic growth of 2 percent or more for the next five years. Economic growth has repeatedly exceeded the Administration's projections, surprising officials every year with more tax revenue than expected.
In keeping with their past budget practices, Administration officials said today that they had found a specific "offset" -- a spending cut or tax increase -- to pay for each new or expanded program. But the two major sources of offsets may not materialize.
One source is $24.2 billion in tax loopholes that the Administration hopes to close and subsidies that it wants to eliminate. But Congress rejected half of those proposed changes last year.
The second source is $65 billion in anticipated Federal revenue over five years from an increase in the price of cigarettes, which the Administration is expecting from a proposed settlement with the tobacco industry. Mr. Clinton has called for the price of a pack of cigarettes to increase by $1.50 over 10 years, though he has not specified how, whether through a tax or some other means. The money would be divided among the Federal Government, states, and other groups.
Senator Pete V. Domenici, the New Mexico Republican who is chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, warned that Congress may not approve any tobacco settlement.
"Frankly, I'm not standing here saying I oppose that settlement, but there is much being said up here that the settlement will never go through," Mr. Domenici said. "Where will the $65 billion come from?"
If tobacco money does not become available for this budget, Administration officials said, they would find other sources of revenue or trim their ambitions rather than resort to deficit spending.
Mr. Domenici argued that, in all, Mr. Clinton was proposing $150 billion in tax credits and spending. "If the President of the United States can increase spending and have tax credits worth $150 billion," he asked, "why can't Republicans have a significant tax cut in lieu of all the spending?"
That is likely to be the essence of the debate in coming months, with Republicans arguing for a big tax cut and the Democrats pushing for more, if limited, spending on Mr. Clinton's agenda. The White House has tried to box the Republicans in, hoping to maneuver them so that any effort to cut taxes would be seen as a threat to Social Security, and any resistance to a tobacco settlement would be seen as indifference to children's health.
"There are a number of Republicans who like the idea of saving the surplus for Social Security," said Rahm Emanuel, a senior adviser to Mr. Clinton. "There are a number of Republicans who like the idea of reducing teen smoking." But, he said, "The Democrats are unified in those positions, the Republicans aren't."
Most of the Administration's proposals had already been disclosed, as the President tried to seize the public's attention in recent weeks. They fit with the priorities that Mr. Clinton campaigned on in 1996, emphasizing the needs of children.
Mr. Clinton would spend $7.3 billion over five years to help states recruit and train 100,000 teachers, with the aim of reducing average class sizes to 18 in first through third grades. And he would spend $7.5 billion to subsidize child care for poor children.
Mr. Clinton is proposing to consolidate several Federal spending streams into three funds: the Research Fund for America, which would include spending by the National Institutes of Health, the Energy Department, and others; the Environmental Resources Fund for America, which would include certain spending by the Environmental Protection Agency and others, and the Transportation Fund for America, which would include the Transportation Department's highway money, as well as other programs.
In all, Mr. Clinton would increase spending by $4.7 billion on these programs, to $75.5 billion.
Mr. Clinton also hopes to restore some of the benefits that were eliminated when he signed legislation overhauling the welfare system in 1996. He would spend $2.7 billion over five years to restore food stamps for legal immigrants.
Critics of Mr. Clinton argue that it was the Republican Congress after 1994 that enforced fiscal discipline, and some analysts believe it is the strong economy, more than than anything, that has balanced the budget.
But for the Administration, the end of deficit politics is vindication of the economic strategy Mr. Clinton has pursued since taking office in 1993, and his economic team basked in the applause at the White House today. Gene Sperling, the director of Mr. Clinton's National Economic Council, said, "The strong deficit reduction drove down interest rates, and it allowed the economy to grow at a sustainable pace."
Mr. Clinton said today that some Democratic Congressmen had lost their jobs in the 1994 elections for having supported his 1993 economic plan, which passed without any Republican support. "Wherever they are today -- wherever they are -- I hope they know and remember that we passed that budget in '93 by one vote in the Senate and by one vote in the House and we did not have a vote to spare," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Clinton, with Vice President Al Gore, said yesterday that his budget "marks the end of an era, an end to decades of deficits that have shackled our economy, paralyzed our politics and held our people back." (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. A1); Going over some details before the President's budget presentation were, from left, Representative David R. Obey, Democrat of Wisconsin, and Joe Minarik of the Office of Management and Budget. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. A16)
 
Graph: "How to Raise and Spend $1.7 Trillion" shows Government estimates for receipts and outlays for fiscal year 1999. (Source: Office of Management and Budget)(pg. A16)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: EARTH'S MOON (73%); 

COMPANY: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (84%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (84%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); EARTH'S MOON (73%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; TAXATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; WELFARE (US); TAXATION; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; FOOD STAMPS; SOCIAL SECURITY (US); STATES (US); SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; RESEARCH; CHILD CARE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FORECASTS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH BUDGETS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POLITICS (79%); LEGISLATION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); SCIENCE FUNDING (78%); LIBERALISM (76%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (75%); CHILDREN (75%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (75%); CHILD CARE (75%); REFUGEES (74%); IMMIGRATION (74%); BABY BOOMERS (72%); SCIENCE NEWS (70%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (70%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BENNET, JAMES; ARMEY, DICK (REPR); DOMENICI, PETE V (SEN); KASICH, JOHN R (REPR) BILL CLINTON (93%); AL GORE (59%); PETE DOMENICI (58%); DAVE OBEY (56%); JOHN KASICH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1998



80 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: THE CLINTON BUDGET: THE PROJECTED SURPLUS;
Clinton Sees $1.1 Trillion in Excess Revenue in Decade

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 2

 BODY:
President Clinton said today that he foresaw budget surpluses totaling $1.1 trillion over the next decade, far more than the Congressional Budget Office anticipates.
In just five months, Mr. Clinton's forecast has become much more optimistic. He now predicts that the Government will run a surplus of $216 billion in 2007, which is $49 billion more than he predicted in September. 
 Several important changes have fostered this rosy outlook.
The Clinton Administration now anticipates slower growth in Medicare spending. And it foresees smaller increases in the Consumer Price Index, which would mean slower growth in Federal spending for benefit programs linked to inflation.
Moreover, the White House predicts stronger economic growth than the Congressional Budget Office expects. That, in turn, produces higher revenues and lower Federal spending, which together generate larger surpluses.
But the changes in the domestic economy have been modest. The basic factors -- surging revenues, low interest rates, declining welfare rolls -- were evident in September.
The biggest new development, the financial crisis in Asia, would, if anything, suggest that the outlook for the American economy, for Wall Street and for Federal revenues should be slightly less rosy now than five months ago.
Last September Mr. Clinton saw deficits in each of the next three years, with the first surplus in 2002. Now he foresees a surplus of $9.5 billion in 1999, rising to $258.5 billion in 2008. The Federal Government has not had a surplus since 1969.
The surpluses envisioned by Mr. Clinton in the next decade are two-thirds greater than those anticipated by the Congressional Budget Office: a total of $1.1 trillion, as against $660 billion.
In September, just as the fiscal year 1997 was nearing an end, Mr. Clinton predicted that the Federal Government would run a deficit of $37 billion in that year. Actually, the Government received a big influx of new revenue, and the 1997 deficit was just $22 billion.
Over the next decade, Mr. Clinton estimates that the Government will collect $21.1 trillion of revenue, which is $180 billion more than the Congressional Budget Office predicts.
And the President says the Government will spend $20 trillion, which is $266 billion less than the budget office anticipates.
Robert D. Reischauer, a former director of the budget office, said the Administration's estimate of more than $1 trillion in surpluses was not unreasonable if current policies remained in place.
But Mr. Reischauer said: "It's implausible to assume that we'll do nothing, that we won't change policy. Surpluses burn holes in politicians' pockets. It will be very hard to preserve these surpluses."
The President and Congress agreed last summer on legislation to eliminate the deficit, but they both predicted that the goal would not be achieved until 2002.
"Since then," Mr. Clinton said today, "the budget outlook has improved. Economic growth has continued to exceed expectations, and inflation has remained low."
Economists, including Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, say that the projected surpluses are no reason for complacency.
In a decade, just as the annual budget surplus soars over $250 billion, the first members of the baby boom generation can qualify for old-age benefits under Social Security, assuming they take early retirement.
The assets of the Social Security trust fund will grow rapidly in the next decade. But if no changes are made, Social Security officials say, the trust fund will begin paying out more in benefits than it receives in taxes, starting around 2012.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "How Big a Surplus?" shows economic projections from the Congressional Budget Office and the 1999 budget concerning unemployment, the consumer price index and growth of the domestic product, from 1998 through 2003 and shows deficit and surplus projections from the Congressional Budget Office and the Clinton Administration, from 1997 to 2008. (Source: Office of Management and Budget; Congressional Budget Office)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (94%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (94%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (94%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (94%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICARE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER PRICE INDEX; HEALTH INSURANCE BUDGETS (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); MEDICARE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (88%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (78%); LEGISLATION (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); INTEREST RATES (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); PEAR, ROBERT BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1998



81 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1541 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-8
 
Saudis Give Amber Light To a U.S. Strike on Iraq
Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright held talks in Saudi Arabia with Crown Prince Abdullah. The Saudi Government later issued a statement saying that if diplomacy failed and the United States attacked Iraq, the fault "would lie exclusively on the Iraqi regime." A1 

Russia said it had reached an agreement that would stave off an American air strike on Iraq, but Iraq said that the Russian statement was "totally incorrect." A8
 
The U.N. Secretary General, Kofi Annan, asked the Security Council to more than double the amount of oil that Iraq is permitted to sell to help pay for humanitarian needs, war reparations and infrastructure repairs. A8
 
Israelis Pessimistic on Peace
A poll taken by Tel Aviv University indicated that Israelis believe the peace efforts with the Palestinians have come to a stop. And commentators in Israel viewed the current impasse as a low point in the American mediating effort. A8
 
New Worries About Anthrax
Recent discoveries by scientists at the Los Alamos National Laboratory in New Mexico have sparked debate about the protection offered to American troops by the current anthrax vaccine. Spores released in a 1979 accident at a Soviet military center probably contained different strains of anthrax bacilli, as if it had been designed to overwhelm a vaccine. A6
 
Philippine Airliner Crashes
A Philippine DC-9 with 104 people aboard crashed into a mountain on Mindanao Island. An unconfirmed report indicated there were at least 15 survivors. A4
 
Rocket Attack at Tokyo Airport
Two small rockets were fired into Tokyo's Narita international airport, injuring an airport employee. A device discovered in a nearby hotel's parking lot launched two projectiles before the police were able to examine it, a police spokesman said. He said that groups opposing the airport's expansion were suspected of firing the rockets. (AP)
 
Threats of More Ulster Deaths
The Loyalist Volunteer Force, a Protestant paramilitary splinter group in Northern Ireland that has slain at least four Roman Catholics since Christmas, threatened to kill more Catholics in an "unholy war." The group said that the family of its leader, who was killed in prison, was under threat from unidentified Catholic Republican groups. Talks on the future of the British province resumed in Belfast. A3
 
Economist to Lead Costa Rica
Costa Rican voters, apparently reacting to high prices and inflation, have elected as President a conservative economist and businessman who failed in two earlier runs. With votes from 91 percent of the ballot boxes counted, Miguel Angel Rodriguez had 46 percent, compared with 44 percent for Jose Miguel Corrales of the current President's Party. Mr. Corrales conceded defeat. (AP)
 
NATIONAL A10-21
 
Clinton's Balanced Budget Is First in Nearly 30 Years
President Clinton proposed the first balanced Federal budget in almost 30 years, cashing in on five years of cautious accounting and steady economic growth to offer new spending initiatives while holding out the prospect of a surplus for the first time since Neil Armstrong stepped onto the moon. Mr. Clinton proposed a 4 percent increase in Federal spending, to $1.73 trillion, in order to hire 100,000 new teachers, provide more child care, bolster scientific research and offer some tax incentives. A1
 
Intern's Visits to White House
Monica S. Lewinsky visited the White House about three dozen times after leaving her low-level job there to work at the Pentagon in 1996, and she was usually cleared for entry by the President's personal secretary, according to officials who have seen or been briefed onWhite House visitation logs. The officials did not describe Ms. Lewinsky's destination or purpose. Pentagon officials said the visits were not related to her job. A1
 
First Lady Urges 'Civil Society'
Hillary Rodham Clinton was the star speaker at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, an annual gathering for chief executives and political leaders from around the world. Mrs. Clinton was warmly applauded for her speech, "Individual and Collective Priorities for the 21st Century," in which she called for a strengthening of "civil society." A21
 
Texas Board Rejects Clemency
The Texas Board of Pardons and Paroles turned down a clemency request from Karla Faye Tucker, a murderer whose case has drawn worldwide attention and rekindled debate over the death penalty. A1
 
Former Governor Sentenced
Former Gov. Fife Symington of Arizona was sentenced to two and a half years in prison and five years' probation. He had been convicted of Federal charges of defrauding lenders as a real estate developer. A10
 
Dealing With Voter Fraud
A state grand jury in Florida recommended the revamping of the absentee ballot system in Miami, saying its flaws had led to fraud that "played an important part" in last November's mayoral election. A10
 
Abortion Clinic Bombing
A letter from the "Army of God," the group that took responsibility for two bombings in Atlanta last year, said it carried out the bombing of an abortion clinic in Birmingham, Ala. A10
 
Disclosure for Doctors
The F.D.A. said it would require that physicians who test new drugs and medical devices disclose whether they have received stock, consulting fees or other financial support from the manufacturers. A12
 
Budget Surplus Is Forecast
The chief financial officer for the District of Columbia said that he expected an audit for the 1997 fiscal year to show a budget surplus of $100 million to $150 million. A14
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-7
 
AIDS Deaths Declined By Nearly Half in 1997
AIDS deaths in New York City plummeted by 48 percent last year, accelerating earlier gains attributed to improved drug therapies, health officials said. The declines crossed sex and racial lines, suggesting that the new therapies were reaching all segments of the AIDS population. A1
 
Costly Misstep for Prosecution
The Federal Government committed an extraordinary blunder by making public a confidential document outlining its entire prosecutorial strategy in a case that officials described as an effort by organized crime to infiltrate Wall Street. A1
 
Gotti Held Without Bail
A Federal judge in White Plains ordered John Gotti Jr. held without bail until his trial on charges of racketeering and extortion, saying that Mr. Gotti was a danger to the community. B5
 
Children and Teachers Stricken
Seventy-five children, three teachers and a custodian were stricken with nausea, dizziness and headaches and 1,250 pupils were evacuated as carbon monoxide and other poisonous gases from a 70-year-old coal-fired furnace drifted through an elementary school in Queens. B1
 
U.S. Attorney Studies Shooting
The United States Attorney in Brooklyn said his office was reviewing the case of a police officer who shot and killed an unarmed man in Brooklyn, to determine whether a civil rights investigation should be initiated. A state grand jury found that the officer's action was justified. B3
 
Clinton Budget's Impact
President Clinton's budget proposal would increase Federal spending on an array of programs important to the New York region, with education, heating, defense and housing programs benefiting the most. B1
 
NEEDIEST CASES B4
 
SPORTS C1-8
 
SCIENCE TIMES F1-10
 
Putting a Premium on Research
President Clinton's budget proposal calls for designating $170 billion over five years for civilian research and development, the largest such commitment in history. F4
 
HEALTH F8
 
ARTS E1-8
 
Daily Variety in New York
Daily Variety will begin publishing a New York edition on March 16, featuring increased coverage of topics specific to New York. E4
 
BUSINESS DAY D1-20
 
Doctors Challenge Oxford
The New York County Medical Society, which represents 5,000 Manhattan doctors, said it would try to take Oxford Health Plans to arbitration proceedings to obtain payments. Separately, the New York Attorney General, Dennis C. Vacco, issued a subpoena to Oxford for information regarding a settlement agreement he negotiated with the company last July. D1
 
Asian Market Rally
Stock markets in Hong Kong, Jakarta and Singapore all rose about 14 percent. Thailand gained 12 percent and the Philippines, 10 percent. Stocks in Tokyo were up modestly, gaining just under 1 percent. The buying extended into this morning. D1
 
An S&P 500 Threshold
The S.& P. 500 rose above 1,000 points for the first time, ending the day more than twice as high as its level three years ago. The Dow and other indexes also posted increases. D1
 
Business Digest D1
 
FASHION B8
 
OBITUARIES B9-10
 
EDITORIAL A22-23
 
Editorials: Tightening the vise on Iraq; the President's budget; honest talk about parole.
 
Columns:Thomas L. Friedman, A. M. Rosenthal.
 
Chess F6
 
Public Lives B2
 
Crossword E8
 
Weather C7

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); SAUDI ARABIA (95%); ISRAEL (93%); COSTA RICA (92%); PHILIPPINES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); JAPAN (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%); 

COMPANY: LOS ALAMOS MONITOR (55%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (55%); LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (55%); LOS ALAMOS NATIONAL LABORATORY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE; IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); SAUDI ARABIA (95%); ISRAEL (93%); COSTA RICA (92%); PHILIPPINES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); JAPAN (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); BELFAST, NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%); 

SUBJECT: NAZI POLICIES TOWARD JEWS AND OTHER MINORITIES; WAR CRIMES AND CRIMINALS TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); ANTHRAX (90%); BACTERIA (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (75%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); POLICE FORCES (74%); VACCINES (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (70%); JEWS & JUDAISM (69%); WAR CRIMES (69%); ARMED FORCES (66%); RELIGION (66%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (65%); AIRLINES (64%); BUDGETS (64%); CHRISTMAS (60%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%); 

PERSON: PAPON, MAURICE; CASTAGNEDE, JEAN-LOUIS (JUDGE) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1998



82 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: TESTING OF A PRESIDENT: THE FIRST LADY;
Far From Home, an Ideal Crowd at Last

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: DAVOS, Switzerland, Feb. 2

 BODY:
For a First Lady who had spent the last two weeks fending off accusations of her husband's infidelity, it might have been the perfect audience.
Hillary Rodham Clinton was the star speaker tonight at the World Economic Forum, the annual gathering here in this luxury Alpine ski resort for chief executives and political leaders from around the world. And for a few hours, she was among kindred spirits. 
 Mrs. Clinton was applauded warmly for her speech, on "Individual and Collective Priorities for the 21st Century," in which she told of a need to strengthen "civil society." During the question period, no one even hinted at names like Monica S. Lewinsky or Paula Corbin Jones. Klaus Schwab, host of the gathering, introduced her as "the most remarkable, the most courageous woman of our times."
The First Lady offered very little beyond a bland appeal for cooperation among government, business and society. In the closest she came to a reference to the uproar in Washington, she warned elliptically that the American media might be undermining civil society by forcing a rush to quick judgments.
"The pressure for instant, simultaneous judgment," she said, "is turning people away from being active citizens."
Then, apparently referring to popular culture and entertainment, she went on to criticize "consumer capitalism" and a "media that stresses short-term capitalism."
Her audience was more than simply polite. It was also an audience made up largely of Europeans, many of whom said today that they could not comprehend why the possibility of sexual liaisons by a political leader would create such a furor. And it was an audience of executives like William H. Gates, chairman of the Microsoft Corporation, who have had their own battles with unruly news organizations and who more than sympathized with the First Lady's decision to turn down all requests to speak with the press here.
"Obviously we are in a different world than yours," Michel Bon, chairman of France Telecom, said in an interview. "Look at the whole experience with President Francois Mitterrand, who had a mistress and a daughter by that mistress, who were living in an apartment paid by the Government -- and that was very good."
Mr. Bon, one of about 100 people invited to dinner with Mrs. Clinton on Sunday night, confessed that he had been charmed by her.
"You know," he said with a shy smile, "she really is very beautiful."
Mrs. Clinton arrived here on Sunday evening but, until her speech tonight, remained shielded from public view by the World Economic Forum's well-oiled machine for protecting celebrities who want their privacy. The conference hall here is inundated at all times by guards armed with machine guns. Although public attention is usually focused on the speeches and the seminars, the real talking and deal-making here take place in meetings and at meals behind closed doors.
When CBS News asked for permission to set up a camera in order to interview executives leaving after Mrs. Clinton's speech, Mr. Schwab, the host, flatly refused.
Although Europeans of all stripes routinely snicker at what they consider American prudishness, they have followed the Lewinsky episode with almost the same relish for detail as Americans. As the participants here relax between discussions of the Asian financial crisis or globalization, their conversations have inevitably drifted to the most recent comments by Ms. Lewinsky's lawyer and to speculation about President Clinton's ability to survive in office.
Perhaps as a result, Mrs. Clinton avoided both the fabulous skiing at Davos and most conference activities. After arriving here from Lucerne, where she had visited a school and allowed herself to be photographed with local children, she made a point of keeping out of the public eye. Today, a spokeswoman for the First Lady said, Mrs. Clinton stayed secluded in her hotel room in order to prepare her speech.
As in other recent appearances, she spoke calmly and betrayed no hint of anxiety. But she also showed no signs of humor. She made no jokes, and smiled only occasionally.
"There is no doubt that we are creating a consumer culture that could undermine both capitalism and civil society," she said in response to a question about the impact of American culture. Taking what appeared to be an oblique swipe at the frenzied coverage of the Lewinsky case, she denounced the "pressure for instant, simultaneous judgment."
She then appeared to shift her focus to the entertainment media. "Because we have a very broad understanding of the First Amendment," she said, American children are being exposed to an "unstoppable" message of "instant materialist pleasure."
The reaction here to Mrs. Clinton's speech was muted but positive. Indeed, the biggest status symbol of this conference for the rich and the powerful was an invitation to the dinner with her.
"After Reagan and Bush, the Americans should be happy to have people like Clinton and his wife, because at least they have brought some humanity to the Presidency," said Ursula Engelen-Kefer, deputy chairwoman of the umbrella group for German labor unions.
"It's ridiculous, absolutely ridiculous," Ms. Engelen-Kefer continued, echoing the amazement of others that even the possibility of a sexual affair could generate such a furor. "This happens all the time here. It's no big thing. The only moral question is whether politics and sex have become mixed up," or whether any sexual contact between Mr. Clinton and Ms. Lewinsky "was forced."
At least so far, Ms. Engelen-Kefer said, "the whole thing is a show."
Mrs. Clinton as well seemed to suggest a pragmatic approach to politics and governing, saying there was neither a perfect marketplace nor a perfect government.
"We have to work with human beings as we find them," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hillary Rodham Clinton addressed the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, last night, having been introduced by the host as "the most remarkable, the most courageous woman of our times." (Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (65%); FTE (PAR) (64%); FTE (NYSE) (64%); FTE (BIT) (64%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (65%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (65%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (64%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (64%); 

COUNTRY: SWITZERLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); FRANCE (73%); 

STATE: GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (92%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (65%); FRANCE TELECOM SA (64%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (84%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (84%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SWITZERLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); FRANCE (73%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (92%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); INTERVIEWS (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); RESORTS (72%); TRENDS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ANDREWS, EDMUND L; CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (94%); BILL GATES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1998



83 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 173 words

HEADLINE: CUNY Shouldn't Farm Out Remedial Programs;
Just Like H.M.O.'s

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "Giuliani Demands Community Colleges Drop Remedial Help" (news article, Jan. 30): The public should be wary of any such plan for the City University of New York. Because there is no wealthy consumer market for them, private institutions engaged in remediation will, like health maintenance organizations, have incentive to raise efficiency at the expense of quality and commitment. A private high school extension accepting a student receiving financial aid from the state has every incentive to keep that student in remediation as long as the state will pay for it. 
 Eventually the system will have to be regulated. So why give public money to private institutions requiring government regulation when CUNY is set up to do the job?
Enhancing remedial programs to provide individual attention to students would be a more logically sound approach.
 
ROB HOLLANDER
New York, Jan. 31, 1998
 
The writer is a member of the CUNY board of trustees' committee on academic policy, planning and research.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (87%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (72%); AFFLUENT MARKET (71%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (71%); HIGH SCHOOLS (70%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); HOLLANDER, ROBERT MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1998



84 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1355 words

HEADLINE: ALBRIGHT RECEIVES MEASURED SUPPORT OF SAUDIS ON IRAQ

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER 

DATELINE: RIYADH, Saudi Arabia, Feb. 2

 BODY:
After six hours of talks with Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright in a lush desert encampment, the Saudi Government issued a statement of support tonight saying that if diplomacy fails and the United States attacks Iraq, the fault "would lie exclusively on the Iraqi regime."
The statement stopped short of unconditional approval of any use of force, and it urged "all diplomatic means to resolve the current crisis" with Iraq over its failure to cooperate with United Nations weapons inspectors. But the position of the Saudi Government was encouraging as Ms. Albright travels through Europe and the Middle East seeking support for military action, the officials said. 
 "They're saying that if force occurs, it's not the fault of the United States but of Saddam Hussein," a senior American official said. "That matters. They're not saying don't use force like the Russians and some other Governments."
Privately, Western diplomats say, the Saudis have no problem with the use of force to punish Iraq as long as any attack is not merely symbolic but really hurts President Hussein, whom they regard as a menace.
While Ms. Albright has said that the United States is willing to act alone militarily against Iraq, she has used this trip to consult allies and line up support. Saudi Arabia is America's most important Arab ally in the region and a vital source of oil, and it is almost unthinkable that the United States would go to war against Iraq without at least its implicit support.
Ms. Albright -- who has been saying that any American military action against Iraq would be "significant" -- did not fully resolve how much access to its air bases the Saudi Government would give the American military. The United States would need air bases here in the event of prolonged hostilities with Iraq.
As Ms. Albright was being received lavishly by Crown Prince Abdullah at a desert encampment about 60 miles from Riyadh, where winter rains have covered the sand in green clover and small yellow flowers, the Russians were announcing a deal with Iraq to allow weapons inspections of eight presidential sites, but with unclear conditions.
By the time Ms. Albright was asked about the Russian initiative at a brief late-night news conference, Iraq had denied any deal, and the confusion worsened.
A senior American official, pressed on whether the Saudis, if necessary, would allow American airplanes to use Saudi bases to strike Iraq, said, "We don't think we're moving toward a no."
In the absence of bases there, fighter planes could operate from Diego Garcia in the Indian Ocean, from Bahrain and from three aircraft carriers -- one British and two American -- in the Persian Gulf.
Ms. Albright said she had had extensive talks on military issues and the question of bases with Crown Prince Abdullah. "He took them all on board, and wanted to consult with members of his Government," she said. "But based on my excellent discussions with the Crown Prince and the strong statement they issued, I have full trust and confidence in the Saudi Government."
Defense Secretary William S. Cohen is expected to arrive soon on a tour of Persian Gulf states, when the details of military rules of engagement will be discussed and the bases issue will presumably be resolved. The Saudis might agree to let their bases be used for support and communications aircraft, like Awacs planes, but not necessarily allow Iraq to be bombed from Saudi bases.
American, British and French planes now enforce a no-flight zone over the south of Iraq from a large Saudi base in the middle of the vast desert kingdom.
The United States already has 24,500 troops in the region, and more than 200 warplanes, plus aircraft carriers and Navy vessels equipped with cruise missiles. Bringing in more troops and weapons is being discussed as diplomatic efforts fail to win access for United Nations inspectors seeking to identify and destroy Iraq's weapons of mass destruction.
American officials are wary of Russian efforts at diplomacy because they fear a last-minute compromise that could prove illusory or temporary while allowing Iraq further time to hide or produce biological and chemical weapons without either inspections or punishment.
Various envoys are trying to get Mr. Hussein to back down. "I would like to see these initiatives work, but I do not want to see any kind of diversions come out of it," Ms. Albright said. "So I remain skeptical."
But a senior American official said later that the Russian Foreign Minister, Yevgeny M. Primakov, had discussed the outlines of the Russian proposal with Ms. Albright at their meeting on Friday in Madrid. At that time, Mr. Primakov was unsure whether Baghdad would even accept the proposal, the official said, "so we did not parse it too carefully."
Answering a question listing reported conditions proposed by the Russians, Ms. Albright said: "If those are the conditions, they do not meet the criteria, which are unfettered, unconditional access to all sites. Saddam Hussein knows that, and it is what the international community has called for in numerous resolutions."
"To have piecemeal inspections of groups formed ad hoc does not seem to me to meet the basic standard we have established," she said.
Although Ms. Albright "rejects all proposals that fall short" of the American standard, the senior official said, it will be up to the chairman of the United Nations inspectors, Richard Butler, "to decide whether he has the access he needs to get the job done."
But after seven years of sanctions, officials acknowledge, the world is tired of the strict boycott on Iraq, and Russia has taken a firm position against the right of the United States to use force against Iraq unilaterally. To mute criticism, the Americans have embraced a sizable increase in the oil-for-food program recommended by Kofi Annan, the United Nations Secretary General, and also supported by the British and French.
Clinton Administration officials have said Ms. Albright, on this trip, has been mindful of an early trip to Europe in May 1993 by her predecessor, Warren M. Christopher, to consult on a more aggressive American policy on Bosnia. Mr. Christopher was criticized for seemingly allowing the Europeans, who had troops on the ground in Bosnia, to veto Washington's plans.
So as she has sought support for the American position wherever she has gone, Ms. Albright has said at the same time that the United States will act unilaterally, if necessary.
Saudi officials have made it clear, Western diplomats say, that they would prefer to have the United States remove Mr. Hussein. Like leaders of other gulf governments, the Saudis are cautioning that if force is used, it must severely damage Mr. Hussein and his sources of power. "They want a sledgehammer, not a pin prick," a diplomat said.
The semiofficial Saudi newspaper Al Riyadh said today, "If the upcoming military strike is just going to be a television event or minor surgery, without achieving the overriding goal, Saddam Hussein will be the big winner -- because he will have been subjected to an attack which all the countries of the world and the nations of the region reject."
Speaking today at the World Economic Forum, in Davos, Switzerland, the Speaker of the House, Newt Gingrich, argued that bombing Iraq might not be enough to stop the threat posed by Mr. Hussein.
"We cannot afford just a bombing campaign at the end of which he makes weapons of mass destruction," Mr. Gingrich said in a speech. "And we cannot afford to walk off and not try to stop him. Bring all your diplomatic pressure to bear in the next two weeks, and if he is not prepared to back down, support the United States in whatever level of action we have to take."
The Iraqi representative to the United Nations, Nizar Hamdoon, said today that he would issue an invitation through Mr. Gingrich to any members of Congress who might want to visit the presidential sites in Iraq. He said lawmakers would be permitted to bring along weapons experts. Iraq issued the same sort of invitation in November, but no country accepted it.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright meeting with the Saudi Foreign Minister, Prince Saud al-Faisal, at a desert encampment yesterday. She received a Saudi Government statement of support in the crisis with Iraq. (Saudi Press via Associated Press)(pg. A8)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SAUDI ARABIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (96%); BAHRAIN (79%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GULF STATES (79%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (90%); 

CITY: RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (90%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; SAUDI ARABIA; SAUDI ARABIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (96%); BAHRAIN (79%); EUROPE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GULF STATES (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (90%); RIYADH, SAUDI ARABIA (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY BASES (89%); INSPECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (77%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); IRAQ WAR (72%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%); APPROVALS (71%); MILITARY VESSELS (69%); NAVAL VESSELS (69%); 

PERSON: ERLANGER, STEVEN; ALBRIGHT, MADELEINE K (SEC); ABDULLAH (CROWN PRINCE) SADDAM HUSSEIN (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1998



85 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1428 words

HEADLINE: AIDS DEATHS DROP 48% IN NEW YORK

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE K. ALTMAN 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, Feb. 2

 BODY:
AIDS deaths in New York City plummeted by 48 percent last year, accelerating earlier gains attributed to improved drug therapies, health officials said at a scientific meeting here today. They said the declines crossed sex and racial lines, suggesting that the new therapies were reaching all segments of the AIDS population.
National figures for the first six months of 1997 also showed a similar sharp decline, 44 percent, from the corresponding period of 1996. Full national figures for 1997 will not be available until July. 
 The new figures mark the second year in a row in which AIDS deaths have declined after years of steady increases since the AIDS epidemic was recognized in 1981.
Theoretically, the decline in AIDS deaths could have resulted from prevention efforts or some unknown factor, the health experts meeting here said. But the likeliest explanation is expanded use of combinations of newer and older drugs that began to be introduced in recent years, New York City and Federal health officials said.
"This is a new era" in AIDS, Dr. Kevin DeCock, an AIDS official from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta, said at a news conference. "We can't think that the end of the epidemic is in sight, but it certainly is the beginning of a new period." Dr. DeCock heads the unit at the centers that monitors AIDS cases in this country. "The challenge now is to improve prevention," he told the 3,400 participants in the meeting here.
Dr. DeCock and Dr. Mary Ann Chiasson, the New York City Assistant Commissioner for Disease Intervention Research, said they did not know how long the decline in deaths would continue or how low the numbers would reach.
One reason, the officials said, is that no one knows for how long the benefits of the new combination drug therapies will last.
Preliminary evidence suggests that many people who seemingly do well on the new combination therapy will eventually fall ill with AIDS-related symptoms, either because they are unable to adhere to the rigorous schedule of taking the medication or because the drugs somehow fail them.
In addition, officials do not know whether new cases of infection with H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS, are rising or falling, since many states, including New York and California, do not require them to be reported. Instead, they require only that full-blown cases of AIDS be reported.
But that may change. Last month, the nation's largest AIDS service agency, the Gay Men's Health Crisis in New York, reversed its position and called for the reporting of H.I.V. infections, saying that while it was still concerned with maintaining the privacy of people with the virus, reporting of H.I.V. cases would provide a more accurate tracking of the disease.
In New York City, Dr. Chiasson said preliminary data for 1997 show that about 2,600 New York City residents died of AIDS in that year, a drop of 48 percent from the 4,998 deaths in 1996. The decline was 50 percent for men and 46 percent for women.
In 1996, the decline in male deaths far exceeded that for females, 31 percent and 23 percent, compared with 1995. "The gap is closing," Dr. Chiasson said in an interview here today.
In addition, researchers said, the decline in AIDS deaths in New York City was notable among both gay men and intravenous drug users. The researchers said there was a 41 percent decline among gay men and a 30 percent drop among people who contracted H.I.V. by injecting drugs with contaminated needles. A similar 30 percent decline was registered among people who became infected through heterosexual intercourse.
Some AIDS service organizations said that while the drop in AIDS deaths was heartening, it underlined -- rather than diminished -- the importance of the work they do and the need for it.
Because more people are living longer with the disease, they said, more people are seeking services ranging from help in getting housing to help in finding jobs.
"Demands for our services are climbing enormously," said Dennis DeLeon, president of the Latino Commission on AIDS, which is based in Manhattan. "There are a whole bunch more people around with this disease."
Mr. DeLeon said that while his organization received about 1,200 requests for help in 1996, it received more than 1,800 in 1997. Of the new death statistics, he said, "These figures are encouraging in terms of living, but it creates an extra responsibility on the part of programs like ours."
Stephen Soba, a spokesman for the Gay Men's Health Crisis in Manhattan, said that his group and others were shifting their efforts slightly to help people plot strategies for living with AIDS as opposed to plans for dying from the disease.
For example, Mr. Soba said, the legal department of the Gay Men's Health Crisis devotes more time to preparing wills than it did a few years ago and more to helping people with AIDS handle disputes with, or discrimination complaints against, employers or landlords.
"And we're offering seminars now on re-entering the workplace," Mr. Soba said. "That's something we wouldn't have been able to offer 10 years or even 5 years ago."
Despite the declining AIDS death toll in New York City, an average of 7 people per day died there of AIDS in 1997, compared with 19.3 only two years earlier.
Researchers in New York City determined the number of AIDS deaths by directly examining death certificates that doctors file with the city's Health Department. The national figures are reported to the Centers for Disease Control by local and state health authorities. Because there can be a lag in those reports, the C.D.C. has not yet compiled data for all of 1997.
Since the early days of the AIDS epidemic, New York City has been one of the hardest hit of American cities. Although it has only 3 percent of the nation's population, it has 16 percent of its AIDS cases. As a result, New York City has been a bellwether for AIDS trends nationwide.
Two studies being reported at the meeting here supported the view that the decline in deaths is related to use of combination drug therapies.
One study reported by Dr. A. D. McNaghten of the Centers for Disease Control showed a substantial survival advantage among people treated with combinations of three drugs. The risk of death was 2.5 times lower for people who were treated with a combination of three drugs instead of one. Also, prophylactic treatment for certain infections that complicate AIDS, like pneumocystis carinii pneumonia, pneumococcal pneumonia and a tuberculosis-like infection (Mycobacterium avium intracellulare) improved survival.
Dr. Atieno Reggy reported a study from the centers, the New York City Health Department and Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center that supported the thesis that the decline in AIDS deaths in New York City resulted at least in part from greater use of the new class of protease inhibitor drugs in combination with different types of older drugs.
However, the drop in AIDS deaths in New York City began in late 1995 before the widespread marketing of protease inhibitor drugs. The new study was not intended to address the drop in late 1995, Dr. Chiasson said.
Of the more than 100,000 New York City residents who have been diagnosed with AIDS, more than 66,000 have died, Dr. Chiasson said.
Nationally, the number of newly reported AIDS cases fell 12 percent, to 29,520, for the first six months of 1997, compared with 33,590 in the first half of 1996.
Many speakers pointed to the surge in H.I.V. infections in Africa and other areas where countries cannot afford the combination therapies.
Dr. David Katzenstein's team from Stanford University and the University of Zimbabwe in Africa reported what they said was the first scientifically controlled trial showing that educational and behavioral intervention tailored to the social, cultural and economic values of communities reduce the incidence of H.I.V. infection.
In the study, the incidence of new infections dropped by 33 percent, to 2.25 per person-years at factories where peers conducted educational programs, from 3.11 in the factories where no such programs were held.
Despite the optimism that the new figures are likely to produce, some experts are concerned that as death rates continue to fall, people will deem the disease less of a fatal threat and perhaps not be as careful in their sexual behavior.
"There's a great deal of concern that people will read these figures as an indication that caution can be dispensed with," said Mr. Soba of the Gay Men's Health Crisis.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 4, 1998, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article yesterday about a decline in AIDS deaths in New York City referred imprecisely in some copies to the periods being compared for certain groups. The drop of 71 percent in AIDS deaths among men and 63 percent among women was in the last six months of 1997, compared with the last six months of 1995.
Declines for the following groups were also based on comparisons of the last half of 1997 with the last half of 1995: 83 percent for Asian-American men, 78 percent for white men, 72 percent for Hispanic men, 65 percent for black men, 73 percent for white women, 66 percent for Hispanic women and 59 percent for black women.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "AIDS Deaths in New York City" shows AIDS and H.I.V. deaths in New York City, from 1983 through 1997. (Source: New York City Department of Health)(pg. B6)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MEN'S HEALTH MAGAZINE (51%); CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS) AIDS & HIV (95%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); EPIDEMICS (89%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (79%); AIDS & HIV REPORTING (79%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (78%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (78%); MEN'S HEALTH (74%); GAYS & LESBIANS (74%); VIRUSES (74%); MEN (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (52%); 

PERSON: ALTMAN, LAWRENCE K MARY ANN CHIASSON (63%); DENNIS DELEON (57%); KEVIN DECOCK (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1998



86 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 3, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 949 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Budget Well Received in the Region

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 2

 BODY:
With a muscular economy fueling projections of surpluses into the next decade, the budget President Clinton proposed today would increase Federal spending on an array of programs important to the New York region, with education, heating, defense and housing programs benefiting the most.
New York City would get $65 million to hire new teachers, the most of any city in the country, Congressional officials said. Connecticut's major defense manufacturers would receive billions of dollars in contracts for new submarines, helicopters and aircraft engines. New Jersey would see major increases for job training, community development and school construction. 
 The President's budget is a preliminary proposal that needs approval by Congress, where regional politics and special interest lobbying are sure to lead to major revisions.
But there was a bipartisan sense here today that the New York region generally fared better in Mr. Clinton's latest proposal than in recent Federal budgets. Democrats said the region's relatively strong showing was rooted in Mr. Clinton's renewed support for a more active Democratic agenda this year, particularly in health care and education. Many of those programs, by their nature, tend to benefit states like New York, New Jersey and Connecticut with large urban areas.
"This is a welcome change," said Representative Charles E. Schumer, a Brooklyn Democrat. "This is the first time in a decade or more that New York has done well."
There were complaints, however. New York City hospital officials said Mr. Clinton had done nothing to soften deep cuts to Medicare in last year's budget and was proposing to finance programs for low-income children by increasing certain fines against hospitals.
Officials from shore areas said there was not enough money for beach-erosion projects.
And representatives from throughout the region complained that Mr. Clinton had proposed no new operating subsidies for Amtrak. Without extra money, Amtrak officials expect to dip into money, set aside for repairing tracks and buying new equipment, just to keep the trains running.
"Throughout this budget proposal, the Clinton Administration has been playing games, and the typical example is with Amtrak," said Representative Gerald B. H. Solomon, a Republican from Glens Falls, N.Y. "Congress put up the money for capital improvement that was paid for last year, and now the administration is going to short-arm Amtrak and divert that money toward operating expenses."
Mr. Clinton is proposing to finance many of his plans with money from litigation against tobacco companies, even though Congress has yet to enact legislation settling those suits.
"The question will be how will you pay for everything," said Geoffrey Brown, legislative director for the Northeast, Midwest Senate Coalition, a bipartisan research group financed by members of Congress from 18 states. "The budget assumes $9.8 billion in tobacco receipts. That could be a big assumption."
 One initiative that did better this year than in previous Clinton spending plans was the low-income home energy assistance program, which the President has often tried to cut. This time, Mr. Clinton proposed increasing the program, which goes disproportionately to Northeastern states, by $100 million. "That is very, very popular in cold weather states, and this means you won't have as many people choosing between heating and eating," Mr. Brown said.
Among the most ambitious of the Clinton proposals is a plan to provide long-term financing for school construction ($10 billion over 10 years) and hiring new teachers ($12 billion over 7 years) to reduce class sizes. Both programs would particularly benefit poorer districts, including New York City and Newark, school officials said.
"Over all, this is the largest proposed increase in anybody's recollection for primary and secondary education," said Jeff Simering, legislative director for the Council of Great City Schools, an advocacy group for the country's 50 largest school systems. "Getting it enacted is another thing."
A study of the Clinton budget by aides to Mr. Schumer and Representative Nita A. Lowey, a Democrat of Westchester, found that New York City would also receive substantial increases in Federal spending on job training programs, mass transit, AIDS treatment programs and health care research.
 The budget also includes money for several capital projects, including $12 million for redeveloping Pennsylvania Station, $5.5 million for improving the Gateway National Recreation Area in Queens and $2.5 million for renovating the Whitehall Ferry Terminal in Manhattan.
Under the President's plan, New York City would also benefit from an increase in financing for Department of Housing and Urban Development projects to improve opportunities for low-income city dwellers. Projections by the department found that the city's community development block grant would grow by 5 percent to $233 million; homeless assistance funds would increase by 40 percent to $61 million, and subsidies for public housing would rise by 5 percent to $542 million.
 In Connecticut, officials said the President's budget calls for buying billions of dollars in military hardware, including submarines, helicopters and jet engines built by Electric Boat in Groton, Sikorsky in Stratford and Pratt & Whitney in East Hartford.
"There is a decline in real dollars for defense nationwide," said Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, a Connecticut Democrat. "But Connecticut companies have done very well. Certainly in regard to the submarine programs, the waters ahead seem remarkably tranquil compared to what we have seen in recent years."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "The Clinton Budget: New York's Gain"
How the proposed budget would affect New York City's share of some major Federal programs, based on an annual analysis by two Democratic Representatives. In millions of dollars.
 
TITLE I EDUCATION *
Approved by Congress for 1998: $443
Clinton's budget for 1999: $459
Proposed change: 4%
 
HEAD START
Approved by Congress for 1998: $119
Clinton's budget for 1999: $128
Proposed change: 7%
 
WIC +
Approved by Congress for 1998: $165
Clinton's budget for 1999: $171
Proposed change: 4%
 
PUBLIC HOUSING
Approved by Congress for 1998: $3,298
Clinton's budget for 1999: $3,582
Proposed change: 9%
 
*Programs for needy schoolchildren.
+Nutrition and health aid for women, infants and children.
(Sources: Representatives Nita M. Lowey and Charles E. Schumer)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (53%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (53%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (86%); NEW YORK (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (86%); NEW YORK (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HOSPITALS (87%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (85%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (76%); TRAINS (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); MEDICARE (73%); APPROVALS (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (73%); HEALTH CARE (72%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (72%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (72%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (72%); TOBACCO MFG (71%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (70%); HELICOPTERS (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (66%); EROSION (63%); BEACHES (63%); LITIGATION (60%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (60%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (57%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); CHARLES SCHUMER (57%); NITA M LOWEY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1998



87 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 4, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 167 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Security Doctrine

 BODY:

To the Editor:
"U.S. Spy Agencies Find Scant Peril on Horizon" (news article, Jan. 29) highlights an absence of "lethal threat" to the United States but cites potential threats to world peace in "economic, ecological, technological, political and criminal phenomena that warplanes and smart bombs cannot combat." This analysis ignores the negative impact of weapons on economic and social development.
Weapons do not start wars, but their production and sale divert valuable resources from economic and social needs. Moreover, the desire to maintain a lead as potential adversaries acquire new weapons leads to a growing reliance on bigger, more sophisticated arsenals.
Some of these weapons reach the global market, which is already flooded with destructive capabilities. 
 Excessive militarization perpetuates political instability. It is time for the United States to rethink security doctrines that rely primarily on threat or force.
 
MERAV DATAN
New York, Jan. 31, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); ESPIONAGE (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (70%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (70%); 

PERSON: DATAN, MERAV

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1998



88 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 4, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Page 1; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 790 words

HEADLINE: City Proposes a Gift for Jazz: A Swinging Hall of Its Own

BYLINE: By PETER WATROUS 

 BODY:
After wandering in the desert of Lincoln Center for seven years, the organization's youngest constituent, Jazz at Lincoln Center, seems closer to finding a home of its own.
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani announced yesterday at a news conference that projected new development plans for the New York Coliseum site at Columbus Circle would house a 100,000-square-foot space for the seven-year-old program, whose artistic director is the trumpeter Wynton Marsalis. 
 The project would include badly needed rehearsal rooms -- Jazz at Lincoln Center now rehearses opposite the Port Authority bus station at 41st Street and Ninth Avenue -- space for educational programs and, most important of all, a 1,100-seat concert hall with acoustics designed primarily for jazz. It would be the first such space anywhere.
The plan was put forward enthusiastically by the Mayor and officials of Jazz at Lincoln Center yesterday. But there are a number of hurdles. No developer has been chosen to rebuild the Coliseum site. Plans for the redevelopment would have to be approved by both the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, the state agency that owns the site, and the board of Lincoln Center, which represents an array of organizations whose assent would also be needed.
The overall cost of the space would be $40 million to $45 million. Jazz at Lincoln Center would provide $20 million, of which, it said, $10 million has already been raised. The city has committed $18 million for the building.
"This is wonderful," said the Mayor. "It'll make the Lincoln Center area the greatest performance area in the world. It's a terrific new direction for Lincoln Center."
The new space would eliminate a host of problems faced by Jazz at Lincoln Center, which says it is the fastest-growing of Lincoln Center's constituent parts. Today, when requesting the use of Avery Fisher or Alice Tully Hall, it has to accept a place in the pecking order behind such groups as the Julliard School of Music and the Film Society of Lincoln Center. The new performance space would be used 50 to 60 percent of the time by Jazz at Lincoln Center. About 20 to 30 percent of the time, other Lincoln Center constituents could use the performance hall.
The announcement was greeted with enthusiasm by members of Jazz at Lincoln Center's staff. Jazz and Latin music programs held in Lincoln Center venues by Jazz at Lincoln Center have struggled with acoustical problems. In concert hall design, sound amplification is typically considered in terms of classical music.
The new hall, dubbed "Anonymous Donor Hall," by Jazz at Lincoln Center's chairman, Gordon Davis, would seat the same number of people as Alice Tully, but the distance between the stage and the back wall would be shortened by some 40 feet in an attempt to create more intimacy. And Jazz at Lincoln Center has started discussions with acousticians.
"I'm really excited about the prospect of a new hall," said Mr. Marsalis. "I travel the world playing places that were designed for classical music. Half the time I can't hear myself play because the spaces can't handle drums. So we're going to design a place that has swing, the way it looks, the way it sounds."
The space is a result of a collaboration of the city, the M.T.A. and Jazz at Lincoln Center. When the M.T.A. proposed a redevelopment initiative for the Coliseum last year, the Mayor demanded that any plan include a large theater space. The city looked to Lincoln Center, which had been planning to expand across Broadway from its campus. When that plan fell through, the city and Jazz at Lincoln Center started conversations.
"This sort of collaboration is exactly like the city and private sector collaborations that have made the cultural life of New York City," Mr. Davis said. "The Museum of Natural History, the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the library system were all products of this sort of collaboration. But with the cultural significance of Jazz at Lincoln Center, the idea becomes not just a 19th-century idea, but a 21st-century idea."
Why would the city give such a valuable piece of property to the jazz program?
"The city came to us and asked us to fill the space with culture," said Mr. Davis. "The city realizes that culture is a big part of the economy. It's part of the city's identity, financially and politically."
Critics of the plan have suggested that the new home, two blocks from the southern tip of Lincoln Center, would remove the jazz program from the center's mainstream.
Mr. Marsalis scoffed at the idea. "They voted us in," he said referring to the constituents of Lincoln Center. "We spend time collaborating with them all. We're closer to the other constituents than we were before."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rob Gibson, left, and Wynton Marsalis of Jazz at Lincoln Center. (Stephanie Berger for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: LINCOLN CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (NYC); JAZZ AT LINCOLN CENTER; NEW YORK COLISEUM METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (55%); LINCOLN CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LINCOLN CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (NYC); JAZZ AT LINCOLN CENTER; NEW YORK COLISEUM LINCOLN CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; COLUMBUS CIRCLE (NYC); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; JAZZ; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL JAZZ & BLUES (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); MUSIC (88%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (76%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (75%); MUSIC GENRES (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (70%); APPROVALS (70%); PORT AUTHORITIES (70%); 

PERSON: MARSALIS, WYNTON; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); WATROUS, PETER RUDY GIULIANI (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1998



89 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 4, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: NATO: A Debate Recast

BYLINE: By Howard Baker Jr., Sam Nunn, Brent Scowcroft and Alton Frye; Howard Baker Jr. is a former Republican Senator from Tennessee. Sam Nunn is a former Democratic Senator from Georgia. Brent Scowcroft was national security adviser to Presidents Ford and Bush. Alton Frye is senior fellow of the Council on Foreign Relations.

 BODY:
The looming Senate debate over NATO enlargement marks a historic encounter between good intentions and sound strategy. Despite momentum toward admitting three more members -- Poland, Hungary and the Czech Republic -- the fundamental interests at stake demand probing examination of the specific candidacies, the approach that has brought the alliance to this fateful juncture and the troubling implications of that approach. Along with many who have worked to build a strong NATO, we harbor grave reservations about the pending expansion and the direction it points.
Far from being a cold war relic, NATO should be the cornerstone of an evolving security order in Europe. It provides the infrastructure and experience indispensable to coping with instabilities -- Bosnia today, and other troublespots tomorrow. NATO is vital to insuring arms control and maintaining the kind of industrial base that provides a solid defense. Perhaps most important, NATO provides the institutional home for coalitions to meet crises beyond Europe. 
 But a cornerstone is not a sponge. The function of a cornerstone is to protect its own integrity to support a wider security structure, not to dissipate its cohesion by absorbing members and responsibilities beyond prudent limits. A powerful NATO undergirds other institutions, including the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe and the Western European Union. It makes possible the Partnership for Peace to promote cooperation among countries that are not NATO members.
The rush to expand the alliance has put the cart before the horse. Advocates and skeptics of NATO enlargement agree that the transformation of Europe's security structure should be related to the transformation of its economy. As James Baker, the former Secretary of State, has testified, European Union membership "is just as important as membership in NATO for the countries involved," and "we must make clear that NATO membership for the countries of Central Europe is not a substitute for closer economic ties to the E.U."
In our view, it would have been preferable not to invite more countries to join NATO. At the very least, it would be desirable for the European Union to proceed with its planned expansion before NATO completes the acceptance of the new members.
The European Union has now decided to begin negotiations with six aspirants, including the three candidates NATO is considering. Linking NATO expansion to the expansion of the European Union would accomplish several things:
* It would underscore the connection between Europe's security and its economy -- and offer certification that entrants to NATO could afford to meet its defense obligations.
* It would permit the Partnership for Peace to demonstrate that it should be the proper association for countries outside NATO. So long as the option to join NATO remains open, it utterly undercuts the partnership as the preferred mode of cooperation.
* It would allow the United States and Russia to focus on the gravest security problem still before us, the formidable hangover of nuclear and other weapons of mass destruction. The cooperative framework provided by the NATO-Russia Founding Act may be useful, but frictions over NATO distract Moscow and Washington from profound common dangers. Even if everything goes right in expanding NATO, we will have misplaced our priorities during a critical window of opportunity to gain Russian cooperation in controlling nuclear arsenals and preventing proliferation. Russian antagonism is sure to grow if the alliance extends ever closer to Russian territory.
The Senate would be wise to link NATO and European Union expansion. If that link is made, it is essential to stipulate that admission to the European Union is not sufficient qualification for entry into NATO. NATO should weigh any future applicant against the contributions and burdens its membership would entail. What is called for is a definite, if not permanent, pause in this process.
By leading the charge for NATO expansion, the Clinton Administration may well elicit hasty proposals and considerable pressure to admit other countries. Other Central and East European countries are hoping that they, too, will soon be welcomed into allied ranks.
But a military alliance is not a club, and the Administration's rhetoric and policy risk converting NATO into an organization in which obligations are diluted and action is enfeebled. Pursuing that path may simultaneously spur Russian animosity and weaken the alliance's capability to contain it, if required. William Perry, the former Defense Secretary, and Warren Christopher, the former Secretary of State, acknowledge the problematic situation in which the country finds itself. In their words, "there is no consensus on the wisdom of the path taken so far by the alliance and spearheaded by the Clinton Administration."
While Mr. Perry and Mr. Christopher state that NATO should remain open "in principle," they contend that no additional members should be designated until the three current candidates "are fully prepared to bear the responsibilities of membership and have been integrated into the alliance." That reads to us like advice to slow this train down. We are in accord with that view, and with their argument that NATO should make the experience of Partnership for Peace membership for non-NATO members "as similar as possible to the experience of NATO membership."
We are dubious, however, that consensus can be found on the Administration's premise that NATO should be receptive to many additional members. That is a prescription for destroying the alliance. It guarantees future discord with present allies, few of whom are prepared to follow the Clinton policy to its logical end, the inclusion of Russia.
The task is to build a security structure in which Russia assumes a place commensurate with its geostrategic importance and its progress toward democracy and a market economy. With due respect, those campaigning to expand NATO confuse the longer term challenge of shaping a comprehensive security system with our continuing responsibility to sustain a robust NATO as our principal security bulwark.
The question confronting the Senate is not only whether to enlarge NATO, but how, when and on what terms. The imperative now is for the Senate to bring to bear the independent assessment mandated by the Constitution. In that assessment it has several options, including linking alliance expansion with enlargement of the European Union and laying down a marker against an excessively elastic NATO.
The Senate has constructive leverage to shape a wiser outcome than simple acquiescence in the President's plan. The widespread grumble that "NATO expansion is a bad idea whose time has come" is no basis for policy. This is not a dose of medicine one can swallow and be done with. It is a fundamental extension of American security guarantees, an ill-defined invitation for new members unrelated either to military threats or military capabilities.
A final caution to the Administration: It is no service to candor or consensus to invoke the shadow of Versailles, implying that resistance to NATO enlargement would be comparable to Senate rejection of the League of Nations. One doubts that senators will respond well to overdrawn analogies. As John Maynard Keynes noted at the time, the central failure of Versailles lay in the fatal miscalculation of how to deal with a demoralized former adversary. That, above all, is the error we must not repeat.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Fabricio Vandenbroeck)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); HUNGARY (93%); POLAND (93%); CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; EUROPEAN UNION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); ORGANIZATION FOR SECURITY & COOPERATION IN EUROPE (55%); WESTERN EUROPEAN UNION (55%); PARTNERSHIP FOR PEACE (55%); PARTNERSHIP FOR PEACE (55%); WESTERN EUROPEAN UNION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION; EUROPEAN UNION NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); ORGANIZATION FOR SECURITY & COOPERATION IN EUROPE (55%); WESTERN EUROPEAN UNION (55%); PARTNERSHIP FOR PEACE (55%); PARTNERSHIP FOR PEACE (55%); WESTERN EUROPEAN UNION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; POLAND; HUNGARY; CZECH REPUBLIC; EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); HUNGARY (93%); POLAND (93%); CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (60%); 

PERSON: BAKER, HOWARD JR; NUNN, SAM; SCOWCROFT, BRENT; FRYE, ALTON

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1998



90 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 4, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: About New York;
A Bronx Plea: No Garbage In, Garbage Out

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ 

 BODY:
THE Great Garbage Tour stopped on 156th Street in Hunts Point last Saturday, the bus nearly groaning under the shifting weight of its passengers as they rushed to one side and huddled against misted windows. "Ooh!" they cooed as they beheld a commercial dump where a bulldozer crunched through dusty mounds of splintered wood, old tires and smashed plaster.
"Look, it's open on the top," Teresa Torres said, pointing to the lot, where powdery clouds floated in the sunshine. "And this is a nice one." 
 By the yard's open gate, two women hauled some mattresses out of a rental van. "Hey," said one of the passengers on the bus. "That's a good mattress!"
Not good enough for its owners, who dumped the mattresses, climbed into the van and drove off. That's the way it is in Hunts Point, where many of the castoffs of a consumer society are smashed, shredded, packed and shipped off for out-of-state burials. This Bronx peninsula, ringed by the Bruckner Expressway, is famous for its huge wholesale food market that feeds the region, but it is also home to dozens of auto graveyards and waste transfer stations. Dumps. It is also a community that has been besieged at times by vermin, putrid odors and high asthma rates from truck traffic and sludge treatment tanks.
People live here, too. And they are alarmed by the prospect of becoming the municipal garbage can, as the city considers private proposals to handle its waste after Staten Island's Fresh Kills landfill closes in 2001. Among those under consideration is a proposal by American Marine Rail to build a barge-to-rail transfer station in Hunts Point that would receive 5,000 tons, 40 percent, of the city's waste daily.
Rallying local opposition, community advocates chartered a big yellow bus and took their neighbors on a self-styled trashical mystery tour of the peninsula's more remote parts.
"I didn't even know this existed and I have lived here since 1958," said Mercedes Narvaez, as she walked along the Hunts Point waterfront that would house the American Marine Rail center. "And to think, you could be breathing fresh air from the water. In Baltimore, they have their harbor. That's beautiful. Something like that here, you know the money that would come here?"
Money used to come to Hunts Point, thanks to the factories that cranked out goods and unskilled jobs. Many manufacturers departed in search of cheaper labor, but the area's zoning for heavy industry stayed. In a postindustrial economy, it became a choice spot to unload everything from cars and construction debris to medical waste and paper.
Rob Jones, a principal owner of American Marine Rail, said that his company's plans would not increase diesel exhausts that foul the air and cause respiratory problems, since trucks would not be used. Instead, the waste would arrive by barge and depart by rail. He added that any agreement would provide for a percentage of revenue to be applied to local projects that would improve the quality of life.
LOCAL groups, including Mothers on the Move, which organized the tour, do not think that garbage, no matter how well handled, can improve anyone's life. The local community board has adopted a zero-tolerance policy on new dumps.
A spokesman for Borough President Fernando Ferrer said the Bronx already has more than its fair share of waste and would fight any new plan that increased the volume of garbage coming to the borough. Parse that closely, and it means the Hunts Point transfer station could be built, if existing dumps reduced their operations.
That possibility frustrates people on the peninsula who, after years of tolerating blight and crime, refuse to accept garbage from other boroughs as their reward.
"The neighborhood has changed for the better," Elaine Sosa said. "They renovated a lot of buildings. People are moving in. Stores are being renovated."
She has no regrets. So far.
"I'm even thinking of getting a house in the area," she said. "But that depends on the garbage."
A public forum is scheduled for later this month to gauge community opinion. In March, there will be city hearings on creating a uniform policy on where waste plants could be built. Residents are already planning strategies, circulating petitions and signing up to speak in public.
"It's difficult, but it's everyone's responsibility to educate each other," said Francisco Perez, a member of the Manida Street Tenants Association. "We want to throw out the garbage from here. And the politicians, too, if necessary."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A junkyard at Hunts Point.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ABOUT NEW YORK (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN MARINE RAIL STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MARINE RAIL

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; HUNTS POINT (NYC); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; BARGES AND SCOWS; RAILROADS LANDFILLS (78%); SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (78%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (78%); ZONING (77%); MEDICAL WASTE & BIOHAZARDS (73%); CEMETERIES (72%); TIRES (71%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (70%); ASTHMA (65%); 

PERSON: GONZALEZ, DAVID

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1998



91 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 4, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 468 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Data Showing Economic Weakness Bolster Treasuries a Bit

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
The prices of Treasury securities rose slightly yesterday after several economic reports came in weaker than expected, providing further evidence that inflation is not a threat to the bond market.
The 30-year bond was up 5/32, to a price of 103 22/32, while the yield, which moves in the opposite direction, dropped to 5.86 percent, from 5.87 percent on Monday. 
 The index of leading indicators, reported by the Conference Board, and sales of new homes, reported by the Commerce Department, both were below economists' estimates for December. The reports caused some investors who had been betting on further declines in Treasury prices after Monday's losses to buy back borrowed securities yesterday to limit their losses, causing what is known as a short-cover rally.
The moves were limited, however, and analysts noted that the economy remained robust. Marilyn Schaja, an economist with Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, said the housing report should not "be interpreted as a sign of a significant slowdown in housing." New-home sales tend to be very volatile month to month, and the December decline followed a big gain in November.
Over the last few years, economists have several times said the housing market has topped out, only to see it bounce back. With the economy fundamentally sound, doing so now may again be premature, even if growth now slows.
"Looking ahead, these statistics portray an industry that is still strong, but one that has plateaued," Ms. Schaja said.
The index of leading economic indicators points to a similar trend. It was flat in December, suggesting slower growth for the first half of this year. In the previous two months the index rose a tenth of 1 percent, and economists had expected such a gain in December, too.
Investors will also be watching the outcome of the Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee's two-day meeting on monetary policy, which began yesterday. But market participants expected that the central bank would not make any changes in interest rates. Instead, they believe, the Fed will wait for the effects of the Asian economic crisis to slow American growth enough that no increases in rates are needed.
Perhaps more suspenseful for investors is the employment report for January, to be reported on Friday. Analysts expect the long bond's yield to remain in the 5.80 percent to 5.90 percent range through tomorrow.
This morning the Treasury will announce the size of its quarterly refunding of the nation's debt. Expectations are for the typical $14 billion of 3-year notes, $11 billion of 10-year notes and $10 billion of long bonds. It is possible that the amount in such securities will be reduced, however, as the budget comes closer to being balanced, and as the Treasury increases the use of inflation-pegged securities.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Treasury Yield Curve" plots yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. (Source: Technical Data) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES BONDS (93%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); DEBT NOTES (89%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (88%); MONETARY POLICY (85%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); INTEREST RATES (66%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT MARILYN SCHAJA (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1998



92 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 4, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: Business Travel;
Air accord is likely to bring some lower fares to Japan and deeper discounts to the rest of Asia.

BYLINE: By Edwin McDowell 

 BODY:
THE full impact of last week's agreement to end most restrictions on air travel between the United States and Japan will not be known for at least a couple of years, airline analysts say. In the meantime, air fares between the two nations are expected to fall but not tumble, while fares to other Asian destinations could plummet -- but only if political, economic and environmental problems continue to batter the region.
"I don't believe fares to Japan will drop much below 10 to 20 percent, because they're already pretty competitive," said Kurt Bodmer, vice president of business development for Japan and Orient Tours in San Diego, a longtime tour operator to the Pacific. "But if you travel beyond Japan, to Hong Kong, Bangkok or Seoul, you may see dramatic reductions, because their tourist industries have been suffering." 
 Even though "competitive" might sound like an oxymoron in speaking of fares to Japan, Topaz International, the Portland, Ore., firm that audits fares, has come up with figures that may surprise some travelers.
While business fares last year between New York and London averaged 44 cents for each of the 6,900 round-trip air miles, New York-Tokyo flights averaged 37 cents a mile for each of the 13,400 round-trip miles. Similarly, 1997 business fares between Los Angeles and Paris (11,350 miles round trip) averaged 31 cents a mile, while fares between Los Angeles and Tokyo (10,900 miles) averaged 30 cents.
"Competition almost always leads to lower fares," said Joseph A. McInerney, chief executive of the Pacific Asia Travel Association. "And the air traffic agreement should increase leisure and commercial traffic to Asia, because airlines can use Japan as a hub to other countries."
The association, made up largely of airlines, hotels and tour operators, said that 586,808 visitors flew to Japan from the United States in 1996, a modest rise of 32,739 over the 1990 figure. In contrast, the 5.04 million Japanese who flew to the United States in 1996 was a 1.74 million increase over 1990. The association recently approved a marketing and public relations campaign to encourage Asian travel from the Americas, Europe and the Middle East.
"You should not only get lower fares from an open-skies agreement," said Lee Howard, president of Airline Economics, a consulting company in Georgia. "With many more airlines and flights, you can also expect better service."
While service between the United States and Asia is already an improvement over that on domestic flights within the United States, even in economy class, one question is whether service will remain at or near that level in the event of air fare promotional wars -- especially promotions modeled after the various "getaway" weekend and holiday fares that periodically put London or Paris within reach of the United States for $200 to $400 round trip.
The closest any carrier to Asia has come to that kind of fare is the $999 round trip to Hong Kong for two, offered in November by Hong Kong's flagship airline, Cathay Pacific. The cost, which included five nights at a hotel, was underwritten by Hong Kong hotels and the Government, in hopes of stimulating the former colony's lagging tourist industry.
No carrier has since come close to that rock bottom deal, which was limited to 20,000 passengers from America. But with Hong Kong and other Asian destinations still in financial trouble, Japan and Orient Tours is offering a seven-day round-trip package to Hong Kong through May 31 on Northwest Airlines from $798 a person, including five nights in a hotel. A similar package to Bangkok, Thailand, costs from $998.
Under the new accord, Delta, American and Continental, which together account for less than 10 percent of United States traffic to Asia, will be allowed 90 additional round trips a week to Japan, almost triple the current 46 flights. Two more carriers, presumably U S Airways and T.W.A., will also be allowed to fly to Japan within the next two years. Meantime, United and Northwest, which together command 90 percent of United States carriers' traffic to Asia, plan to increase flights.
Add to that the unrestricted number of flights to the United States by Japan Airlines and All Nippon Airways, the many opportunitiess now available to other Japanese carriers and the flights likely to be shared by United States and Asian carriers, and the stage appears set for a better day-to-day deal for Asia-bound travelers. This is especially likely if, as the International Air Transport Association has forecast, Japan's share of trans-Pacific traffic continues to erode, causing Japanese carriers to fight back with permanent low fares.
Meantime, bargains exist now.
"In our 40 years in the Pacific," Mr. Bodmer of Japan and Orient Tours said, "we've almost never seen such low fares as we're seeing these days." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: BUSINESS TRAVEL (TIMES COLUMN)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561520 TOUR OPERATORS (57%); SIC4725 TOUR OPERATORS (57%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); ASIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); HONG KONG (79%); THAILAND (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); OREGON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%); 

COMPANY: JAPAN & ORIENT TOURS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; JAPAN (97%); ASIA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); HONG KONG (79%); THAILAND (79%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); OREGON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); TREATIES AIRLINES (90%); AVIATION TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); AIR FARES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); TOUR OPERATORS (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); EXECUTIVES (75%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (65%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (60%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (50%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1998



93 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 4, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Real Estate;
Offices Plugged In and Ready to Go

BYLINE: By MERVYN ROTHSTEIN 

 BODY:
The Plug 'n' Go program, established in six downtown Manhattan office buildings a year ago to help attract new, small information-technology businesses to the Wall Street area, has helped lease 183,000 square feet of space and is expanding to three additional buildings.
The program involves prebuilt, prewired office spaces, usually of up to 2,500 square feet, leased for short terms at beginning annual rents of $16 a square foot -- up from $15 last year -- about 20 percent below market rents for downtown space. Last year, 79 companies with a total of 635 employees leased space in the six buildings. 
 In addition to the lower rents, the companies move into space already wired to link up their computers, saving about $1 a square foot, the cost of wiring the space themselves. They also move into buildings with in-house Internet service providers, cutting Internet costs about 30 percent.
The companies can also share a T-1, or high-capacity, communications line, further reducing costs.
The program's success is "a combination of location, price and simplicity," said Carl Weisbrod, president of the Alliance for Downtown New York, the local business improvement district, which set up Plug 'n' Go in collaboration with the city's Economic Development Corporation. "There's a general sense that downtown is an emerging center of the information-technology industry. And with Plug 'n' Go, a company knows what it's buying right away, can plug into their space and move right in. Small companies don't have the capacity to sit around and allocate personnel and other resources to plan and build out space."
Sharon Greenberger, who manages the program for the alliance, said it "hit a price point" that other areas of the city cannot meet. "Rents are higher elsewhere," Ms. Greenberger said. "These companies are often start-ups, and many of them are very price-sensitive."
Dynamind, a new-media company that develops corporate Web sites, moved into 2,600 square feet at 90 John Street last year.
"We had formed Dynamind in Connecticut and connected the state's schools and libraries to the Internet," said Tom Kwon, chief executive officer, whose company was one of the first in the Plug 'n' Go program. "We started to work with large companies, and we needed to go into a marketplace where we could compete, which meant New York. The Plug 'n' Go buildings are prewired, so the technology was right there. The rent is not that much. There are the tax abatements. And our audience is right here."
The resurgence of the economy, the stock market and Manhattan office leasing in general have also helped to make the program work. The Wall Street area, hard hit in the real estate recession of the early 90's, is bouncing back.
"More and more, there's a concentration of similar companies down here -- and they want to be together," Ms. Greenberger said, adding that more than 700 information-technology companies are leasing space downtown.
A prime factor in that concentration has been the leasing of 55 Broad Street. That building, once occupied by Drexel Burnham Lambert and vacant for five years, was transformed by the Rudin real estate family into the New York Information Technology Center and has become a hub of computer-intensive companies.
"Fifty-five Broad played an instrumental role," Ms. Greenberger said. "A lot of companies want to be close to 55 Broad. A lot of them wanted to go into 55 Broad, but it's full."
The new buildings in the program -- 50 Broadway, 75 Maiden Lane and 83 Maiden Lane -- are each making 20,000 square feet available. Three of the original six buildings -- 11 and 32 Broadway and 55 John Street -- are each adding 20,000 square feet to the program, bringing the total to about 300,000 square feet.
The other three buildings are 90 and 111 John Street and 90 William Street. The buildings are all considered Class B, or older buildings, which have had more difficulty in dealing with vacancies, and this kind of specialized marketing is helping solve the problem.
The Economic Development Corporation and the alliance each provided $200,000 in marketing assistance to start the program last year. Each original building owner contributed $10,000. This year, the city has provided an additional $184,000. The business improvement district has put in $100,000, the new building owners, $12,500 each, and the three original buildings that added space, $10,000 each.
Charles Millard, president of the Economic Development Corporation, credited Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's Downtown Revitalization Plan, offering tax benefits for development, as "the very important first step that gave 55 Broad what it needed to get going."
He cited a Coopers & Lybrand study last October that showed that the new-media business had doubled in jobs and companies in Manhattan over 18 months.
The study showed that the number of new-media companies in Manhattan had almost doubled, to 2,128, compared with the 1,175 found in the first survey in early 1996, and that the number of jobs had jumped 105 percent, to 55,973.
Most Plug 'n' Go leases are for from three to five years.
Mendy Braun, manager of 11 Broadway, which had been largely vacant, said 21 Plug 'n' Go leases, totaling 42,000 square feet, had been signed in his building through December. "The leases range from 500 to 12,000 square feet," he said. "For me, it's a success."
Ms. Greenberger said she had received calls from other downtown building owners interested in the program. She said that of the 120,000 square feet available this year under the program, between 15 and 20 leases were out for signing on close to 40,000 square feet.
Mr. Weisbrod of the Alliance for Downtown New York said the program was likely to expand. "Almost all the buildings recognize the spinoff impact," he said. "The program puts these buildings on the map for other information-technology companies thinking of leasing space downtown, as well as for the companies in the program that will grow and expand into larger spaces."

GRAPHIC: Map of Lower Manhattan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORP (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS PROPERTY LEASES (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); MEDIA CONVERGENCE (68%); TAX INCENTIVES (65%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (53%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%); 

PERSON: ROTHSTEIN, MERVYN SHARON GREENBERGER (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1998



94 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 4, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Investor Optimism Over Earnings Sends Market Higher

BYLINE: By SHARON R. KING 

 BODY:
Continued investor optimism over corporate earnings helped Wall Street weather early selling yesterday as stocks finished higher for a second day.
Though markets overseas were mixed -- after their sharp gains on Monday helped the Dow Jones industrial average rise more than 200 points and the Standard & Poor's 500 index break through 1,000 points for the first time -- investors' belief that corporate profits have not been significantly hurt by Asia's economic slowdown translated into purchases. 
 Investors turned away from drug company shares, like Warner-Lambert and Bristol-Myers Squibb, which had been the market darlings on Monday as investors reacted to news of a possible merger of SmithKline Beecham and Glaxo Wellcome.
But semiconductor issues like Intel, Altera, Motorola and Micron Technology were among the big gainers. Semiconductor companies had taken a hit at the end of the fourth quarter as investors feared that their exposure to Asia would lead to earnings disappointments.
But "when you put it all together in a global economy, it's not that bad," David Wu, a semiconductor analyst at the ABN Amro Chicago Corporation in San Francisco, said of the earnings reports of these companies.
Though companies experiencing earnings shortfalls have cited the economic weakness in Asia, it was "not the No. 1 reason for their problems," Mr. Wu said. He pointed to National Semiconductor, which said on Monday that sales and earnings in the current quarter would not meet forecasts, primarily because of production problems in one of its recently acquired units. Only a small part of an expected earnings shortfall during this quarter will be caused by trouble in Asia, the company said. At other semiconductor companies, like Linear Technology and Maxim Integrated Products, problems in Asia were offset by strength in the United States and European markets, Mr. Wu said.
Recovering from a downturn that kept the index lower through much of the day, the Dow industrials rose 52.57 points, to 8,160.35. The index now stands 98.96 points away from its record high of Aug. 6. The S.& P. 500 rose 4.73 points, closing at 1,006.00, another new high.
In two trading days, the Dow has gained 253.85 points, eclipsing last week's entire 205.76-point increase. The S.& P. 500 has done the same, rising 25.72 points this week, more than last week's 22.69-point increase.
Though it did not surpass the previous week's gains, the Nasdaq composite index roared ahead yesterday, climbing 13.45 points, to 1,666.34. Those gains put the Nasdaq within 79.51 points of its closing high of 1,745.85, reached on Oct. 9. The Nasdaq, which contains a heavy concentration of technology issues, is now up 6.11 percent this year, more than the Dow, up 3.19 percent, or the S.& P., which is up 3.66 percent.
"You could see that people were looking for things that hadn't participated in the rally," said Alan Bond, chief investment officer at Bond Procope Capital Management in New York. "People were looking for opportunities. They weren't really chasing the big winners."
Though the Asian financial crisis has had relatively little impact on the earnings of American companies thus far, it has caused Bond Procope and some other investment managers to focus more on companies with domestic operations that will not be greatly hurt by the Asian crisis.
At Bond Procope, that means buying companies like Suiza Foods, a dairy and refrigerated foods distributor, as well as Arbor Drugs, a Michigan drugstore chain.
At Provident Investment Counsel in Pasadena, Calif., Michael Powers, a portfolio manager, said the firm was looking for health care stocks and specialty financial companies like Associates First Capital, Household International and the MBNA Corporation. Those companies should have strong revenue growth despite the situation in Asia, he said.
As for the Asian markets themselves, despite their recent show of strength, some analysts continue to raise the caution flag. While last year's declines in Asia make those markets look inexpensive based on 1997 earnings, their future is still uncertain, said Leila Heckman, a managing director and head of the global asset allocation at Salomon Smith Barney.
"No one really knows what's going to happen to earnings" in the countries hit by the economic crisis, she said. "To be very enthusiastic on those markets is very premature. We don't know whether the Asian markets are going to be more like Mexico," which has recovered fairly quickly from the crisis caused by the devaluation of the peso several years ago, or "more like Japan," which has been in an economic slump for eight years.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since last February. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BMY (NYSE) (57%); INTC (NASDAQ) (56%); MU (NASDAQ) (56%); MSI (NYSE) (56%); ABO (ASX) (55%); MXIM (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (68%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (56%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (56%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (94%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (75%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: CHICAGO CORP (68%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (57%); INTEL CORP (56%); MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC (56%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (56%); NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORP (56%); RBS HOLDINGS NV (55%); MAXIM INTEGRATED PRODUCTS INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (94%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (75%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS STOCK INDEXES (96%); COMPANY EARNINGS (93%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ELECTRONICS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); MERGERS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); BONDS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); 

PERSON: KING, SHARON R DAVID WU (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1998



95 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 4, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 285 words

HEADLINE: New Data Show the Economy Is a Degree Cooler

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
A barometer of future economic activity was unchanged in December, but still suggested that economic growth would continue into 1998.
The index of leading indicators for December stood at 104.5, unchanged from the revised figure for November, the Conference Board, a business-sponsored economic research group, reported yesterday. Economists had expected the index to rise a tenth of 1 percent in December. 
 The pause ends five straight months of gains for the index.
"The leading indicators had a tremendous year in 1997, with the leading index advancing at twice its historical pace over the past 12 months," said Michael Boldin, senior economist at the Conference Board.
"With no change for the leading index in December, however, we see signs that economic growth will moderate in 1998," Mr. Boldin added.
Separately, the Commerce Department reported that sales of new single-family homes tumbled 9.7 percent in December, the sharpest monthly drop in more than two years.
The retreat came after a November gain that was the highest in 11 years and still left sales for 1997 at a 19-year high.
The 800,000 new homes sold last year marked a 5.7 percent rise from 1996 and the highest total since 817,000 in 1978. But the drop in December came despite continued declines in mortgage rates.
The Conference Board said 6 of the 10 components of the index of leading indicators rose in December, led by money supply.
Big-ticket orders to manufacturers, excluding military contracts, showed the biggest decline. The drop in orders was caused partly by canceled aircraft orders from Asia, said Anthony Chan, vice president and chief economist at Banc One Investment Advisors in Columbus, Ohio.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Leading Indicators" tracks index of 10 indicators designed to "lead," or predict overall economic activity, from July 1996 through December 1997). (Source: The Conference Board) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (53%); JPM (LSE) (53%); 8634 (TSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (64%); 

COMPANY: CONFERENCE BOARD; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (53%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONFERENCE BOARD; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (64%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS; SALES; HOUSING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); MONEY SUPPLY (73%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (69%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (68%); AIRCRAFT MFG (64%); MORTGAGE RATES (50%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (50%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (50%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL BOLDIN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1998



96 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 4, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 480 words

HEADLINE: Realtor to Pay $165 Million For 3 Helmsley Office Towers

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI 

 BODY:
The SL Green Realty Corporation chipped off a piece of the vast Helmsley real estate empire Monday night by agreeing to pay $165 million for control of three midtown office towers, including the Graybar Building.
SL Green, a real estate investment trust based in Manhattan, said the purchase agreement covered the acquisition of 1466 Broadway and the long-term leaseholds of 25 West 43d Street and the Graybar Building, at 420 Lexington Avenue, a total of 1.8 million square feet of office space. The company said it expected to invest about $10 million in renovating and upgrading the three properties. 
 "They're good, solid real estate," Stephen L. Green, chairman of SL Green Realty, said. "You can't get better location than the Graybar Building, on top of Grand Central Terminal. And 1466 Broadway is in the eye of the storm in Times Square, probably the most exciting area in the world today."
The sale is the latest step taken by Leona Helmsley in dismantling the empire built by her late husband, Harry B. Helmsley, over five decades. She hired Eastdil Realty to organize the sale of the properties, some of which are entangled in a complex web of partnerships.
Mrs. Helmsley recently signed a contract to sell the 1.2 million-square-foot skyscraper at 140 Broadway to Larry Silverstein for $191 million. And over the next two weeks, she is expected to sell her stake in the landmark Flatiron Building, the Harley hotel chain, a package of residential properties, two land parcels, jewelry marts in Miami and Los Angeles, and possibly the New York Helmsley Hotel.
The Helmsley properties sparked intense bidding wars among developers, investment banks and foreign investors as the economy rebounded from a devastating recession in the early 1990's and as the office vacancy rate in midtown fell to 9.1 percent, the lowest point in more than a decade, according to Insignia/Edward S. Gordon Company. Prospective buyers, who are jostling each other over virtually every property that comes on the market, are assuming that the economy will continue to improve and that office rents will rise sharply.
Mr. Green outbid several groups, including one led by Peter Malkin, a longtime partner in various Helmsley properties who recently ended a bitter feud with Mrs. Helmsley. Mr. Malkin had also lost out in the bidding for One Penn Plaza, a 2.4 million-square-foot tower next to Madison Square Garden that is being sold to Vornado Realty Trust for $420 million.
The purchase of the three Helmsley properties brings to 15 the number of properties in the SL Green portfolio. Mr. Green, who took his company public last year, recently paid $58 million for 800,000 square feet of commercial space at 17 Battery Place in lower Manhattan. Rather than chasing expensive trophy properties, Mr. Green has specialized in older commercial buildings in good locations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SLG (NYSE) (96%); VNO (NYSE) (61%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (96%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (57%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (57%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: HELMSLEY-SPEAR INC; SL GREEN REALTY CORP SL GREEN REALTY CORP (96%); VORNADO REALTY TRUST (61%); AQUANTIVE INC (57%); NEW YORK HELMSLEY HOTEL (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: HELMSLEY-SPEAR INC; SL GREEN REALTY CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS REAL ESTATE (92%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); HOTEL CHAINS (77%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); BUILDING RENOVATION (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); INVESTMENT BANKING (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1998



97 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 4, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1170 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
Calvin Klein's new campaign casts off the old stark, dark look and dons a happy, healthy one.

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
YEARS ago, "Garbo Talks!" and "Garbo Laughs!" were hot news from Hollywood; now, here's hot news from Seventh Avenue: Calvin Smiles!
The designer Calvin Klein, in a major departure, has decided to alter the imagery in his fashion campaigns significantly by putting on a happier face. That's noteworthy because of his influence on other marketers as well as on the popular culture. 
 Beginning with magazine advertisements and outdoor posters scheduled to appear next month, Mr. Klein and his company, Calvin Klein Inc. in New York, will present themselves with a more upbeat, positive tone and a more athletic, clean-cut look while retaining their trademarks of sensuality and cool eroticism. The 20-something male and female models in the campaign are socializing in groups rather than preening in isolation and appear gleaming rather than grungy. Many smile. Some even -- yes -- laugh.
"I think people will be surprised; they'll say: 'Omigod! This is not where he's been,' " Mr. Klein said in a telephone interview. "But I think young people, who are always looking for something new and interesting, are going to relate to this."
"The real big change for me is that I feel everything is prettier, healthier, cleaner, attractive," he added. "It's no longer the downtown, hip kind of thing that I've been doing for the last couple years. I think it's a fresh and clean kind of sexy, which seems sexier now than another dirty-looking model."
The changes will be visible in pitches for all offerings of the Klein empire, from the top-of-the-line Collection clothing to the midline CK sportswear to Calvin Klein jeans to licensed merchandise like eyewear, home furnishings, footwear and watches. Klein sells $4.4 billion worth of products annually around the world.
The shifts in the Kleinian Zeitgeist came after several other fashion advertisers started offering consumers bright-eyed, optimistic campaigns with well-scrubbed, beaming faces. The ads perhaps most emblematic of that trend are those for the Tommy Hilfiger Corporation, in which well-groomed preppies cavort and cuddle.
"It's wonderful to see the reaction to people enjoying themselves," said Michael Toth, president and executive creative director at Toth Design and Advertising in New York and Concord, Mass., which until recently created those Hilfiger campaigns.
"What we call the SoHo elite were taking the road to see how serious and depressed they could be," he added. "We wanted to represent the other side of what life has to offer."
Others celebrating the pursuit of happiness in ads include the retailers Abercrombie & Fitch and Gap Inc. and the cosmetics giant Estee Lauder, which last year introduced a fragrance named Happy.
"It seems we're in a very positive state of mind right now," said Sam Shahid, president and creative director at Shahid & Company in New York, who formerly worked for Mr. Klein and now creates exuberant campaigns for Abercrombie & Fitch centered on barely dressed collegiate youths.
"The economy is good," he added. "People are having a good time. So we try to have a good time."
Richard Leonard, vice president at Zandl Group, a youth marketing consulting company in New York, said the trend was widespread among younger consumers, primarily girls.
"We're calling it 'sunny side up,' " Mr. Leonard said, "a focus on a positive, upbeat outlook. Anything cheerful is striking a chord with these kids. And we are seeing this trend growing."
Mr. Klein demurred at a suggestion that he was inspired by the success his competitors have achieved with cheery Americana.
"I wouldn't make the comparison," Mr. Klein said, because rather than being imitative, the change in his ad imagery "reflects the clothes, the styles, which instead of being hard edged are softer, prettier, more romantic."
The change has been foreshadowed by smiling models in recent ads for some Klein products, including men's underwear and the women's fragrance Contradiction.
But the coming shifts are far more extensive and they contrast markedly with the look that Mr. Klein, as he sought to push the envelope, has promoted for most of this decade: sullen, brooding and sometimes disheveled models. The stark, dark mood that has dominated those ads -- and the thin, occasionally gaunt appearances of some models -- led critics to castigate that school of advertising by labeling it "heroin chic."
"Clearly people were upset by 'heroin chic,' and people accused me of it," Mr. Klein said. "We thought it was creative, but it was perceived as drug addicts and messy. People don't want that now."
The new ads and posters show good-looking models in wholesome pursuits -- often outdoors -- that have rarely been associated with the world according to Klein. One depicts three models, including the Klein mainstay Christy Turlington, playing tug-of-war. In another, youngsters lie on a pier in their socks and underwear, waving their hands and feet in the air. In a third ad, men help load a potato truck. Others portray models hiking or walking in fields or the woods.
"I think kids are going to think this is really cool," Mr. Klein said of the campaign, photographed by Steven Meisel, "and are going to want to identify with this advertising."
As usual, the ads have been created by CRK Advertising, Klein's in-house unit.
Grouping the models together "reflects a far more social life style," said Alan Karo, the senior vice president at Klein who oversees CRK, "as we try to distance ourselves from the strike-a-pose-against-a-backdrop-in-a-studio look."
"We've kept the cool and sexy, and softened the edge, because that's what's happening in the marketplace," he added.
The campaign brings other changes. For the first time, Ms. Turlington and the other signature Klein model, Kate Moss, will appear together in ads. (Interestingly, combining the initials of their given names spells "CK.") And in one ad, Ms. Moss wears a revived version of the 1970's Klein jeans as introduced by Brooke Shields.
"You could play it today and be reasonably successful," said Robert L. Treifus, senior vice president for worldwide communications at Klein, referring to the once-notorious commercial in which Ms. Shields confided that "nothing" came between her and her "Calvins." Mr. Treifus likened the new campaign to that earlier work, which he described as "outgoing, aspirational, fun."
The ads will run in magazines such as Allure, Cigar Aficionado, Details, Marie Claire, Men's Journal, Out, Paper and W. A 16-page foldout will accompany selected copies of the March issues of Vogue, Elle, GQ and Vanity Fair.
The campaign "is obviously a departure, and a dramatic one," said Mitchell B. Fox, vice president and publisher of Vanity Fair.
"These images will tap into the sensibility of the target audience, how they see themselves, feel about themselves, now," he said.
The ads will also appear on bus shelters, on popcorn bags in movie theaters and, in another first, on popcorn boxes sold at Madison Square Garden.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The ads, like this one for Calvin khakis, show smiling models in athletic, wholesome pursuits. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: GPS (NYSE) (84%); EL (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (85%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (84%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (84%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (81%); SIC2321 MEN'S & BOYS' SHIRTS, EXCEPT WORK SHIRTS (81%); NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (51%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (51%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (77%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (77%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: CALVIN KLEIN INC CALVIN KLEIN INC (85%); GAP INC (84%); TOMMY HILFIGER CORP (81%); ESTEE LAUDER COS INC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: CALVIN KLEIN INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (77%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (77%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL; ADVERTISING; MAGAZINES; OUTDOOR ADVERTISING; JEANS (APPAREL) MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); FASHION DESIGNERS (89%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (77%); FOOTWEAR (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); FASHION & APPAREL (77%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (76%); PRINT ADVERTISING (76%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (76%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (75%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (70%); RETAILERS (68%); GENERAL CLOTHING STORES (67%); COSMETICS (63%); EXECUTIVES (60%); TOILETRIES MFG (60%); 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART; KLEIN, CALVIN MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1998



98 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 4, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 586 words

HEADLINE: 5 Companies Are Seeking Inter-Continental Hotels

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL 

 BODY:
At least five hotel companies are bidding to buy Inter-Continental Hotels, the Japanese-owned company whose portfolio includes some 175 hotels and resorts such as the Inter-Continental New York, the Mark Hopkins in San Francisco, the Willard in Washington, Le Grande in Paris and the Mayfair in London, in nearly 70 countries.
The winning bid, in an auction that has been under way about a month and is in its second round, is expected to top $2.5 billion. But the bidding could go much higher, according to a person close to the negotiations, because Inter-Continental is one of the last major hotel companies -- and the only one currently available -- with upscale properties in most of the world's major cities. 
 Inter-Continental also has more than 20 mid-market Forum hotels in 15 European countries. And at a time when travel sets new records almost every year, both brands are well regarded by international travelers.
Bidders in the auction include Marriott International Inc., Patriot American Hospitality Inc. and the Meditrust Companies, the nursing home operator that recently bought La Quinta Inns. Also bidding are the large British companies Bass P.L.C., a holding company that is an owner of Holiday Inns, and the Ladbroke Group, owner of the Hilton International brand.
Conspicuously absent from the bidding, apparently, are the Hilton Hotels Corporation and Starwood Hotels and Resorts Trust, a real estate investment trust. Starwood, which is close to completing its $1.6 billion acquisition of the Westin chain, recently outbid Hilton for the ITT Corporation and its Sheraton hotel chain.
Founded by Pan American Airways in 1946 when there was a dearth of good hotels for its globe-trotting passengers, Inter-Continental was purchased from a British company in 1988 by the privately owned Saison Group, a retail conglomerate based in Tokyo.
Saison recently decided to withdraw from the hotel business in order to reduce its debt and concentrate on its retail business, according to Nihon Keizai Shimbun, Japan's leading financial newspaper. Saison originally planned an initial public offering for Inter-Continental, prior to listing its shares on the New York Stock Exchange, but apparently decided that it would be more profitable to sell the business.
Two of the current bidders are real estate investment trusts: Patriot American, which recently bought the Wyndham Hotel Corporation for $1.1 billion, and is buying Interstate Hotels for $2.1 billion, and Meditrust, which was outbid by Patriot American for Interstate, but agreed to pay $2.1 billion for the 270 midpriced La Quinta Inns.
At a hotel industry conference in New York yesterday, Paul Nussbaum, the chief executive of Patriot American, said his company was looking at acquisitions totaling $3 billion. He added that he was looking for debt held by Asian companies, according to Bloomberg News Service, because the economic turmoil in the region had made it available at a good price.
None of the companies appear to have a decided advantage in the bidding for Inter-Continental.
Inter-Continental is also attractive because it owns real estate, in contrast to many hotel chains that manage or franchise properties but own few of them. That difference makes Inter-Continental doubly valuable to a real estate investment trust, especially a "paired share" trust, which is allowed to manage as well as own property, and can trade the separate management and real estate companies as a single unit. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IHG (NYSE) (93%); IHG (LSE) (93%); MAR (NYSE) (91%); WYN (NYSE) (84%); ITT (NYSE) (66%); LAD (LSE) (55%); HOT (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (94%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (94%); NAICS335314 RELAY & INDUSTRIAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS334512 AUTOMATIC ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL MANUFACTURING FOR RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL & APPLIANCE USE (66%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS713290 OTHER GAMBLING INDUSTRIES (55%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (55%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (90%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: INTER-CONTINENTAL HOTELS CORP; MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC; PATRIOT AMERICAN HOSPITALITY INC; MEDITRUST COS; BASS PLC; LADBROKE GROUP PLC HILTON WORLDWIDE (94%); INTERCONTINENTAL HOTELS GROUP PLC (93%); MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (91%); INTER-CONTINENTAL HOTELS CORP (90%); WYNDHAM WORLDWIDE CORP (84%); MEDITRUST COS (82%); ITT CORP (66%); LADBROKES PLC (55%); STARWOOD HOTELS & RESORTS WORLDWIDE INC (54%); PAN AM CLIPPER CONNECTION (53%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%); BLOOMBERG LP (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTER-CONTINENTAL HOTELS CORP; MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC; PATRIOT AMERICAN HOSPITALITY INC; MEDITRUST COS; BASS PLC; LADBROKE GROUP PLC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (90%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: HOTELS AND MOTELS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; AUCTIONS HOTELS & MOTELS (93%); HOTEL CHAINS (92%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); RESORTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (89%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (89%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LODGING (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (73%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (69%); RETAILERS (69%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%); STOCK EXCHANGES (65%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (52%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1998



99 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 4, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: A Pathmark Project With a Difference

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER 

 BODY:
In East Harlem, a plan for a big new Pathmark supermarket gave rise to a protracted battle between a community development group and smaller shopkeepers afraid that their businesses would suffer, with politicians lining up on either side. But in the Bronx, where another community group is trying to build a giant Pathmark shopping center, local merchants are among its biggest supporters.
The $29 million project, near the intersection of the Cross-Bronx and Sheridan Expressways, has sailed through the first few steps in the approval process without the faintest sign of protest, winning unanimous approval by Community Board 3 on Jan. 13. On Monday, Borough President Fernando Ferrer forwarded it to the City Planning Commission with his tentative approval, conditioned upon a review of its financing. 
 Sprawling across 10 sloping acres east of Crotona Park, the site might seem perfectly suited to the kind of big-box stores that have cropped up all over New York in formerly industrial areas. Indeed, Pathmark plans a 24-hour, 55,000-square-foot store, its largest in the Bronx.
But executives at MBD Community Housing Corporation, the developer, have designed the center to serve shoppers from the closest neighborhoods -- Morrisania, Bronx River, East Tremont, and Crotona -- not the whole borough. Besides the Pathmark, they said, it will have a shoe store, a stationer, clothing shops, an electronics retailer and, if all goes according to plan, the first bank branch in all of Community District 3. Still, what is most striking about the project is the apparent absence of any real opposition despite the similarities to East Harlem, where the Pathmark finally broke ground last August.
James Smith, owner of Morales Discount and Hardware, a block from the development site, said most of the merchants he has talked to were looking forward to increased traffic created by the shopping center, not fearing it -- even the bodega owners along 174th Street.
"The stores that actually cater to their customers will do fine," he said. "All the amount of construction workers that are going to be here for the two years that it takes to get built -- they're going to be selling so much sandwiches, so much beer, so much soda. It's got to boost this area."
In East Harlem, it was the medium-size grocers who put up the stiffest resistance. But Stanley Sorkin, a spokesman for Krasdale Foods, which helped pay for the fight against the Pathmark in East Harlem and which supplies many medium-size grocery stores from its Hunts Point plant, said he was unaware of the recent progress on the Crotona shopping center plan.
Mr. Sorkin was hired last year to replace Richard Lipsky, a lobbyist who has fought against megastores across New York City but who was accused of racial polarization in the battle against the East Harlem supermarket. Mr. Lipsky said he had no plans to get involved in the Crotona project.
Mr. Sorkin declined to say whether his company and its customers would oppose the Crotona plan, which is being backed by the Retail Initiative, a bank that finances inner-city supermarket projects. The same group financed the East Harlem Pathmark.
Mr. Sorkin said medium-size grocers and their suppliers would be watching to see whether the Crotona Pathmark project receives any public assistance. The city's Economic Development Corporation, which owns the site, is negotiating to lease it or sell it to MBD Community Housing. But Charles Millard, president of the agency, said he expected any deal to be done "at a market rate."
Any additional low-interest loans or grants would be a major concern, Mr. Sorkin said. "These subsidies," he said, "have been very difficult to come by for the small-scale store owner. If there's public money involved in the future, it shouldn't just run to the large chains. Small retailers should be offered the opportunity to grow their businesses, too."
Carla Pennyman, development director at MBD, said the shopping center project and the choice of Pathmark as an anchor tenant were the outgrowth of a 1992 community planning effort with wide participation, in which residents overwhelmingly named a modern supermarket and other stores as high priorities.
For MBD, an outgrowth of the Mid-Bronx Desperadoes, a coalition formed in the 1970's by local residents unwilling or unable to move from their community, the shopping center represented a significant shift. Having built or rehabilitated 2,300 housing units over the years, MBD found itself having to meet the shopping needs of a neighborhood it helped to repopulate.
The site was the scene of a dim chapter in urban renewal efforts. In 1982, seeing -- some would say imagining -- a pent up demand for manufacturing plants in the Bronx, the Koch administration decided to clear 25 abandoned buildings there and build an industrial park. The city, expecting tenants to materialize, even paved a wide access road through the middle of the property.
A road to nowhere, as it turned out. Not a single company ever arrived.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Local store owners have been among the strongest supporters of plans for a Pathmark shopping center in the Bronx. The project, which would occupy 10 acres east of Crotona Park, has won community board approval. (Mary DiBiase Blaich for The New York Times)
 
Map showing site of project: A $29 million shopping center project is planned in the Bronx.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: PATHMARK PATHMARK SHOPPING CENTER (95%); MBD COMMUNITY HOUSING CORP (81%); CROTONA SHOPPING CENTER (76%); BRONX DESPERADOES (74%); 

ORGANIZATION: PATHMARK

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; BRONX (NYC); UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS; FOOD; SUPERMARKETS RETAILERS (94%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); APPROVALS (90%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (89%); POLITICS (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); OFFICE SUPPLY STORES (76%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (76%); SHOE STORES (71%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (71%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (70%); CITIES (69%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (65%); BANK BRANCHES (50%); 

PERSON: HALBFINGER, DAVID M MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1998



100 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 4, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: The Neediest Cases;
Gifts to Neediest Cases Fund Set Record

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS 

 BODY:
With more than three weeks remaining in its annual fund-raising appeal, The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund broke its previous record for total donations yesterday, making this the most successful campaign since the fund was established in 1912.
Contributions received yesterday pushed the fund's total for this drive to $5,195,966. The previous record was set in 1991-92, when Times readers gave $5,083,551. 
 During the current appeal, more than 10,000 people have contributed to the fund, many of them responding to daily articles in The Times that chronicle the struggles of New Yorkers who have fallen on hardship.
Although most donations are $25 to $50, an unexpected windfall of larger amounts came yesterday from trusts and estates that name the fund as a beneficiary. More than $350,000 has been received from estates and trusts this year, more than twice as much as during the last drive.
When the current three-month appeal ends on Feb. 28, every penny will be distributed to seven of the city's largest and most prominent charities. Nothing will be deducted to pay for administering the fund because The Times pays all overhead expenses.
The increase in donations this year may well reflect the healthy economy of the New York region and the nation. But the agencies that benefit from the fund said it also highlighted the generosity of a city often derided as callous and greedy. "It shows that even in good times, New Yorkers are aware that some of their neighbors aren't doing as well," said Stephen Solender, executive director of the UJA-Federation of New York.
Philip Coltoff, executive director of the Children's Aid Society, said he was heartened that donors were able to see past cheerful headlines about the economy. "It can be hard for people to believe there is so much suffering around them in the midst of budget surpluses and a soaring stock market," Mr. Coltoff said. "I'd like to think this year's record is a result of people taking more responsibility for the well-being of their neighbors."
Still, the agency executives warned against complacency. New York City's unemployment rate, about 8.7 percent, is among the highest in the nation, and more than two million city residents live below the poverty level.
David Jones, executive director of the Community Service Society of New York, said that there would be more suffering in the next five years as an expected 400,000 welfare recipients lost benefits. "People may be feeling euphoric about the economy, but if you are among the unskilled or the downsized, things are only going to get tougher," he said.
All of the agencies said that even though donations to the fund had risen, they had not kept up with the increased number of people seeking assistance. "There are still way too many people we're unable to help," Mr. Solender said. "We're not even close."
This is the 86th season that The Times has raised money to help the city's most desperate residents. A Christmas Day encounter with a homeless immigrant persuaded Adolph S. Ochs, The Times's publisher, to start the annual drive with articles profiling "The 100 Neediest Cases."
In many ways, the articles eight decades later are no different. This year, they told of people like Sylvian Brown, an immigrant from Barbados who has been unable to work since he lost his eyesight last summer. With help from the Neediest Cases Fund, Mr. Brown has been able to buy food for his children.
"This year's level of generosity boosts my faith in people and brings comfort to us all," said Megan McLaughlin, executive director of the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies. "Because as we all know, the giver may at one point become the recipient."
 
HOW TO HELP
 
Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund should be sent to P.O. Box 5193, General Post Office, New York, N.Y. 10087, or any of these
organizations:
 
BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217.
 
CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.
 
CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.
 
CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.
 
COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.
 
FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010.
 
UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK
Church Street Station, P.O. Box 4100, New York, N.Y. 10261-4100
 
No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.
 
The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor.
 
Contributions to the fund are deductible on Federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.
 
To delay may mean to forget.
 
Previously recorded $4,839,317.58
Recorded yesterday 356,649.22
 
Total $5,195,966.80

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK (69%); COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (69%); COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND FUNDRAISING (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (78%); CHARITABLE GIVING (78%); POOR POPULATION (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); BUDGETS (71%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (70%); ESTATE PLANNING (69%); CITY LIFE (67%); CITIES (67%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (65%); 

PERSON: JACOBS, ANDREW

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1998



101 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 4, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1604 words

HEADLINE: Citadel of Russia's Wasteful Health System

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SPECTER 

DATELINE: TOMSK, Russia

 BODY:
Tucked carefully into a pine forest, bathed in the sparkling Siberian air and filled with enough amenities to make a country club look Spartan, the Pediatric Tuberculosis Center here seems to sit on the cutting edge of Russian medicine.
In a nation whose Government has concluded that half of the hospitals are too dilapidated to function, the center is in the midst of a robust development program. It has a dozen buildings, a school for patients and a staff of 134. 
 What the 500-bed hospital does not have, in this country where President Boris N. Yeltsin has called health care "our No. 1 national security crisis," are patients. Last year there were never more than 20 children here at a time. This month there are 13.
That is because the Tomsk hospital system is a citadel of waste. There are 88 hospitals in this city of 500,000, more than in Boston. Twelve of them treat TB patients alone. There is a major clinical center with 21 departments and four surgical branches, and a university medical center duplicates almost exactly what is offered in the municipal center.
The hospitals have enormous heating costs, fleets of cars, large, poorly trained staffs and patient services that overlap.
"If it was just one hospital burning money, then we could live with that," said Tatyana Grishina, a tuberculosis expert at the Russian Academy of Medical Sciences who has been to Tomsk to study the system here. "But it is not one hospital. And it is not just tuberculosis. It is the whole story of Russian medicine.
"People talk about reform all the time in Russia. But nobody wants it. Reform is one of the dirtiest words in the country."
Health officials here, and throughout Russia, still dole out scarce money based almost solely on the number of beds in each hospital, without regard to whether they are needed or how they are used.
As a result, the Pediatric Center will receive nearly $1 million in regional funds this year. With that money it will subject its 13 children to a needlessly expensive, anachronistic treatment regimen that the World Health Organization has long considered worse than useless.
There may be no better way to understand the immense obstacles that reforms face in the Russian provinces -- where they are needed most -- than to look at how a place like Tomsk deals with health care.
Compared with other cities in Russia it is neither backward nor unique. One of Siberia's oldest cities, filled with stately wooden houses that have withstood a century of snow, Tomsk used to live on an allowance dispensed from Moscow. All that has changed.
Industry has atrophied. The nearly free transportation system, essential in such a remote place, has virtually disappeared. Without it, half of the region has lost its access to decent medical treatment.
The money from Moscow may be gone, but the network designed by the Soviet Government -- grand, cumbersome, repetitive and blind to the perverse and often baffling economics of medicine -- lives on.
"This is more than a medical system," said Sergei Banin, Tomsk's No. 2 health official. "It is a social system. We are feeding the poor. We are providing thousands of jobs. We want an evolution here, not a revolution."
But there has been nothing gradual about the decline in the health of the Russian people.
Tomsk, like the rest of Russia, reels under a remarkable surge in infectious and parasitic diseases, and constant growth in cases of deadly heart disease, alcohol poisoning and cancer. Last year more people in Russia died from tuberculosis, which is entirely curable, than got the disease in the United States.
The Government now predicts that the Russian population will shrink by at least one million people each year for at least a decade. That has happened only a few times in history -- and until now always in countries engulfed by war, plague or famine.
Many people say national officials simply need to spend more on their citizens' health. Money would help, of course. Last year Russia spent only about $75 a person on health care; the United States spent nearly $4,000.
But increasingly, experts cite another statistic that may be more telling: Russia has 130 hospital beds for every 10,000 people, a figure matched in no major country on earth. The United States has fewer than 40 beds per 10,000 people.
"You could not invent a more ridiculous health care system than the one we now have," said Igor Linok, the chief administrator of the Tomsk regional health insurance fund.
Dr. Linok is a physician and an economist. It is his job to try to find a rational way to spread money across the Tomsk region, which has one million people in an area about the size of England.
"Everyone always says there is not enough money," he said. "We are poor, of course. But I don't even agree that there is not enough money. Look at the waste in this place."
Most countries no longer have TB hospitals. Tomsk has 12. With a rate of 80 cases per 100,000 residents here, the incidence has more than doubled in a decade. But hospitals do not help. The World Health Organization has long argued that tuberculosis can be treated better and less expensively with drugs at home.
Merlin, the British relief agency, has created a pilot program to supply drugs and the expertise to use them properly. It has had some success, but there has been a fight every step of the way.
"There are cultural expectations here that are almost impossible to overcome," said Gini Gleissberg, the Merlin coordinator in Tomsk. "Patients expect this long period of hospitalization. Lots of times a few months in a hospital beats being at home without work or money."
Three-quarters of the $4 million spent on tuberculosis treatment and testing here is wasted, Merlin says. Health department officials do not disagree. In 1996 a total of 532 children were discharged from various TB hospitals in Tomsk after average stays of a little more than three months. Tuberculosis had been diagnosed in only 23. The rest were there because their parents had the disease, or because they were suspected of being infected.
The New York Public Health Research Institute, with money from the financier and philanthropist George Soros, has offered to help Tomsk shift its health priorities.
The Soros plan, as it is called here, is simple. "Let's spend money on what works," Dr. Alex Goldfarb, who has been the plan's chief salesman, said in a recent interview. "And let's help people make that transition to a new way of life. But if there is no switch, there should be no funds. To get the money, people here need to get rid of those hospital beds."
That kind of talk drives many leaders in Russian medicine -- already sick of being told how to do their jobs by outsiders -- to open revolt.
"I thought humanitarian aid came without strings attached," said Aleksei Primyak, who runs the largest national tuberculosis center in Moscow and is seen as the official voice of the conservative medical establishment. "Who are these people to tell us how to treat our citizens?"
But the desperate competition for money has turned the medical system into a major political issue. And the problems are by no means limited to TB. "The hospital system," said Governor Viktor Kress, a reformer who is nonetheless wary of moving too fast, "is one of the greatest lobbies left in the land."
That is clear in Tomsk. The city has two large heart centers that can serve 1,000 patients each. They have similar equipment. The one operated by the national Government has better staff, but it is open to patients only five days a week.
"Don't have a heart attack on the weekend," said Vladimir Mashukov, the chief doctor at the Tomsk Institute of Cardiology, the national center. He says his budget "has been irregular and chaotic."
"We are hostages to the past," he said.
There are also four cancer centers here. And Tomsk, a university town with a branch of the Russian Academy of Medical Sciences, is considered progressive by most outsiders.
The Children's Sanitarium is exhibit A in any attempt to explain why health care in the provinces seems stuck in another era. "For the money we are spending on that place we could move all those children and their families to Israel and let them live by the Dead Sea," said Dr. Linok, the health economist.
The center is the perfect symbol for the failings of hospitals from one end of the country to the other. There are too many people on staff, but no alternative jobs for them. There are not enough patients, because patients -- or in this case, their parents -- do not want to report their illnesses for fear they will be locked in a sanitarium for months. The hospital duplicates services offered less than two miles away at the city's central TB clinic.
Of course, that is not the way they see it at the sanitarium.
"I am not a diplomat," said Anatoly M. Shatokhin, the affable chief doctor at the Pediatric Center. "I am a doctor. And I have to tell you that your system may work best for you, but ours works best for us. Children need to be nurtured. They need a setting in which to recover."
That means in a hospital, he says. Keeping people in a hospital for routine tuberculosis treatment, still normal here, is rare in the West. The cost of such treatment, an average here of $1,134 per cure, is more than five times the cost of using drugs on outpatients, according to the W.H.O.
"If you look at the numbers, the logic is obvious," said Olga Sharaburova, the chief tuberculosis doctor for the region. "But logic has never been used here yet. So you can understand why people wonder about it know."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Two doctors in City Hospital No. 3 in Tomsk looking in on a patient who has just returned from surgery. From one end of Russia to the other, hospitals have too many people on staff, but not enough patients. (James Hill for The New York Times)(pg. A6)
 
Map of Russia showing location fo Tomsk: With 500,000 people, Tomsk has 88 hospitals -- more than Boston. (pg. A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; TOMSK (RUSSIA); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; FINANCES; HOSPITALS HOSPITALS (91%); TUBERCULOSIS (90%); PEDIATRICS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); CITY LIFE (68%); CITIES (68%); 

PERSON: SPECTER, MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1998



102 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 4, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1332 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place;
Buffett's Company Is Amassing Silver, Pushing Prices Up

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
The company controlled by Warren E. Buffett, one of the best-known and most widely followed investors in America, has accumulated a large portion of the world's silver supply, helping to drive the price of the metal to the highest level in nine years.
In so doing, the company, Berkshire Hathaway, has made an investment that would be most likely to succeed if inflation returned, something that most investors view as unlikely. But it could also pay off if industrial demand for the metal continued to outstrip supply. 
 It is not the first time that Mr. Buffett has gone against the conventional wisdom; he has gained fame over the decades for his willingness to make large purchases of stocks he deems to be undervalued, and then to hold on to them.
But the word that so much silver -- more than 20 percent of the world supply by one estimate -- had been bought, inevitably recalled memories of the silver accumulation by Nelson Bunker Hunt, the Texas oilman, nearly two decades ago. Purchases by Mr. Hunt and his family sent the price of silver briefly above $50 an ounce in 1980, before the market plunged, leading to financial distress for the family, which had borrowed heavily.
Berkshire Hathaway said yesterday that since last summer it had accumulated silver now worth more than $850 million. Since it began buying silver's price has leaped more than 50 percent. The total stake -- 129.7 million ounces -- appears to be larger than the amount accumulated by the Hunts, though the Hunts controlled a far larger percentage of the world supply. But the dollar value of the Berkshire Hathaway stake is much lower because silver now sells for less than one-seventh of what it cost at the peak in 1980.
Berkshire said the silver amounted to only 2 percent of its investment portfolio, measured at cost. So there is no risk that it, like the Hunts, will be unable to meet its commitments.
The rise in silver prices has come even as the price of gold, which also gains luster when investors fear inflation, has weakened, and has drawn attention from investors. A trader in silver options filed suit in Federal court in New York last week contending that a commodities trading organization had been manipulating the price.
Berkshire said it had planned to disclose the purchases when its annual report was released next month. But it said it made the disclosure yesterday in response to the movement in silver prices.
Responding to the sharp rise, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission has said it is monitoring the market closely. Last night, Geoffrey F. Aronow, the director of the commission's enforcement division, declined to comment on the Berkshire announcement, saying, "I am not in a position to comment on any particular situation."
William Byers, the director of futures research at the Wall Street firm of Bear, Stearns & Company, said Mr. Buffett realized that the demand for silver outstripped supply and was simply responding to that condition. "This is a situation that has been known for some time," Mr. Byers said. Mr. Buffett, he said, "recognized the fundamentals and he simply made another long-term investment."
Because a large part of the silver that Berkshire has bought has not been delivered, the announcement by Berkshire raised the possibility of some speculators' being unable to come up with the silver that is owed to Berkshire. But Berkshire said it would make accommodations in such situations, which, Mr. Byers said, made it clear that Mr. Buffett, did not want to "squeeze the market."
Berkshire said it began buying silver on July 25, a day when silver futures closed at $4.32 an ounce, and made its last purchase on Jan. 12, when the price closed at $5.475 an ounce. It said it had no plans now to buy or sell the metal.
Yesterday, the current silver futures contract, requiring delivery in March, closed at $6.615 an ounce, up 36.7 cents an ounce for the day and 53 percent higher than when Berkshire began buying the metal.
Mr. Buffett said that he had first bought silver more than 30 years ago, after the United States Government stopped making silver coins and stopped backing dollar bills with the metal.
But he said that in recent years his company had not owned the metal until July. The company's announcement said that "widely published reports have shown that bullion inventories have fallen very materially, because of an excess of user demand over mine production and reclamation," and that the company believed that a balance of supply and demand "was only likely to be re-established by a somewhat higher price."
Berkshire said that it had taken delivery of 87.51 million ounces of silver, and was owed another 42.2 million ounces under contracts that expire at varied dates through March 2. It said all the silver had been purchased in London.
The Comex division of the New York Mercantile Exchange, where silver contracts trade in this country, knows of 103 million ounces in warehouses that it monitors. That is down from 172 million when Berkshire began buying. London warehouse levels are not publicly disclosed.
The figures would indicate that there is enough silver available to cover delivery. But Berkshire said that if any sellers "should have trouble making timely delivery, Berkshire is willing to defer delivery for a reasonable period upon payment of a reasonable fee."
In any case, the market now appears to be far larger than when the Hunts went on their buying spree. Reuters quoted one consulting firm, CPM Group, as saying that Berkshire's stake amounted to about 20 percent of the silver market.
At the peak of the Hunt buying, according to statements by Paul A. Volcker, then the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board and a man intimately involved with efforts to bail out the Hunts after the price collapsed, the Hunts controlled about 110 million ounces of silver. At the time, Mr. Volcker said, there were about 170 million ounces of silver available. Those figures represent the amount of bullion in circulation, but do not include silver yet to be mined or in products like jewelry.
When the Hunts were accumulating their position, they and many investors believed that there was no way that rampant inflation could be checked and that the prices of hard assets like precious metals could only continue to rise.
Now, the opposite consensus prevails, with inflation deemed to be quiet and likely to stay that way, and many investors fearful that Asia's financial troubles will lead to deflation. Silver has aspects both of a precious metal, viewed by some as a storehouse of value, and as an industrial commodity. So while it could rise in the absence of general inflation, a big rise would be more likely if inflation in fact was rising.
Silver has recently traded in what is called backwardation, which is to say that silver for quick delivery costs more than silver for delivery some months later. So while silver for March delivery costs $6.615 an ounce, silver for delivery a year later, in March 1999, costs $6.39, or 3.4 percent less. That reflects concerns about a possible squeeze on current supplies, and is an indication of the fact that huge quantities of silver have been accumulated.
Such a condition is not uncommon in agricultural commodities, reflecting expectations of an anticipated harvest. But it is very unusual in a precious metal. In July, when Mr. Buffett began buying, silver for delivery a year later was quoted at a premium of 5.6 percent over the then-current quote.
Last week, a trader in silver options, Kerry Seale, a farmer from British Columbia, filed suit in Federal court in New York contending that Phibro, a commodities trading firm, had moved silver out of the United States to force up the price. He said he had lost $164,000.
Phibro -- which is owned by Travelers Group, in which Berkshire has a big investment -- denied the allegations. Berkshire said it had used only one broker for its purchases, but did not say if it was Phibro.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "COMMODITIES: Silver: Near-Month Contract" tracks silver prices, since January 1997. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. (pg. D11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (85%); BRK.A (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (85%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (85%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC; COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (85%); BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (60%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (51%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (59%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC; COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (59%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: SILVER; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) SILVER MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); FUTURES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); ANNUAL REPORTS (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); CELEBRITIES (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (62%); LITIGATION (60%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD; BUFFETT, WARREN E; HUNT FAMILY; HUNT, NELSON BUNKER WARREN BUFFETT (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1998



103 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 4, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1114 words

HEADLINE: Assemblyman Wins Vote for Flake's Seat

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS 

 BODY:
Backed by the long-time incumbent and the Queens Democratic Party, Gregory W. Meeks, a State Assemblyman, won a contentious five-candidate race last night to succeed Representative Floyd H. Flake.
With all of the vote counted, Mr. Meeks, a 44-year-old former prosecutor, finished with a commanding 57 percent.
Mr. Meeks had put together a broad coalition of Democrats in the Sixth Congressional District, despite the presence in the election of two of his Democratic colleagues in the Legislature with longer tenures in elective office as well as a well-financed Republican. 
 Mr. Meeks's most prominent opponent was State Senator Alton R. Waldon Jr., a veteran Queens legislator who served briefly in Congress 11 years ago, and had also raised considerable money and assembled a formidable campaign organization. After failing to secure the Democratic nomination, Mr. Waldon ran on the Conservative and Independence lines.
"This campaign had a mission," Mr. Meeks said, standing in a Queens restaurant amid a collection of some of the city's most prominent Democrats. "We presented our ideas for the future and we did it convincingly."
Mr. Meeks, a former head of the statewide Council of Black Elected Officials, pointed to his election as a significant event in the development of a new generation of black political leaders in New York City.
"My role, as a part of a new generation of African-American leadership, is to take us to the next phase of the civil rights movement: that is, the economic development of our community," he said.
Mr. Meeks, who was born in Harlem and grew up in public housing, is a graduate of Adelphi University and the Howard University School of Law. He is a former assistant district attorney in Queens and went on to become a judge of the State Workers Compensation Board.
Mr. Waldon had 21 percent of the vote. The remaining votes were split among three other candidates. Celestine V. Miller, a school district superintendent, ran on the Republican line and had 13 percent. Assemblywoman Barbara M. Clark, a Democrat who also failed to win her party's nomination, secured enough voter signatures to run on her own ballot line and won 9 percent. The last candidate was Mary Cronin, on the Right to Life line, who received 1 percent.
The special election in the Sixth District was one of several contests yesterday. In another, a special election in southern Brooklyn to fill the remainder of the term of former Assemblyman Jules Polonetsky, Adele Cohen, a labor union lawyer, defeated Joseph Kovac, a member of the Republican Party's executive committee in Brooklyn.
Mr. Polonetsky resigned in December to take a job as Commissioner of the City Department of Consumer Affairs.
Ms. Cohen, a Democratic district leader, captured 75 percent of the vote in the 46th Assembly District, while Mr. Kovac had just 25 percent.
On Long Island, the Republican Party retained two Assembly seats from Nassau County.
In the 17th Assembly District, Maureen O'Connell of East Williston, a 47-year-old attorney and registered nurse, defeated a Democrat, Mark Keefe, for the seat formerly held by Michael Balboni, a Republican who was elected to the State Senate last year. Ms. O'Connell, who narrowly lost a race in November for North Hempstead Supervisor, received 82 percent of the vote, and Mr. Keefe had 16 percent.
In the 19th Assembly District, Kathleen Murray of Levittown defeated JoAnn Flora, a Democrat, for the seat vacated by Charles O'Shea, who became Nassau County assessor last year. Ms. Murray, an attorney in the office of State Attorney General Dennis C. Vacco, won with 73 percent of the vote to Ms. Flora's 25 percent.
Mr. Flake's former Congressional district stretches from Jamaica, South Ozone Park, Springfield Gardens and Hollis in Queens to portions of the Rockaway peninsula. With a 1990 population that was 22 percent white, 16 percent Hispanic, 6 percent Asian and 53 percent black, it is one of the city's largest black middle-class areas.
Although Mr. Flake's resignation became effective in mid-November, the campaign to succeed him had been in full swing since the summer, when he announced he would leave Capitol Hill before the end of the term to devote more time to his church, the Allen African Methodist Episcopal Church in Jamaica.
In the weeks that followed, the jockeying for the job rekindled political animosities dating back more than a decade, when Mr. Flake and Mr. Waldon skirmished over the very same Congressional seat.
In 1986, Mr. Waldon faced Mr. Flake in a heated special election after the death of Representative Joseph P. Addabbo. Mr. Waldon won that contest, but two months after he went to Congress, Mr. Flake defeated him in the Democratic primary for the full term and went on to Congress in 1987.
Those two races produced bitterness that carried into yesterday's election. Mr. Flake was one of the most vocal supporters of Mr. Meeks.
In many ways, yesterday's election was the second major electoral battle this year involving the Congressional seat. Last month, the Democratic Party in Queens, in a vote of about two dozen district leaders, selected Mr. Meeks as its nominee.
That endorsement gave Mr. Meeks crucial support in the highly Democratic district in southeast Queens, but did not deter others from mounting an election-day challenge, including Mr. Waldon, a 60-year-old former police captain.
Mr. Meeks subsequently picked up a wide array of endorsements, including some Democratic officials who had initially supported Mr. Waldon, like Archie Spigner, the City Council deputy majority leader. And in spite of their own political feud, both City Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi and the Rev. Al Sharpton supported Mr. Meeks, as did H. Carl McCall, the state comptroller, and the Rev. Jesse L. Jackson.
Mr. Waldon remained in the race and on the ballot by securing nominations of the Conservative Party and the Independence Party.
Drawing on a large bank of volunteers, Ms. Clark collected more than 7,000 signatures to run on her own line, the 21st Century Party.
The Republican Party also played a strong role in the race. Ms. Miller, who was a Democrat until two months ago, ran with the party's help. She spent heavily and had the strongest presence on the radio, where her ads were broadcast frequently in the last week.
Although the campaign was a short one, it was nonetheless spirited. The candidates hired a battery of consultants, pollsters and advisers.
During the campaign, Mr. Meeks sought to present an image of a more youthful legislator who placed equal emphasis on the need for education reform and for economic development in the district.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gregory W. Meeks greeting a supporter yesterday in his campaign office in South Ozone Park, Queens. The State Assemblyman was the favorite to win the district in southeastern Queens. (Linda Rosier for The New York Times)
 
Table: "RESULTS: City Races"
 
* -- Winner
D -- Democrat
R -- Republican
C -- Conservative
RTL -- Right To Life
CP -- 21st Century Party
 

STATE ASSEMBLY DISTRICT 17	 	 	106 of 106 precincts (100%)	 	 	Mark S. Keefe, D	853	16%	 *Maureen C. O'Connell, R	4,493	82%	Lawrence E. McAllister, RTL	116	2%	
 

STATE ASSEMBLY DISTRICT 19	 	 	91 of 91 precincts (100%)	 	 	JoAnn Flora, D	905	25%	 *Kathleen P. Murray, R	2,691	73%	Benjamin Slutsky, RTL	69	2%	
 

STATE ASSEMBLY DISTRICT 46	 	 	86 of 87 precincts (99%)	 	 	 *Adele Cohen, D	2,041	75%	Joseph A. Kovac, R	688	25%	
 

CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT 6	 	 	381 of 385 precincts (99%)	 	 	 *Gregory W. Meeks, D	14,175	57%	Celestine V. Miller, R	2,162	9%	Alton R. Waldon, C	5,162	21%	Mary Cronin, RTL	185	1%	Barbara M. Clark, CP	3,187	13%	 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) QUEENS RESTAURANT (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; QUEENS (NYC); BROOKLYN (NYC); NASSAU COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LAWYERS (77%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (71%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (71%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (71%); LAW SCHOOLS (68%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (68%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (68%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (63%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (63%); PUBLIC HOUSING (63%); CIVIL SERVICES (62%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (62%); LABOR UNIONS (62%); 

PERSON: HICKS, JONATHAN P; FLAKE, FLOYD H (REPR); MEEKS, GREGORY W (ASSEMBLYMAN); POLONETSKY, JULES (ASSEMBLYMAN); COHEN, ADELE; KOVAC, JOSEPH; O'CONNELL, MAUREEN; KEEFE, MARK; BALBONI, MICHAEL; MURRAY, KATHLEEN; FLORA, JOANN; O'SHEA, CHARLES GREGORY W MEEKS (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1998



104 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 4, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 862 words

HEADLINE: Schumer Opens Senate Race By Claiming Centrist Position

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO 

 BODY:
In the first major address of his Senate campaign, Representative Charles E. Schumer outlined a detailed agenda of tax cuts and education initiatives yesterday, trying to position himself as a centrist candidate willing to embrace ideas from both sides of the political trench.
The 50-minute speech at the Robert F. Wagner Graduate School of Public Service at New York University was filled with legislative proposals and notably devoid of partisan rhetoric, as Mr. Schumer, a Democrat who represents parts of Brooklyn and Queens, sought to style himself as more concerned with policy than with the knifed-edged tactics of modern electoral politics. 
 "I would like the tone of the campaign to be like this: positive," he said after the speech, which was not a formal announcement of his candidacy. Mr. Schumer has not held one of those splashy news conferences to kick off his campaign and has no immediate plans to do so. But he has left little doubt over the last several months that he is running for his party's nomination for the United States Senate.
While Mr. Schumer focused on policy yesterday, he also used his speech to outline how he intends to distinguish himself from his rivals in both parties, saying he would reject the big-government liberalism of some Democrats as well as the "clenched fist" style of the Republican incumbent, Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato.
"I thought Bill Clinton put it best after Democrats received the drubbing we so richly deserved" in 1994, he said in one of several admiring nods in the speech to the President and his moderate "new Democrat" agenda. (Mr. Schumer is currently running campaign commercials showing him stepping off a plane with the President.) "People don't want government off their backs, people want government on their side," he said.
Political consultants say Mr. Schumer must quickly establish a clear reason for his candidacy since he remains little known outside his Congressional district and, in recent opinion polls, has been running behind not only Mr. D'Amato but also the two other Democrats in the race, Geraldine A. Ferraro, the 1984 Vice-Presidential candidate, and the New York City Public Advocate, Mark J. Green.
The consultants said Mr. Schumer's speech was an attempt to put himself ahead of the pack on two major issues, education and the economy. "He wants his opponents to be me-too candidates," said Norman Adler, a lobbyist and consultant not involved in the race. "You stake out positions that others will agree with but you say it first, and all they are left with is saying, 'Me, too.' "
Mr. Schumer opened his speech yesterday by chastising both parties. "The old Democratic view that government is the answer to all problems is irrelevant," he said. "But the Republican view that all government is evil is also irrelevant."
In a five-point education plan, he called for giving all teachers a $2,000 annual tax credit and for forgiving student loans to college graduates who go on to teach in public schools. He proposed giving merit pay bonuses of $5,000 each for 20,000 teachers, increasing the authority of teachers and schools to remove students who are unruly or who sell drugs in class, and making it easier for schools to have single-sex classes or uniform dress codes.
Except for the merit bonuses, most of those ideas are strongly supported by teachers' unions, which have been engaged in a bitter fight with Mr. D'Amato because he has attacked the unions as obstacles to better education.
In his only reference to Mr. D'Amato in the speech, Mr. Schumer said, "Some political leaders think the way to improve the public schools is to bash teachers. I don't. You cannot improve the public schools with a clenched fist."
Mr. D'Amato's campaign office later released a statement applauding Mr. Schumer for supporting merit pay, which the Senator has also endorsed.
Mr. Schumer called for expanding two Clinton proposals that were enacted into law last year. One made college tuition tax deductible; Mr. Schumer proposes to increase the deduction and also allow deductions for room and board. The second created tax-free savings accounts for college tuition; Mr. Schumer's proposal would eliminate taxes on those accounts even after the money is withdrawn, provided it is spent on college costs.
In his four-point economic plan, he proposed giving rebates on the payroll tax to workers and their employers, giving tax credits of $2,000 to first-time home buyers in low-income urban areas and allowing workers to bring their pensions with them when they change jobs.
He estimated the cost of the entire package at $45 billion over five years, which he said could be paid for out of projected surpluses in the Federal budget. Portions of those surpluses should also be used to shore up the Social Security system and reduce the national debt, he said.
In other campaign developments, Mr. Green's office said he would formally kick off his campaign with a two-day, nine-city tour of the state starting today. And Emily's List, a political advocacy group for women that has an extensive fund-raising network, announced that it had endorsed Ms. Ferraro.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; TAXATION; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLITICS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); LOBBYING (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%); 

PERSON: DAO, JAMES; SCHUMER, CHARLES E (REPR) CHARLES SCHUMER (93%); BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1998



105 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 4, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: Bond-Rating Agency Gives a Vote of Confidence to the City

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI 

 BODY:
New York City's economy and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's budget plan received a vote of confidence from Wall Street yesterday, as one of the two major credit-rating agencies announced that it was considering raising the city's bond rating.
An upgrade by the agency, Standard & Poor's, would yield the city only modest savings because its bonds are already trading at prices reflecting the higher rating, experts said. But they said that the announcement was a vote of confidence in the city's economic future, coming a few years after fiscal troubles during Mr. Giuliani's first term led to a general drop in its debt ratings, which made it more expensive to borrow money. 
 The Giuliani administration seized on the news to assert that the Mayor had now succeeded in setting New York on a sound course. Randy M. Mastro, the Deputy Mayor for Operations, said that the announcement reflected the positive reception that Mr. Giuliani's preliminary budget received last week.
"We believed that the rating agencies would embrace the most recent fiscal plan," Mr. Mastro said, "and this is proof of it."
The city's general obligation bonds have been rated B+++ by Standard & Poor's since it downgraded them from a rating of A- in July 1995. In its "credit watch" announcement, the firm said that its final decision on whether to upgrade the rating, to be made in the summer, would depend on the city's adoption of a final budget that "closely resembles the outlines of the current proposal."
"The financial plan itself we felt was good, because they're showing spending restraint, even though revenues are coming in strongly," said Todd Whitestone, a managing director at Standard & Poor's. "But the economy is also improving."
The city's current rating, which ranks below those of most big cities, reflects analysts' worries over New York's sluggish economic recovery from the recession earlier this decade. But its credit outlook has been improving in the last year. Last June, Moody's Investors Service, the other major credit-rating agency, announced that it was giving the city a "positive" credit outlook, an upgrade from the previous "stable" rating.
Perhaps the most important effect of the change would be that banks and other financial institutions that do not invest in municipal bonds with a rating lower than the A category -- a standard cutoff -- would be able to buy new bonds issued by the city. Even a small upgrade of the city's bond rating would put it in that category.
The Giuliani administration predicted that yesterday's announcement would save the city about $2 million this year. Experts said, however, that it was difficult to say what the savings would amount to, because the markets have been pricing the city's bonds as if they already carried a higher rating.
Alan G. Hevesi, the City Comptroller, said an improved rating would also have less of an effect because the city issues fewer general-obligation bonds -- the type covered by these ratings -- than it used to.
In the past, the city sold about $3.5 billion worth of such bonds a year, using the money to finance the construction of schools, bridges and other projects. This year, the city is refunding and issuing about $3.1 billion in general obligation bonds, but the amount will fall to about $570 million next year.
The amount is decreasing because the value of the city's outstanding general-obligation bonds was approaching a cap, now $30.9 billion, set by the State Constitution.
In response, the state allowed the city to set up a quasi-independent authority to issue bonds. The authority's bonds have received higher ratings from Wall Street, including an AA rating from Standard & Poor's.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 6, 1998, Friday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Tuesday about the possibility of upgrading New York City's bond rating misstated the current one. It is BBB+ (a B+++ rating does not exist).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: STANDARD & POOR'S CORP MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: STANDARD & POOR'S CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; ; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING FINANCIAL RATINGS (92%); BONDS (92%); CREDIT BUREAUS (91%); BUDGETS (91%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); MAYORS (89%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BOND ISSUES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); NEW ISSUES (77%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (77%); 

PERSON: ONISHI, NORIMITSU; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1998



106 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
The tax credit for research and development: free lunch.

BYLINE: By Peter Passell

 BODY:
IF Americans could vote on their favorite business tax break, the research and development tax credit might top the balloting. The public supports it because new technology fattens paychecks, saves lives and makes for more realistic video games. Politicians like it because corporate America loves it.
Even the bean counters at the Treasury are fans because the credit is designed to yield the maximum bang for a tax buck. Indeed, a freshly minted study by Coopers & Lybrand concludes that the research and development tax credit actually delivers the free lunch that supply-side tax cutters promised, eventually returning more to the Government in revenues as the economy grows than it initially costs. 
 There's only one catch: As in previous budgets sent to Congress by Presidents Bush and Clinton, the White House is proposing only a temporary extension. And that undermines the long-term incentives the tax break is designed to generate. "There is just no good reason for doing it a year at a time," argued Joel Slemrod, an economist at the University of Michigan's Business School.
Tax credits for corporate spending on research and development have been around in one form or another since 1981. The current law, set to expire in June, provides a 20 percent credit -- think of it as a 20-cents-on-the-dollar subsidy -- against qualifying research and development outlays.
"Qualifying" in this case is based on a formula understood only by a select fraternity of tax accountants. But the idea is simple enough: in order to subsidize only research that would otherwise not have been done, the tax credits are limited to research and development expenditures above a firm's historic base level.
Economists are generally averse to tax incentives because they distort the prices determined by free markets. Sometimes such distortions are merely fodder for Dilbert cartoons: offices across America sprouted movable partitions in the 1960's after the Congress decreed that expenditures on fixed walls did not qualify for the new investment tax credit. But sometimes the distortions are large: the deductibility of home mortgage interest has probably led to huge overinvestment in owner-occupied housing, presumably at the expense of rental housing and industrial capital.
Nonetheless, the academy is solidly behind the tax credit for research and development because it offsets what is widely viewed as the systemic failure of free markets to allocate adequate resources to research and development. Study after study has found that corporations capture only about half of the gain from in-house innovation, with the rest going to other businesses or to consumers. The late Edwin Mansfield estimated that the private annual rate of return on investment in corporate research was 25 percent, while the "social" rate of return (including the benefits to others) exceeded 50 percent.
Left on their own, then, corporations have an incentive to invest less on research and development than is desirable from the perspective of the economy as a whole. The tax credit, which effectively raises the private return, tends to close the gap with the social return.
Of course, the significance of this distortion depends on how corporate research budgets respond to financial incentives. But the evidence suggests that corporations are quite sensitive to tax breaks for research. The landmark study by Bronwyn Hall of the University of California at Berkeley found that the $1 billion spent annually on research and development tax credits in the 1980's increased research outlays by $2 billion annually. "The payoff is huge," concurred F. M. Scherer, an economist at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government.
So much for the good news. The original credit, passed in July 1981, lasted until 1988. Since then, however, its fortunes have been left to capricious gods. The credit has been renewed seven times -- typically as part of last-minute negotiations. It was suspended from July 1995 to June 1996 when it became hostage to other issues.
The resulting uncertainty has made it harder for companies to forecast their costs, net of credits, on long-term research projects. And while the impact on private research budgets is unclear, uncertainty has probably cut outlays. "If the tax credit were permanent, companies would spend $41 billion more on R&D over the next 12 years," forecast John Wilkins, director for tax policy economics at Coopers & Lybrand. "As long as it remains an annual affair, we just don't know."
Why, then, has Washington balked at making the credit permanent? Eugene Steuerle, a former Treasury economist now at the Urban Institute, invokes the fear of creating yet another Government entitlement that erodes the tax base.
But the dominant concern, most agree, is more mundane: If the tax credit were permanent the budget rules would obligate Congress to find five years' worth of revenues to offset the cost, rather than just one. "The annual ritual is crazy," Mr. Slemrod concludes, but it may be inevitable.

GRAPHIC: Drawing. (Niculae Asciu)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541219 OTHER ACCOUNTING SERVICES (72%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (72%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (72%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COOPERS & LYBRAND (72%); COOPERS & LYBRAND (72%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TAX LAW (92%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CORPORATE TAX (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TAX CONSULTING (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); ACCOUNTING (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (61%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1998



107 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Rare Bird in Davos: Labor Chief Makes His Points

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

DATELINE: DAVOS, Switzerland, Feb. 3

 BODY:
The chief executives lunching with John J. Sweeney, the American labor leader, seemed almost to be seeking his blessing. A Frenchman tried to get him to criticize the French Government's plan to shorten the workweek. A Canadian sought his approval of bonuses and profit sharing for workers, rather than wage increases. And an American tried to get Mr. Sweeney's consent to the proposition that Mexican wages will rise.
Like a water buffalo at a gathering of elephants, Mr. Sweeney, the president of the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations, was an unusual sight at the annual World Economic Forum, which ended today. This is a gathering of several heads of state and hundreds of top government officials, corporate chiefs, financiers, academics and bankers who network, lobby, make deals and talk over the ills of the global economy. Until recently, union leaders were seldom invited and this time only six were present, the five others from Europe. Mr. Sweeney, who first attended last year, is the only union official ever to come from the United States in the forum's 27 years. 
 Like everyone else, he wandered the crowded halls of the conference center, greeting people like Donald V. Fites, chairman of Caterpillar Inc., as if that company had never gone through a horrendous, still unresolved union battle. Or he agreed to have a cup of coffee with a chief executive in a hotel coffee shop, a short walk or shuttle bus ride along the snowy main street of Davos.
"In this atmosphere," Mr. Sweeney said, "you can chat with chief executives and world leaders so easily in ways that I cannot do back home."
His message was short, focused, direct and repeated, like a politician's stump speech. The global economy and free trade are here, a fait accompli, acknowledged by labor, Mr. Sweeney said. Job-shifting across borders to lower-wage labor cannot be entirely stopped. Nor can damage to workers from crises like the current one in Asia. But national labor movements must come together to insist on minimum international labor standards and a seat at the table when the International Monetary Fund negotiates bailout agreements that fall hardest on workers.
"We will demand coordinated efforts to stimulate growth, to regulate currency and capital speculation, to extend labor and democratic rights as part of the response to the Asian collapse," Mr. Sweeney declared.
He made this case from a podium that he shared with Fernando Henrique Cardoso, Brazil's President, and George Soros, the financier. The audience of several hundred responded with warm applause to the presentations of Mr. Cardoso and Mr. Soros. Their view generally was that strong economic growth would raise worker incomes. Mr. Sweeney, taking a different tack, drew no applause. "I got good feedback later," he said. "People here don't want to publicly applaud labor."
Representative Newt Gingrich, the Speaker of the House, made Mr. Sweeney a target in one of his presentations, charging that he was out of date, a throwback to labor movement thinking in the 1930's, including opposition to agreements that promote free trade. "He just does not get it," Mr. Sweeney said. "We are not opposed to trade agreements, but they have to be done properly, and not leave out workers."
Whatever the frictions, the World Economic Forum's organizers say they will add more labor leaders next year. "I had made an attempt before to invite more labor leaders," said Klaus Schwab, the forum's president. "But unlike business leaders, you did not find many labor leaders who thought globally. And I did not want Davos misused as a forum for national disputes."
Mr. Schwab is also responding to another concern of the business executives and government officials who are the backbone of these annual conferences. A frequently expressed worry at the forum was the potential for strikes, demonstrations and violence, particularly in Indonesia, as workers react to the damage from the Asian crisis.
"I think everyone is very concerned with the second wave of the Asian crisis," Mr. Schwab said. "The first was financial and the second is going to be social and political."
At a luncheon on Monday given by the labor leaders, the half-dozen executives at Mr. Sweeney's table sought his sympathy or at least his informal counsel for their labor problems back home. Roger Cukierman, chairman of the Compagnie Financiere Edmond de Rothschild Banque, in Paris, asked Mr. Sweeney if he favored the French plan to cut the workweek to 35 hours from 39, with no cut in pay.
Mr. Sweeney said he did, to Mr. Cukierman's disappointment, but on a softer note, he agreed with the banker that the shorter week would not prompt French employers to hire more workers, which is the goal. Instead, they will probably fill the extra hours on overtime, the two men agreed.
Predictably, Mexico and the North American Free Trade Agreement came up. "What people in Mexico tell us is that as productivity rises, they will pay higher wages," said Steven C. Kletjian, chairman of the Unicco Service Company in the United States, which takes over operations that corporations outsource.
Mr. Kletjian's comment brought a standard Sweeney reaction. "From the data we have now," he said, "we know that while Nafta created some jobs in the United States, they are mostly low wage. In Mexico, the new jobs are the lowest of the low."
Brian R. D. Smith got the answer he sought. He is chairman of the British Columbia Hydro and Power Authority, a government-owned electric power utility, with 6,000 unionized employees. He is trying to persuade his workers that they should accept profit-sharing and bonuses, rather than fixed wage increases.
"That is happening more and more," Mr. Sweeney said, "not only profit-sharing but stock distribution."
And Mr. Smith beamed. Will he quote Mr. Sweeney in his continuing conversations with his workers? "Definitely," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John J. Sweeney, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., met business chiefs this week in Davos, Switzerland. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CTA (LSE) (68%); CATR (PAR) (68%); CAT (SWX) (68%); CAT (NYSE) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS333131 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (68%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); SWITZERLAND (94%); FRANCE (92%); ASIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (92%); 

CITY: BUFFALO, NY, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: CATERPILLAR INC (68%); AFL-CIO (83%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (57%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (83%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (57%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); SWITZERLAND (94%); FRANCE (92%); ASIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); EUROPE (79%); GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (92%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EXECUTIVES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); WORK WEEK (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); EMPLOYEE PROFIT SHARING (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); LOBBYING (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); 

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (55%); GEORGE SOROS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1998



108 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: In America;
The Clinton M.O.

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
The President's poll numbers are up and large numbers of Americans are trying to cover their ears and close their eyes to any further developments in the Clinton-Lewinsky saga.
They are counseling the media to let the story go. Bill Clinton's sex life is his business. His and Mrs. Clinton's. And if the President can't keep his hands off the White House help -- well, at least the economy is in good shape. 
 But willful ignorance never works. If we had paid close enough attention to the Gennifer Flowers fiasco in 1992 we would have realized by now that these matters are not just about Mr. Clinton's sex life. They are about patterns of lying and abuses of governmental power that are at least as corrupt as accepting money in return for government favors.
In the fall of 1990 Ms. Flowers was broke and out of work. She called her friend Bill Clinton, then Governor of Arkansas, and asked for a state job. Not much happened. The following February Ms. Flowers sent the Governor a letter suggesting she was ready to do something drastic. "Bill, I've tried to explain my financial situation to you and how badly I need a job . . .," she wrote. "Unfortunately it looks like I will have to pursue the lawsuit to hopefully get some money to live on, until I can get employment."
Ms. Flowers was threatening to press a very public lawsuit against a radio station that had claimed she was Mr. Clinton's mistress. The Governor got the message. Ms. Flowers was hired as an administrative assistant at a state agency called the Arkansas Board of Review.
This was bad news for a veteran state employee and mother of three named Charlette Perry. Ms. Perry was up for the same job and filed a grievance when Ms. Flowers got it. A grievance committee ruled in Ms. Perry's favor, concluding that Ms. Flowers had been improperly hired. That meant nothing. A Clinton crony named Don Barnes, who headed the Board of Review, rejected the committee's findings.
Early the following year, Ms. Flowers, on the tapes that she secretly recorded, can be heard telling Mr. Clinton: "The only thing that concerns me, where I'm, where I'm concerned at this point, is the state job."
Mr. Clinton replies: "Yeah, I never thought about that. . . . If they ever ask if you've talked to me about it, you can say no."
And when Ms. Flowers told Mr. Clinton that she had lied about a certain matter to the grievance committee (she was under oath at the time), Mr. Clinton said, "Good for you."
Fast forward to Monica Lewinsky. Like Ms. Flowers, Ms. Lewinsky was a close friend of Mr. Clinton's. And she was looking for a job. She landed a position at the Pentagon with a top-secret clearance and lots of travel, but it didn't pay much and didn't seem to be working out.
She was offered a job by U.N. Ambassador Bill Richardson, who had breakfast with her at the Watergate. She declined the offer. Last month she accepted a $40,000-a-year job with Revlon, whose chairman, Ronald O. Perelman, is a major contributor to Mr. Clinton. Ms. Lewinsky was recommended for the position by the President's good friend, Vernon Jordan.
Even as the Revlon offer was coming through (it was rescinded when the scandal broke), Ms. Lewinsky was preparing a sworn affidavit, in connection with the Paula Jones suit, in which she denied that she had ever had sex with the President.
As with Gennifer Flowers, there is a convergence here of matters public and private that is dangerous and repellent. It is about more than Mr. Clinton's sex life. It is about a governing style that is so reckless and so contemptuous of both the truth and the public that potentially paralyzing scandals are all but inevitable. It is about deceit as a way of life. The public may not want to know, but it has a right to know.
Ten days ago Mr. Clinton looked the American people squarely in the eye and said, emphatically: "I did not have sexual relations with that woman. Ms. Lewinsky."
The polls show that the public, on the whole, does not believe him. Not even his closest friends believe him. But the economy is doing well. So we are supposed to sift through the moral wreckage that is the Clinton White House and find those bits and pieces of Presidential credibility that might have survived.
You would think a great country like America would deserve better.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (66%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1998



109 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 11; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 451 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Fed Decision to Stand Pat Sends Treasury Prices Up

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO

 BODY:
Bond prices ended higher yesterday after the Federal Reserve's policy-making committee voted to leave interest rates unchanged, although the gains were slight because most market participants had anticipated such a decision.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 3/32, to 103 25/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction, dropped to 5.85 percent, from 5.86 percent on Tuesday. 
 The Federal Open Market Committee, at its first meeting of the year, kept the Federal funds rate at 5.50 percent, where the short-term benchmark rate has remained for almost a year.
What was not disclosed at the end of the two-day meeting is whether committee members have shifted to a neutral stance from their previous position of maintaining a bias toward raising rates. But given the prevailing evidence of benign inflation and the expected economic slowdown due to Asia's financial crisis, bond market analysts said such a change would not surprise them.
"In any event, monetary policy is likely to remain on hold for quite some time before economic conditions change sufficiently to dictate otherwise," said Donald Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Asset Management.
The bond market's attention has now shifted to tomorrow's labor statistics for January, the freshest reading from the Government on the economy's stamina. Mr. Fine said payroll growth was expected to remain strong but might have slowed from its strong pace in the last months of 1997.
The average hourly earnings data, which will be released tomorrow, may also receive more attention than usual given the recent spurt in the Employment Cost Index, a measure of inflation closely followed by the Fed.
The bond market showed little reaction yesterday to the Treasury's announcement of the size of its quarterly refunding auction next week, $35 billion, which had been expected.
In when-issued trading ahead of the auction, the three-year note was offered at a price to yield 5.31 percent, the 10-year note at a price to yield 5.52 percent and the 30-year bond at 5.87 percent.
In municipal bond dealings, the City of New York sold $1.05 billion in debt, the bulk in tax-exempt general obligation bonds, some taxable bonds not offered to the public and some zero-coupon bonds, through underwriters led by Salomon Smith Barney. Yields ranged from 3.90 percent for an issue due in 1999 to 5.04 percent in 2011. The zero-coupon bond due in 2008 does not make interest rate payments, but held to maturity yields 4.75 percent.
The underlying rating for the bond issue is Baa-1 by Moody's Investors Service Inc. and BBB-plus by the Standard & Poor's Corporation, with some bonds rated triple-A because they are insured.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since September 1997. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NQE (AMEX) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (60%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (60%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (60%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE INC (60%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (60%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (51%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BOND MARKETS (94%); BONDS (93%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); DEBT NOTES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); INFLATION (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (79%); BOND ISSUES (79%); ZERO COUPON SECURITIES (79%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); STATISTICS (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); EMPLOYMENT COSTS (68%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (64%); TAX LAW (60%); 

PERSON: DONALD FINE (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1998



110 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 11; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 49 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:
DOLLAR DROPS AGAINST YEN. The Japanese yen rose sharply against the dollar yesterday, helped by speculation about possible economic-stimulus measures by the Government and by a perception that financial crises in Asia might be easing. The dollar fell to 123.63 yen from 125.94 on Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Japanese yen to the dollar, since August 1996. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (59%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US DOLLAR (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1998



111 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Blue-Chip Issues in Retreat; Dow Off 30.64, to 8,129.71

BYLINE: By SHARON R. KING

 BODY:
After more than a week of nearly uninterrupted gains, the stock market ended mixed yesterday, with blue-chip issues retreating somewhat as investors turned their attention elsewhere.
While interest faded in some of the larger multinational stocks like J. P. Morgan, Johnson & Johnson, International Paper and International Business Machines, as well as drug company stocks like Merck, technology shares still drew buying interest, as did companies reporting strong earnings. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average, which had gained nearly 500 points since the beginning of last week, fell 30.64 points, to 8,129.71.
But broader market indexes fared better. The Standard & Poor's 500- company stock index eked out its third straight record high, rising 0.90 point, to 1,006.90.
The Nasdaq composite index also rose for the third straight day, up 14.10 points, to 1,680.44, on strong demand for technology shares such as Cisco, the world's leading maker of equipment that links computers via the Internet. It reported strong earnings after the market closed on Tuesday.
Wall Street showed almost no reaction to the Federal Reserve policymaking committee's decision to leave interest rates unchanged. That announcement had been widely expected.
The number of rising stocks outnumbered declines by a 16-to-13 ratio on the New York Stock Exchange, where volume totaled a heavy 701.7 million shares. It was the fifth time in the last six trading days that more than 700 million shares traded.
After such a quick run-up in stocks to levels not seen since the days before the Asia crisis unnerved markets in late October, a modest selloff was not considered a surprise.
Despite the pullback in the Dow average, blue chips should continue to move higher in the near term, said Alfred Goldman, director of market analysis at A. G. Edwards & Son, a St. Louis-based brokerage firm.
Mr. Goldman reasoned that lots of cash has flowed into the market since the beginning of the year and portfolio managers, who are more worried about lagging market indexes in a rally, will continue to buy stocks.
As investors searched for new opportunities, news that Warren E. Buffett's holding company, Berkshire Hathaway, had been buying silver since the summer, amassing about 129.7 million ounces worth $850 million, lifted the shares of several mining companies yesterday.
Several silver companies including Apex Silver Mines, Sunshine Mining and Refining, Coeur D'Alene Mining, and Pan American Silver were higher. Aided by these gains, mining company indexes, including the CBOE Gold index, the Amex Gold Bugs index and the Philadelphia Gold and Siver index were among the market's best performers.
The C.B.O.E. Gold index jumped 7.75 percent yesterday as each of its 10 members posted gains, including companies with a limited exposure to silver, such as Barrick Gold and Newmont Mining. The index is up 5.09 percent this year. Most of the gold mining stocks that posted gains moved in tandem with the silver companies even though nothing fundamental has changed.
Doug Cohen, the precious metals analyst at Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter, said he has a neutral or hold recommendation on most of the gold stocks he follows.
While silver traders have known about dwindling supplies for months, Mr. Buffett's disclosures may have encouraged speculators to buy precious-metals stocks, analysts said.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average, since February 1997. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (72%); IBMC (BRU) (58%); IBM (NYSE) (58%); IBM (LSE) (58%); BRK.B (NYSE) (52%); BRK.A (NYSE) (52%); PAAS (NASDAQ) (52%); PAA (TSX) (52%); CBOE (NASDAQ) (51%); AUMN (NYSE MKT) (51%); AUM (TSX) (51%); NEM (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (72%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (52%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (52%); NAICS212222 SILVER ORE MINING (52%); SIC1044 SILVER ORES (52%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); NAICS212231 LEAD ORE & ZINC ORE MINING (51%); SIC1031 LEAD & ZINC ORES (51%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (50%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (53%); 

CITY: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: JOHNSON & JOHNSON (72%); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (52%); PAN AMERICAN SILVER CORP (52%); CBOE HOLDINGS INC (51%); GOLDEN MINERALS CO (51%); SUNSHINE MINING & REFINING CO (51%); NEWMONT MINING CORP (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MISSOURI, USA (53%); SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. STOCK INDEXES (94%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); SILVER MINING (84%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (73%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); MINES & MINING (64%); GOLD MINING (64%); 

PERSON: WARREN BUFFETT (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1998



112 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: Once More, The Fed Holds Rates Steady

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 4

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve voted today to leave interest rates unchanged, apparently concluding that the economy would slow enough to repress inflation without endangering the seven-year-old expansion.
The central bank's policy-making committee did not provide any explanation of its decision, which was announced at the end of two-day meeting, its first this year. 
 But the decision came as no surprise to investors and economists, who had long since concluded that the Fed would hold rates steady. The stock market showed little reaction, with the Dow Jones average falling 30.64 points, to 8,129.7, after a 253.85-point gain over the previous two days. Bond prices rose marginally. Page 10.
Although the economy has been running at a sufficiently strong pace to generate early warning signs of inflationary pressures, economists expect Asia's financial crisis to slow the growth rate in coming months.
Fed officials have generally continued to focus on concerns about inflation. But Alan Greenspan, the central bank's chairman, has made clear in recent weeks that he and his colleagues have also scrutinized the possibility that the Asian situation could result in widespread price declines and create the risk of recession.
"The Fed demonstrated that they're willing to be very patient and wait for evidence of just what Asia means for the U.S. economy," said Dan Laufenberg, an economist with the American Express Financial Corporation. "Greenspan seems to think the risks go in both directions."
As a result, analysts remain divided over whether the next move by the Fed, whenever it comes, will be to increase or reduce interest rates.
Today's decision left the primary short-term rate controlled by the Fed, the Federal funds target rate, at 5.5 percent, where it has been since the Fed raised it a quarter of a percentage point last March.
With growth strong and the unemployment rate near a quarter-century low, the Fed for much of the last year has maintained a formal policy bias toward raising rates. It is possible that the Fed changed its policy stance at its last meeting in December, but that was discounted by economists. Instead, some analysts said it was possible that the central bank scrapped that bias today in favor of a more neutral policy stance to reflect the deflationary risks to the economy. The answer will not be made public until April 1, when the Fed releases the minutes of the meeting that ended today.
Robert V. DiClemente, an economist at Salomon Smith Barney, likened the situation facing the Fed to two boulders balanced on a seesaw, one representing strong growth and inflation, the other a sharp slowdown and deflation.
"We're all very nervous about whether this balance can persist and whether something will have to break one way or another," he said.
The economy grew 4.3 percent in the final quarter of 1997, nearly twice the rate that most economists think it can sustain over the long run without setting off a spiral of rising wages and prices. With unemployment at 4.7 percent and job creation growing at a healthy pace, employers must pay more to attract and keep workers, and benefits costs have shown signs of edging up.
Despite a rise in inflation-adjusted short term interest rates, long-term rates have been declining, helping interest-sensitive sectors of the economy like housing. Consumer confidence remains high, suggesting that spending will remain robust, and the stock market has been bullish despite lingering concerns about the effects of the downturn in Asia on corporate earnings and market sentiment.
Yet for all that the economy is roaring along, there has been almost no inflation. The Consumer Price Index rose just 1.7 percent last year, the lowest rate in 11 years, and the Asian crisis is likely to help restrain price increases on many goods this year in the United States or even push prices down by generating high quantities of cheap imports. Prices for services, which are less restrained by foreign competition, are more likely to show substantial increases, analysts said.
"Inflation might be a tad higher, but still very good for an economy entering the eighth year of an expansion," Mr. Laufenberg said. "So the Fed waits, and they can afford to wait." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AMP (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (92%); 

COMPANY: AMERIPRISE FINANCIAL INC (54%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INFLATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); DEFLATION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); RECESSION (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BONDS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); BOND MARKETS (70%); STOCK INDEXES (70%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1998



113 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: G.M. and Ford January Sales Fell Sharply

BYLINE: By ROBYN MEREDITH

DATELINE: DETROIT, Feb. 4

 BODY:
The General Motors Corporation and the Ford Motor Company announced steep drops in January sales today, with all but the newest-model cars selling slowly.
G.M. said its sales fell 6.3 percent last month compared with a year earlier. Its car sales plunged 18.3 percent, but its overall results were lifted by strong sales of sport utility vehicles, mini-vans and pickup trucks, whose combined sales rose 10.1 percent last month. 
 Ford said its sales fell 10.6 percent, with car sales dropping 11.3 percent and sales of light trucks falling 10.1 percent. Sales of its recently redesigned cars were the only bright spot in an otherwise dismal month.
Ford executives said they did not expect the weak sales to continue for long because the United States economy remains healthy. "You can't put a lot of emphasis on one month's results," said Robert L. Rewey, Ford's group vice president for marketing, sales and service. "Taking a longer-term view provides a much better picture of the underlying sales trend, which has been remarkably stable over the last four years."
For the industry as a whole, the year got off to a slow start. January sales in the United States fell 6.6 percent. Car sales were especially weak, falling 14.1 percent last month. But sales of sport utility vehicles, mini-vans and pickup trucks continued to climb, rising 2.9 percent last month.
The sluggish sales are partly the product of strong sales in December, auto executives and Wall Street analysts said. Toyota's Camry and Honda's Accord were locked in a tight race for bragging rights to the best-selling car of the year title, and G.M. offered customers generous year-end rebates and other incentives.
The heavy use of incentives in December probably encouraged customers to buy cars and trucks then instead of buying them in January, said Ronald L. Zarrella, G.M.'s vice president in charge of sales, service and marketing. In addition, a number of auto makers apparently lifted their 1997 results by waiting until the first week of January had passed to report their sales results for last year. The Commerce Department said that resulted in a number of sales that took place in January being recorded in totals for December.
To avoid skewing the nation's gross domestic product statistics, the Commerce Department took the unusual step of adjusting the industry's figures for its annual sales rate, both in December and in January, to reflect the misreporting. "I believe this happens from time to time, but this was the most serious," said Everette P. Johnson, an economist with the Commerce Department's Bureau of Economic Analysis.
The reports of auto makers yielded an exceptionally high seasonally adjusted annual rate in December of 16.2 million. The December rate dropped to 15.3 million after the Commerce Department's revisions. In January, also taking into account the Government revisions, the seasonally adjusted annual rate rose to 15.4 million cars and light trucks, also higher than the 15.2 million annual rate in January 1997.
Last month it seemed that customers were interested in buying only the newest designs on showroom floors. Five of G.M.'s recently redesigned midsized cars -- the Oldsmobile Intrigue and Cutlass, Chevrolet Malibu, and Buick Century and Regal -- saw their sales rise a combined 57.2 percent compared with the eight slow-selling models they replaced, said Roger G. McCormack, a G.M. market analysis manager.
G.M. also saw its sales of sport utility vehicles, mini-vans and pickup trucks hit new highs in January. Truck sales increased in every market segment: small pickup truck sales rose 7 percent; full-sized pickup truck sales increased 6 percent; van sales jumped 25 percent; small sport utility vehicle sales rose 1 percent, and full-sized sport utility vehicle sales jumped 20 percent.
Ford, by contrast, had uncharacteristically weak truck sales. The company said the 10.1 percent sales decline came because two factories are ramping up to build new models, leaving dealers with short supplies of trucks.
In car sales, Ford, like G.M., found that only its newest models sold briskly. The new cars "appear to be getting a favorable reception from customers," Mr. Rewey of Ford said. Among redesigned models, the Lincoln Town Car saw its sales rise 30.9 percent compared with a year earlier; Lincoln Continental sales climbed 27.8 percent, and Mercury Grand Marquis sales increased 49.5 percent. Even the Ford Escort, which has a new coupe version, saw its sales jump 38.0 percent.
Still, Ford's results over all were disappointing. Sales of its bread-and-butter midsized sedans, the Taurus and Mercury Sable, plunged by a combined 35.2 percent. Lower sales to low-profit rental-car fleets were the main reason, according to Ford.
Other auto makers today reported strong January sales. The popular Mercedes-Benz sport utility vehicle, the ML320, helped the auto maker record a sales increase of 64.1 percent last month compared with a year earlier. Hyundai said its sales rose 13 percent, and Jaguar said its sales rose 8.4 percent.
On Tuesday, the Chrysler Corporation said its sales rose 2 percent, and Honda said its sales rose 8.1 percent. But Toyota, Nissan and Mitsubishi said sales dropped 27.6 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "U.S. Vehicle Sales in January" tracks the annual selling rate for cars and for light trucks, seasonally adjusted, from July 1996 through January 1998. Graph also shows car and light-truck sales figures for companies that were the leading sellers in the U.S. market in 1997. It also shows industry sales and U.S. market share figures for 1997 and 1998. (Sources: Company reports, Commerce Department)(pg. D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MOTOR VEHICLES (95%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (93%); SALES FIGURES (91%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); SALES REBATES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); STATISTICS (77%); TRENDS (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); AUTOMOBILE RATINGS (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (73%); INDUSTRY AWARDS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1998



114 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: STANDOFF WITH IRAQ: THE RUSSIANS;
Yeltsin Says Clinton Could Blunder Into a World War; Press Imagines Nuclear Attack

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SPECTER

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Feb. 4

 BODY:
In remarks that seemed to astonish everyone but the man who delivered them, President Boris N. Yeltsin warned today that the United States activities in Iraq could lead to a world war.
"One must be careful in a world that is saturated with all kinds of weapons," Mr. Yeltsin said in televised remarks during a meeting in the Kremlin. "By his actions Clinton might get into a world war. They are acting too loudly. Too loudly." 
 Even among those for whom Mr. Yeltsin's gaffes have become routine, the reaction to the outburst was swift and startling. Coming only a day after other Russian leaders and the press here claimed that the United States was planning to drop nuclear weapons on Baghdad, world financial markets plunged briefly after Mr. Yeltsin's comments.
The president's spokesman attempted to blame the reaction on a "ridiculous and absurd interpretation" by the American press, although Mr. Yeltsin spoke clearly and his words would be hard to misinterpret. Most remarkable of all, the State Department, through the embassy here, felt the need to issue a long and detailed statement disavowing any plans to use nuclear weapons in Iraq.
"The press reports that the U.S. is planning to use nuclear weapons to destroy chemical or biological weapons storage facilities in Iraq have no basis in fact," the statement said. "The U.S. has no plans or intentions of using nuclear weapons against Iraq. We are well aware of the enormous implications of using nuclear weapons."
The statement was crafted, at least in part, because the American Ambassador, James Collins, was called into Foreign Minister Yevgeny Primakov's office and lectured about the horrors of nuclear weapons. That was after the Russian press, which has been blindly partisan in support of the Yeltsin Administration, printed rumors that the United States planned to use nuclear force in Iraq.
The State Department statement went on to say that "if any nation were foolish enough to attack the U.S., our allies or our forces with chemical or biological weapons, our response would be swift, devastating and overwhelming."
Mr. Yeltsin often makes statements that are blatantly inaccurate, and recently the frequency and seriousness of these remarks has increased. But his sharp attack today, eerily reminiscent of the Soviet statements during the cold war, seemed to many people to be more than a simple error.
"We understand national interest, and we understand principled opposition to any position, including our own," said one American diplomat who requested anonymity. "But he has not helped anyone by doing this. Diplomacy is not helped, the cause of peace is not helped and I don't believe that Russia is helped, either."
Mr. Yeltsin has long opposed any military solution to the confrontation between the United Nations weapons inspectors and Saddam Hussein. Iraq is one of the only places left in the world where Russia has a powerful influence. Just two days ago the Kremlin announced that it had brokered what it considered a diplomatic resolution to the confrontation. Within hours in a humiliating blow to Russia's ability to influence world events, Iraqi officials said there was no such deal at all.
Russia and the United States have repeatedly disagreed on how to force Mr. Hussein to permit United Nations inspections, which are necessary to certify that Iraq is free of weapons of mass destruction and thus eligible for the relief of economic sanctions. As American leaders have increasingly stated their position in terms of impending war, the Russians have become almost frantic in opposition.
Today, one Russian chemical weapons expert, Anatoly Kunsevich, said that much of the problem in Iraq was due to the professional incompetence of the weapons inspectors there. The inspectors have been denied access to sites that they believe may contain materials to make chemical and biological weapons.
"These people are mainly diplomats who cannot draw accurate conclusions about the places they have inspected," Mr. Kunsevich said, giving voice to a frequent complaint here.
Mr. Yeltsin, in his brief remarks today, emphasized that Russia has done all it can to resolve the crisis peacefully. He spoke today on the telephone with the French President, Jacques Chirac, and with the British Prime Minister, Tony Blair. In addition, the Foreign Minister, Yevgeny Primakov spoke with Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright.
According to reports in Thursday's issue of Izvestia, Mr. Primakov told a closed meeting of parliamentary officials on Tuesday that most Europeans leaders are against military action, but too afraid of the United States to say so in public.
Sergei Yastrzhembsky, Mr. Yeltsin's press spokesman, lashed out at the press for their reporting, and said, "Judging from my own experience, some of the American reporters working in Moscow traditionally have serious problems with the Russian language."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Boris N. Yeltsin said Washington could be lighting a tinderbox. (Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); IRAQ (94%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (57%); 

COMPANY: YELTSIN ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: YELTSIN ADMINISTRATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); IRAQ (94%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (73%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (57%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. NUCLEAR WEAPONS (95%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (87%); COLD WAR (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1998



115 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: An Urban Mini-Agenda

 BODY:
When a President unveils a new budget, state and local officials around the country rush to parse it. Analyzing the proposals for new spending here, retrenchment there, they weigh, measure and finally decree whether or not the entire package is "good" for the home team. This is the first time in a long while that New York City, or American cities in general, could deliver a positive verdict.
President Clinton, after ignoring the issue for years, is trying to remind Congress that the cities have had a very small share in the nation's economic boom. Fourteen million jobs may have been created over the last five years, but only 13 percent of them were in the cities. While New York, like most big urban areas, has done better economically in recent years, it has not done well enough. Its unemployment rate is almost twice that of the nation as a whole. The burden of finding jobs for welfare recipients and legal immigrants facing benefit cutoffs falls disproportionately heavy here. 
 Mr. Clinton came into office with big plans for reviving the cities from the neglect of the Reagan era. But he ran into Congressional resistance even before the revolution that gave Republicans control in 1994. The words "urban agenda" disappeared from the Presidential vocabulary during his re-election campaign. Now Mr. Clinton is returning -- albeit modestly -- to the cities' needs. The emphasis is on targeted tax cuts and encouraging private business development rather than new governmental programs. The long-beleaguered Department of Housing and Urban Development announced it wants to get "back in the housing business" with $1.8 billion in new funds for existing programs, like vouchers to help low-income families pay their rent in the private market. To prove HUD is worthy of expanded spending, Housing Secretary Andrew Cuomo points proudly to the 20 percent reduction in the department head count.
The budget's urban initiatives could certainly be more aggressive, given the need. But Mr. Clinton is right to tool them in a way that makes them as attractive as possible to the Republicans who control the budget process. Even at that, programs that will be of particular help to the cities, like Mr. Clinton's call for spending on school construction, will face very tough sledding in Congress.
But the most important thing the President can do for the cities has not been included in his new agenda. He must throw his weight against attempts by Congress to change the transportation aid programs in ways that favor new highway construction for exurbia, while shifting funds away from mass transit and road repair for the cities and older suburban areas. The White House has been virtually mute during the long Congressional fight over transit funding, but places like New York City stand to lose far more in that battle than they could gain from all the urban initiatives outlined in the Presidential budget. One of the main reasons the cities have trouble attracting jobs and new housing is a Federal transportation policy that encouraged businesses to move farther and farther away from the urban core.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (74%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (73%); TAX LAW (73%); EDUCATION FUNDING (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); FAMILY (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (69%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (64%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (60%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (60%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (60%); SUBURBS (60%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); ANDREW CUOMO (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1998



116 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 3452 words

HEADLINE: Brazil Pays to Shield Currency, And the Poor See the True Cost

SERIES: A REGION AT RISK: First of two articles. Next: Argentina.

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil

 BODY:
Edmar Bacha, a Brazilian banker, has a new routine. Every afternoon he logs on to the Internet, reads the next day's issue of The Korea Herald and decides what he will tell the anxious executives from Merrill Lynch and Fidelity Investments who keep asking him where Brazil is headed.
"I get very worried on days when the Koreans don't seem as worried as I am," Mr. Bacha said. "Let's face it, if Korea or Indonesia goes and Japan is hit, then who cares about fiscal adjustment in Brazil or anywhere else? Everyone's out of here and into United States Treasury bills." 
 Since the Asian crisis deepened in October, Brazil has dug in for what senior Brazilian officials call "the moral equivalent of war" -- a war to prevent Brazil from becoming "the next domino."
The stakes are huge. Brazil dwarfs Argentina and Mexico, constituting through its size and influence the key to a stable, prosperous Latin America. This is the world's fifth-largest country, whose population at 163 million is bigger than Russia's and whose industrial output surpasses China's. Despite its frequent bridling at American domination of the post-cold-war world, Brazil has recently opened its economy to that world. Its transformation illustrates the free-market upheaval that brought 5 percent growth to Latin America in 1997 and a record $45 billion in direct foreign investment.
But with this shift, vital to American interests, the country now seems poised on a knife edge. In stark terms, Brazil poses the question of whether global economic pressures exact too high a cost in stability in societies that are among the most unequal in the world.
The measures Brazil has taken to save its currency -- steps that have thus far satisfied fast-moving global markets -- are hurting the poor and the lower middle class. The Asian crisis has meant high interest rates and lost jobs. Many Brazilians who were buying cars or stoves on credit can no longer do so because efforts to attract international capital have pushed interest rates close to 40 percent a year.
Tens of thousands of state employees have been dismissed, thousands of auto workers idled. President Fernando Henrique Cardoso is paying a political price: one newspaper survey showed his popularity dropping below 50 percent for the first time.
"People are suffering," said Pedro Malan, the Finance Minister, "but they would suffer more if we did not do whatever it takes to preserve the currency. Our economic opening is irreversible."
But while opening to the world, Brazil has shunned an agreement with the International Monetary Fund; officials here equate such a deal with a loss of sovereignty, genuflection to the United States, and the failed I.M.F. programs of the 1980's debt crisis. The country is trying to bend to market forces while retaining its national identity and regional influence, in order to join the global economy on its own terms.
American companies have recently poured money into Latin America, accounting for a big share of the record $16 billion invested in Brazil last year, the record $9 billion in Argentina and the record $12 billion in Mexico. Bell South paid $2.5 billion just for the air of Sao Paulo -- for which it has been granted the cellular phone license.
But international markets remain edgy about Brazil's deficits and a currency widely regarded as overvalued by about 15 percent. "Brazil looks like a ripe case for financial risk," said Jeffrey Sachs, who heads the Harvard Institute for International Development. "It has an overvalued currency and a recession looming as it moves into an election year."
Mr. Cardoso's Government, for its part, is desperate to avoid a devaluation, which it sees as a return to the hyperinflation that ended after the real, the bedrock of Mr. Cardoso's support, was introduced in 1994.
The unanswered question is whether the policies now being forced on Brazil by international markets will spread prosperity or concentrate it further. Surveys by the I.B.G.E., a Brazilian economic institute, suggest that the richest 20 percent of the Brazilian population still hold more than 60 percent of the nation's wealth, while the poorest 20 percent account for about 2 percent. In the United States, by comparison, the richest 20 percent take 42 percent of the national income, and the poorest 20 percent have 5 percent.
Brazil is thus a paramount symbol for the Latin American continent, where despite almost a decade of opening to the global economy, United Nations data indicate that 40 percent of the people are poor and one in four survive on less than $1 a day.
 
Domestic Pressures
Money Squeeze Turns Poor Into Nomads
Out in the far west of Sao Paulo State, in an area known as the Pontal, red clouds of dust bluster across a wide and empty landscape. Cultivation is rare; the few head of cattle offer only isolated signs of life. Landless peasants camp beneath flimsy shelters, a reminder of the strains that tear at the economy even of this most advanced province.
Here in a school in the small town of Teodoro Sampaio sits Miriam Farius de Oliveira, who has just been dismissed from her $200-a-month job organizing the distribution of school lunches. She is one of the more than 30,000 state employees laid off as Brazil tries to shore up its currency against Asian buffeting.
"I was told I had not passed the requisite exam for the job," she said. "I had no warning."
Ms. Farius de Oliveira, 46 and divorced, lives with her two children in a small rented house. Even before the crisis in Asia affected her, she had had a bad year. On Feb. 23, 1997, she was shot by men apparently hired by big landowners in the area. The bullet smashed three ribs.
"I never lost consciousness," she said. "I breathed deeply, I was very sad and I prayed not to die. This is a country of violence, you see, and suffering."
She pulled down the top of her blouse to reveal the scar, a red blotch as incontrovertible as the pain in her determined eyes.
The shooting took place at a nearby estate called Sao Domingos. It had been occupied by peasants and unemployed urban poor -- members of the Movimento dos Trabal hadores Rurais Sem Terra, or Landless Rural Workers Movement, known as the M.S.T. The group is the fastest-growing representative of the poor and those newly dispossessed by the global economy.
Ms. Farius de Oliveira had gone out to Sao Domingos to support the occupation. She was carrying the movement's red flag when "pistoleiros" shot her.
The shift to an open economy in Brazil has come against a backdrop of extreme poverty that leaves armies of destitute migrants drifting across the country in search of a means to survive.
During the 1970's and 80's, millions of Brazilians moved from the countryside to cities, many to the "favelas," or slums, on the outskirts of Sao Paulo, where they often found work in factories. But with many industries laying off workers in order to compete with new imports, unemployment in the Sao Paulo area has risen to 16.3 percent, from 10.2 percent in 1990. Some of these people are now drifting back to the countryside.
The rural workers movement has become the main conduit for resentment toward all the changes. It has organized 279 occupations over the last three years and now has illegal camps on 1.38 million acres of land. More than 51,000 families live in these camps, of whom 21,000 -- or 41 percent -- arrived in 1997. Outbreaks of violence have included police killings of 17 peasants in the northern state of Para in 1996.
"Many say we are radical, but I say that we are pathetically moderate," said Gilmar Mauro, a leader of the movement. "The right to occupy an unproductive estate is not even a human right, it's practically an animal right, the right to live and eat."
Mr. Mauro, 30, sees the world as dominated by the "neo-liberal" policies of the United States -- the religion of the free market. Brazil has chosen to join this global market but will remain "marginal and subjugated," he said.
Roosevelt Roque dos Santos, who heads a group that represents landowners, thinks differently. He described the workers movement as "aimed more at establishing a socialism in Brazil than land reform." Asked about the shooting of Ms. Farius de Oliveira, he said, "You think we are going to wait for these people with bouquets of flowers?"
At the Santa Clara estate, near Sao Domingos, an invasion has just begun. There are several hundred people in makeshift shacks roofed with black plastic sheeting. Red flags flutter.
The camp is well organized. Trucks arrive bringing wood. Children wearing the red caps of the group are taken to school by bus. The movement organizes daily prayers.
There is also instruction in the way neo-liberalism "produces riches but insures misery," said Celso Nespoli, a local doctor. "We tell them about Asia, we tell them how governments are stripped of power if international capital controls everything."
The movement's leaders are vague about financial support but indicate that labor unions and the Roman Catholic Church provide money. Leftist parties and unions, unable to invigorate their message or reassure people about job security, have grown weaker. But the workers movement has learned to use instant communication to advertise the actions of police officers and landowners once protected by their regions' geographical remoteness.
The landless tell their stories. A youth of 17, Wilfrido Bayer, who has a 2-year-old and a 7-month-old to support, has worked as a farmhand earning $6 a day since leaving school at 13. He now wants "a piece of land for my kids."
A 40-year-old, Walfredo Moises Nogueira da Silva, from Aracatuba, complains that authorities now demand secondary education for garbage collectors. "We never had an education," he said.
The Government tries to steer a balance, acting at times to legalize the occupations if it determines that land on estates of a minimum of 1,235 acres is unproductive. In such cases it expropriates the land, paying a fair market price. It has spent about $5 billion settling 180,000 families on expropriated land during its three years in office. Another 100,000 are supposed to be settled this year.
"The social impact of free-market reform can be very negative at first," said Milton Seligman, president of the National Institute for Land Reform in Brasilia. "But whatever the M.S.T. think, socialism is dead. We're in the international dance hall now, and we have no choice but to dance. If we can confront the challenge, provide schools, land, health, Brazil can be a major international power within 15 years."
 
Foreign Demands
'Fat and Happy' U.S. Makes an Angry Brazil
"Order and Progress," proclaims the Brazilian flag, in what seems a somber rebuke to the country's tropical effervescence. But ambitious dreams, originating with the armed forces, have been a constant factor in Brazilian development since the 1930's. Then, the authoritarian President Getulio Vargas embarked on the country's remarkable industrialization program, transforming an agrarian economy into one producing steel, cars and aircraft.
Brazilian ambitions have always caused friction with Washington. They do today. The country tends to see President Clinton's push for a Free Trade Area of the Americas by 2005 as an attempt to destroy Brazilian industry. The Government prefers the consolidation of Mercosur, a regional bloc grouping Argentina, Paraguay and Uruguay whose trade has almost tripled, to $17 billion, in the last five years.
"The United States emerged after 1990 with tremendous power," said Mr. Malan, the Finance Minister. "But that should not imply that national identities do not exist or that a country like ours does not have a medium-term view of its own interests. The strengthening of Mercosur is our immediate priority."
A visit from Mr. Clinton in October almost turned into a fiasco after local officials read a United States-published "Country Commercial Guide" that described corruption as "still endemic in the culture" of Brazil. Outraged politicians said Brazil would not stand for such "humiliation." The phrase was hurriedly withdrawn, but the damage lingers.
"I don't think we've changed," one American official said. "We're still the same old fat and happy Americans. What's changed is that we are the only ones left standing and other countries have become less tolerant of us. We have to tread more carefully."
The suspicions of Brazilians -- that hemisphere-wide free trade may only lead to lower wages -- are of course shared by many American workers. That much was clear in President Clinton's recent failure to regain so-called "fast-track authority" to negotiate new trade accords. But in a country like Brazil, which is vulnerable to America's technological superiority, such concerns are heightened by fears of domination.
Mercosur, however, holds dangers of its own, strengthening the region but making it jointly vulnerable. About 30 percent of Argentina's exports now go to Brazil; there is anxious talk in Buenos Aires of "Brasil-dependencia." As Mr. Sachs of Harvard put it, "A major financial crisis in Brazil would take Argentina with it."
Brazil is aware of these stakes. The privatizations it is planning this year -- including that of the telecommunications company Telebras -- are expected to bring in a staggering $30 billion. It is also speeding the development of private pension funds similar to those in Argentina and Chile. These moves will please international investors.
The country's leaders know that a drying up of foreign investment, and a halting of private capital flows already more limited as a result of the Asian crisis, would land Brazil and Argentina in big trouble.
"The reaction to the Asian crisis has been decisive," said Daniel L. Gleizer of Banco Garantia, "and capital flows have resumed, albeit at lower volume and higher cost. But the truth is it may have come too late. The fundamental question is how adverse the international scenario will remain. Korea will be on our minds for some time."
In the north of Sao Paulo State, in an undulating landscape of intensely cultivated farms, lies the town of Ribeirao Preto, the heart of a rich region of sugar cane and orange production known as the Brazilian California.
Local notables here seem to have stepped out of an episode of "Dallas." Brazil is brash about its love of money. There is an energy in the region, however crude, that speaks of a future that international investors are hard pressed to ignore. Brazil (and it knows it) is one of the "Big Five" -- along with China, Russia, India and Indonesia -- whose development over the next quarter-century will be critical to the United States
Just outside Ribeirao Preto is the town of Franca, center of men's shoe production in a country that is the world's largest producer of shoes after China. The United States takes about 70 percent of Brazil's shoe exports.
When the currency plan was introduced in 1994, Franca was almost wiped out. A very strong currency -- there were just 0.84 reals to a dollar for some time -- suddenly made the town's exports expensive. A simultaneous opening to imports took a toll: shoe imports from China alone rose to $62.3 million in 1995, from $7.4 million in 1993.
"All we had ever known were increases in production and personnel," said Ivanio Batista, executive director of the shoe industry association. "And then, overnight, on July 4, 1994, we stopped being competitive."
More than 25 companies went bankrupt. Close to 5,000 people lost their jobs. Some factories moved to the northern state of Ceara, where monthly wages were about $160, compared to about $210 in Franca. Exports plunged.
And then Franca rolled up its sleeves. Miguel Heitor Bettarello runs Agabe, one of the largest shoe factories, exporters of the Giorgio Brutini and Le Glove brands to the United States. A plaque from J. C. Penney hangs on his wall.
It's simple, Mr. Bettarello says. Agabe has to get better. It produced 4.5 shoes a day per employee in 1995; it now produces 5.2 pairs; the target is 5.8 pairs soon. Personnel is down 20 percent. Machines imported from Germany are speeding production.
In his estimate, the real -- now worth about 1.11 to the dollar -- is overvalued by 30 percent. "We'd need 1.66 to compete with China," he said. "O.K., forget China, we'd need 1.3 to compete with Italy.'
But, he concedes, it is not going to happen unless Brazil is forced to the wall by international speculation.
In the minds of Brazilians, a major devaluation would signal a return to hyperinflation. "If we close the borders we'll go backward," Mr. Bettarello said. "If we devalue we'll go backward. So we just have to fight and prove we're a global company."
Exports have begun to rally. More shoes are being sold in Brazil. The Mercosur market is being developed. There is a new entrepreneurial spirit. Some of those laid off have set up "micro-empresas" -- companies that make parts of the shoe and sell to the big manufacturers.
"We are in the middle of a revolution in people's heads," Mr. Batista said. "I never heard an entrepreneur talking about educating employees; now that is all I hear."
 
Global Goals
How to Survive Till Good Times Roll
The new global culture will bring new jobs, but will Brazil educate its people in the necessary skills to hold them? Despite five years of economic growth, and a Government avowedly committed to social reform, Brazil remains starkly unequal.
It is not alone in Latin America, where the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development recently estimated that since 1970, average per-capita incomes had fallen to one-quarter of first-world levels from one-third. William R. Rhodes, vice chairman of Citibank, recently estimated that economic change had caused the poverty index to decline in only one state: Chile.
Of course, if growth can be maintained, this should change as per-capita income rises. That, perhaps, is the lesson of Chile, the first Latin American country to embark on free-market reform and today the least vulnerable to global financial instability.
Chile now has a high domestic savings rate: about 28 percent, compared to 18 percent in Brazil. This makes it less dependent on international capital. And the poorest 20 percent now have 4 percent of the national wealth, double that of Brazil's poorest.
But Chile began its painful reforms under a military dictatorship; today's reformers cannot simply stifle protest as Gen. Augusto Pinochet did.
In Brazil, the end of 2,000 percent annual inflation and the availability of credit that coincided with the currency plan allowed many poor families to enter the market for household appliances.
But those good times have now passed. In Sao Paulo, destitute children sleep under billboards advertising new mutual funds, imported Mitsubishis and "car rentals at Florida rates." The fences around luxury apartment buildings are electrified as the crime rate rises. When burglars are caught, the Sao Paulo police have a well-earned reputation for shooting to kill.
Mr. Clinton, on his recent trip to Latin America, tried to address a growing sense that the very reforms the United States pushes may only widen inequalities and worsen violence. He urged the private sector to help "bridge the gap between the haves and have-nots," saying it was "wrong for only a few to reap the benefits of the wonderful changes going on while many remain mired in poverty."
But the truth is that, as in Chile, it may take a generation for the benefits of "wonderful changes" to seep down.
In Ribeirao Preto, Mayor Roberto Jabali talks of many projects that are changing the town and reflect a growing prosperity: new shopping malls; new investments by Coca-Cola; new investments by Minnesota Manufacturing and Mining, which has one of its three Brazilian factories on the edge of town; an ambitious project to transform the airport into a vast regional hub for cargo.
"We're still some way from California," he said, "but we have the best quality of life in Brazil."
That quality, however, is a tenuous thing. Arriving at the airport recently, a visitor was met by an unusual sight: a pool of freshly spilled blood. A karate teacher, Edson Rogerio Goncalves, 30, had just been shot in the head. He died later at the hospital. His assailants, who stole his money, were not caught.
As Ribeirao's reputation as a California has grown, poor migrants have flocked to the town; crime and slums have spread. "People are lured by the myth," said Cintra Chagas, secretary of planning and development. "In this world, it is more and more difficult to remain an enclave."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The town of Franca, a men's shoe capital, was forced into decline by a strong currency and a flood of imports. But after bankruptcies and job loss have come new efficiencies. The shift to an open economy in Brazil has left armies of destitute migrants drifting in search of a means to survive. Like those seen here in Sao Paulo State, many have joined the Landless Rural Workers Movement, occupying swaths of privately owned land. (Photographs by Roger Cohen/The New York Times)(pg. A10)
 
Graphs: "Haves and Have-Nots" shows income share of the poorest one-fifth and richest one-fifth of the population in the 1990's, for Latin America and Caribbean, Middle East and North Africa, United States and Europe and Central Asia. (Source: World Bank); "How They Grew" shows annual economic growth in Latin America, and in two of its giant economies, Brazil and Argentina. (Source: U.N. Ecominic Commission for Latin America and Caribbean)(pg. A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (58%); MER (NYSE) (58%); 8675 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); ARGENTINA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); 

CITY: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (78%); 

COMPANY: FMR CORP (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (99%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (93%); ARGENTINA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); MEXICO (79%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (78%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); COLD WAR (74%); DEBT CRISIS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); DISMISSALS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); LAYOFFS (66%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (66%); INTEREST RATES (61%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); CIVIL SERVICES (61%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (61%); TREASURY SECURITIES (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1998



117 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 517 words

HEADLINE: Giuliani Focuses on Economic Boon From Filming Boom in City

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY

 BODY:
It may not have sun-splashed studio lots or moguls ordering fizzy water by the brand name, but New York City continues to enjoy a renaissance in movie and television production -- one that local officialdom is hailing, even if some residents grumble about streets clogged with film crews.
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani announced yesterday that for a fourth year in a row, spending on movie, television and other such productions in the city set a record last year, experiencing the fastest job growth of any sector in the city. Overall, $2.37 billion was spent on this area, up from $2.23 billion in 1996, an increase of 6 percent, Mr. Giuliani said. A total of 213 films were shot in the city, up from 201 films in 1996, or a 6 percent increase. 
 The biggest rise in production came in television. The number of shooting days for television shows reached 7,458, up from 6,439 in 1996, or 16 percent.
This level of film and television production is still dwarfed by that in Southern California, but Mr. Giuliani seized upon the figures as new evidence of the righteousness of his boast that the city is the "Entertainment Capital of the World."
"It's important that we point this out because sometimes when the movies and the commercials and the films are done in the city, it does create some inconvenience for people in the city," Mr. Giuliani said. "Streets have to be closed. Sometimes we close down a bridge for a period of time and people get all upset and they get angry about it. They need to know how much this does for the economy of this city, and what it means in terms of jobs for the people of the city."
To help draw attention to the release of the statistics, Mr. Giuliani once again called on the services of actors who are featured in situation comedies that are made in the city. This year, he journeyed to the sprawling Kaufman-Astoria Studios in Queens, one of the premier production facilities in the city, for a news conference with Bill Cosby ("Cosby") and Dan Aykroyd ("Soul Man," which recently moved its production to New York from Los Angeles).
The Mayor, who on Monday found himself praising a seven-ton elephant at an event promoting Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Circus, also shared the stage yesterday with Bear, a twitchy human-in-a-bear costume from a children's television show, "Bear in the Big Blue House."
Film and movie production have steadily increased since 1991, when the Hollywood studios boycotted the city for more than seven months because of a dispute with local unions.
Mr. Cosby and Mr. Aykroyd both praised the quality of the talent in the city and said they were pleased that the studios and the unions were getting along better. Mr. Aykroyd said it was easier being a celebrity in the city, noting that he commutes on the N train between his home in Manhattan and work at Kaufman-Astoria Studios, blissfully blending with the crowds.
For his part, the bear said he "really can't think of anyplace else" that he would want to film his show.
He added, though, that sometimes the city's taxis were a little narrow for his girth.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: RINGLING BROTHERS & BARNUM & BAILEY CIRCUS & COMBINED SHOWS INC (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); FILM (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); BOYCOTTS (67%); MOVIE FILMING (58%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1998



118 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: Tax Rebate Is Proposed In Connecticut

BYLINE: By JONATHAN RABINOVITZ

DATELINE: HARTFORD, Feb. 4

 BODY:
In the weeks before Election Day, candidates routinely flood the mail with everything from pamphlets to buttons, oven mitts and sponges, but this year Gov. John G. Rowland has proposed sending something special: checks for as much as $200 to almost every taxpayer in Connecticut.
Governor Rowland, a Republican who is up for re-election in November, unveiled his latest budget proposal today, taking a bold political step that few governors have dared. He called for a one-time tax rebate that would return $125 million of a state surplus that is projected to be at least $180 million. 
 And, conveniently, the checks would arrive in mid- to late October.
Mr. Rowland is certainly not the first politician who has sought to give voters an added incentive in the weeks before an election. Gov. George E. Pataki, also facing re-election this year, hopes to provide Long Islanders a rebate of as much as $232 on their electric bills later this year.
In 1977, a New Jersey governor, Brendan Byrne, instituted the practice of sending homestead rebate checks at the end of October to the elderly and disabled, a move that was widely seen as a re-election ploy -- particularly because his name was printed at the bottom of the checks in big bold letters. Gov. Jim Florio elaborated on the process by including a personal letter.
But Mr. Rowland's proposal is probably as generous and timely as any that have preceded it, though he cast it today as good government, not good politics.
"If the people of Connecticut pay more in taxes than we need to finance the cost of government, then they deserve a rebate," Mr. Rowland said in his speech to the General Assembly this afternoon. "It's their money. They earned it. They deserve it. Let's give it back."
Several top Democrats, who control both chambers of the Legislature, dismissed the idea as "dead on arrival." The party's leading gubernatorial candidate, Representative Barbara B. Kennelly, ridiculed it as a "political gimmick."
"He might as well print the checks on campaign stationery," Mrs. Kennelly said today. "He's pushing for a $125 million contribution to his own campaign."
The proposal was a surprise in a budget package that is more about adjustments than new directions. Connecticut passes a new budget every two years, and the legislative session that convened today is intended to make modifications, not to pass an entire tax and spending plan.
Still, Mr. Rowland also proposed a number of other changes in next year's budget that had Democrats complaining that the Governor had moved so far to the left that he might as well be running as a Democrat.
Mr. Rowland proposed the biggest spending increase in his four years in office, an increase of at least 3.5 percent from projected spending for the fiscal year that ends June 30.
Under Mr. Rowland's proposal, spending would increase by about $400 million over what he and the legislature had budgeted for the next fiscal year, to $10.9 billion from $10.5 billion.
The spending increases included a host of proposals -- some that Mr. Rowland has announced over the last few months and some that he had opposed in previous years:
*A $90 million education initiative that would hire 300 new teachers to teach reading to first and second graders and offer more after-school and summer-school programs.
*A new health insurance program that would extend health coverage to 90,000 more children.
*A proposal to give nursing home residents on Medicaid more spending money for personal needs.
Mr. Rowland also called for borrowing at least $344 million more than previously budgeted.
But Democrats said that Mr. Rowland would need to borrow almost double that amount to accomplish his plans, and that for a state that has the highest per capita debt in the nation, such a move was irresponsible.
Yet Mr. Rowland insisted that the budget was consistent with his overall philosophy of cutting taxes and reining in state spending. Although he did not propose the same cuts in spending that were the hallmarks of his 1995 and 1997 proposals, he argued that times had changed drastically.
"When I took office in 1995, the people of Connecticut had endured almost a full decade of increasing taxes, deficits, a paralyzing budget crisis and an economy in shambles," he said. "But that's all behind us now."
Mr. Rowland's 41-minute speech, which was punctuated with applause about every 50 seconds, called giving money back to the state's citizens through tax cuts and a rebate the "centerpiece" of his budget proposals.
A rebate differs from a cut in tax rates in that it is a one-time refund that involves returning excess revenues to the citizens who paid the taxes, said Don Boyd, director of the fiscal studies center at the Rockefeller Institute of Government. Such a move is often considered fiscally conservative, Mr. Boyd explained, as it does not assume that a surplus one year will be followed by more surpluses in the years that follow.
The National Conference of State Legislatures has reported that at least 16 states are looking to cut tax rates this year, but that rebates are much less common, particularly ones that are delivered in checks weeks before an election.
"The last time I heard of people getting checks like that in the mail was in California in the heyday of the booming economy," said Arturo Perez, a fiscal analyst with the legislative group, referring to 1987, when Gov. George Deukmejian returned a $1 billion surplus to California citizens.
Mr. Perez said that Colorado and Missouri were also looking into rebates, but that they had not been proposed as separate checks that would be mailed out. Instead, they would be included in a general refund on income tax returns, he said.
Mr. Boyd noted that Oregon, Ohio and Minnesota were also likely to offer rebates this year.
And indeed, the rebate idea in Connecticut is not solely a Republican one. In a report issued Monday, State Comptroller Nancy Wyman, a Democrat, proposed adopting a rebate program that would automatically refund the surplus to taxpayers every year.
Ms. Wyman's program did not specify a date that checks would be sent, and had a different formula for how the money would be assigned, delegating more money to the state's rainy day fund than Mr. Rowland asked for today.
Under Mr. Rowland's plan, all citizens who pay property taxes and who continue to owe income tax even after deducting a $215 property tax credit would be eligible for the rebate. Joint filers would receive a dollar back on their income tax liability up to $200. The limit for single filers is $100.
Mr. Rowland's aides insisted today that sending the checks out in October was not politically motivated. They said the money could not be issued until the Comptroller certified the surplus on Sept. 1.
It would then take 45 days to issue the payments, which would cost about 50 cents a check to process, they said.
But the Speaker of the House, Thomas D. Ritter, a Democrat, said that it was the most regressive tax break he had ever seen, and that it would give money back to a millionaire while the lowest-income workers would get nothing.
"His plan as written will not pass," Mr. Ritter said. "He has to convince us that it shouldn't go into the rainy day fund, that it shouldn't be used for debt service and that it makes sense to give it to people who made $10 million last year."
If Mr. Rowland can cross those hurdles, Mr. Ritter added, then: "Let's do the rebate in January 1999. It will let everyone pay off their holiday bills."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. TAXES & TAXATION (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); SALES REBATES (57%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1998



119 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: South Korea's Crisis Hinders Nuclear Deal With the North

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 4

 BODY:
South Korean officials have told the Clinton Administration that their financial crisis has left them unable to pay their full share of the construction of nuclear power plants in North Korea, the key element of a deal that halted the North's nuclear weapons program three years ago.
South Korea is expected to ask the United States and Japan to provide more help for the early stages of the project when they meet to discuss the accord in New York on Thursday. Congress, however, has refused to pay directly for the reactor construction. 
 American officials are concerned that any signal from Seoul that it is slowing the construction of the $5 billion civilian nuclear project could embolden North Korea to break its commitment to halt its nuclear weapons program. The South's effort to delay its payment is the most conspicuous example yet of how the Asian financial crisis is spilling over into American foreign policy problems.
South Korea's incoming president, Kim Dae Jung, has repeatedly said that South Korea is committed to carrying out the 1994 accord. But devoting tens of millions of dollars to the early stages of the project, when the Government is in the midst of an austerity campaign and workers are facing mass layoffs, has become what one senior South Korean official calls "a very delicate political problem."
After lengthy delays, the project is just getting under way. North Korean workers, in conjunction with engineers from the South, are clearing the site for the two nuclear plants.
Last week the Nuclear Regulatory Commission in Washington published an unusual notice in the Federal Register: a request from Combustion Engineering, a nuclear equipment producer, for a license to export two reactors, for "commercial operation of electricity," to North Korea. Ordinarily, exports of virtually any sensitive goods to the Communist country are barred.
The notice was something of a diplomatic gaffe, officials acknowledged. The 1994 accord calls for the reactors to be of "Korean style" to calm South Korean objections that Seoul was paying for reactors made by American companies.
American officials familiar with the sensitive negotiations said today that they suspect Seoul may be using the financial crisis to test Washington and Tokyo's willingness to pay a bigger part of the North Korean project. The South wants the Americans to commit money to building the light-water reactor, something Congress has refused to do, though the United States has spent about $100 million sending fuel oil to North Korea, to supplement its energy supplies. The money helped set up the organization that oversees the nuclear project.
"We have made it clear that we do not think Congress is prepared to fund the light-water reactor for the North under any conditions," one senior American official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity. But "clearly we are doing a lot to help the South Koreans through their troubles," he said, referring the the American commitment to provide up to $3 billion in "backup financing" for emergency loans that South Korea is receiving from the International Monetary Fund.
It is not clear how North Korea will respond to South Korea's changed view of the financing. "The reactors are the quid pro quo for freezing the nuclear program," said Gary Milhollin, director of the Wisconsin Project on Nuclear Arms Control. "If the reactors don't go forward, we will confront at some point North Korean reluctance to do their part of the deal."
The 1994 accord defused a diplomatic confrontation with North Korea that came perilously close to an outbreak of hostilities along the demilitarized zone on the border, according to two recent studies.
For several years leading up to the accord, the United States insisted that North Korea halt its activities at a secret nuclear site called Yongbyun, where the Central Intelligence Agency had concluded the North was producing plutonium.
It was unclear at the time whether the North Koreans had the technology to use the plutonium at the core of a crude nuclear weapon. But there was considerable evidence that the North was working furiously to develop that technology, and may have possessed enough plutonium to produce two or more small bombs. In the spring of 1994, it began extracting more plutonium from the fuel rods of its largest reactor.
By June, as the crisis escalated, the United Nations was on the verge of imposing a virtual economic embargo on the North. In a series of meetings at the White House, President Clinton was preparing to approve a Pentagon recommendation to reinforce the 37,000 American troops based in South Korea. The Pentagon feared that North Korea could react to economic sanctions by launching a surprise attack on the South.
But that same month, former President Jimmy Carter went to North Korea on his own and negotiated the outlines of a settlement with President Kim Il Sung, the North's founder. President Kim died the following month, but a final accord was reached in October.
The bargain struck essentially froze the North's extraction of plutonium, allowing international inspectors to "can" the spent fuel rods, meaning encasing the waste safely, and keep them under constant surveillance.
In return, South Korea, Japan and the United States agreed to provide the North with two light-water reactors, which produce electricity without producing the kind of nuclear waste that can easily be turned into weapons.
The unspoken assumption guiding American officials at the time was that North Korea's regime, already reeling from famines, fuel shortages and the death of the country's longtime leader, would likely collapse before the project was complete.
But recently Mr. Kim's son, Kim Jong Il, formally succeeded his father, and the Government has muddled on, though its military power appears to have diminished over the past three years.
Meanwhile, South Korea and Japan have been haggling over how they will divide the cost of paying for the reactors. Japan has discussed an investment of upwards of $1 billion. Thursday's meeting was intended to move toward a resolution of that dispute.
But one American official said it was clear that "the financial crisis is going to keep us from solving this problem this year." But he said the problems did not threaten to bankrupt the organization that is buying the reactors and arranging the construction.
Because the Korean currency has decreased in value so dramatically, the cost of the reactors -- which are priced in dollars -- has soared. While South Korean officials say they will press for a larger contribution from the United States, Congress is even questioning the American contribution to the South Korean economic bailout.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President-elect Kim Dae Jung has said he stands by the 1994 accord. (Associated Press)(pg. A8)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); JAPAN (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (77%); 

COMPANY: NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (65%); THURSDAY CONGRESS (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (65%); THURSDAY CONGRESS (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); JAPAN (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (77%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. US PRESIDENTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); EXPORT CONTROLS (69%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (68%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (63%); COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGIES (63%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1998



120 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: A Matter of American Leadership

 BODY:
The roster of lobbyists marching up to Capitol Hill to make the case for giving the International Monetary Fund an infusion of $18 billion says something about the importance of the Administration proposal. The principal salesmen are Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin and Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve. The Clinton Administration argues, correctly, that the fund, for all its flaws, remains the only institution that can snuff out financial crises abroad before they bury local economies and before they reverberate around the globe, striking even the United States. Without new money from Washington, the fund's other members are unlikely to contribute the reserves that the fund needs to bail out countries in financial distress.
After the Administration's humiliating failure to gain approval of "fast track" trade legislation last year, the I.M.F. vote takes on a larger political importance. America's partners wonder whether its commitment to the global economic order is waning. A second Congressional rebuke would send an alarming signal abroad that the United States is in further retreat. That is why the Administration's new sense of urgency is welcome, as is the decision by a pivotal Republican leader -- Jim Leach, chairman of the House Banking Committee -- to advance the cause. The $18 billion would not subtract money from other Federal programs because it is treated like a bank deposit. 
 Mr. Leach's novel contribution to the debate is his proposal to impose conditions on the I.M.F. designed to improve its mixed record. The bill calls for less secrecy in fund operations. Mr. Leach, for instance, wants the fund to make its bailout agreements public. He would also subject the fund's policy-making to review by independent experts.
The idea is to expose policy mistakes before they do damage. In Indonesia the I.M.F., by its own admission, cracked down too hard on banks, driving the economy into a needless tailspin. Had the policy been subjected to outside review and correction, millions of Indonesians, living on the margin of subsistence, could have been spared the loss of their jobs.
Critics also accuse the I.M.F. of protecting bankers better than workers or the environment. The Leach bill presses the fund to take account of worker rights and environmental conditions without imposing rigid remedies.
In the process of bailing out South Korea and other collapsed Asian economies, the fund has been forced to rescue foreign investors who made bad loans. It could not do otherwise. A country whose currency is under siege needs to attract foreign capital to keep factories and other business afloat. If the country defaults on its foreign loans, foreign investors will flee. But a bailout that holds some foreign investors harmless suggests that they can make imprudent loans with impunity. Mr. Leach properly wants the fund to devise ways to make foreign investors bear at least some loss before the I.M.F. comes to their rescue.
The fund's critics need to be reminded of its successes. It has kept the financial crisis in Asia from spreading to Russia, Brazil and the United States. It has pressured South Korea and Indonesia to wring crony politics out of their commercial banking transactions. The fund has also demanded pledges by each of the bailout recipients to adopt Western standards of accounting that will tell investors the true financial state of their banks and businesses. To deny the I.M.F. additional money now is to invite economic calamity and to undermine the vital interests of the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); INDONESIA (92%); ASIA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL PROGRAMS (54%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); INDONESIA (92%); ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); LOBBYING (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); FOREIGN LENDING (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); LAYOFFS (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1998



121 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Sports Desk

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: COLLEGES;
Rutgers Hires Mulcahy to Improve Sports Image

BYLINE: By FRANK LITSKY

 BODY:
Rutgers University, where athletic fortunes and finances have suffered in recent years, made a major move yesterday to get well again by naming a new athletic director. As expected, the job went to Robert E. Mulcahy 3d, who for 19 years has been the president and chief executive officer of the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority.
The appointment represented a victory for Gov. Christine Todd Whitman, who wanted Mulcahy for the state university post and had to overcome at least initial resistance from Dr. Francis L. Lawrence, the university president. In announcing the appointment at a news conference at the Hale Center, part of the Rutgers sports complex in Piscataway, N.J., Lawrence said that in the search for a new athletic director, Mulcahy's name "surfaced early and repeatedly." 
 Since 1979, Mulcahy has run the sports authority. It comprises the Meadowlands sports complex (Giants Stadium, Continental Arena and the Meadowlands race track) in East Rutherford, the Monmouth Park race track in Oceanport, the state aquarium in Camden and the new $250 million convention center in Atlantic City. The authority generates $1.2 billion a year for the New Jersey economy.
The 61-year-old Mulcahy will start his new job in April. Rutgers announced that he had agreed to a three-year contract paying $185,000 a year. His authority job pays $182,875.
One of Mulcahy's strengths is marketing. He helped bring 1994 World Cup soccer matches and the 1996 men's basketball Final Four to the Meadowlands. Critics of the Rutgers athletic program said Fred Gruninger, the departing athletic director, lacked the marketing skills needed in present-day college sports. Gruninger will retire in June after 25 years on the job.
Lawrence said of Mulcahy:
"They got the right person at the right time. He will be working with the coaches to try to make them successful. He will be out in New Jersey trying to get support for the program. He is experienced, so I don't have to wait three or four years for someone to develop."
Mulcahy is proud of his Meadowlands accomplishments, calling the complex "an American icon of college and professional athletics." He talked of developing at Rutgers "a model athletic program that will be a focal point of campus life and a centerpiece of state pride."
Whitman had kind words for Mulcahy.
"One of the things that will be very important, obviously. is to increase the image and to market it well," she said in a statement. "He absolutely knows that. He is unparalleled in his ability to do that kind of thing."
Rutgers can use the help. Its athletic program has lost $31.5 million over the last 10 years. The men's basketball team, once a national contender, dismissed Bob Wenzel as coach after last season's 11-16 record. Last fall's football team, coached by Terry Shea, finished with an 0-11 record, including losses by 59-19 to Virginia Tech, 48-14 to Texas, 48-0 to West Virginia, 50-3 to Syracuse and 49-7 to Temple.
Football attendance averaged fewer than 20,000 in a stadium that seats 42,000. In 1994, Mulcahy helped Rutgers raise $26 million to rebuild the football stadium and create other sports facilities.
On Dec. 17, with Gruninger having announced he would retire, Whitman met with Lawrence and strongly recommended Mulcahy for the job. Lawrence wanted a national search and appointed a search committee of eight administrators, faculty members and students, including himself.
Lawrence later played down suggestions that Whitman was trying to force the appointment of Mulcahy.
"We had a conversation that should be kept private," Lawrence said. "I think everyone was within his or her right to indicate support for a candidate. You have to allow for that democratic process involving members of our community. It happened, and we got the best person for the job. There are no tensions between me and the Governor. Absolutely not."
Whitman said that she "wanted to make sure that the process was kept open enough that it did not exclude somebody who was in the state."
Mulcahy lives in Mendham, where he was once the Mayor. He is a Democrat and was the chief of staff to Brendan Byrne, who appointed Mulcahy to the sports authority when he was Governor. Mulcahy has held the job under four Governors -- Byrne, a Democrat; Tom Kean, a Republican; Jim Florio, a Democrat, and Whitman, a Republican.
Raymond H. Bateman, the sports authority chairman, said Dennis Robinson, the authority's chief financial officer, would become acting president. He said Robinson had a "strong chance" to get the job permanently.
Mulcahy is a 1958 Villanova graduate with a degree in history. He was a Navy officer from 1958 to 1960.
Mulcahy is leaving the sports authority at a time when income has slipped because of increasing competition for the leisure dollar. Race track attendance and betting handles have fallen. The Devils hockey team renegotiated its lease two years ago and the Nets basketball team is trying to do the same.
But the downside at one place becomes the upside at another. As Shea, the Rutgers football coach, said of his new boss: "I think I really got an ally and an adviser in Bob Mulcahy, and hopefully a mentor. I think just his presence and his stature are going to help us in state in just spreading the word about what a great opportunity Rutgers University will be for some of this New Jersey talent that seems to want to leave the state at times."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Robert E. Mulcahy 3d, the new Rutgers athletic director, at the Hale Center on the campus in Piscataway, N.J. (Frank C. Dougherty for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (94%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (94%); NEW JERSEY SPORTS & EXPOSITION AUTHORITY (58%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (56%); NEW YORK GIANTS (56%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (56%); NEW YORK GIANTS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (94%); RUTGERS UNIVERSITY (94%); NEW JERSEY SPORTS & EXPOSITION AUTHORITY (58%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (56%); NEW YORK GIANTS (56%); MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (56%); NEW YORK GIANTS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (91%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); BASKETBALL (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (64%); SOCCER (64%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (64%); 

PERSON: CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1998



122 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: Man in the News: Gregory Weldon Meeks;
Master of the Political Balancing Act

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS

 BODY:
A week ago, at a boisterous, old-fashioned political rally in a Queens community center, Gregory W. Meeks stood on a stage as a Congressional candidate facing hundreds of supporters and surrounded by a host of Democratic officials, some of whom were not known for having much in common with regard to political philosophy.
On one side of Mr. Meeks was the Rev. Al Sharpton, who praised the contender for his vehement criticism of police brutality. On the other side was a former Congressman, Floyd H. Flake, the minister whom Mr. Meeks sought to replace in the House of Representatives, who lavishly hailed the candidate as an impassioned advocate for economic development. 
 That Mr. Sharpton and Mr. Flake -- who are cordial to each other but definitely cut from different political cloth -- shared the stage so easily was a testament to the appeal of Mr. Meeks.
Indeed, in a relatively short political career, Mr. Meeks, 44, has demonstrated an ability to attract the support of a broad spectrum of politicians. And fresh from a resounding victory Tuesday night that made him the newest member of Congress from New York, Mr. Meeks is apparently different things to different people.
To some, he is something of a charming firebrand and renegade, a man who often worked the streets of Far Rockaway, Queens, in campaigns against the Democratic Party machine. He has been a zealous foot soldier in the presidential campaigns of the Rev. Jesse L. Jackson and in the various electoral contests of Mr. Sharpton.
To other observers, he has come across as a moderate, former prosecutor with respectable law-and-order credentials. He was known as a conciliator, finessing relationships and egos -- and amassing political comrades -- in his role as the former chairman of the Council of Black Elected Democrats.
"Meeks is attractive to many people because he represents a new generation of leadership in the African-American community," said Lawrence B. Seabrook, a State Senator and friend of Mr. Meeks.
"But he's also a good balancing act who can attract those from the left and those more to the right. He's seen as a progressive with one hand in the activist community and another in mainstream politics. That's why he can stand on a stage with the support of both the Rev. Sharpton and Peter Vallone."
The activist minister and the Speaker of the City Council were among the legions of prominent Democratic supporters Mr. Meeks attracted during the contentious, five-candidate campaign for the seat in the Sixth Congressional District vacated by Mr. Flake.
Mr. Meeks suggests that his appeal is based on his work as "a bridge builder" and his emphasis during the campaign on economic development in southeastern Queens, a hallmark of his predecessor, Mr. Flake.
"I'm one who understands that, particularly in the African-American community, the key is now economic," said Mr. Meeks, who is to be sworn in as a member of the House of Representatives today. "We have to move toward the economic redistribution of our community more than we have in the past. That's what I'm about."
Mr. Meeks's victory -- with 57 percent of the vote -- represents a sharp ascent in the career of a man who a few years ago was scarcely known outside his home base in Far Rockaway.
Gregory Weldon Meeks was born on Sept. 25, 1953, in Harlem, the oldest of four children, and grew up in two public housing projects in upper Manhattan.
His father was a taxi driver who also did maintenance work in the Shubert Organization's theaters and his mother was a housewife who waited until her children had reached their teen-age years before earning her college degree.
Mr. Meeks developed an interest in politics as a youngster, starting with leadership positions in student government as early as junior high school.
After graduating from Adelphi University, he went to Washington to attend law school at Howard University. Upon earning his degree there, Mr. Meeks returned to New York, where his family had relocated from Harlem to the Rockaway Peninsula.
It was there that he, with the urging and participation of his civically active mother, formed a community association aimed at getting streets repaired and obtaining improved city services.
That led him into grass-roots politics and he went on to establish a political club -- the Jesse L. Jackson Independent Democratic Club of the Rockaways -- and to immerse himself in several races, frequently, as he recalls, supporting insurgent candidates.
His professional career took him from being an assistant district attorney in Queens to a private law practice to being an administrative judge on the State Workers Compensation Board.
At the urging of his politically active friends, he mounted his first campaign for elective office in 1991, losing in a crowded Democratic primary for a seat on the expanded City Council. The next year, at the age of 39, he won a a newly formed Assembly seat, representing Far Rockaway.
"He's very smart and extremely hard-working," said Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi, a Meeks supporter. "He's also a guy who believes in working with all the communities. I think he'll do all right."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gregory Weldon Meeks. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "PROFILE: Gregory Weldon Meeks"
 
BORN: Sept. 25, 1953; Harlem.
 
EDUCATION: Julia Richman High School in Manhattan, 1971; B.A., Adelphi University, 1975; J.D., Howard University School of Law, 1978.
 
CAREER: Assistant district attorney, Queens, 1978 to 1980; assistant special narcotics prosecutor, City of New York, 1980 to 1982; assistant counsel, State Investigation Commission, 1982 to 1984; lawyer in private practice, 1984 to 1985; judge of the State Workers Compensation Board, 1985 to 1987; appointed supervising judge, 1987 to 1992; elected to New York State Assembly, 1992.
 
FAMILY: Married July 18, 1997, to Simone-Marie Lipscomb; two daughters, Ebony and Aja, from previous marriage.
 
INTERESTS: Photography, bicycling.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: HOWARD UNIVERSITY (59%); HOWARD UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOWARD UNIVERSITY (59%); HOWARD UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (87%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (57%); CITIES (50%); 

PERSON: GREGORY W MEEKS (94%); AL SHARPTON (89%); JESSE JACKSON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1998



123 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1416 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-11
 
South Korea Crisis Hinder Nuclear Deal With North
South Korea told the United States that it could not meet its immediate commitments to pay for the construction of nuclear power plants in North Korea, the key element of the deal that halted the North's nuclear weapons program. A1 

Differences Over Iraq Policy
The White House found itself at odds with Congressional leaders over Iraq policy, as the two top Republican lawmakers called on President Clinton to use the military to remove President Saddam Hussein, and Administration officials tried to play down expectations of what a military strike might achieve. A1
 
Russian President Boris N. Yeltsin astonished his audience during a televised meeting in the Kremlin when he warned that the United States' activities in Iraq could lead to a world war. A6
 
Recklessness Cited in Crash
Defense Department officials said that they could not dispute claims by the Italian Government that "tragic recklessness" was responsible for a collision on Tuesday in which an American military jet sliced through the cables of a ski lift in northern Italy and sent 20 people in a cable car plunging to their deaths. A1
 
Netanyahu May Block Housing
The Israeli Interior Ministry announced that it had approved plans for Jewish housing in an Arab neighborhood in East Jerusalem, prompting spokesmen for Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to say that he would block the project because of its political sensitivity. A5
 
Holocaust Memorial Challenged
A group of 19 German intellectuals, historians and authors including Gunter Grass urged the authorities to abandon plans for a gigantic Holocaust memorial in Berlin. A9
 
Armenia Crisis Deepens
Armenia's political crisis deepened when parliamentary deputies accepted the resignations of the President and Parliament Speaker, effectively handing power in the former Soviet state to the hard-line Prime Minister. There was turmoil in Parliament as President Levon Ter-Petrossian's supporters lined up to turn in their own resignations in a mounting feud over the disputed enclave of Nagorno-Karabakh. (Reuters)
 
NATIONAL A12-20
 
Starr Refuses to Limit Questions to Clinton Aides
Prosecutors investigating the question of a relationship between President Clinton and a former intern rejected a White House request that they restrict their questioning of his senior aides, setting up a potential confrontation over Mr. Clinton's power to protect certain conversations from scrutiny. A1
 
Surgeon General Nomination
The Senate took up the nomination of Dr. David Satcher to be Surgeon General, with conservatives vowing to oppose Dr. Satcher, the head of the Federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, because of his support for President Clinton's refusal to ban a type of late-term abortion.
 A1
 
Helping Low-Income Students
President Clinton said that he wanted to provide mentors to low-income students to help guide them toward college, as part of his efforts to encourage students to attend college. The President's budget proposal for 1999 provides $140 million to match mentors with students, and envisions $70 million more in 2000 and in 2001. A14
 
A Pair of $100 Million Gifts
A California entrepreneur, Alfred E. Mann, said that he was giving $100 million each to the University of Southern California and the University of California at Los Angeles to set up biomedical research institutes. The gifts would be among the largest private donations ever to higher education. A14
 
Reagan Airport Bills Pass
The House and the Senate approved slightly differing legislation to rename Washington National Airport in honor of former President Ronald Reagan. Some Republicans voted against the renaming, and some Democrats voted for it. President Clinton is expected to sign the final measure. A16
 
General Endorsed in Senate
The Senate Armed Services Committee gave a glowing endorsement to the nomination of Gen. Joseph W. Ralston of the Air Force for a second two-year term as vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. General Ralston's nomination for the chairman's post was withdrawn last June because of disclosures of an adulterous affair he had with a civilian woman in the mid-1980's. A18
 
Fat Deposits and AIDS Therapy
Paunches, buffalo humps in the neck, puffy cheeks and other unusual accumulations of fat are changing the body shapes of a surprising number of people taking the newer combination therapies to combat the AIDS virus, doctors said at the Fifth Conference on Retro Viruses and Opportunistic Infections, in Chicago. A19
 
Improving Fuel Economy
The Clinton Administration announced a research effort with automotive companies to sharply improve the fuel economy of sport utility vehicles, pickup trucks and mini-vans, using techniques borrowed from the Pentagon. A20 
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-14
 
British Lawmaker Seeks The Return of Winnie-the-Pooh
A member of Britain's Parliament has asked her Government to obtain the return of the original Winnie-the-Pooh doll and four companion dolls. The dolls, which were the inspiration for the British author A. A. Milne's Winnie-the-Pooh children's stories, are in a display case at a New York Public Library branch. Mayor Giuliani said he would fight to keep them in New York. A1
 
Northeaster Bearing Down
Coastal towns in New Jersey, New York and Connecticut braced for the a slow-moving northeaster that was expected to hit shorelines. B8
 
Box Tree Restaurant Strike
The Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees Union declared victory in the settlement of a 50-month strike against the Box Tree restaurant. The strike had come to symbolize the tense labor-management relations facing many low-wage and immigrant workers in the city. B1
 
Killings in the Bronx
The slaying of Gaston Bedward, 49, in his Bronx laundromat was the third killing of the day, and the sixth homicide of the year, in the 47th Precinct, the police said. In 1997, there were 17 killings in the precinct. B3
 
NEEDIEST CASES B4
 
SPORTS C1-10
 
Golfer's Suit Against PGA Tour
The professional golfer Casey Martin tearfully testified in a Federal courtroom about the rare circulatory condition that causes him intense pain when he has to walk on a golf course. Martin is suing the PGA Tour for the right to use a golf cart in competition. C1
 
HOUSE & HOME F1-16
 
ARTS E1-10
 
Confronting the Plunder Issue
The directors of the nation's top art museums are urging the creation of a system to resolve potential ownership disputes. The call comes amid growing claims that museums are displaying wartime plunder. E1
 
BUSINESS DAY D1-23
 
Fed Leaves Rates Intact
The Federal Reserve voted to leave interest rates unchanged, apparently concluding that the economy would slow enough to repress inflation without endangering the seven-year-old expansion. The decision was no surprise to investors and economists, and the stock market showed little reaction. The Dow fell 30.64 points, to 8,129.7, after a 253.85-point gain over the previous two days. Bond prices rose marginally. D1
 
Auto Sales Tumble
General Motors and Ford announced steep drops in January sales, with all but the latest-model cars selling slowly. D1
 
Silver Prices Rise
The price of silver jumped to $7.02 an ounce -- its highest since 1988 -- on word that Berkshire Hathaway, the company controlled by the investor Warren E. Buffet, now owned about $910 million worth of the metal. D1
 
Microsoft's Gates Hit With Pie
The chairman of Microsoft, William H. Gates, was struck in the face by a pie as he arrived for a meeting with business and government leaders in Brussels. Mr. Gates was not harmed, officials said, and he went ahead with the meeting after cleaning up. D11
 
Business Digest D1
 
OBITUARIES A21
 
Franklin M. Kreml
A former police officer who became an authority on traffic, traffic safety, traffic policing and transportation in general, he was 91. A21
 
EDITORIAL A22-23
 
Editorials: A matter of American leadership; if Charlie Trie sings; an urban mini-agenda.
 
Columns: William Safire, Bob Herbert.
 
Bridge E7
 
Public Lives B2
 
Crossword E8
 
Weather B8

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ARMENIA (92%); ITALY (92%); ISRAEL (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE ARMED SERVICES COMMITTEE (69%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE ARMED SERVICES COMMITTEE (69%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ARMENIA (92%); ITALY (92%); ISRAEL (79%); GERMANY (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HOLOCAUST (87%); POOR POPULATION (87%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); HISTORY (73%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (70%); APPROVALS (70%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (70%); SKIING (66%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (66%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (66%); GENOCIDE (65%); RESIGNATIONS (63%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (61%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (60%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (60%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (60%); ABORTION (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (94%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (71%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1998



124 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: Las Vegas Journal;
At Hotel-Casino, Triumphant Shouts of 'Union!'

BYLINE: By SARA MOSLE

DATELINE: LAS VEGAS, Nev., Feb. 2

 BODY:
Joseph Daugherty is thinking about taking a vacation. As an organizer for the Culinary Workers Union Local 226 in Las Vegas, he has not taken a day off since Sept. 21, 1991, when 550 workers -- maids, cocktail waitresses, bartenders, cooks -- walked off their jobs at the Frontier hotel and casino to protest the resort's treatment of its employees.
"I used to tell my family on the East Coast that I'd see them when the strike was over," Mr. Daugherty said with a rueful smile. He did not realize that the walkout, the nation's longest in almost four decades, would end up lasting nearly six and a half years. 
 A minute after midnight on Sunday, the strike finally ended as the Rev. Jesse Jackson and Richard Trumka, the secretary-treasurer of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., led returning workers, national labor leaders, local politicians, union members and some 2,000 other revelers on a triumphant march around the craps and black jack tables, their shouts of "union" drowning out the tintinnabulation of the slot machines.
Strikers wept and hugged, but many looked dazed as they wandered through a place that was both intimately familiar and strange after so long. Raymond Turner, who had worked as a cook at the Frontier for 25 years before walking out, said, "I guess it looks the same, but it hasn't sunk in yet."
Like soldiers who recall their years of service with fondness, many strikers admitted to an unexpected emotion: they were going to miss the picket line. Mirna Preciado, who was returning to her job as a waitress that morning, said: "I'm glad we won, but I'm sad, too. I'm going to miss my friends."
During the strike, children graduated from their strollers to walk with their mothers on the picket line. Couples met and married. Seventeen strikes also died during the course of the walkout.
"We are like family," Ms. Preciado said.
Strikers had vowed to hold out "one day longer" than the Elardi family, which bought the Frontier from the Summa Corporation in 1989 and began taking actions like dismissing workers without cause, reducing wages and refusing to contribute to the pension fund.
In September 1995, United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco, upheld dozens of charges of violation of labor law. In an uncommon display of solidarity, strikers walked the picket line around the clock for 6 years, 4 months and 10 days. Not a single striker crossed back over the picket line, and union members voted to double their dues to support a strike fund. Pickets credited Mr. Daugherty for helping to sustain morale.
Motorists would sometimes pelt them with rocks, eggs, ice cream and even a dead rabbit that had been shot. Occasionally, resort workers would spray the pickets from water hoses intended for cleaning the parking lot. And then there were the 120-degree summers and wintery nights.
"Joe was our glue," Ms. Preciado said. "We called him St. Joe."
John Wilhelm, secretary-treasurer of the Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees International, said, "In my 28 years in labor, I have never met a more extraordinary leader than Joe."
Whenever union conventions were held here, members would join the picket line. Postal workers, teachers and state, county and municipal employees all marched with the strikers. A local doctor, Elias Ghanem, provided free medical service -- delivering 107 babies to their families.
Even management at other hotel-casinos sympathized with the workers. William Bennett, then the head of Circus Circus and now the owner of the Sahara, became so distressed with the strikers' plight that he provided three hot meals a day for more than five years at an estimated cost of $1 million.
Last fall, Phillip Ruffin, a businessman from Kansas, ended the standoff when he bought the Frontier for $167 million and agreed to sign a union contract and take back the employees with their seniority and pensions intact. (About 100 replacement workers lost their jobs.) Last week, Mr. Ruffin revealed that the strike had cut the Elardi family's business in half even though the economy was booming.
The Elardis, who live in Las Vegas, had argued that they could not make a profit if they paid union wages, but nearly every other major hotel and casino on the Strip was a union shop at the time.
For labor leaders, the victory was sweet.
"This strike is the most significant victory in American labor since the early C.I.O. days and Walter Reuther," said Gerald McEntee, the president of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees.
And many other leaders have begun to point to Las Vegas as a model for organized labor. John J. Sweeney, the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., has called Las Vegas "the hottest union city in America."
In recent years, the Strip has been the scene of demonstrations reminiscent of the 1930's as thousands of workers, even tens of thousands, have taken to the streets to fight for better wages and benefits.
In the last 15 years, the culinary union has more than doubled its ranks, to over 40,000 members. Las Vegas is the fastest-growing city in the country, and the union is the fastest-growing local in the private sector. As Mr. Wilhelm of the hotel-restaurant union put it, service workers' jobs cannot be shipped overseas. He says Las Vegas's prosperity depends in large part on the union contract.
For his part, Mr. Daugherty, the organizer, said he might not take the vacation, after all.
"In labor," he said, "there's a saying that a union is only as strong as its next strike."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mirna Preciado, a waitress who along with more than 500 other workers went on strike against the Frontier hotel and casino in Las Vegas, Nev., in September 1991, celebrated the end of the walkout early Sunday. (Tyrone Turner for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: FRONTIER HOTEL (91%); AFL-CIO (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEVADA, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CASINOS (91%); GAMING (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); STRIKES (89%); RESORTS (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); DISMISSALS (73%); MARRIAGE (71%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (71%); SHOOTINGS (61%); APPEALS COURTS (50%); 

PERSON: JESSE JACKSON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1998



125 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: Joint Effort Seeks to Raise Fuel Economy of 'Light Trucks'

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 4

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration announced a research effort with automotive companies today to improve sharply the fuel economy of sport utility vehicles, pickup trucks and mini-vans, using techniques borrowed from the Pentagon.
Secretary of Energy Federico F. Pena said the goal would be to increase by 50 percent by 2004 the number of miles that these so-called light trucks can travel on a gallon of gasoline or diesel. With sales of light trucks rising quickly, improved fuel economy for them would conserve energy while curbing emissions of carbon dioxide, the main gas linked to global warming. 
 The plan announced today involves Government work in partnership with the Big Three automobile companies and seven regional consortiums of component manufacturers and high-technology start-up companies.
The Energy Department and the Transportation Department will take over a research program on medium- and heavy-duty vehicles from the Defense Department. The research into heavy trucks will continue, with the goal of doubling the gas mileage of 18-wheel trucks. The military has already developed a Humvee that can go twice as far as previous models on a gallon of fuel, with better acceleration, quieter operation and less pollution.
"It's important for us to focus on light trucks and heavy trucks," said Mr. Pena, who said trucks were the fastest-growing segment of the transportation business. Gasoline consumption by cars is projected to show little change through 2020, while light truck consumption of gasoline is expected to rise steeply, according to a chart that Mr. Pena displayed. The new research effort into light trucks was mostly put together in the last two months, in response to rising sales of light trucks and growing public interest in them, Federal officials said.
The Government defines sport utility vehicles, pickup trucks and mini-vans as light trucks, though mini-vans and a few sport utility vehicles are actually based on car designs.
The Administration has asked Congress for $50 million for truck research, to be matched by at least $50 million from the auto industry. But if Congress rejects that request, the Administration plans to conduct light truck research anyway, on a smaller scale. The auto industry has said it would only produce high-mileage vehicles if they can be made for a price consumers would pay.
According to the Energy Department, about 2 million of the approximately 9.5 million barrels of fuel used daily for highway vehicles goes into trucks and buses, and nearly 3 million into "light trucks," many of which are household vehicles.
The United States agreed at an international conference last December in Kyoto, Japan, to curb its man-made emissions of carbon dioxide and other gases that are believed to contribute to global warming. According to a research paper last autumn by an Environmental Protection Agency official, light trucks will account for the biggest increase in so-called greenhouse gas emissions by the United States over the next two decades.
The new program is meant to do for heavier vehicles what the Partnership for the Next Generation Vehicle, begun four years ago, is expected to do for cars. That program, undertaken by the Government, with the Ford Motor Company, the Chrysler Corporation and the Corporation, is meant to develop by 2004 a production-ready prototype of a 5-passenger car that would get up to 80 miles a gallon with no sacrifice in safety, performance, convenience or cost.
The new research effort and the existing Next Generation partnership are likely to use similar technologies. The main one, demonstrated in the Humvee, involves switching from an internal-combustion engine to a hybrid system, in which a small engine, running on gasoline or diesel fuel, operates steadily to run an electric generator and charge batteries or feed drive motors on the wheels.
When the vehicle needs extra power, it draws it from the batteries, and when it needs no power, for example, when it has stopped, the internal combustion engine keeps running to feed the batteries. Because the engine runs at nearly constant speed, it is cleaner and more efficient.
The Humvee, built by PEI Electronics, an independent company spun off by Chrysler earlier this year, will go approximately 18 miles on a gallon of diesel fuel instead of 9; accelerates from 0 to 50 miles an hour in seven seconds instead of 14, and can climb a 60 percent grade at 17 m.p.h. instead of 6 m.p.h. It can also run 20 miles on batteries alone, which suits the Pentagon's needs, because in that mode it is nearly silent and is also hard to find with a heat-detection system.
Advanced Vehicle Systems of Chattanooga, Tenn., showed off a 22-foot hybrid electric bus at the press conference here, with a turbine that runs on natural gas for recharging the batteries. It has greatly reduced emissions of the pollutants that cause smog and the ones linked to global warming.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: C (NYSE) (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: KINKI, JAPAN (50%); 

COMPANY: ADVANCED VEHICLE SYSTEMS (57%); CHRYSLER CORP (57%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (72%); ENERGY DEPARTMENT (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (72%); ENERGY DEPARTMENT (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); KINKI, JAPAN (50%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MOTOR VEHICLES (98%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GASOLINE (90%); MINIVANS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (75%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); STARTUPS (54%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1998



126 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: Big 3 to Make Cleaner Cars Than Required

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 4

 BODY:
General Motors, Ford and Chrysler said this evening that they would begin delivering cars next year that emit 70 percent less of some pollutants, in a deal with the Government on Federal pollution standards.
Their agreement, which was immediately praised by the Environmental Protection Agency, consummates a deal on smog that has been in the works for most of this decade. 
 The change is expected to help many metropolitan areas reduce the number of days that they violate Federal smog rules. While the replacement of older cars with newer, cleaner ones will not solve the air pollution problem in most cities; it will help counteract the effects of having more cars driving more miles each year.
In exchange for the action by the car companies, eight Eastern states and the District of Columbia will give up their right to adopt California's emission standards, which are even stricter. Congress gave California the right to enforce stricter standards than the Federal Government does and gave the other states the option to choose between the two.
Today's deal, first proposed by the auto companies as a standard for all states other than California, was written into a proposed rule by the E.P.A. last year. The E.P.A. allowed the states to decide whether they would accept it and all but New York, Massachusetts, Vermont and Maine did so. Then the E.P.A. gave the companies a chance to accept, and today the Big Three did.
The auto makers had said they feared a balkanized car market if the 49 states did not all agree to the standard.
Their proposal grew out of the 1990 amendments to the Clean Air Act, which limited the flexibility of the E.P.A. in setting new standards for reducing automobile emissions. The auto makers hoped to persuade 12 Eastern states from Virginia to Maine along with the District of Columbia to reverse their decisions to adopt the California standards.
But the Big Three proposal collided with regulations already in force in New York and Massachusetts, which had the California rules and wanted to keep them. In addition, Vermont and Maine still want to adopt the California rules, and under the compromise reached today, will be allowed to do so.
The General Motors Corporation said it would accept the deal with only 45 states, and the Ford Motor Company and the Chrysler Corporation followed within hours. The cleaner models that will be sold in the East in 1999 and the rest of the country two years later will produce 70 percent less of some pollutants than emitted by current models under the Federal standard. The California rule is even cleaner.
Jacques Nasser, president of Ford Automotive Operations, said in a statement tonight, "We are prepared to move forward with this historic cooperative agreement because it is simply the right thing to do."
Carol M. Browner, Administrator of the E.P.A., said in a statement that the new cars would be "a tremendous benefit for the American people and the American economy." Her agency had been trying to engineer the deal for years, because the E.P.A. is barred from requiring cleaner cars in the next five years.
Vice President Al Gore said in a statement that the agreement "demonstrates once again that Government and industry, working in partnership, can achieve cost-effective environmental gains."
The compromise must still win the approval of car companies based abroad, but Japanese manufacturers have generally indicated a willingness to produce cleaner cars. Federal officials say the other companies, which have a far smaller presence in the American market, are unlikely to single themselves out by objecting.
At Chrysler, which had been viewed as the hard-liner of the Big 3, Nicole Solomon, a spokeswoman, said, "The idea of offering cleaner cars nationwide makes sense."
California says tougher standards raise the cost of a car by $70 to $145 on average; the companies say the figures are slightly higher.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (86%); F (NYSE) (86%); GM (NYSE) (59%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (87%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (86%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (86%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); MAINE, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (92%); 

CITY: AUGUSTA, ME, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (87%); FORD MOTOR CO (86%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (59%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (58%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (58%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); MAINE, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (92%); AUGUSTA, ME, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); SMOG (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (79%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); AIR QUALITY (78%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); AIR POLLUTION (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); STANDARDS & MEASUREMENTS (72%); CITIES (71%); 

PERSON: CAROL BROWNER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1998



127 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 5, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 266 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business;
Manhattan Tops List Of Costly Real Estate

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

 BODY:
Manhattan dominated an annual survey of the world's 10 most costly retail addresses, with Fifth Avenue ranking first and Times Square and Rockefeller Plaza landing on the list for the first time. East 57th Street and Madison Avenue also made the top 10.
Michael N. Hirschfeld, director of the Manhattan-based Equis Retail Group, a division of the Equis Corporation in Chicago, has conducted the survey for the last 10 years. The results, released yesterday, were based on interviews with landlords, tenants, other brokers and bankers. 
 Retail space on Fifth Avenue, which topped the roster for the fourth year, had an average annual rent per square foot of $580 a year. Times Square, which placed sixth on the list, just ahead of Rodeo Drive in Los Angeles, had rents of $340 a foot, while rents in Rockefeller Plaza, in tenth place, were $240 a foot.
East 57th Street between Fifth and Madison placed second with rents of $500 a foot, and Madison Avenue between 57th and 69th Streets came in fourth with rents of $375 a foot.
"Top global retailers have recognized the importance of establishing a presence on major shopping streets in the United States, and especially in New York City, resulting in increasingly higher rents," Mr. Hirschfeld said.
In a sign of Asia's troubled economy, the Ginza district in Tokyo dropped from third place in last year's survey to eighth place this year. Replacing the Ginza in the No. 3 spot was Oxford Street in London, which has benefited from increased tourism and a favorable economy in Britain, Mr. Hirschfeld said. LISA W. FODERARO

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (71%); UNITED KINGDOM (67%); ASIA (51%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (71%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%); 

COMPANY: EQUIS CORP (72%); EQUIS RETAIL GROUP (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: EQUIS RETAIL GROUP (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (71%); UNITED KINGDOM (67%); ASIA (51%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (71%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (90%); RANKINGS (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); RETAILERS (73%); TOURISM (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL N HIRSCHFELD (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1998



128 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1998

SECTION: Section F; Page 1; Column 1; Automobiles 

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: AUTOS ON FRIDAY/Technology;
Cleaner Cars, No Magic Required

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
NOW that the Big Three auto makers have agreed to a compromise under which they will produce cleaner vehicles than Federal regulations now require, cars will have new hardware, beginning next year in the Northeast and in 2001 in the rest of the country outside of California. But the differences under the hood are likely to be minor.
On Wednesday, the General Motors Corporation, the Ford Motor Company and the Chrysler Corporation agreed to sell cleaner cars nationwide in exchange for an agreement by eight states not to adopt California's even stricter standards. The car makers had sought a standard for all states except California, but settled for a deal that allowed New York, Maine, Massachusetts and Vermont to enforce California's rules. 
 What does this mean to car buyers? Not much, because the manufacturers can make cars far cleaner without resorting to major new components. Instead, they have refined the existing parts, tweaking the catalytic converter and the fuel injectors. As a result, the changes have mostly been inexpensive and smooth. And some of these alterations may also improve a car's fuel economy and its performance.
Both the California standard and the new 45-state standard are fleet averages, goals that each car company can reach through different mixes of car categories established by the State of California. The categories, in increasing order of cleanliness, are "transitional LEV," LEV, "ultra LEV," and ZEV, for zero-emission vehicles. ZEV's would have to be electric-powered.
The changes needed to make a Federal-certifed car meet LEV standards are invisible to the customer. "Except for the price, there doesn't seem to be much difference," said Pete Iwanowicz, a clean air specialist in Albany with the Resource Renewal Institute, a nonprofit environmental group. Auto industry executives point out, though, that multiplied by millions of car sales, the aggregate expense would be billions of dollars.
One tool is to add to the catalytic converter a little more palladium, rhodium and platinum, metals called "catalysts" that foster chemical reactions without being consumed themselves. This would increase the efficiency with which the converter takes carbon monoxide, unburned hydrocarbons and nitrogen oxides and turns them into carbon dioxide, water and nitrogen. The added quantities are so small that the added cost is well under $100.
Another approach is to build a catalytic converter with slightly more surface area. These converters are typically about the size of a one-pound coffee can, but they have several square feet of surface area because the inside is crammed with a honeycomb.
By making the walls of the honeycomb thinner, more chambers can be squeezed in. And if the walls are thinner, the converter heats up more quickly to the operating temperature.
It is a big challenge to get the converter to operating temperature as quickly as possible. Cold starts are the source of most hydrocarbons, which are unburned fuel, and carbon monoxide, which is partly burned fuel. Unless the catalyst comes up to operating temperature quickly, "you'll fail the test in the first few seconds, and the rest of it is a waste of time," said Kelly M. Brown, director of the vehicle environmental engineering program of the Ford Motor Company.
California officials said they originally thought that car makers would need electrically heated catalysts to meet the low-emission standards. But the manufacturers have found simpler, cheaper ways.
Some have moved the converter closer to the engine. This is a balancing act, because the converter needs to reach 1,500 to 1,600 degrees Fahrenheit to work well, but at 1,800 or 1,900 degrees it will be damaged. Moving it too close to the exhaust manifold increases the chance that it will be destroyed someday, perhaps when accelerating up a steep grade or while towing.
So, on some cars, engineers have built a small, heat-resistant converter that is installed close to the engine for quick warm ups, leaving a larger converter farther down the exhaust path.
Sam Leonard, an emissions expert at General Motors, said his company was considering another approach: attaching an air blower to the exhaust system. The air-fuel mixture is very rich on start-up -- too rich for the catalyst to handle -- but adding air would allow the hydrocarbons and carbon monoxide to burn up completely inside the catalyst. In the 1970's, some of the earliest cars with catalytic converters used that method, until catalyst technology improved enough to allow cars to meet Federal standards without the devices.
Another approach is to make the exhaust cleaner before it reaches the catalyst. With computer-controlled fuel injection, most cars are very good at staying at the perfect ratio of fuel and air for full combustion -- called stoichiometric -- when engine speed is constant. But to burn cleanly, the ratio must stay within 1 percent of stoichiometric, and most cars cannot do that as the engine speed changes rapidly; they go through brief periods of lean air, which causes engine hesitation, hotter combustion and production of nitrogen oxides, or rich periods, which hurt fuel economy and result in carbon monoxide and unburned hydrocarbons. Solutions include using more and better exhaust gas sensors, individual fuel-air controls for each cylinder, and fuel injectors that are assisted by air pumps, to atomize the fuel better.
All these changes come down mostly to money. In 1996, California estimated that the cost to take a Federal car to transitional LEV standards was $72; to the LEV level, $120, and to ULEV status, $145.
Mr. Leonard of General Motors said that $72 was about right for the transitional level; to reach LEV, he said, was an additional $100 to $200, and to reach ULEV, from $100 to $1,500 above that, depending on whether it was a small, four-cylinder car, which would require few changes, or an eight-cylinder vehicle that would have to be converted to natural gas or some other cleaner fuel.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The ultra-low-emission engine of a 1998 Honda Accord EX on sale in New York. (Steve Hart for The New York Times)
 
Chart/Table: "The Alphabet Soup of Smog Control"
The chart shows the steady drop in the grams of pollution level per new vehicle since 1994, when there was a high of .250 grams. By the year 2001, 45 states will agree to keep their new vehicles at .75 grams

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (91%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (72%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; AUTOMOBILES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; STATES (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION; HYDROCARBONS; CARBON MONOXIDE; NITROGEN OXIDE AUTOMAKERS (91%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (90%); NITROGEN OXIDES (86%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%); EMISSIONS (72%); AIR QUALITY (69%); CARBON MONOXIDE (69%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (63%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (62%); 

PERSON: ;WALD, MATTHEW L

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1998



129 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1998

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 34; Column 5; Leisure/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: PHOTOGRAPHY REVIEW;
The Focus Narrows, As Stark Images Herald A Time for Seriousness

BYLINE: By ROBERTA SMITH 

 BODY:
The Canadian artist Jeff Wall is playing his cards closer and closer to his chest. His third solo exhibition in New York, at the Marian Goodman Gallery on West 57th Street, centers on the big black-and-white photographs that he started making in 1996. Dour and poker-faced, they make the equally large back-lighted color transparencies that established his reputation in the mid-1980's look loud and gaudy by comparison.
Admired for their glowing colors, carefully staged dramas and complex compositions, these earlier efforts were an art theorist's dream. They combined elements of history painting, photojournalism, advertising and the movies, increasing social awareness without leaving art behind. They were sometimes a bit melodramatic, but they illuminated generalities of economic hardship, bigotry and class difference with specific evidence, and their imposing scale and sharp-focus artifice made you examine them in detail. This process spurred consideration of other things: the social structure, one's culpability within it, the relevance of art history to contemporary life and art. 
 Now Mr. Wall seems to be switching allegiances, or narrowing them. A fun's-over mood prevails in these new black-and-white works; even the color images displayed in Goodman's second gallery are relatively tamped down. Perhaps Mr. Wall has decided that hard-bitten subjects require a hard-bitten style. In any event, photojournalism seems to be the only source of inspiration here, and while the clues and discrepancies persist, the images never fill out in the mind.
For example, a casual viewer, especially a white one, might think that the fair-skinned black man standing in the gloomy hall of an office building is a janitor or repairman. A closer look reveals the leather briefcase at his feet and the car keys in his hand: he's working on a weekend.
Other details seem forced. In one photograph, a down-and-out woman stands at the back door of a derelict house. Her presence is supposed to be clarified by a small inset image, a close-up of a jagged hole in the door that shows the hand of a second person lurking within. But the gallery still had to explain that a drug deal is taking place. Meanwhile, another photograph shows the back of a uniformed maid leaving a sterile hotel room that has just been readied for the next customer. It recalls but doesn't add to the long photojournalist tradition of recording alienating work and the people who do it.
One work in the second gallery, in particular, illustrates how color increases both the dreary reality and the visual interest of Mr. Wall's images. The desolate landscape titled "17340 River Road, Richmond, B.C., Winter 1994" pictures a pitted yard crowded with several generations of unkempt houses, sheds and stressed-out cars that intimate similarly care-worn human inhabitants. In the background, a continuous line of silvery railroad cars gleams across the picture, part of a long freight train and redolent of commerce, efficiency and careful maintenance. To one side, visible behind a stand of leafless trees, is another metaphor for abundance and progress: the yellow heads of two giant steam shovels rising above a mountain of dirt like animals about to feed. The image is devoid of melodrama, but it would not have the same impact in black and white.
The photo-artists of Mr. Wall's generation have taught their audience to extract every possible ounce of meaning from their images. But that also makes viewers more aware of any decrease in the dosage, or drop in ambition.
Jeff Wall's work remains at the Marian Goodman Gallery, 24 West 57th Street, Manhattan, through March 14.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Large detail from two photographs by Jeff Wall, "River Road," above, and "Rear, 304 East 25th Avenue, Vancouver, 9 May, 1997." His works are on view through March 14 at the Marian Goodman Gallery. (Photographs from the Marian Goodman Gallery)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: CANADA (88%); UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VANCOUVER (BRITISH COLUMBIA); CANADA (88%); UNITED STATES (88%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (88%); 

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY; REVIEWS PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (89%); ART HISTORY (78%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (72%); HISTORY (70%); 

PERSON: WALL, JEFF; SMITH, ROBERTA JEFF SMITH (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1998



130 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 51 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:
MARK RALLIES. The mark rose against the dollar and the yen despite a report showing German unemployment at a postwar high of 4.8 million people. Talk of selling by large hedge funds hurt the dollar, as did worries about President Clinton's problems. The dollar slipped to 1.7867 marks from 1.8013.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks German Mark to the Dollar, since August 1996. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (90%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; JAPAN; UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (90%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET GERMAN MARK (90%); EMPLOYMENT (86%); HEDGE FUNDS (83%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (58%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1998



131 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 635 words

HEADLINE: Rise in January Retail Sales Is Better Than Expected

BYLINE: By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Retailers reported a better-than-expected increase in January sales yesterday, largely as a result of major post-holiday clearance promotions by specialty clothing stores that attracted bargain-hunting shoppers.
Same-store sales, or sales at stores open a year or longer, rose 5.9 percent, far higher than the 3.5 percent gain widely anticipated by many merchants. 
 Same-store sales are considered the best sales indicator because they exclude the effects of sales from new, remodeled or closed stores.
The Goldman, Sachs Retail Index, a widely followed barometer of retail sales strength, rose 4.4 percent from a year ago. Talbots Inc. led the gains, with same-store sales rising nearly 20 percent, far more than expectations of 3 percent to 5 percent, because of steep markdowns of winter and spring clothes and accessories.
"They're promoting the heck out of everything because their merchandise hasn't been what people want," said Harry Ikenson, an analyst with Rodman & Renshaw Inc. "To get rid of merchandise, they're slashing prices."
Sales typically pick up in January as retailers mark down winter merchandise to prepare for the new fiscal year. Analysts said February sales will be a better indicator of retailers' earnings because that is when consumers start shopping for spring merchandise instead of bargains.
"People swept into the stores after Christmas, and by January they were shopped out," said Kurt Barnard, president of Barnard's Retail Trend Report.
The better-than-expected results "were across the board, and to that extent it's a little more reassuring about the underlying consumer demand for retail goods," said Michael Niemira, a retailing analyst at Bank of Toyko-Mitsubishi/Schroder & Company.
Among other apparel retailers, Ann Taylor Stores Inc. sales rose 1.1 percent, after analysts forecast a decline of as much as 10 percent. The New York-based company said the gain was driven by more promotions and an early start to its fall end-of-season clearance sale, which was moved up from February.
Sales at Limited Inc. rose 6 percent, better than analysts' expectations of as much as 2 percent. The gains stemmed mostly from strong sales at Limited's 83 percent-owned Intimate Brands Inc., which includes Victoria's Secret lingerie stores and Bath and Body Works personal-care products stores.
Sales at Limited's women's business, which includes Limited Stores and Express, fell 5 percent.
Gap Inc.'s sales rose 13 percent, compared with an expected rise of 2 percent to 4 percent. Gap benefited largely from strong sales at its lower-priced Old Navy Stores.
Same-store sales at Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the nation's largest retailer, rose 7.6 percent, compared with expectations of 4.5 percent. The Kmart Corporation's sales rose 4 percent.
The Dayton Hudson Corporation's same-store sales rose 4.6 percent, led by higher-than-expected results at its Target discount chain. Sales at Target climbed 5.7 percent, compared with forecasts for a 4 percent rise.
Upscale department stores such as Saks Holdings Inc. and the Neiman Marcus Group Inc., a unit of Harcourt General Inc., benefited from higher sales of luxury goods and designer brands.
Same-store sales at Saks rose 3.9 percent, in line with expectations. Sales at Neiman Marcus rose 3.7 percent.
Federated Department Stores Inc.'s sales rose 1.5 percent. Sales at the midpriced department store chain Sears, Roebuck & Company rose 5.4 percent. The J. C. Penney Company's sales, meanwhile, fell 5.4 percent, in line with forecasts.
Pier I said same-store sales rose 22 percent, ahead of analysts' expectations for a rise of as much as 13 percent. The gain capped what already has been a record year for the Fort Worth-based Pier I, reflecting a surge in home decoration spending by baby boomers.

GRAPHIC: Graph/Table: "Retailers' Sales in January" shows year-to-year changes in the Goldman, Sachs retail composite index, based on monthly same-store sales, from October 1996 to January 1998 and lists percent change in retail sales, total sales and percent change in total sales for selected stores, for the five weeks ended January 31, compared with the similar fiscal period last year. (Source: Goldman, Sachs, based on company reports)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GPS (NYSE) (84%); WMT (NYSE) (80%); ANN (NYSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (84%); SIC5621 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (84%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (84%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (84%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (84%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (84%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (80%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (80%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (65%); SIC5632 WOMEN'S ACCESSORY & SPECIALTY STORES (62%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (60%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (60%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (51%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: TALBOTS INC (84%); GAP INC (84%); WAL-MART STORES INC (80%); SCHRODER & CO INC (65%); INTIMATE BRANDS INC (62%); KMART CORP (60%); ANN INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); DIRECT MARKETS HOLDINGS CORP (55%); VICTORIA'S SECRET CATALOG (51%); BATH & BODY WORKS LLC (51%); OLD NAVY INC (50%); PIER I (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: PIER I (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES; GOLDMAN SACHS RETAIL COMPOSITE INDEX; UNITED STATES ECONOMY RETAIL SALES (95%); RETAILERS (92%); SAME STORE SALES (91%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); LINGERIE & HOSIERY STORES (89%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (79%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); TRENDS (78%); CHRISTMAS (78%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); WOMEN (73%); PRICE CUTTING (68%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (68%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (70%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1998



132 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: Prince Rupert Journal;
On a Menu of Despair, Salmon Is Just the Starter

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA 

DATELINE: PRINCE RUPERT, British Columbia

 BODY:
In winter this is a kingdom of gray, where ashen skies rule over steely waters and dour men fight the gloom by planning for "next season."
But unlike years past when the docks here rang with the sound of repair and the voice of hope, Prince Rupert's waterfront is now almost silent. Nobody is scraping the green rot from the old wooden salmon boats; there is no fresh paint, no new nets. 
 "We're the cheapest in town, and still nobody can afford us," said Rudy Morrison, a Kispiox band Indian who, with a friend, repairs wooden boats. This year he has no work. "It's pretty bleak," he said.
These are difficult days for this tough frontier town that has known more than its share of triumph and tragedy since its founding almost a century ago as the western terminus of the Grand Trunk Pacific Railway. Fishermen are locked in a bitter dispute with competitors in Alaska, just 40 miles away, over rights to dwindling salmon stocks.
The struggle came to a peak last summer. Two hundred Canadian fishing boats blockaded an Alaskan ferry to protest the lack of progress on a fishing rights treaty.
That got Washington's attention all right, but instead of getting a new salmon treaty, the Canadians got sued by the Alaska government.
Alaska officials, who insist that American fishermen are taking only the salmon to which they are legally entitled, have offered to drop the suit if the Canadian fishermen agree to drop their countersuit and never take out their frustration on the ferry again. The Canadians have until Feb. 6 to make up their minds.
Whatever they decide, it's not just the Alaskan dispute that has got people here so depressed. Salmon prices are down. Competition from Chilean salmon farms is fierce. Bickering among commercial fishermen, sports fishermen and indigenous groups never ends. There's an outbreak of white spot disease that will severely limit this year's take. One of the few remaining canneries has just closed and production at another is down more than anyone can remember.
Then there's the big wood pulp mill that went bankrupt last summer; only an on-again, off-again provincial bailout can save the 763 jobs there. Several downtown stores have shut; hotels and gas stations are hurting. The fishermen's union had to raise money to buy Christmas presents for members' children.
When wolves were spotted prowling the outskirts of Prince Rupert last fall, many here saw it as a symbol of just how much had gone wrong in 1997.
"Frustration was probably at its high last summer," said Des Nobels, a salmon fisherman for most of the last 20 years. "Now we're into despair."
From the deck of the Vonni Dee, Mr. Nobels' tight little salmon boat, it's easy to see why. Docked right alongside is the Pamora, with big chunks missing from its wooden deck. Its owner, a longtime fisherman, finally decided to sell to the government's buy-back program, a Canadian effort to reduce the number of salmon fishermen.
Not far away there are "For Sale" signs on four other boats, including one so dripping with rot that its name is illegible.
"This dock should be rocking by now," said Mr. Nobels, one of the angry fishermen who circled their boats around the Alaskan ferry last July. He said Prince Rupert's fishermen would normally be busy making repairs by now, the sting of last year soothed by the prospects of a new season.
"Now they all dread the coming of another season," said the 44-year-old fisherman, who is so much a man of the sea that he has never owned a car. "It's like, 'What's going to happen now?' "
The optimism that usually buoys fishermen has traditionally been as natural a part of life here as the ocean tides. It enticed men like Bill Gilker -- who learned to walk aboard his father's troller, the Old Chum -- to make their own life on the sea. These days, he and his father, Dick, 66, take the Old Chum out together. But sometimes there is barely enough fish for one of them to make a living.
"It doesn't look good," said the younger Mr. Gilker, who is 40. "I can't make any plans."
More fishermen in Prince Rupert are collecting unemployment now than ever before. More are discouraged than ever before. Some are so fed up that they think about quitting, the way Bob Warren did just before salmon season last year.
"What with prices dropping and getting beaten to death by regulations and politics, there's just no life left in the industry," said Mr. Warren, 39, now the manager of the 7-Eleven store on Second Avenue. After 16 years in the industry, he sold his cherished boat, the Ocean Wave, for $20,000. His salmon license went for $120,000. The closest he's got to fishing since then is the herring bait he sells at the 7-Eleven.
"The whole thing just disgusted me," he said over a Diet Coke at a coffee shop near the waterfront.
The Mayor of Prince Rupert, Jack D. Mussallem, agrees that 1997 was a disastrous year, but some lessons were learned.
"After you get beyond the frustration, bravado and rhetoric that comes with that, you sit down and discuss the issues," Mr. Mussallem said. What it comes down to now is painfully clear. "We can no longer rely on salmon coming in here and being stuffed in a can," the Mayor said.
There's a plan to attract an aluminum smelting plant, and a pig iron foundry, but there are no guarantees. The Mayor also thinks it's possible to get small cruise ships to drop off and pick up tourists at the waterfront.
At the Fish Hall, site of the fishermen's union offices, more attention is also being paid to alternatives to salmon. Since many fisherman never made it to the 10th grade, adult education courses are held most days and union officials desperately try to find the men new jobs.
Even a traditionalist like Mr. Nobels, who still uses a wooden reel for his long lines, is thinking about syndicating the fishing column he writes for the local weekly, just in case the fishing runs out.
Today's residents of Prince Rupert seem to retain a bit of the optimism -- some of it ill fated -- that used to so embody this place that the local newspaper was originally called The Prince Rupert Optimist.
That was back in the days when Charles Melville Hays, an Illinois wheeler-dealer, decided to make this spot not only the terminus of his Grand Trunk Railroad but an important city that could rival another west coast port, Vancouver.
Today there's a bronze statue of Charlie next to city hall, and a plaque that explains how he went to England in 1912 and raised money for the further development of Prince Rupert.
He sailed back on the Titanic. In a memorial to him in The Optimist, now The Daily News, he was given Prince Rupert's highest accolade. They called him "a dreamer of high dreams."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Aboard the Old Chum: Bill Gilker, right, and his father, Dick. A fellow fisherman, Brian Carpenter, is at left. (Todd Korol for The New York Times); The Alaskan ferry Malaspina was blockaded at the Prince Rupert dock last July by fishermen protesting the lack of progress on a salmon-fishing treaty with Washington. Since then the town's fortunes have worsened. (Associated Press)
 
Map of British Columbia showing location of Prince Rupert.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: ALASKA, USA (95%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: PRINCE RUPERT (BRITISH COLUMBIA); ALASKA; CANADA; UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ALASKA, USA (95%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (91%); 

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; SALMON; FERRIES; TREATIES; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT; FISHING, COMMERCIAL FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (90%); FISHING TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); FISHES (90%); FISHING LAW (78%); SPORT FISHING (76%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (76%); COMMERCIAL FISHING EQUIPMENT (76%); BOAT BUILDING (76%); FISHERIES (73%); CHRISTMAS (73%); AQUACULTURE (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); FINFISH FARMING (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); FOOD INDUSTRY (63%); GAS STATIONS (63%); PULP MILLS (61%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (60%); PULP INDUSTRY (60%); 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY MICHAEL MCMAHON (71%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1998



133 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS;
Share Prices End Mixed, With the Dow Falling by 12.46

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA 

 BODY:
Stock prices ended mixed yesterday for the second straight session as prices dipped again for many blue chips, but other signposts in the market pointed to increasing optimism.
The declines in some constituent stocks of the Dow Jones industrial average sent it down 12.46 points, to 8,117.25, after its 30.64-point drop the day before. But demand for other stocks has grown since last week, sending many prices higher. 
 Those gains reflect a change of thinking for many investors, who had been nervous that an economic crisis in Asia would hurt corporate profits in the United States this year and depress share prices.
But for much of this week, European and Asian stock markets have been soaring, a sign perhaps that the global economy may not suffer significantly from problems in Asia. That has been viewed as a source of support for American stock prices, which have been trading in a narrow range for the better part of seven months.
"We've seen a big mood shift this week," said Alfred Goldman, the director of market analysis at A. G. Edwards Inc. in St. Louis. "The mood has shifted from it's Armageddon in Asia to it's not that big a deal."
If the Asian crisis is indeed easing, and the countries in the Pacific Rim are successfully moving toward stabilizing their economies, that could further lift stocks in the United States.
Mr. Goldman said much of the money that flowed into mutual funds in January -- typically one of the heaviest months for cash inflows -- has been held by money managers awaiting the right buy signal on stocks. This week, he said, many of them got it after several Asian stock indexes soared by more than 10 percent Monday.
"Money is just flowing in from the sidelines," he said. "You can almost see the fear of some money managers who are saying, 'The boat is leaving the pier and we're missing it!' "
That kind of eagerness was evident earlier in the week, when heavy stock buying sent the Standard & Poor's 500 stock index above the 1,000-point level for the first time and sent the Dow Jones average above 8,100 for the first time since December.
The Dow average, which has gained about 5.4 percent in the last two weeks, is closing in on its Aug. 6 high of 8,259.31, and the S.& P. 500, which ended yesterday at 1,003.54, is just a few points off the high it reached Wednesday.
Some analysts believe share prices may be close to breaking out of the range that has restrained them.
"This is giving the market a good foothold near the 8,000 level," said Eugene E. Peroni Jr., director of technical research at Janney Montgomery Scott in Philadelphia. "The real acid test here is holding above 8,000 for the last few sessions.
Mr. Peroni said many investors saw Dow 8,000 as a psychological barrier, and that rising decisively above that level would further increase investor optimism and market momentum.
Part of the energy for that momentum is coming from abroad. While Asia stock prices were pummeled in the second half of last year, prices have rebounded strongly.
In Japan, the Nikkei 225 average is up 17 percent. In Korea, the main index is up 40 percent, in Malaysia 39 percent and in Thailand 14 percent. European markets are also strengthening. The London stock market is up 9 percent, and the German DAX is up about 7 percent.
Edward Kerschner, the chief investment strategist at Paine Webber, has long held that American investors are exaggerating the economic threat Asia poses, arguing that 90 percent of S.& P. company profits come from Europe, the United States, Canada and Mexico, and that growth in Europe could compensate for some of Asia's slowdown.
"The market took Southeast Asia out of proportion," he said yesterday. "People believed that if Asia's a problem, earnings have to be a problem. And it doesn't have to be that way."
Regardless of the market's direction, investors have been active this year. Yesterday, another 700 million shares traded hands on the Big Board. This year, the average volume has been about 650 million shares, up from 526 last year.
And while the Dow, S.& P., and Nasdaq all dipped, broader indexes rose. The Russell 2000 index of smaller- company stocks gained a half percent to close at 444.06. On the Big Board more stocks rose than fell.

GRAPHIC: Graph: Graph shows the Dow Jones Industrial Average daily closes for the months of February 1997 through February 1998. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AGE (NYSE) (68%); DJ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (68%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (93%); MALAYSIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO ADVISORS LLC (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; SOUTH KOREA; MALAYSIA; THAILAND; GREAT BRITAIN; GERMANY; UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (93%); MALAYSIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; NIKKEI STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (91%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BONDS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (74%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); MUTUAL FUNDS (70%); 

PERSON: BARBOZA, DAVID MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1998



134 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
Marketers view the Winter Olympics as a commercial bonanza.

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
IF the Super Bowl is the annual American midwinter orgy of commercial culture, then selling during the Winter Olympics is a worldwide love fest.
The XVIII Olympic Winter Games in Nagano, Japan, begin with opening ceremonies tonight -- a mere 12 days after Super Bowl XXXII was played. And with the staggered schedule adopted by the International Olympic Committee, the Winter Games start just 18 months after the end of the 1996 Summer Games. 
 So are the scores of marketers running commercials during the 178 hours of Winter Games coverage scheduled on the CBS and TNT networks worried about viewers developing sports fatigue or Olympic overload? That seems about as likely as any of them signing Tonya Harding as a spokes-skater.
In a survey by Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide in New York, part of WPP Group, 78 percent of respondents said they intended to watch the Olympics this month. That figure rose to 83 percent among respondents with a household income of $50,000 or more.
"We're attracted to the Olympics because of all the surveys we do that find consumers talking about 'the luster of the rings,' " said David F. D'Alessandro, president and chief operating officer at the John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company in Boston, a worldwide Olympic sponsor as well as an advertiser on the Winter Games telecasts.
"It's getting harder and harder for financial institutions to distinguish themselves," he added. "But we've been beating average industry growth by 15 percent on average since we started on the Olympics."
John Hancock and its agency, Hill, Holliday, Connors, Cosmopulos in Boston, have produced an unconventional campaign for the 1998 Winter Games. Two 60- and 90-second spots will run 41 times on CBS and TNT through the closing ceremonies on Feb. 22 to raise money for the Sarajevo Olympic Children's Fund. The goal of the campaign, produced in cooperation with the International Olympic Committee and the American Refugee Committee, is to help rebuild the city that played host to the 1984 Winter Games.
"The Olympics have always stood for the highest standards, hard work, the desire to exceed past achievements," said Sixtus Oechele, executive director for corporate identity at the Shell Oil Company unit of Royal Dutch/Shell Group in Houston. "Those standards are our standards, too."
"We saw a real bridge between what drives the athletes and the employees of our company," he added, "so we signed a contract to be the sole petroleum products advertiser for the Olympics on CBS."
Shell will introduce a $50 million campaign -- its first corporate effort since 1983 -- by the Houston office of Ogilvy & Mather, carrying the theme "Count on Shell." The commercials, evocative of the "Shell Answer Man" ads of the 1960's, offer booklets produced in cooperation with the National Safety Council; the spots will run more than 70 times on CBS as well as often on TNT, which is a unit of Time Warner Inc.
Another reason the Winter Games are appealing to so many advertisers is the huge female viewership, drawn by events like figure skating.
"We're doing a lot to increase our market share among women," said Gerry Donnelly, marketing communications manager at the Ford division of the Ford Motor Company in Detroit, which will run 175 commercials on CBS and TNT. "And when the Olympics are on, they really captivate women viewers."
With its Olympic advertising, the Ford division is changing campaign themes, dropping "Have you driven a Ford lately" after more than a decade in favor of "Built to last." That theme will be introduced in commercials featuring the actor John Corbett as a "story teller," relating tales of drivers and their Fords; the agency is the J. Walter Thompson Detroit unit of WPP.
"The campaign is about stories," Mr. Donnelly said, "and the Olympics, especially the Winter Olympics, focuses on personal stories about the athletes. It's a nice fit."
Nike Inc. will concentrate on women with new commercials saluting female athletes like the downhill skier Picabo Street and Cammi Granato, the captain of the United States women's ice hockey team. The spots, created by Goodby, Silverstein & Partners in San Francisco, part of Omnicom Group, present tributes by student and professional poets.
"It's a great opportunity to talk about women's sports," said Nancy Monsarrat, category advertising director at Nike in Beaverton, Ore., "not only because there's a good-sized female viewership but also because it's one of the few events where you see women competing."
Many advertisers like Nike will feature hockey in their commercials, in part because this is the initial Winter Olympics for women's ice hockey. Among them are the AT&T Corporation, with a schmaltzy spot about Ms. Granato by the Foote, Cone & Belding unit of True North Communications in New York; the Coca-Cola Company, with Coca-Cola Classic commercials by Wieden & Kennedy in Portland, Ore., carrying the theme "For the fans"; the McDonald's Corporation, with a spot by the DDB Needham Chicago unit of Omnicom starring the hockey players Brian Leetch and Wayne Gretzky, and Wendy's International, with commercials by the Bates USA unit of Cordiant Communications Group P.L.C. in New York that include cameo appearances by R. David Thomas, the chain's founder.
And many marketers are using the Winter Games as they do the Super Bowl, to show new commercials. One is the Anheuser-Busch Companies, with a humorous spot by Kupper Parker Communications in St. Louis that promotes moderation; it features animated bottles of Budweiser beers being driven home by a bottle of O'Doul's nonalcoholic brew.
Others presenting new work include the BellSouth Corporation, with spots by West Wayne in Atlanta; the Toyota Motor Corporation, promoting the new Lexus RX 300 and LX 470 sport utility vehicles with commercials by Team One Advertising in El Segundo, Calif., part of Saatchi & Saatchi P.L.C.; Visa International, with a spot about arts sponsorship created by the BBDO New York unit of Omnicom, and the Xerox Corporation, with commercials by Young & Rubicam Advertising in New York that pitch digital office technology and products.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Many advertisers at the Winter Olympics will feature ice hockey, which will be a women's event for the first time. A Nike ad salutes Cammi Granato, the captain of the United States women's ice hockey team.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (81%); RDSA (AMS) (81%); RDS.B (NYSE) (81%); RDS.A (NYSE) (81%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (58%); WPP (LSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (81%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (81%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (81%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (81%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (58%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (90%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (73%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (87%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (87%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (73%); 

COMPANY: OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE (84%); ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (81%); SHELL OIL CO (81%); JOHN HANCOCK LIFE INSURANCE CO (68%); WPP PLC (58%); HILL HOLLIDAY (54%); INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (57%); INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (57%); INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (90%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (73%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (87%); NEW YORK, USA (71%); BOSTON, MA, USA (87%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (73%); 

SUBJECT: OLYMPIC GAMES (1998); TELEVISION; ADVERTISING OLYMPICS (97%); WINTER OLYMPICS (96%); WINTER SPORTS (94%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (78%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); SPORTS (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%); SPONSORSHIP (75%); SPORTS SPONSORSHIP (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (64%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (60%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%); REFUGEES (50%); 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1998



135 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: Fed Dropped Bias Favoring Rise in Rates

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 5

 BODY:
Uncertainty over the impact of the Asian financial turmoil on the United States economy prompted Federal Reserve policy makers in mid-December to drop the presumption that their next move in interest rates would be upward.
All but one member of the central bank's 12-member policy panel, the Federal Open Market Committee, voted for no immediate change in rates, according to minutes released today. 
 The Fed has not changed rates since March, when the benchmark rate on overnight loans between banks was raised by a quarter percentage point to 5.5 percent. That stance continued at the committee's most recent meeting, this week.
But, before the December meeting, the panel had biased its policy in favor of higher rates -- that is, members assumed that their next action, when it came, would be to raise rates.
However, at the Dec. 16 gathering, panel members dropped the policy bias because they wanted to be in position "to respond flexibly in either direction to unanticipated developments."
Although some committee members "expressed a slight preference" for retaining the tilt toward higher rates, only one formally dissented, J. Alfred Broaddus Jr., president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond.
He said he believed that even with Asia hurting the United States trade deficit the economy would continue to grow unsustainably fast and that at some point increased labor costs would lead to price inflation, the minutes said.
He advocated raising rates slightly right away to avoid a sharper increase later. But the rest of the panel worried that because a rate increase was unexpected, "even a modest firming action might well have outsized effects in financial markets."
An economic report today provided ammunition for those who believe that the Asian crisis will contribute to a slowdown in the American economy. The Commerce Department reported that factory orders fell by 2.5 percent in December, the biggest monthly drop in more than five years, to a seasonally adjusted $336 billion.
The decline was caused by a 63 percent drop in aircraft orders. Excluding the volatile aircraft sector, orders rose a moderate 1.6 percent, with strength reported in demand for autos, electrical equipment, industrial machinery, paper, chemicals and food products.
Economists said the drop in aircraft orders was one of the first concrete signs that Asia's problems were hurting the United States economy. Last week the Boeing Company said it expected Asian customers over the next three years to buy 60 fewer planes than expected before the financial crisis.
Despite December's blow to aircraft manufacturers, factories during all of 1997 reported a robust 5.3 percent increase in orders, compared with 4.6 percent in 1996 and 7.4 percent in 1995.
In another report today, the Labor Department said the number of applications for unemployment benefits inched up to 303,000 last week, an increase of 3,000 from the week before.
Still, claims have been relatively low in each of the last two weeks, on a seasonally adjusted basis, after three weeks at a somewhat higher level, ranging from 327,000 to 339,000.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Factory Orders"
Chart shows manufactures' total new orders, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted from July 1996 to December 1997. (Source: Commerce Department)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%); BOE (LSE) (81%); BAB (BRU) (81%); BA (NYSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (81%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (81%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (81%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (68%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%); BOEING CO (81%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF RICHMOND (68%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (58%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (58%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (88%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (85%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); INFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TRENDS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (65%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (60%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (51%); 

PERSON: J ALFRED BROADDUS JR (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1998



136 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: Trade Arbiter Favors U.S. In Key Ruling

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 5

 BODY:
After suffering its first major defeat in front of the World Trade Organization two months ago, the United States today won its biggest case yet: a ruling that European Union countries had illegally sought to evade a key provision of a 1994 trade agreement so their own high-technology industry might benefit.
The case concerned equipment that links computers together, particularly those made by Cisco Systems, Cabletron, 3Com and Bay Networks. The decision today establishes a precedent barring a strategy that countries often use to protect domestic industries -- moving products from one category of goods to another to be able to charge higher tariffs on imports. 
 In this case, European Union countries were seeking a way to keep tariffs on computer networking equipment and thus evade the 1994 accord, which cut tariffs on most computer equipment. Computer networking hardware and software were suddenly placed in a different category, "telecommunications equipment," which carried the higher tariffs.
Measured by the size of the business involved, this case was the biggest yet for the United States. Roughly $5 billion in computer networking equipment is sold in Europe annually, and United States companies account for about half the market, the United States trade representative's office said today. The higher tariffs cost customers of the United States companies $50 million, industry officials estimated.
Politically, the chief importance was that the United States won, at a time that the role of the World Trade Organization as the arbiter of trading rules is under intense scrutiny. Both liberals and conservatives have questioned whether the "dispute resolution panels" established under the W.T.O. interfere with national sovereignty by ordering changes in domestic regulations in nations around the world.
So far, the United States has prevailed in front of the panels in nine cases and has settled seven other cases. But it has lost four: three minor cases involving underwear, silk shirts and imported gasoline, and the case two months ago involving Eastman Kodak.
In the Kodak case, the defendant was Kodak's longtime rival, the Fuji Film Corporation, but part of the United States intent in bringing a complaint was to indict Japanese industrial policy. Kodak sought to prove that Japanese bureaucrats had worked to give Fuji an edge over Kodak in the Japanese market, making it more difficult for Kodak to get access to Japanese retail outlets. But the W.T.O. panel rejected the complaint, leading the trade representative, Charlene Barshefsky, to declare earlier this week that the United States would begin more intensive "monitoring" of Japanese practices.
Compared with the Kodak case, the computer networking dispute was far more narrow and better defined. It centered on whether customs officials from Britain and Ireland reclassified certain imports to double the tariffs placed on them as they entered Europe. Other members of the European Union later followed that example, though last year the European Union signed another trade accord that will bring tariffs on all electronic products to zero on July 1, 2000.
"We thought this was a pretty blatant case," said Bob Michelet, the director of corporate relations for Cisco Systems in San Jose, Calif. "This was an issue that the entire industry was able to get together on fairly quickly."
Ms. Barshefsky said in a statement: "We are pleased the W.T.O. panel has ruled that these tariffs clearly violate W.T.O. obligations. It is clear that these unfair tariffs must be corrected."
The European nations must now seek to appeal the decision or enter a discussion with the United States over lowering the tariffs. If they fail to agree, the W.T.O. could authorize the United States to impose countertariffs against European goods.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (58%); HPQ (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (58%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); IRELAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION; EUROPEAN UNION; CISCO SYSTEMS INC; CABLETRON SYSTEMS INC; THREECOM CORP (3COM CORP); BAY NETWORKS EASTMAN KODAK CO (65%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (58%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (57%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION; EUROPEAN UNION; CISCO SYSTEMS INC; CABLETRON SYSTEMS INC; THREECOM CORP (3COM CORP); BAY NETWORKS WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); IRELAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); TRADE DISPUTES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); VERDICTS (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); CONSERVATISM (70%); LIBERALISM (70%); RETAILERS (70%); INDICTMENTS (69%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E JOHN MAJOR (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1998



137 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: California Merger to Form No. 3 S.& L.

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY L. O'BRIEN 

 BODY:
Two large California savings and loans, one controlled by Ronald O. Perelman, the financier, agreed yesterday to merge, forming the nation's third-largest savings and loan, but leaving Mr. Perelman with a price well below what he recently hoped his bank would fetch.
Golden State Bancorp Inc., the Glendale, Calif., parent of Glendale Federal Bank, will acquire First Nationwide Holdings Inc., the San Francisco parent of California Federal Bank, in a complex transaction that values California Federal at about $2 billion to $2.5 billion. 
 When Mr. Perelman floated the idea of taking the privately held California Federal public late last year, some analysts and investment bankers suggested that an initial stock offering might value the institution around $3 billion, excluding debt.
Mr. Perelman and a partner, Gerald J. Ford, sold most of the savings institutions they had bought in Texas to the BankAmerica Corporation before jointly purchasing First Nationwide from the Ford Motor Company in 1994 for about $726 million. Last year, First Nationwide bought California Federal for $1.2 billion.
Although industrywide profits have been rising and the economic landscape is more favorable than it was earlier in the decade, savings and loans have still had difficulty keeping up to speed in the increasingly competitive mortgage business. Mortgage lending had traditionally been the savings and loan industry's bread and butter, and banks that were overly reliant on mortgages -- as was California Federal -- were considered less attractive takeover targets.
Indeed, a number of potential buyers who looked at California Federal in recent months passed on the savings and loan because of its heavy dependence on mortgage lending, according to bank advisers. In the end, that meant Mr. Perelman, who declined to comment, sold California Federal for a rock-bottom price.
"There's been a reluctance" among potential buyers to acquire large California savings and loans, said Mr. Ford, California Federal's chairman and chief executive, in an interview. "I would agree with that."
Nonetheless, the combination of Glendale and California Federal created a huge institution with assets of $51 billion. Glendale has made important gains diversifying recently into new businesses such as small- business and consumer lending. Tethered to California Federal, the new savings and loan could land on some buyers' radar screens in a couple of years. California's savings industry remained highly fragmented and analysts expected there to be further rounds of mergers as the business continued to consolidate in the state.
"This has the potential to create a West Coast powerhouse that could be an attractive takeover target for large institutions that want to expand into California," said Thomas O'Donnell, an analyst with Salomon Smith Barney Inc.
The new institution will be called California Federal Bank and will be based in San Francisco. And Mr. Ford will be chairman and chief executive of the new institution. But following the merger, Golden State's shareholders will control 55 percent to 58 percent of the new institution, depending on how the company's shares perform before the merger's completion. The deal is expected to close in the third quarter of this year.
About 30 percent of the shares will be owned by MacAndrews & Forbes Holdings Inc., Mr. Perelman's investment vehicle, and 11 percent of the shares will be owned by Mr. Ford.
Calculating the share's performance includes weighing the value of warrants related to a lawsuit between Glendale Federal and the Federal Government. Glendale is seeking damages for a 1989 change in Federal accounting rules that erased paper assets called "supervisory good will" off its books. Glendale is seeking at least $1.8 billion in damages. The warrants will reflect the value of any proceeds from the litigation.
Depending on the outcome of the lawsuit, the two institutions estimated that Golden State shareholders could expect their shares to be worth $37 to $42. In trading yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange, Golden State's shares rose $2.25, to $38.
The savings and loans said that they expected to cut expenses about $131 million by 1999, although they did not think that would require substantial layoffs. CalFed is currently the fourth-largest savings and loan in the country and Golden State is currently the sixth-largest. The two said that the merged institution would be worth about $4.3 billion if Golden State ended up holding a 58 percent stake in the new concern.
Credit Suisse First Boston Corporation advised Golden State and Goldman, Sachs & Company advised First Nationwide.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Big Deal"
Golden State Bancorp and California Federal are planning a merger that would make it the third-largest Savings and Loan in the U.S.
RANK - INSTITUTION - TOTAL ASSETS (in billions)
1. Washington Mutual -- $97.1
2. H. F. Ahmanson -- 55.5
3. PROPOSED MERGER: Golden State Bancorp and California Federal -- 51.3
4. Golden West Financial -- 39.6
5. California Federal -- 31.6
6. Dime Bancorp -- 21.8
7. Charter One Financial -- 19.8
8. Golden State Bancorp -- 19.7
9. Sovereign Bancorp -- 17.6
10. GreenPoint Financial -- 13.1
11. Bank United -- 12.5
Note: All estimates are pro forma for acquisitions.
(Source: NationsBanc Montgomery)(pg. D4)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%); FORDP (PAR) (83%); F (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (83%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (72%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (58%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: GOLDEN STATE BANCORP; FIRST NATIONWIDE HOLDINGS INC; CALIFORNIA FEDERAL BANK; GLENDALE FEDERAL BANK BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%); FORD MOTOR CO (83%); GOLDEN STATE BANCORP INC (72%); GLENDALE FEDERAL BANK FSB (58%); CALIFORNIA FEDERAL BANK FSB (57%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: GOLDEN STATE BANCORP; FIRST NATIONWIDE HOLDINGS INC; CALIFORNIA FEDERAL BANK; GLENDALE FEDERAL BANK

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; SAVINGS AND LOAN ASSOCIATIONS SAVINGS & LOANS (94%); MERGERS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); TAKEOVERS (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (87%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (77%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); CONSUMER LENDING (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (68%); INTERVIEWS (67%); EXECUTIVES (62%); 

PERSON: O'BRIEN, TIMOTHY L; PERELMAN, RONALD O; FORD, GERALD J GERALD J FORD (92%); RONALD PERELMAN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1998



138 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1762 words

HEADLINE: Japan's King of the Mountain;
The Man Who Made Nagano Also Owns Part of It

BYLINE: By SHERYL WuDUNN 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Feb. 5

 BODY:
It was a matter of just 130 yards. But for five years, local officials refused to extend the downhill ski course for the Nagano Winter Olympics to the customary length. Finally, last November, an angry Yoshiaki Tsutsumi publicly threatened to withdraw his support for the Games.
That was a bit like Zeus threatening to abandon Mount Olympus, and the officials quickly capitulated. Their change of heart wasn't surprising, and not just because Mr. Tsutsumi, 63, is the head of the Ski Association of Japan. He is also a man with vast political influence and a persona so feared and revered that the mere mention of his name sometimes turns powerful faces pale. And as someone who several times has been called the richest man in the world, he rarely takes "no" for an answer. 
 It was Mr. Tsutsumi who led the battle for the city where he once lived to play host for the Olympics. It was largely because of him that the Games will open there Saturday, after seven years and $22 billion in preparations, rather than in the more majestic -- and more accessible -- mountains of Utah that an opposing faction favored.
And it is because of him that local officials compromised, agreeing to let the downhill course slip into a national park. So now the course will drop a full 1,930 vertical yards, just 38 yards short of what the Olympic Committee wanted, making it nearly as challenging as the course four years ago in Lillehammer, Norway. For Mr. Tsutsumi, who has built up a property empire, including the Olympic ski slopes in Nagano, this is his great moment.
"He has quite unbelievable power, an enormous amount of backstage power in the political scene," said Lesley Downer, who has written a book on the Tsutsumi family. "He has his own way of running his empire, and he runs it in a ferocious way. He behaves like a god."
His style, though, couldn't be more different from the flashy marketing campaigns that Americans were treated to twice in the last two decades by promoters who clearly relished all the attention. Peter Ueberroth, a former travel executive who took the job as president of the Los Angeles Olympic Organizing Committee for the 1984 Summer Games (and later became baseball commissioner), called his efforts "a crusade, a cause -- a cause for our country." And Billy Payne, president of the Atlanta Committee for the Olympic Games of 1996, publicly boasted that they would be "the greatest peacetime event in history."
In contrast, Mr. Tsutsumi shuns the limelight and remains a mysterious figure to most Japanese and a riddle to business analysts. While Forbes magazine ranked him as the richest man in the world for several years until falling property values and stock prices made him a mere multibillionaire after 1994, the hotel and real estate empire over which he presides is shrouded in secrecy.
Nobody knows whether he is worth $4 billion or $24 billion. He declined to be interviewed for this article, and his public relations staff agreed to introduce one of his aides only after extensive deliberation. Even then, the official appeared hesitant to comment on much, pointing to a semi-authorized book on Mr. Tsutsumi instead, and then insisted on not being identified.
What is known is that Mr. Tsutsumi's father, Yasujiro, sowed the seeds of the family's dominion. The elder Mr. Tsutsumi built up his property empire patch by patch, and railway by railway, until it bloomed into what is now known as the Seibu Group. He also sired a dynasty wife by wife, and mistress by mistress, that has evolved since his death 34 years ago into a complex web of rivalries and alliances.
Indeed, the patriarch shocked the Japanese business community when upon his death, he left the lion's share of his legacy to Yoshiaki, the eldest son by one of his mistresses. Yoshiaki and his mother's other children lived in a secret home close to his father in one of Tokyo's wealthiest neighborhoods, virtually hidden from public view.
One of the father's legitimate sons, Seiji, was reportedly 14 when he was first introduced to his older half-brother. The two men have developed a love-hate relationship, according to friends of both, and at times, that tension appears to have fanned the ambition in each of them. Seiji founded the Saison Group, which owns the Inter-Continental Hotels, and inherited the Seibu Department Stores from his father.
A seemingly quiet, even shy, man, Yoshiaki started out cautiously, but soon it became clear that the Tsu tsumi empire had only one emperor, and he was it. As his influence in Japanese business grew, many assumed he would follow in his father's footsteps and enter electoral politics, perhaps even becoming prime minister. They were wrong.
"He likes politicians very much," said Makiko Tanaka, a Member of Parliament and also the daughter of a former prime minister, Kakuei Tanaka. "I think he does not want to become a politician because he knows he does not fit into the political circles where there is a small village mentality. I think he is better suited to the business world because he is his own man, a king type."
Mr. Tsutsumi is a hands-on boss, sometimes drawing up the plans for a golf course himself. He certainly tests the golf courses, just as he dines frequently at his own restaurants. He once ordered that all the hotels' sugar packets be shrunk because he felt they were holding too much for a cup of coffee.
As his maneuvering to win Olympic rights for Nagano shows, though, he is a master manipulator who knows how to exercise influence behind the scenes. Though that city is known as "the roof of Japan," it is farther south than any other site chosen for the Winter Games, and its narrow roads and remote location gave ammunition to boosters of Salt Lake City. Indeed, even some of Mr. Tsutsumi's closest supporters marvel that he was able to pull it off.
"I was invited to see the facilities and accommodations in Salt Lake City, and frankly speaking, I was very much shocked because Salt Lake City has everything," said Shunichiro Okano, an old friend and an executive board member of the International Olympic Committee. "If I had seen these facilities before Nagano was decided on, I would have lost my confidence." (Salt Lake City will be the site of the 2002 Winter Games.)
Of course, his wealth made a difference, too. When Juan Antonio Samaranch, the head of the International Olympic Committee, came to inspect Nagano as a candidate for the Olympics, he and Mr. Tsutsumi and others in their group rode in a classy train specially chartered to take them from the Tokyo area directly to Nagano. On the way, according to reliable reports, Mr. Samaranch asked Tsutsumi to help raise money for the new Olympic Museum that Mr. Samaranch was building in Lausanne, Switzerland.
Mr. Tsutsumi came through, putting in about $1 million from his own pocket and helping to raise more than $10 million toward the museum's construction. So now, on the wall in the entrance hall of the Olympic Committee headquarters, right next to Mr. Samaranch's name carved into a stone plate is a similar plate with Mr. Tsutsumi's name as well as the names of more than a dozen Japanese companies.
Just how rich is Mr. Tsutsumi? That's a matter of dispute because most of his companies are privately held. But he is known to own nearly $4 billion worth of the Seibu Railway Company through his holding company, Kokudo, and perhaps as much as $10 billion worth. In addition, he owns mountains, valleys and pieces of land all over the country, as well as major shares of the Prince Hotels, an international chain, ski resorts, golf courses and other properties. Ms. Downer estimated in a book published in 1994 that he might be worth $22 billion, although some other estimates are much lower.
Sometimes, even the most basic information is hard to glean. Sadayuki Yokota, a public relations official of Kokudo, says there are 80 companies in Mr. Tsutsumi's fold. But one friend relates how Mr. Tsu tsumi once told him that with 200 companies, he would need a year to visit each one.
Whatever the exact number, his wealth and his many political connections make him a much-feared presence wherever he goes, leading some people to conclude that he surrounds himself with yes-men likely to feed him faulty information rather than risk his wrath. "He's a very lonely man -- like Howard Hughes," said Akira Hoshino, a close friend from boyhood who runs Hoshino Hotsprings Resorts in the Nagano area. "Whenever he wants to consult, the people he talks to are short-sighted. He sees way ahead. That makes him lonely."
Another friend, Chiharu Igaya, offers an illustration of why people are often intimidated by him. When Mr. Igaya was staying at one of Mr. Tsutsumi's hotels, he was served by the restaurant's captain late one evening. The next morning, at breakfast, Mr. Igaya noticed that the same man had suddenly become a water boy and he asked the man what had happened. It turned out that Mr. Tsutsumi also happened to be staying at the hotel.
"I made a mistake," Mr. Igaya, who is an executive board member of the International Olympic Committee, quoted the man as saying. "Mr. Tsutsumi got mad at me and I was demoted."
But Mr. Igaya, who says that on occasion he has dared to differ with Mr. Tsutsumi, adds that the billionaire also has a warm side. Once when Mr. Igaya's father got into a serious accident in northern Japan, Mr. Tsutsumi somehow heard the news and sent his own helicopter to transport the injured man to a Tokyo hospital.
Other friends and acquaintances say that he is a much more complicated individual than the rich kingmaker portrayed in the press. He has been called tough yet shy, creative yet unassuming, generous yet spendthrift, inventive yet dictatorial. His dress is rather ordinary, friends say.
But he is passionate about sports, they say. He owns a baseball team, the Seibu Lions. He holds a black belt in judo. The only photos on the table in his study are of his father and the man who introduced him to ice hockey when he was a boy, according to his friend, Mr. Okano. And even at his age, he loves ice hockey and remains a competitive skier -- in more ways than one.
"Ordinary skiers would ski down the mountains just to enjoy the beautiful scenery," said Hiroshi Tsu ruoka, a member of the Upper House of Parliament and a college classmate, describing trips to remote, relatively undeveloped areas. "But when he skied the mountains, he used to say things like, 'If this place were made into a ski slope, we could hold the Olympics here.' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: Yoshiaki Tsutsumi, left, was instrumental in bringing the Games to Japan. With him are Eishiro Saito, center, of the organizing committee, and Goro Yoshimura, the Nagano Governor. (Asahi Shimbun); Shouldering The Games -- It's a Herculean task these days to attract and organize the Olympic Games. Here are examples of people who played central roles in recent Olympics. LOS ANGELES 1984: Peter Ueberroth -- A former travel executive, who turned a profit on the Summer Games. ALBERTVILLE 1992: Jean Claude Killy -- The skiing champion was a tireless lobbyist in bringing the Winter Games to the French Alps. ATLANTA 1996: Billy Payne -- He organized the campaign that beat out Athens and other cities for the Centennial Olympic Games. (pg. D1)
 
Chart: "Yoshiaki Tsutsumi's Empire"
In 1994, Forbes listed him as the wealthiest man in the world. Since then, Japan's economic downturn has taken a toll on his fortune. If he owns 40 percent of Kokudo, his holding company, as generally reported, Mr. Tsutsumi is worth at least $8 billion. If he owns all of it, as some suspect, he is near the top of the world's richest list, worth perhaps as much as $24 billion. Here is a look at his holdings, with the minimum effective stake he owns in each.
 
Kokudo -- At least 40%
Seibu Railway -- 19.5%
Seibu Kensetsu Construction -- 29.8%
Prince Hotel -- 40%
Seibu Lions (Baseball team) -- 40%
Izu Hakone Railway -- 9.4%
Seibu Travel -- 9.4%
Seibu Fudosan Real estate -- 19.5%
Ohmi Railway -- 9.8%
Roppongi Prince Trading -- 19.5%
Seibu Transport -- 18.4%
Seibu Bus -- 19.4%
Seibu Hire -- 19.4%
Seibu Golf Trading -- 19.5%
Seibu Estate Trading -- 19.5%
Seibu Shoji Trading -- 19.5%
(pg. D4)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORWAY (79%); FRANCE (59%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); CHUBU JAPAN (92%); GEORGIA, USA (90%); ALPS (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (57%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE MOUNT OLYMPUS WATERS (58%); INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (59%); INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (59%); INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NAGANO (JAPAN); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); NORWAY (79%); FRANCE (59%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); CHUBU JAPAN (92%); GEORGIA, USA (90%); ALPS (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (57%); 

SUBJECT: OLYMPIC GAMES (1998); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION OLYMPICS (92%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); SKIING (90%); WINTER OLYMPICS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (89%); MOUNTAINS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (88%); REAL ESTATE (87%); BASEBALL (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (69%); WRITERS (68%); NATIONAL PARKS (66%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (50%); 

PERSON: WUDUNN, SHERYL; TSUTSUMI, YOSHIAKI; SAMARANCH, JUAN ANTONIO YOSHIAKI TSUTSUMI (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1998



139 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 403 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Prices Fall on Concern Over Jobs Data and Iraq

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Treasury securities prices plunged yesterday, hurt in part by concern about today's employment report for January and by the prospect of a military confrontation with Iraq.
The short-maturity end of the market held up fairly well, as the long end of the market fell sharply. 
 Traders said that the political uncertainty that gripped the market late in January after reports of a sex scandal in the White House was back to haunt them again.
Adding to the selling pressure in bonds was a commodities rally, led by silver, in which the investor Warren E. Buffett has placed a big bet.
Also, crude oil prices have risen on talk of a United States attack on Iraq.
The price of the 30-year bond fell 30/32, to 102 24/32, while the yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 5.93 percent, from 5.85 percent on Wednesday.
Meanwhile, in when-issued trading ahead of the Treasury's quarterly refunding of Federal debt next week, yields increased as investors priced in additional risks. The 3-year note was offered at a price to yield 5.36 percent, the 10-year notes at a price to yield 5.60 percent and the 30-year bond at 5.93 percent.
One of the principal reasons for the bond market slump yesterday was uncertainty about the economy.
Anthony Chan, vice president and chief economist at the Banc One Investment Advisors Corporation in Columbus, Ohio, said investors had been conditioned by comments from a variety of authorities -- including Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman -- to expect slower economic growth, and hence, a smaller threat of inflation, this year. "Therefore, unless we see clear signs to this effect within the next couple of weeks, market unrest could follow," Mr. Chan said.
One economic report yesterday, on factory orders during December, showed a slowing economy. Another reading on the strength of the economy comes today, with the Government's report on the unemployment rate and payroll levels for January.
If recent reports on initial claims for unemployment benefits are any indication, the job market remains robust. Yesterday, the Labor Department reported that claims rose by 3,000 last week, but that was from a particularly low number, 303,000, in the previous week.
Hugh Johnson, chief investment officer for the First Albany Corporation, noted that the payroll data could be the first of a series of tests of the effect of the Asian crisis.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Tax-Exempt Yields"
Chart shows average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly (in percent) from September 1997 through February 1998. (Source: The Bond Buyer)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GLCH (NASDAQ) (62%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (62%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (62%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT GLEACHER & CO INC (62%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); BONDS (93%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); DEBT NOTES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (73%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (73%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (72%); FACTORY ORDERS (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (66%); INTEREST RATES (61%); SCANDALS (56%); SEX SCANDALS (56%); NATIONAL DEBT (52%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT WARREN BUFFETT (54%); ALAN GREENSPAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1998



140 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 602 words

HEADLINE: F.C.C. Rule Review Assailed By a New Republican Member

BYLINE: By SETH SCHIESEL 

 BODY:
A major rift on the Federal Communications Commission opened yesterday as a new member of the its Republican minority sharply criticized the commission as failing to review its myriad telecommunications regulations adequately.
The Telecommunications Act of 1996 directs the commission to evaluate all of its telecommunications regulations every two years, beginning this year. Yesterday the F.C.C. said it had completed an internal review and it proposed initiatives aimed at altering or eliminating 31 rules deemed unnecessary or overly burdensome. 
 But a new member, Harold Furchtgott-Roth, a former chief economist for the House Commerce Committee, called the commission's effort inadequate, saying in an interview, "I find it very difficult to believe that this notice is going to be sufficient."
Referring to the section of the act that mandates the review, he said: "I don't think it's there just to do a paper shuffle. It's there for a purpose. Aside from simply following the law because that's what we have to do, I think there's a real public policy reason for that section to be there. And I'm afraid that if there's just a selective review of a few regulations we're not following the letter or the spirit of the law."
"The issue there is read the law," he added. "Don't try to get around it. Follow it. Do what it says."
Mr. Furchtgott-Roth said he was undecided what official action -- if any -- he would take if the commission's chairman, William E. Kennard, a Democrat, refused to broaden the review significantly.
Four of the five members of the commission, which consists of three Democrats and two Republicans, joined the F.C.C. last fall. The sole holdover is Susan Ness, a Democrat.
Mr. Kennard, himself a new member, has described the group's relations as cordial. Last month Michael K. Powell, the other Republican on the commission, publicly criticized the panel for making it too difficult for the Bell local telephone companies to win approval to offer long-distance service. Mr. Kennard agreed with parts of Mr. Powell's assessment and said the F.C.C. would try to work more closely with the Bells as they drafted their long-distance petitions.
But yesterday Mr. Kennard seemed to find no common ground with Mr. Furchtgott-Roth.
"This is the most comprehensive review ever conducted by the F.C.C.," Mr. Kennard said in an interview. The proposed revisions include altering the rules on the amount of electric power that can be fed into the public telephone network. Increasing the amount could allow consumers to use computer modems that transmit data at higher speeds than are now generally possible.
Mr. Kennard said that the review met the requirements of the law and that a focused approach would be more effective than an open-ended evaluation of the commission's regulations.
"The suggestion that we would take all of the rules that govern the agency and put them on a table and invite the public in to tell us which ones to do away with would be a very unproductive process," he said, adding that the F.C.C. had tried to do just that while he was the commission's general counsel in the mid-1990's. "You get a pile of comments, and it's not shaped and it's not targeted and it's useless."
Mr. Furchtgott-Roth said that neither he nor members of his staff had been invited to participate in the commission's review. Mr. Kennard said that Mr. Furchtgott-Roth had in fact been invited, and that a meeting between Mr. Furchtgott-Roth and David Solomon, the commission's deputy general counsel, had been scheduled for today to discuss the review.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 104 P.L. 104 TELECOMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1996 (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION FCC CO LTD (58%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (95%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (92%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (92%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (92%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); APPROVALS (73%); PETITIONS (71%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (65%); MODEMS (60%); 

PERSON: SCHIESEL, SETH; FURCHTGOTT-ROTH, HAROLD; KENNARD, WILLIAM E (CHMN) MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1998



141 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: Alan Campbell, 74; Reshaped Civil-Service Laws

BYLINE: By HOLCOMB B. NOBLE 

 BODY:
Alan K. Campbell, the architect of the most sweeping changes in the Federal civil-service laws since the Administration of Theodore Roosevelt -- changes aimed at making the Government more efficient and enabling it to dismiss employees more easily for failing to do their jobs -- died on Wednesday at his home in Haverford, Pa. He was 74.
The cause was complications from emphysema, a family member said. 
 Mr. Campbell, chairman of the United States Civil Service Commission in the Carter Administration, was the primary force in guiding through Congress the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, which adapted private-sector management personnel and compensation practices to improve the Federal bureaucracy.
As the first director of the Office of Personnel Management, a position he held in 1979 and 1980, Mr. Campbell also implemented the act, prompting President Jimmy Carter to say that its effects were "among the most visible and far-reaching accomplishments of my Administration."
At midnight on Dec. 31, 1978, the 95-year-old Federal Civil Service Commission became defunct and was replaced by three new agencies that were, in a sense, Mr. Campbell's triplets: the Office of Personnel Management, the Merit System Protection Board and the Federal Labor Relations Authority.
Under the old law, a civil servant could be dismissed only for poor performance that damaged the overall performance of the agency, a standard so stringent that few dismissals were sought. But under Mr. Campbell's design, the new law made it possible for a supervisor to dismiss an employee if a reasonable person would conclude that the employee's performance was inadequate. To help reach fair conclusions, Mr. Campbell enlisted the aid of the Business Roundtable, a group of corporate leaders, to draw up reasonable job-performance standards.
Two years later, he accepted a job as executive vice president for management and public affairs at ARA Services, now known as Aramark, a service and management provider that operates worldwide in the food, business-uniform and education fields. Elected to the board in 1981, he was an active member until shortly before his death.
Alan Keith Campbell was born in Elgin, Neb., and went to Whitman College in Walla Walla, Wash., but college was interrupted by World War II and service with the Navy in the Pacific. During naval training stateside, he met his future wife, Jane Owen. They were married in 1945 and remained so for 47 years, until her death in 1992. He is survived by their daughter, Kimberly C. Oxholm of Merion, Pa.; a son, C. Duncan, of Corvallis, Ore., and six grandchildren.
After graduating from Whitman in 1946, Mr. Campbell obtained master's degrees in public affairs, at Wayne State University in Wayne, Neb., and at Harvard University, and a doctorate from Harvard in political economy and government in 1952.
He taught at Harvard until 1954 and at Hofstra University in Hempstead, N.Y., until 1959. He was the Deputy Comptroller for the State of New York for two years. Afterward, he was dean at the Lyndon Baines Johnson School of Public Affairs at the University of Texas and then at the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs at Syracuse University.
His books included "Taxes, Expenditures and Economic Base: Case of New York City" (Praeger Publishers, 1974) and "Watergate: Implications for Responsible Government" (Basic Books 1974).
What honored him most, he once said, were the successes of his students, though he refused to take any credit for them: "The secret of education," he said, "is to admit good students and then try do them very little harm."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan K. Campbell. (Associated Press, 1977)
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

INDUSTRY: NAICS722310 FOOD SERVICE CONTRACTORS (53%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); SIC7299 MISCELLANEOUS PERSONAL SERVICES, NEC (53%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (53%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ARAMARK CORP (53%); OFFICE OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT (83%); OFFICE OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT (83%); FEDERAL LABOR RELATIONS AUTHORITY (55%); FEDERAL LABOR RELATIONS AUTHORITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT (83%); OFFICE OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT (83%); FEDERAL LABOR RELATIONS AUTHORITY (55%); FEDERAL LABOR RELATIONS AUTHORITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (99%); CIVIL SERVICES (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); HUMAN RESOURCES (90%); WORLD WAR II (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); DISMISSALS (77%); MERIT PAY (77%); GRANDCHILDREN (76%); CHILDREN (76%); BOARD CHANGES (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (71%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (69%); LAUNDRY & LINEN SUPPLY SERVICES (67%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (65%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (65%); MILITARY TRAINING (60%); CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE (56%); FOOD INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: CAMPBELL, ALAN K; NOBLE, HOLCOMB B JIMMY CARTER (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1998



142 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Markdowns Help Retailers Lift Post-Holiday Sales
Post-holiday clearance promotions by specialty clothing stores helped overall retail sales rise 5.9 percent last month, far higher than the 3.5 percent gains widely expected. 
 But analysts said January sales results were not necessarily a telling barometer of how the year would go. Page D2.
 
Fed's Tone Shifted in December
Federal Reserve policy makers were concerned enough in December about the impact of the Asian crisis that they stopped assuming that the next move in interest rates would be upward. D2.
 
Korean Unions Allow Layoffs
In South Korea, the Government, unions and employers reached an accord to allow debt-laden companies lay off workers, a step seen as critical to rebuilding the economy. A7.
 
Top Sexual Harassment Settlement
The American subsidiary of the Swedish drug maker Astra said that it would pay nearly $10 million to settle sexual harassment charges brought by the E.E.O.C. on behalf of former Astra employees, in an agreement that dwarfs any prior award in such a suit. A16.
 
Keating Conviction Thrown Out
A Federal judge threw out for a second time the criminal convictions of Charles H. Keating Jr., a leading figure in one of the most costly savings and loan failures of the 1980's. D5.

Bond Prices Fall Sharply
Treasury prices plunged, hurt by concern about today's employment report for January and by the prospect of a military confrontation with Iraq. The yield on the 30-year bond rose to 5.93 percent from 5.85. Stocks were mixed. D6.
 
Medical Billing Scheme
Bogus billing companies are sending invoices to unsuspecting health insurance companies using the names of patients and doctors without their knowledge, in a fraud that is estimated to have resulted in more than $1 billion in fake claims already. A1.
 
$2.6 Billion Bank Bid Seen
Regions Financial, an Alabama-based bank, is seen as the front-runner in bidding for First Commercial of Little Rock, Ark. D4.
 
2 Railroads In Merger Talks
Canadian National is negotiating to acquire Illinois Central, the two railroads said. But some analysts said the price under discussion -- less than $3 billion -- might lure other bidders. D3.
 
A Shift at Microsoft
Microsoft moved the group that develops its Web browser into the business unit for its Windows operating system, a reorganization that is certain to raise eyebrows in light of the company's antitrust battle with the Government over the bundling of Windows software with the browser. D3.
 
No New Mexican Investment by MCI
MCI decided to stop investing in Avantel, its long-distance venture in Mexico, because of regulations that require Avantel to pay large fees to Telmex. D18.
 
Criticizing F.C.C. From Within
A rift in the F.C.C. opened as a new Republican member criticized it as failing to review its myriad telecommunications regulations adequately. D2.
 
Germans Protest Joblessness
Protests against high unemployment were staged across Germany, even as the Government announced that while the jobless total hit a record in January, on a seasonally adjusted basis the number actually fell. A12.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 8,117.25 down 12.46
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.93% up 0.08
The Dollar -- 123.43 down 0.20
 
Graph: "TODAY" shows Unemployment. January figures due at 8:30 A.M. Eastern. Expected: 4.7%.
 
Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); 

CITY: LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (51%); TELEFONOS DE MEXICO SAB DE CV (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); BONDS (89%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (75%); LABOR UNIONS (75%); PRICE CHANGES (74%); CRIMINAL HARASSMENT (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (71%); INSURANCE FRAUD (71%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (69%); MERGERS (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (68%); JUDGES (67%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (66%); SAVINGS & LOANS (65%); INSURANCE (64%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (64%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (64%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (60%); INTEREST RATES (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); 

PERSON: CHARLES H KEATING JR (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1998



143 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: STANDOFF WITH IRAQ: THE DIPLOMACY;
Push for Peace Shows Split Over Inspections

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Feb. 5

 BODY:
In the current crisis with Iraq, diplomatic emissaries have descended on Baghdad, all of them opposed to the heavy bombing that the United States has threatened and all of them willing to consider a compromise with Saddam Hussein to prevent it.
The negotiations underscore a vast divide over United Nations inspections of Iraq's military sites. 
 On one side are the United States and Britain, which are determined that United Nations weapons inspectors carry out resolutions that give them unlimited access to any site in Iraq until the country's nuclear, chemical and biological weapons and ballistic missiles are destroyed.
"It's a simple standard, and it has not yet been met in anything we have heard about," State Department spokesman James P. Rubin said today in Washington.
On the other side are the would-be mediators who represent Governments that believe to varying degrees that an imperfect diplomatic outcome is preferable to military action whose outcome is unknown.
The French Foreign Minister, Hubert Vedrine, whose Government is determined to negotiate a way out of the crisis, expressed that view in a radio interview today. He acknowledged that Iraq's position in its negotiations this week with a French envoy were "totally inadequate" but added, "There are the first signs of movement."
French officials have said publicly and privately that the goal of the diplomacy was to persuade Iraq to allow United Nations inspectors, accompanied by independent experts or by mutually acceptable diplomats, into eight Presidential sites that have been off-limits.
But they added that there must be a formula for the inspections that shows "respect" for the Iraqi state, suggesting that the inspectors will not have carte blanche to enter any building at any time.
Mr. Vedrine also ruled out French cooperation with military actions. France, he said, "does not intend to participate in a military action, and for the moment is trying to obtain a solution through diplomatic means."
The diplomatic divide on the weapons inspections masks a much larger issue: the future of Iraq's leadership. The goal of the American strategy, suggested in a speech several months ago by Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright, is to keep so much pressure on Mr. Hussein that he is replaced.
Mr. Hussein has complained about that repeatedly, saying that no matter what he does, it will never be enough to satisfy Washington and remove onerous economic sanctions against him.
Still, Iraqi officials have indicated a slight willingness to compromise on the weapons inspections, telling French and Russian mediators that Baghdad would allow an inspection of the Presidential sites but on condition that they are carried out only once and include representatives from the Security Council as well as the inspectors themselves, diplomats said today.
In Moscow, meanwhile, Russia's President, Boris N. Yeltsin said today that the diplomatic track seems to be working, as his envoy, Viktor Posuvalyuk, continued his peace mission with Baghdad.
"I'm an optimist," Mr. Yeltsin told reporters in the Kremlin today. "We cannot yet say with certainty everything is okay, that there will not be another upsurge. But nonetheless the peak has lowered somewhat."
But Mr. Yeltsin reinforced the warning he made on Wednesday that the use of force could lead to a global confrontation. "The most important thing is that we have stuck firmly to our position of opposing the military option," he said today. "It is not possible. It would mean world war."
In Baghdad today, Turkey's Foreign Minister, Ismail Cem, met with Iraqi officials, telling reporters that Mr. Hussein was receptive to "everybody's concerns to avoid a military confrontation."
And in Jordan, the Arab League Secretary, Gen. Esmat Abdel-Meguid, who had just come from meetings in Baghdad, warned that it was difficult for him to believe that "any Arab country would accept a military strike on Iraq."
The United States, Britain and officials close to Secretary General Kofi Annan are deeply skeptical of all the negotiating, but powerless to stop it. In a closed meeting with the Security Council on Monday, Mr. Annan offered to use his good offices to try to solve the crisis, but the Council has not taken him up on his offer.
He has said that he hopes there would be no military action during the Winter Olympics in Nagano, Japan, which end on February 23, a tactic to buy time for diplomacy to continue, his advisers said.
In an interview with the London-based Arab-language Al-Hayat newspaper to be published on Friday, Mr. Annan acknowledged that there were no "brilliant options" in dealing with Iraq, adding that military action was "a last resort."
Asked whether military strikes could mean the end of longterm United Nations monitoring of Iraq's weapons programs, he said, "That cannot be excluded."
The feeling is shared at the United Nations. "With so many cooks, he is waiting to see if he can be helpful," said one official close to Mr. Annan. "He doesn't want to be another cook stirring the soup."
The French position, which is shared by many other countries, is that the current military threat by the United States is much more ambitious and dangerous than the strike that was planned just two months ago, and that it is unlikely to achieve the goal of allowing the weapons inspections to continue.
One senior French official close to President Jacques Chirac noted in a telephone conversation from Paris that Security Council resolutions have not always been followed rigorously, and that the trick is to find a clever way to satisfy both Mr. Hussein and President Clinton.
The French official paraphrased Mr. Chirac's phone conversation a few days ago with President Yeltsin this way: "You know, Boris, you and I both are trying to avoid a war over there. We must understand Bill. Bill wants to strike. Maybe you and I have a role to play."

GRAPHIC: Map of the Middle East showing location of the Persian Gulf: Most Arab nations want a negotiated settlement with Baghdad.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (95%); FRANCE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GULF STATES (73%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (59%); 

CITY: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (95%); FRANCE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GULF STATES (73%); INDIAN OCEAN (59%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (51%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INSPECTIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (76%); INTERVIEWS (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (70%); 

PERSON: SCIOLINO, ELAINE; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1998



144 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: PRO BASKETBALL;
Stern Finishes the Testimony In the Hearing for Sprewell

BYLINE: By MIKE WISE 

 BODY:
Commissioner David Stern sounded confident yesterday after testifying for nearly five hours in Latrell Sprewell's arbitration hearing against the National Basketball Association and the Golden State Warriors.
"I'm very comfortable with our actions, and we're awaiting the outcome," Stern said in an interview after his testimony. "I think that my job is to protect this league and the 400-plus players who never get involved in activity that we're now litigating about. And I feel comfortable when I've accorded myself the way I'm supposed to." 
 The hearing grew out of a Dec. 1 incident in which Sprewell attacked his Warriors coach, P. J. Carlesimo, twice during practice. The Warriors terminated Sprewell's contract, and, three days after the incident the N.B.A. suspended him for a year.
Stern was the last of 22 witnesses to testify over eight days. The arbitrator John Feerick said that post-hearing briefs must be filed by the close of business next Friday, and closing arguments have been scheduled for 10 A.M. Feb. 16 in New York. After the closing arguments, Feerick will make a ruling, which is binding, within 30 days.
Horace Balmer, the league's vice president of security; and Jim Wilson, the assistant director of security, and Alicia Parker, the manager of security, both of whom helped Balmer conduct 23 interviews over two days, also testified yesterday at the Manhattan law firm of Weil, Gotshal & Manges.
"We're happy that Latrell has finally received his day in court," said Billy Hunter, the players association's executive director. "And that due process and a right to a fair hearing before an impartial arbitrator has been granted."
Hunter added: "It's been our contention all along that the league justified its suspension by mischaracterizing the second incident as a premeditated attack. They arrived at the decision because of an inadequate investigation. Had there been an adequate and thorough investigation, in all probability they would not have reached the decision they did."
Sprewell's lawyers also claimed that there was a conspiracy between the league and the Warriors after the club had originally suspended him for 10 days the night of the attack.
"The reality is that this is the longest suspension in the history of sports involving a physical altercation," Hunter said.
He added, "The termination of the contract by the Warriors was based on economics despite their claims to the contrary."
Stern, whose last previous comments on the incident had come in a press release announcing Sprewell's suspension on Dec. 4, stuck yesterday to his original contention: that Sprewell's second attack on Carlesimo was premeditated and therefore worthy of a one-year ban.
"The release speaks for itself as to why Mr. Sprewell was suspended, and I don't want to get into any argument beyond that," Stern said.
He was also emphatic about his feeling that, irrespective of Feerick's decision, it would not erode his authority as commissioner.
"This is not about the ultimate authority here at all," Stern said. He added: "There are areas on the court where the appeal is to me. And there are other areas like this where we have agreed that my authority is not the last word. So this is not about authority."
Sprewell, who testified last week, sat in on the hearing every day, including four days in Portland, Ore., last week. He said he planned to stay in New York over the All-Star Game weekend, but he is not allowed to attend the game.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (54%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS WEIL GOTSHAL & MANGES LLP (54%); GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS (94%); GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS (94%); GOLDEN STATE WARRIORS (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL; COACHES AND MANAGERS; ASSAULTS; ARBITRATION, CONCILIATION AND MEDIATION BASKETBALL (94%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (91%); INTERVIEWS (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LAWYERS (78%); WITNESSES (78%); LITIGATION (78%); DUE PROCESS (76%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (74%); LEGAL SERVICES (74%); EXECUTIVES (65%); 

PERSON: WISE, MIKE; STERN, DAVID (COMR); SPREWELL, LATRELL; CARLESIMO, P J MICHAEL MCMAHON (85%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1998



145 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1386 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-13
 
Politicians and Diplomats Wrangle Over Iraq Crisis
Republican Congressional leaders demanded that the Clinton Administration provide more clearly defined objectives for managing and concluding the confrontation with Iraq. The Pentagon sent reinforcements to the Persian Gulf. In talks with the British Prime Minister, Tony Blair, who is visiting Washington, President Clinton said the goals of the allies in dealing with President Saddam Hussein of Iraq were clear and identical: "unconditional and unfettered access" to suspected weapons sites by U.N. inspectors. A1 

The chief weapons inspector for the U.N., Richard Butler, told the Security Council that the proposals floated by Iraq to defuse the crisis were not good enough, according to diplomats at the closed session. A10
 
A vast divide over the intrusive U.N. inspections of Iraq's military sites is opening between the United States and Britain, on the one hand, and other countries that believe that an imperfect diplomatic outcome is preferable to military action, especially since the outcome is unknown. A10
 
Accord on Korean Layoffs
South Korea's President-elect struck a landmark agreement with business and unions that laid the groundwork for layoffs and brought the country a step closer to resolving its economic crisis. The unions seemed to have been persuaded that layoffs were essential to reviving the economy. A7
 
South Africa Deports Journalist
South Africa is deporting a prominent reporter who has written many articles that angered Government officials. Critics said the deportation looked like an attempt to silence an irritating journalist. The Government said that the journalist, Newton Kanhema, a Zimbabwean citizen, had falsely claimed on an immigration document to have lived in South Africa since 1991, whereas, it said, he moved there permanently in 1992. A9
 
Jobless Germans Protest
Unemployed Germans staged protests across the country as the Government announced a postwar record of 4.8 million people out of work. Chancellor Helmut Kohl was assailed in Parliament for what the opposition called failed economic policies. A12
 
China Gives Permission, Late
China belatedly granted overflight rights to three European balloonists, a day after its refusal forced them to abandon their effort to circle the globe. The change of heart came too late to help the crew of the Breitling Orbiter 2 balloon in its round-the-world attempt, but the balloonists promised to try again next year.
 (Reuters)
 
Yeltsin Defends Two Reformers
President Boris Yeltsin defended two embattled young reformers, saying that barring major failures they would stay in his Cabinet until his term ended in 2000. Mr. Yeltsin acknowledged that he was facing pressure to oust the two, Anatoly Chubais and Boris Nemtsov, both of whom had recently had their duties trimmed. (Associated Press)
 
NATIONAL A16-21
 
Lawyers Say Accounts Of Aide and Clinton Differ
President Clinton's personal secretary has told investigators that Mr. Clinton called her into his office last month and led her through an account of his relationship with Monica S. Lewinsky that differed in one critical aspect from her own recollections, according to lawyers familiar with her account. The secretary, Betty Currie, is reported to have said that Mr. Clinton had sometimes been alone with Ms. Lewinsky. Mrs. Currie has told investigators that the President asserted in that January meeting that he had never been alone with Ms. Lewinsky and that he had resisted her sexual advances, the lawyers said. Mrs. Currie has also retrieved and turned over to investigators several gifts -- a dress, a brooch and a hat pin -- that the President had given to Ms. Lewinsky, the lawyers said. A1
 
The independent counsel, Kenneth W. Starr, said he would not consider granting immunity to Ms. Lewinsky unless she submitted to face-to-face questioning with prosecutors. A21
 
Fund-Raiser Pleads Not Guilty
The Democratic fund-raiser Yah Lin Trie pleaded not guilty in Federal court to criminal charges that he funneled hundreds of thousands of dollars in illegal contributions to the Democratic Party during President Clinton's re-election campaign. A19
 
Tobacco's Focus on Blacks
A steady flow of tobacco-industry documents released in recent days is providing the broadest and most detailed look at how the industry lavishly marketed cigarette brands like Kools to some of its heaviest-smoking customers, blacks. A1
 
The Clinton Administration said that it would be willing to give tobacco companies limited protection from lawsuits if that were the only way to get legislation enacted to raise the price of cigarettes and force the industry to restrict advertising and marketing. A18
 
Sex-Harassment Settlement
Astra U.S.A., the American subsidiary of a Swedish drug maker, said it would pay $9.85 million plus interest to settle a sexual harassment complaint brought by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission on behalf of former employees of the subsidiary. A16
 
NEW YORK/REGION A21-23
 
Immigrants Say Guards Abused Them in Jail
Immigrants seeking asylum who were held at the Union County Jail in New Jersey testified that guards had beat them, stuffed their heads in toilets and squeezed their genitals with pliers. Two guards are being tried on assault charges and a third is charged with conspiracy. Defense lawyers called the testimony exaggerated and said their clients had to cope with a language barrier to control inmates who had been described as "rioters and hostage takers." A1
 
Storm Raises Erosion Concern
A northeaster thrashed the Eastern Seaboard with cold, slicing rain and strong winds that caused flooding in coastal areas of New Jersey and Long Island. The storm prompted fears of widespread sand erosion as violent, churning waves -- some up to 20 feet high -- pounded beaches throughout the region. B1
 
Winnie-the-Pooh Staying Put
The British Government backed down and said it would not seek the return of the original Winnie-the-Pooh doll and four companion dolls, which reside in a display case in a New York Public Library branch. B3
 
Schumer Withdraws Clinton Ad
Representative Charles E. Schumer of Brooklyn withdrew a television advertisement that showed him and President Clinton leaving Air Force One. White House officials had complained that it incorrectly suggested that Mr. Clinton was supporting Mr. Schumer for the Democratic nomination for Senate. B1
 
NEEDIEST CASES B4
 
OBITUARIES D18-19
 
SPORTS C1-10
 
Yankees Get Knoblauch
The Yankees agreed to trade four minor league players to the Minnesota Twins for Chuck Knoblauch, one of the game's premier lead-off hitters and middle infielders. The Yankees also agreed to pay the Twins $3 million, which must be approved by the acting commissioner. C1
 
BUSINESS DAY D1-18
 
Medical Fraud Investigated
Government fraud investigators are trying to unravel a widening scheme in which phony medical bills using the names of unsuspecting patients and doctors are being submitted to private insurers. A1
 
California S&L Merger
Two large California savings and loans, one controlled by the financier Ronald O. Perelman, agreed to merge and form the nation's third-largest savings and loan. D1
 
New Market Circuit Breakers
The New York Stock Exchange adopted the least restrictive circuit breakers ever. Plunging prices would not close the market for the day unless the Dow Jones industrial average fell at least 20 percent. D1
 
Keating Conviction Dismissed
A Federal judge in Los Angeles threw out for a second time the criminal convictions of Charles H. Keating Jr., a leading figure in one of the most costly savings and loan failures of the 1980's. D5
 
Business Digest D1
 
WEEKEND E1-30; E31-B44
 
EDITORIAL A22-23
 
Editorials: Inflammatory words about Iraq; Betty Currie's testimony; death in the Dolomites; psychoanalyzing Winnie-the-Pooh.
 
Columns: A. M. Rosenthal, Russell Baker.
 
Crossword E43
 
Weather C10
 
Public Lives B2

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (50%); 

COUNTRY: IRAQ (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%); GULF STATES (73%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (73%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (50%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%); GULF STATES (73%); INDIAN OCEAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES LAYOFFS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (90%); WRITERS (89%); POLITICS (89%); DEPORTATION (86%); JOURNALISM (86%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (79%); INSPECTIONS (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (75%); IMMIGRATION (74%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); AVIATION TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (67%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); TONY BLAIR (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1998



146 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1998

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1500 words

HEADLINE: OLYMPICS: NAGANO 1998;
Cold Shoulder Turns Into Warm Embrace

BYLINE: By JERE LONGMAN 

DATELINE: NAGANO, Japan, Feb. 5

 BODY:
A grocer runs out of his store to give apples to passers-by. A taxi driver offers to take his passengers out for drinks -- on him. A restaurateur exchanges a round of sake for a round of photographs he has asked to be taken with his entire staff. The temperature is frigid, but the hospitality could not be warmer here at the roof of Japan.
The 1998 Winter Olympics open here Saturday morning -- Friday night on American television -- with a welcome that has become both extravagantly international and stirringly local. 
 Once diffident about being the hosts for the final Winter Games of the 20th century, the residents of this jumbled, isolated city of 360,000 people have recently changed their minds and offered visitors a genuine embrace as they prepare for the biggest and most expensive Winter Olympics in history.
Curiosity about other cultures seems to mean as much to local residents as the Games themselves, which will run for 16 days, involve 2,450 athletes from 72 countries and carry a price tag that has been estimated by economists at a staggering $10 billion. The local friendliness and courtesy have been as available and hearty as the soba noodles for which this region is famous.
"Nagano is in the country, and now we have famous athletes from all over the world who will come and know about us," said Hiroshi Tazika, owner of the Ebisuya restaurant. "I have not felt a lot of positive benefits, not so many customers. But it makes me happy to meet people from the world."
Every once in a while, the Olympics transcend the corporate clutter, the politics, the elitism of the International Olympic Committee and the scourge of drugs, and are distilled to their essence -- people from around the world coming together for a sporting event and cultural exchange. But to linger on this theme for too long is to risk sentimentality.
The possibility of an American attack on Iraq has intruded on the message of peace that the I.O.C. hopes will be carried by these Games. Security tensions were heightened by a rocket attack on Monday at Narita airport outside of Tokyo. A group calling itself the Revolutionary Workers Association, which said it has opposed construction of a second runway at the airport, has claimed responsibility for the attack. The police said they had no evidence the attack was aimed at disrupting the Games, however. So far, though, the only security incident at the Olympics themselves involved a suspicious package that turned out to contain a toilet- seat warmer.
The Nagano Games arrive during a long economic downturn in Japan, and organizers have reneged on several pledges, such as paying the travel expenses of all athletes. The direct budget is about $800 million, 20 percent more than original estimates. The overall $10 billion estimate includes related costs, including construction of new highways and a bullet train from Tokyo. Some local residents are suffering from sticker shock.
One of the Games' most vocal critics and supporters has been a Buddhist priest, Taka-Kazu Fukushima, who holds a Ph.D. in chemical engineering and who did post-doctoral work 20 years ago at the University of Michigan. He said in an interview that shop owners were worried that the new bullet train would carry retail business to Tokyo and that local construction companies had been passed over for larger Tokyo firms. He also suggested that if the Olympic figure skating, speed skating and hockey venues proved to be white elephants after the Games, they should be demolished instead of maintained at exorbitant costs.
But Fukushima has also given English lessons to residents for several years; it is important, he said, for Nagano to open itself to the world through the Winter Games.
"We are so local, so small," he said, "and now we will be world famous."
Aside from Nagano residents' friendliness, the 1998 Winter Games may be remembered less for what they are than for what they are not.
For starters, these Games will lack the lurid, good-girl, bad-girl melodrama of Nancy Kerrigan and Tonya Harding that consumed the 1994 Winter Olympics in Lillehammer, Norway. This time, the figure skating protagonists are friendly teen-age rivals, Michelle Kwan and Tara Lipinski, who have been jousting with axels and lutzes instead of collapsible batons.
These Olympics are taking place amid more gripping stories in the United States like the Iraq crisis and a Presidential sex scandal. It remains to be seen how much a diversion a skater named Lipinski will provide from a former White House intern named Lewinsky.
The Nagano Games are also most decidedly not the Atlanta Games. Organizers have gone to great lengths to avoid the transportation hassles and the tacky commercialism that marred the 1996 Summer Olympics. There is an unmistakable, sometimes annoying corporate presence here, but banners hanging on streets carry subdued corporate messages. Unlike Atlanta, snow-covered mountains provide the landscape, not 96-foot-tall watches and Empire State building-size bottles of Coca-Cola.
The Atlanta Games suffered from "wild commercialism; it was uncontrolled," said Francois Carrard, executive director of the I.O.C. "This is much more disciplined."
While transportation remains the No. 1 concern among the organizers, the buses seem to be running reasonably on time, and the drivers are not getting lost. Some official vehicles are even equipped with computer maps that give drivers oral directions to destinations. In Atlanta, some bus drivers appeared to be using maps of Dallas.
Three new sports will be contested -- snowboarding, curling and women's hockey. In these final Winter Games of the century, the women's Olympic movement, once a snowball, is gaining the momentum of an avalanche. For the first time, an Olympics will take place with a woman -- Anita DeFrantz of Los Angeles -- positioned as vice president of the I.O.C. The I.O.C. also announced this week that no new sports would be added to the Winter or Summer Games unless both men and women participated.
As happened in Norway in 1994, these Winter Games are being held outside the shadow of the Summer Games to establish a separate identity. This has proved to be a huge financial success: a record $800 million has been raised for the Nagano Games from corporate sponsorships and international broadcast rights. The $300 million raised from corporate sponsorships alone is three times the amount raised for the Lillehammer Games. Some 160 countries will broadcast these Games, compared with 120 for Lillehammer.
If the Winter Games are no longer a warm-up act for the Summer Games, Nagano is at least taking a cue from the Summer Olympics about professionalism. The National Hockey League will shut down for two weeks while its players compete in the Winter Games. This attempt at worldwide marketing is uncertain, considering that the United States team will play its games around midnight on the East Coast.
The N.H.L. also faces the possibility of huge embarrassment should any of its players test positive for Sudafed or other cold medicines containing the banned stimulant ephedrine. Sports Illustrated reported last week that up to 20 percent of N.H.L. players use Sudafed to get emotionally charged for games.
"I think the Sudafed issue will be a problem in this tournament," Dr. Makoto Ueki, the chief of the Nagano Olympic drug-testing lab, told reporters during a tour of the lab.
After skipping the 1994 Games amid floods and food shortages, North Korea returns with a team of speed skaters. Countries participating in the Winter Games for the first time are Uruguay, Azerbaijan, Macedonia, Venezuela and Kenya, which sent a cross-country skier.
"We have a lot of Kenyans in winter countries like the U.S., Germany, Switzerland," said Francis Paul, assistant secretary of the Kenyan Olympic Committee. "If they see this and take up skiing, I think we will have a very good team in the future."
No country will be under more pressure to win medals than Japan, which has produced only one individual gold medal in the Winter Games and is counting heavily on its speed skaters and ski jumpers. "My nerves are feeling the pressure," said the speed skater Manabu Horii, a gold-medal favorite in the 500-meter sprint.
The Americans have sent 196 Olympians to Nagano, with gold medal hopes in figure skating, men's and women's hockey, snowboarding, aerials, moguls, luge, bobsled and speed skating. Eric Flaim, a speed skater competing in his fourth Winter Games, will carry the United States flag in Friday's opening ceremony.
In the end, though, the competition may take second place to the geniality of the host city and its residents. Fukushima, the Buddhist priest, said he noticed a change in local attitudes about a month ago, when residents realized the world was about to arrive on Nagano's doorstep, whether the city was prepared or not.
"They decided not to be afraid of foreigners," he said, "and that we had to welcome the people."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Japanese soldiers shoveling fresh snow yesterday from around the hill for the Olympic ski jump. (Reuters); Prayers were chanted yesterday outside the train station in Nagano, Japan. (Associated Press)(pg. C3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%); 

STATE: CHUBU JAPAN (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NAGANO (JAPAN); JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%); CHUBU JAPAN (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: OLYMPIC GAMES (1998) OLYMPICS (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); WINTER OLYMPICS (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (78%); RESTAURANTS (73%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (72%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (71%); BUDGETS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (66%); AIRPORT RUNWAY CONSTRUCTION (65%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (61%); CONSTRUCTION (60%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: LONGMAN, JERE

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1998



147 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 72 words

HEADLINE: Metro Business;
Housing Permits Are Up

BYLINE: AP 

 BODY:
Housing permits in Connecticut for 1997 were up 17.4 percent, the biggest increase in eight years, state officials said yesterday.
For December, Connecticut municipalities authorized 622 new housing units, up 5.6 percent from the same time last year. 
 For the year, the total number of housing permits increased 17.4 percent, to 9,054 compared with 7,714 in 1996, the Department of Economic and Community Development said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: ECONOMIC&COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC&COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING REAL ESTATE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUILDING PERMITS (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1998



148 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 6, 1998
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 3492 words

HEADLINE: Argentine Economy Reborn but Still Ailing

SERIES: A REGION AT RISK: Second of two articles.

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN 

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES

 BODY:
The process known awkwardly as "globalization" is many things. It is the information society. It is the erosion of national sovereignty. It is footloose corporations taking investments where labor is most productive. It is the growing premium on technical skills -- and the growing plight of unskilled laborers.
It is also the daily flow across borders of more than $1.5 trillion, from investors seeking to maximize profits and minimize risk and moving, at times of crisis, with all the discernment of a herd. For them, Seoul and Sao Paulo, Bangkok and Buenos Aires are one interchangeable "funny world": developing nations that threaten the annual bonus. 
 "What you realize with the Asian crisis," said Ken Baxter, a Brazilian banker, "is that when there's a stampede in this postmodern world, you don't have time to say, 'Hey, look, cattle, you've got it all wrong!' "
Argentina, unlike Brazil, was supposed to have it all right. During the 1990's it adopted the International Monetary Fund program that Brazil has shunned. Ditching decades of anti-Americanism, it won the status of "major non-NATO ally" by hitching its sails to Washington's whims in a way many Brazilians consider demeaning. It tied its currency so closely to America's that the dollar is available in bank cash machines and Argentines think nothing of buying their burgers and newspapers with dollars.
The transformation was stunning, Argentina a paradigm of the newly globalized economy. The national airline, the postal service, banks -- all the enterprises, it seemed, that President Carlos Saul Menem could find -- were privatized or sold to international investors as the country embraced free-market capitalism with the vengeance it had once shown in nationalizing everything.
"We're a country of extremes," said Hector Sabato, director of tourism in the southern town of San Carlos de Bariloche. "The old theme of the invading Yankee has given way to the wonderful Yankee driving the global train that you'd better board immediately or you're finished!"
So the shock has been that much greater as globalization has shown its other face. Since the Asian crisis bit, plants have been idled, growth forecasts have been slashed and the Argentine stock market has plunged more than 25 percent -- although from historic heights.
"What's frightening," said Jorge Bustamante of Merchant Bankers Associates, Buenos Aires representatives of Salomon Brothers, "is that however much you scream you're not a region, not the developing world, you're Argentina, you're different, it doesn't matter."
Latin America resembles Asia in its acute dependence on international capital, but in other ways it is indeed profoundly different. The region has been through two financial collapses -- the debt crisis of the 1980's and the Mexican meltdown of late 1994. These battered the banking system and left sobered banks, now often in foreign hands. The scope for nasty surprises of the Korean or Indonesian variety has been curtailed.
"Hot money" -- the huge short-term capital flows at the heart of the Asian crisis -- has ceded its dominant place in Latin America to longer-term investment, of the kind now being made by the Ford Motor Company, RJR Nabisco Holdings Corporation, Nestle S.A. and countless others.
Yet such distinctions now appear to have only limited value. "The financial risks of globalization are a lot bigger than optimists imagined," said Paul Krugman, a professor of economics at M.I.T. "We are back to a volatile, predepression world economy of financial booms and busts quite different from the cold war years."
In Argentina, this volatility has now fueled opposition to what is widely considered neo-liberalism, or "capitalismo salvaje" (savage capitalism): the radical application of the free-market model personified by the United States. Unused to living with economic pariahs -- the millions in Brazil who have never found a way to join the economy -- Argentina is discovering what permanent exclusion from the job market means.
Already, a political reaction is evident. An alliance of opposition parties defeated President Menem's Peronist Party in congressional elections last October. If a new crisis enveloped the region, the reaction to neo-liberalism could be violent.
 
The Unemployed Poor
When Company Profit Means Personal Loss
At the headquarters of the Roman Catholic diocese in the city of San Salvador de Jujuy, a sign on the door reads, "We regret that we cannot attend the unemployed here." Bishop Marcelo Palentini is overwhelmed. He sits behind a computer, working a cellular phone and an electronic agenda, but he does not like the modern world.
In the province of Jujuy, he estimates, 42 percent are unemployed or doing menial work. People used to ask for raises; now they ask for jobs.
Jujuy long had a bloated state payroll, a massively subsidized state-owned steel company, and labor-intensive sugar, tobacco and fruit farms. Then, in the 1990's, the free-market revolution arrived.
The provincial bank was privatized. The power utility was privatized. The postal service was privatized. The steel company was sold to Citicorp Equity Investments S.A., an Argentine group 40 percent owned by Citicorp. The phones were bought by Telecom, a private international group. Agriculture was transformed by imported American machines, each replacing 80 laborers during the cane harvest. Things began to work better; workers began losing jobs. Unemployment soared, to about 17 percent.
Last year the unemployed let their resentment show. Angry people blocked 21 provincial highways for several days. They held hunger strikes. Several people were injured.
The protests eased only after the mediation of Bishop Palentini. He helped to hammer out an accord creating six-month "work contracts" for several hundred, who agreed to do menial jobs for $200 a month.
Privatization, the bishop says, is positive, "but capital must consider a social dimension."
Still, for the Peronist Governor of Jujuy, Carlos Alfonso Ferraro, privatization is just beginning. Sitting in an office adorned with photographs of Gen. Juan Peron and his wife, Eva, he explained: "Look, it's simple. There is an Americanization of the world. We cannot go in the opposite direction. At last we are going to make America here."
And what of the photos of the Perons, the very symbols of a state-dominated, nationalist Latin American model? Peronism means revolution, said the Governor. That meant nationalization in 1946 and privatization today. "The heart of Peronism is economic independence," he beamed, "and how could I be independent when my phones didn't work?"
When General Peron took power in the 1940's, he set about distributing Argentina's early-20th-century prosperity -- comparable to that of leading European countries -- to build a mass following. "Violence in the hands of the people isn't violence," he proclaimed, "it's justice!"
A Peronist cult grew. So, too, did the country's state industries, its rich labor unions, its debilitating militarist myths of salvation through violence and upheaval, myths that would maroon doomed soldiers in the Falkland Islands in 1982 and add the word "desaparecidos" (the disappeared) to the world's vocabulary. Elegant Buenos Aires with its gilt and statuary became an elegy for a nation plundered.
By 1990, in the words of Carlos Fedrigotti, Citicorp's chief executive in Argentina, "the place had simply collapsed beneath the waste, corruption and mismanagement of a welfare state gone wild."
Collapse took several forms. The postal service favored theft over delivery of mail. It could take a decade to get a telephone. The economy shrank by 12 percent during the 1980's.
Argentina's travails were those of a protectionist, coup-plagued continent. Because the economy had failed so completely, when the Berlin wall fell and President Menem abruptly decided to undo General Peron's legacy, the country was something close to a blank canvas. Abruptly, this faraway place "on the way to nowhere" -- as despairing Argentines loved to lament -- re-entered the world after a long hiatus.
With the economic reforms, growth surged, reaching 8 percent in the first nine months of this year. American investment, including that of George Soros, the New York financier, poured in. A dead dock on the banks of the Plate River was transformed into swinging Puerto Madero, where the steaks came with air conditioning and valet parking.
But if it has drawn the favors of international investors through its reforms, Argentina has also become plagued by new uncertainties.
To look into the vacant eyes of Roberto Angel Garcia, 53, is to understand something of the cruelty of the economic upheaval that competing with the world has meant for Latin America.
Mr. Garcia was dismissed in 1992 along with thousands of other workers from Citicorp Equity's Aceros Zapla steel plant in the town of Palpala. Long run by the armed forces, it was legendary for its padded contracts until privatization came. Then its work force was slashed to 709 people, from 5,000. The company now produces high-quality special steels and expects to start making a profit this year.
The change will no doubt bring benefits in the long term: postwar development shows that countries that open to trade ultimately do better. But Mr. Garcia is paying the price for the adjustment.
He was too young for a pension, too old to find other work. "They told us we were being fired because we were losing money," he said, "but nobody had ever talked about losses before."
Like other workers, Mr. Garcia received an indemnity on dismissal -- about $19,000. But nobody gave the workers any guidance on how to use the money. Mr. Garcia spent most of his on a four-wheel-drive Ford. Now he has one of the temporary work contracts, moving rocks to build a dam. He knows it will not last.
Industries could once afford to be inefficient, because high inflation, repeated devaluations and scant competition from imports masked their failings. But throughout Latin America, such industries suddenly find themselves in a desperate push for productivity.
To be productive -- to make more shoes or cookies per employee -- generally involves using fewer people and the better machines now available from elsewhere.
The job cuts tend to fall on the old -- for the purposes of Latin America's adjustment, this category begins at about 40 -- who then join the globally unemployable.
A garrulous union leader in Jujuy, Carlos Santillan, has become the mouthpiece of the unskilled outcasts.
"Menem thinks that by putting our country at the service of the International Monetary Fund, he brought us into the first world," Mr. Santillan said. "But workers have lost in a few years rights they fought for over a century. We're a colony here. All that is missing is to have Clinton come here and plant the American flag."
As he spoke, Mr. Santillan was organizing a strike by municipal workers whose monthly salaries, about $250 each, were more than a month overdue. A lumbering state bureaucracy, in Argentina as elsewhere in Latin America, has not kept up with economic change.
So bills from privatized electricity and phone companies come on time, but services are promptly cut when bills are unpaid -- even though state workers may not have received the salaries with which to pay them.
 
The Rich Consumers
Gliding Through Life In Shopper's Heaven
The global economy has a smell: a fresh fragrance stripped of any trace of the third world's dust and sweat. It has a sound: piped music and floors so clean they squeak. It has a color: the very white teeth of smiling saleswomen.
These qualities are evident at the Galeria Pacifico shopping mall, a Soros property. It is in central Buenos Aires but could be anywhere. People glide past a procession of name-brand stores: Hugo Boss, Timberland, Lacoste.
"Argentina is just beginning," said Eduardo Elsztain, chairman of Irsa, the company that has been the main vehicle for turning Mr. Soros into one of the biggest landowners in Argentina.
Irsa, 25 percent owned by Mr. Soros, has bought office towers, luxury hotels, shopping malls and a large area of Puerto Madero; a sister company, Cresud, has acquired more than 850,000 acres of mainly pampa farmland and more than 180,000 cows.
Galeria Pacifico is a soothing emblem of the change that upper-class Argentines embrace. Mr. Santillan, like the Zapatistas in Mexico, may raise his voice against the United States, but most of the newly globalized Argentines, with their 50 channels of cable television and their hunger for cellular phones (1.1 million sold in the last year alone) seem to have embraced America.
Indeed the single most potent symbol of their changed country is the dollar. For decades, Argentines used to start the day by checking the dollar rate. Inevitably the inflation-racked peso had fallen. Planning meant getting through the day.
Then, after yet another bout of hyperinflation, a currency board similar to Hong Kong's was established in 1991, and a rate of one peso to one dollar was established by law. Not a peso can be printed unless it is backed by a dollar.
Of course the dollar-peso convertibility carries a price. Argentina is expensive. Salaries -- about $700 a month in a factory -- are relatively high. It is hard for businesses to compete globally.
Moreover, the strong currency, in an open economy, sucks in imports. Entire industries -- toys among them -- have been wiped out by cheap imports from China, where a worker's wage may be no more than $40 a month. Argentina, with its exports to Brazil affected by the Asian-induced downturn there, faces a rising trade deficit in 1998.
To offset this, it is essential that international capital, already threatened by Asia, continue to flow -- which it will only do if Argentina's productivity continues to rise.
"With the United States as a reference, you have to run all the time," said Mr. Bustamante, the banker. "Convertibility means you can never relax."
To run fast enough for the demands of the global market, Mr. Menem now proposes doing away with the collective bargaining still controlled by labor unions and seeking greater ease in hiring and firing. That in turn will probably mean lower wages but greater productivity.
However, this proposed labor reform is controversial. Virtually nobody -- including the opposition alliance that triumphed in October -- wants to undo convertibility, close the economy or return industries to state control. In this sense, as the sociologist Felipe Noguera said, "It's not an either-or political world anymore."
The symbol of the opposition victory in congressional elections last fall was not a figure of the left or right, but Graciela Fernandez Mejide, a rights advocate. The alliance she leads could block labor reform, leading markets to punish Argentina.
"A country advances not just through sound economic rules, but also by having a justice system that cannot be bought," said Domingo Cavallo, the former Economics Minister who was the architect of Argentina's transformation until he quit in 1996 in protest against corruption. "This Government seems to tolerate impunity."
The problem is widespread in Latin America, as shown by the swiftly rising crime rates in Mexico City, Sao Paulo and Buenos Aires. Because a global economy puts a high premium on technical skills and ownership of capital assets, it tends to accentuate wealth and income differentiation.
Governments, however, may plead helplessness. How, they ask, can they raise corporate and other taxes to pay for more efficient bureaucracies, education, better health services, honest police forces, stronger justice systems -- things Latin America desperately needs -- if global investors are generally averse to higher taxation and government spending?
Throughout Latin America, the sheer pace of global economic change appears to have left slow-moving states behind, unable to control the process of which they are a part.
American capitalism is being abruptly introduced into states that, like Argentina, Brazil or Mexico, may not have the technology, or the legal or regulatory systems, to keep up. The result can be galloping corruption and a brutal frontier capitalism.
"Increasingly we see that states need markets, but markets also need states," said Nicholas van Praag, a spokesman for the World Bank. "It's not enough to say that markets can do it all. You need security, you need an education system that works."
In some developing societies, the World Bank has recently begun linking judicial reform to loans -- money that once went for railroads and is now thought to be better used for the training of judges.
 
The Global Colonizers
Even U.S. Giants Have Ups and Downs
Wal-Mart, Buenos Aires, on a Saturday morning: an Argentine flag flutters in the store and there is a sign reading, "Proudly in Argentina." Families stroll down the wide, bright aisles, past displays of Newman's Own salad dressing.
Wal-Mart has created almost 8,000 jobs in Argentina and Brazil since it moved into the two countries three years ago. But it is impossible to say how many lost jobs -- at small neighborhood stores or businesses -- have stemmed from the store's arrival.
What is clear is that it is changing the Argentine way of life: families buy their bicycles here, sometimes using dollars; the corner bicycle store is no more.
Such change prompts ambivalence. A 65-year-old man, Luis Osvaldo Pazzotta, recalls the now-bankrupt textile factory that stood on this site, complains about the recent bankruptcy of his own carpentry business and mutters, "This is the new world, and I have no place in it."
Fernando Descalzo, a young telecommunications engineer working for McCaw, has other views. He is delighted with his Wal-Mart shopping; his family is about to have a hamburger at the adjacent Wendy's. "We're dollarized, we're Americanized, but frankly I don't care," he said.
Wal-Mart, attracted by the opening of Latin American economies, has already invested more than $500 million in Brazil and Argentina, opening 17 stores. The number of stores is destined to double in 1998.
"The Americas are our well-deserved first priority for now," said Bob L. Martin, chief executive of Wal-Mart International. "Even with recent difficulties stemming from Asia, especially in Brazil, we are on track to make our first profits in 1998."
But, of course, Wal-Mart is not impervious to the risks of divided societies. In the last few months, five Wal-Mart stores in Brazil have been robbed by assailants operating in large groups and armed with assault rifles.
 
The Trendy Investors
Patagonian Pampas As Real Estate Craze
When Bill Clinton came to Argentina in October, he stayed at the Hotel Llao Llao near the Patagonian town of Bariloche. Long state-owned, the luxury hotel now belongs to Mr. Soros's investment vehicle, Irsa.
Mr. Soros is not alone. Patagonia is trendy: call it the nature reserve for the globally stressed. Argentina can still be bought for third-world prices, and if it becomes a first-world country the owners of property will make lot of money.
Drive past glittering lakes, on across a steppe so flat that it induces an effect known as horizontal vertigo, and there, just four hours from the Hotel Llao Llao, lies the ghost town of Cutral-Co.
Dust blusters through the windy streets. People stare into space. The airport, once served by Aerolineas Argentinas, is closed. Aerolineas has been privatized, and it makes no economic sense to fly here.
Y.P.F., the formerly state-owned oil company that contrived to lose $6 billion between 1982 and 1990, used to employ 5,000 people here. Now there are 500; Y.P.F. made $900 million in 1996.
Mario Acosta, a Y.P.F. manager, explained that when the old system was dismantled, everyone who was not a professional was laid off. "Before," he said, "uneducated people had a certain basic security. But that's finished in the modern world."
Orlando Mendes used to work at Y.P.F. He has found a part-time job in the city administration. But he cannot support his wife and two children on $200 a month, so every few months he takes a 24-hour bus ride to Buenos Aires, and buys shoes in a factory. The shoeboxes are piled on his children's beds.
"If I'm lucky," he said, "I'll get 16 pesos here for shoes that I bought for 10 pesos. We survive. But I don't like this life. Y.P.F. was a family. Now I arrive at the train station in Buenos Aires, and there are kids everywhere stealing, and frankly I'm afraid."
Something else is troubling Mr. Mendes. There are more fences going up in Patagonia, as the internationally wealthy install themselves on newly acquired estates. "I used to go and camp or fish, but now I hear that Ted Turner is here, Rambo there, the Terminator somewhere else. And I say, no, this is not my Argentina."

CORRECTION-DATE: February 12, 1998, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
A chart on Friday with a front-page article about the globalization of Argentina's economy misstated a statistic about the privatization of state-owned industries in Brazil, cited for comparison. In 1997 Brazil sold off $17.7 billion worth of state enterprises, not $1.7 billion.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Argentina's rich enjoying life in Puerto Madero, a new resort. (Horacio Paone for The New York Times)(pg. A1); Demonstrators may gather in Buenos Aires, as thousands did in September to protest the country's 17 percent unemployment rate (Reuters), but that has little effect on the shoppers at Galeria Pacifico, a luxury mall partly owned by George Soros, a major national landowner. (Gamma Liaison)(pg. A8)
 
Graphs: "Selling off the State" shows the number and dollar value of enterprises sold by the Argentine and Brazilian Governments, from 1990 through 1997. (Source: Privatisation International Magazine); "The Cash Infusion" shows value of direct foreign investment for Brazil, Argentina and all of South America, from 1992 through a projected 1998. (Source: Banco Bilbao Vizcaya)(pg. A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (56%); 

COUNTRY: ARGENTINA (97%); BRAZIL (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); 

CITY: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (94%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (72%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND APCO ARGENTINA INC (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (82%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARGENTINA; BRAZIL; FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; ; ARGENTINA (97%); BRAZIL (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (94%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (72%); 

SUBJECT: SURVEYS AND SERIES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PRIVATIZATION; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; STOCKS AND BONDS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PRIVATIZATION (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); MERCHANT BANKING (77%); TRENDS (77%); DEBT CRISIS (76%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (75%); POSTAL SERVICE (73%); BONDS (72%); CURRENCIES (70%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (67%); AIRLINES (50%); 

PERSON: COHEN, ROGER; MENEM, CARLOS SAUL (PRES) GEORGE SOROS (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 1998



149 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 169 words

HEADLINE: Raise Interest Rates

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Thomas L. Friedman's analysis of the Asian situation (column, Feb. 3) is on the mark. The disagreement I have is with his comment that the Federal Reserve should lower interest rates to keep our economy rolling and that this would help alleviate the economic situation worldwide. 
 Lowering interest rates would also lower the value of the dollar, which would make it more difficult for the ailing economies to export to the United States. An approach has to be taken similar to that of Paul A. Volcker when he was chairman of the Federal Reserve during the early 1980's. Interest rates were raised substantially to dash inflation.
However, I am certain that Mr. Volcker also had in mind significantly increasing the value of the dollar, thereby making exports into the United States accelerate to unprecedented levels. These actions prevented the world from entering into a global depression.
 
DAVID WEINSTEIN
Philadelphia, Feb. 4, 1998
 
The writer is a financial adviser.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (80%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (88%); US DOLLAR (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); 

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 1998



150 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 2; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1605 words

HEADLINE: Business, Asian Style: A Revaluing Of Values;
Some Say Market Collapse Shows Democracy Is Key To Growth, After All

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
Ideas need champions. And Lee Kuan Yew, the patriarch and former Prime Minister of Singapore, has proved to be a particularly effective spokesman for "Asian values," a notion that has gained a wide and receptive audience over the last decade.
The concept of Asian values combines a work ethic, a respect for family and a deference to government authority -- a kind of Protestant ethic without the Western reverence for individualism. 
 To many Westerners as well as Asians, Asian values have offered a convincing cultural explanation for what appeared to be the best-of-both-worlds achievement of much of the region: attaining high economic growth while avoiding the rising rates of crime, broken homes and out-of-wedlock births so common in the West. Even skeptics saw some merit in the concept.
Still, the economic ascent of Asia seemed to occur without a corresponding increase in personal liberty, an independent judiciary or press freedom. The region's authoritarian tinge has been an apparent challenge to the more than century-old Western belief that free markets and political liberalism are inextricably linked, self-reinforcing trends.
Mr. Lee and some others went further: they defended the authoritarian arrangements in Singapore and other Asian nations as essential tools for promoting economic success.
Thus the current Asian economic crisis has precipitated a fallout not only in banks and financial markets, but also in intellectual circles, prompting a re-examination of the Asian-values concept and its implicit challenge to the linkage of capitalism and democracy.
"This crisis has certainly taken the wind out of the sails of the Asian-values argument that authoritarian states have an advantage in promoting economic progress," said Francis Fukuyama, a professor of public policy at George Mason University.
Like other critics, Mr. Fukuyama says the Asian-values concept was always too broad a generalization for a vast region of considerable diversity. Even the term was an overstatement, given that the advocates of Asian values were usually speaking of East Asia, specifically, the lands east of Thailand, basing their cultural and economic arguments on the experience of Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and tiny Hong Kong and Singapore.
Mr. Fukuyama is best-known for his 1989 essay "The End of History," in which he argued that the end of Communism in the East bloc showed that the global drift toward liberal democracy was inevitable. Now, in an article in the February issue of Commentary, he predicts that the economic shocks in Asia will hasten political change in the region.
"In short," Mr. Fukuyama writes in Commentary, "what the current crisis will end up doing is to puncture the idea of Asian exceptionalism." The sometimes harsh laws of economics have not been repealed in Asia, he adds, and neither have the laws of politics: "The well-documented correlation between stable democracy and a high level of development surely applies to a region where rising educational achievements and the complex nature of industrial or post-industrial societies will increasingly favor the rule of law and greater popular participation."
The idea that democracy and capitalism are tightly linked was first presented as a political theory by 19th-century English liberal writers like James Bryce. They were trying to explain the erosion of feudalism and the spread of democracy in Europe as the Industrial Revolution was under way. In the 1950's and 60's, American social scientists asserted that the link between democracy and capitalism helped explain the process of "modernization," as many third world nations began industrializing in the midst of the postwar economic boom. Capitalism's rising wealth, it seemed, led inevitably to democratization, materialism and strains on the social fabric -- all the forces associated with modernization.
By the late 60's, modernization theorists tended to question whether democracy and capitalism were as interrelated as once thought. Rising affluence clearly affected politics, but scholars observed that the linkage was complicated. As Samuel P. Huntington, a Harvard political scientist, put it: "Economic development makes democracy possible; political leadership makes it real."
For the last two decades, cultural theorists have gained ground in the world of ideas and popular opinion. The notion of "civil society," broadly defined as a culture that promotes a healthy economy and society, has been advanced by politicians ranging from Hillary Clinton to Pat Buchanan. And culture has been increasingly cited as the key determinant of economic and political outcomes.
"Culture is certainly the basis for most of what happens in terms of economic progress," said Joel Kotkin, the author of "Tribes" and a senior fellow of the Institute for Public Policy at Pepperdine University. "And more broadly, it is the cultural virus that shapes most of what societies do and how they do it, politically, economically and otherwise."
 
A Path Similar To the West's
 In the culture-is-destiny camp, the Asian-values concept has been perhaps the most sweeping claim of all.
Cultures obviously differ, yet those differences, says Fareed Zakaria, managing editor of Foreign Affairs, mainly affect the path and pace at which global capitalism leads to political liberalization from one country to the next. But the process, he insists, is all but irresistible.
Asia's economic crisis, Mr. Zakaria believes, is a shock that will accelerate the process of political liberalization in the region. "None of this is neat, clean or all at once," he said. "But these countries are being forced to democratize along what is almost exactly the course of the West since the 18th century."
In the West, Mr. Zakaria observed, democracy typically means liberal democracy, a political system characterized by not only free elections, but also the rule of law, the separation of powers and the protection of basic liberties of speech, assembly, religion and property.
 
Middle Class As a Nudge
 But too often, he says, people fail to appreciate the lengthy, often turbulent history that led to liberal democracy in the West. In the 1850's, he notes, England had a legal system, but the aristocracy was all but exempt from the rule of law. The "crony capitalism" of patronage for favored business executives, now under fire in some Asian nations, he says, resembles the system exploited by America's industrial robber barons in the 1890's.
In an article in the November-December issue of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Zakaria surveyed the phenomenon of immature democracies, which have elections but not the wider freedoms associated with Western-style liberal democracy. He called these nations "illiberal democracies": countries in Asia, but also countries like Russia and Peru, where leaders bypass their parliaments to rule by presidential decree.
None of these governments, Mr. Zakaria asserts, will relinquish control willingly. But the rising wealth generated by market economies, he adds, will certainly loosen their grip on political freedoms over time.
"When a nation's economy liberalizes and starts to develop a sizable middle class, it begins a gradual progression that leads toward liberal democracy," Mr. Zakaria said. "No matter what Lee Kuan Yew may hope, the kids of Singapore today spend more than their parents and are less deferential to authority. With another 10 or 20 years of growth, most of these so-called Asian values will erode even further."
As evidence, Mr. Zakaria points to the statistics of Freedom House, a nonprofit organization that monitors political rights and civil liberties around the world, measuring the performance of nations in a complex rating system. He notes that virtually every country with a per-capita gross domestic product of $8,000 or more is in the top tier of the Freedom House rankings of political and civil freedom, with the only exceptions being special cases like the oil-rich emirates of the Middle East and Singapore (a tiny state of 2.8 million people, whose economic development happens to have been guided by a brilliant autocrat, Mr. Lee).
The Asian-values advocates reply that economic and political freedoms are not naturally linked. And the leaders of some Asian nations have relied on the regional cultural theory to justify restrictions on personal freedom.
At the World Conference on Human Rights in Vienna in 1993, for example, Singapore's Foreign Minister warned that "universal recognition of the ideal of human rights can be harmful if universalism is used to mask the reality of diversity." The Chinese delegation was more blunt, saying, "Individuals must put the states' rights before their own."
 
What Would Confucius Say?
 A central tenet of the cultural rationale for a distinctively Asian approach to human rights has been the assertion that Confucius was an authoritarian. Amartya Sen, a professor of economics and philosophy at Harvard University, has challenged this interpretation of Confucianism.
"Confucius did not recommend blind allegiance to the state," Mr. Sen observed in a lecture last year at the Carnegie Council on Ethics and International Affairs. "When Zilu asks him how to serve a prince, Confucius replies, 'Tell him the truth, even if it offends him.' The censors in Singapore or Beijing would take a very different view."
Mr. Sen derides the cultural argument for decoupling economic and political freedom. "The authoritarian readings of Asian values that are increasingly championed in some quarters," he said, "do not survive scrutiny."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Currency traders in Tokyo recently during a sharp rise of the American dollar against the yen. Japan's market weakness has been duplicated throughout the region. (Associated Press)(pg. B9); A rendering of Commodore Perry meeting with Imperial Japanese officials in Yokohama in 1853. Perry was instrumental in opening Japan to international trade. (Culver Pictures)(pg. B11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ASIA (95%); SINGAPORE (94%); JAPAN (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); THAILAND (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); 

STATE: KANTO, JAPAN (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (52%); 

COMPANY: COMMENTARY (MAGAZINE)

ORGANIZATION: COMMENTARY (MAGAZINE)

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; ASIA (95%); SINGAPORE (94%); JAPAN (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); THAILAND (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); TAIWAN (79%); KANTO, JAPAN (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (52%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); POLITICS (89%); ETHICS (89%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TRENDS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); CRIME RATES (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); 

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE; FUKUYAMA, FRANCIS MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 1998



151 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: Study Finds Strokes More Common Than Previously Thought

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: ORLANDO, Fla., Feb. 6

 BODY:
Strokes hit about 200,000 more Americans a year than commonly believed, a new study has found. It tried to correct previous research by looking at black neighborhoods instead of just white communities.
The study, with other research, suggests that about 700,000 Americans a year suffer strokes, or about 40 percent more than the accepted estimate, and that the figures could double in the next half-century. 
 The authors of the new estimate said it more accurately reflected the nation's ethnic diversity and the frequency of second and third strokes. Dr. Joseph Broderick of the University of Cincinnati Medical Center described the results here today at a medical conference sponsored by the American Heart Association. They are also being published in the journal Stroke.
The current figure, adopted by the American Heart Association and others, holds that 500,000 Americans suffer strokes each year. This estimate is based on the Framingham Heart Study, which has followed the health of one virtually white, middle-class Boston suburb for almost 50 years. The only other long-running look at the incidence of stroke comes from Rochester, Minn., an affluent, overwhelmingly white community.
To make an estimate that more accurately reflects the racial and economic mix of the country, researchers from the University of Cincinnati looked at all the strokes recorded among the 1.3 million residents of the Cincinnati area in 1993.
The area's black population, 14 percent, and its median income, $31,000, are similar to those of the United States.
The study found 288 first-time strokes for every 100,000 people among blacks. When recurrent strokes were counted, 411 occurred for every 100,000 blacks.
This compared with 179 first-time strokes per 100,000 people among the white residents of Rochester during the late 1980's.
Dr. Broderick said that when extrapolated nationally, his findings suggested that Americans suffered about 500,000 first-time strokes and 700,000 total strokes annually.
Another study presented at the meeting by Thomas Taylor, an economist from the University of Iowa, used Census data and other studies to calculate the number of strokes likely in 2050.
Assuming 400,000 first-time strokes annually now, this study projects that the total will more than double to slightly more than one million during the next 50 years, though the population is expected to grow only about 50 percent.
The researchers said the aging of the population will be responsible for the increase. But, the projection also assumes no gains in preventing strokes.
Dr. Philip Wolf of the Framingham study said that although he was not sure whether the 700,000 estimate was correct, he believed the 500,000 figure was almost certainly too low, because it did not take into consideration the higher toll of strokes on blacks or the elevated stroke risk among whites in the South.
Dr. Michael Walker of the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke said the new estimate should be "a wake-up call" of stroke's importance.
Although the risk of stroke is about the same for elderly blacks and whites, it is considerably higher for blacks than whites at younger ages. The reasons for this are thought to include more high blood pressure among blacks, and the effects of smoking, obesity, poverty and possibly genetic differences.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (93%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); ROCHESTER, MN, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CINCINNATI NATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR COMMUNITY BANKING INC (50%); UNIVERSITY OF CINCINNATI (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CINCINNATI (84%); AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION INC (83%); AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION INC (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CINCINNATI UNIVERSITY OF CINCINNATI (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CINCINNATI (84%); AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION INC (83%); AMERICAN HEART ASSOCIATION INC (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI (OHIO); UNITED STATES (96%); OHIO, USA (94%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (93%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); ROCHESTER, MN, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: STROKE; FORECASTS; BLACKS; RESEARCH HEART DISEASE (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); STROKES (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); ETHNIC GROUPS (75%); CARDIOLOGY (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (74%); AGING TRENDS (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); WRITERS (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (70%); CENSUS (67%); SPONSORSHIP (54%); 

PERSON: JOSEPH BRODERICK (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 1998



152 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1681 words

HEADLINE: Maintaining Local Flavor;
Will Too Much Success Spoil Blue Bell Ice Cream?

BYLINE: By KATE MURPHY 

DATELINE: BRENHAM, Tex.

 BODY:
Have you ever had Blue Bell ice cream? It depends almost entirely on where you live.
In Texas and a number of nearby states, chances are you've had a scoop. In some markets, more than half the ice cream sold is Blue Bell. Its regional might is so great that even though it is not available in most of the country, it is the nation's No. 3 ice cream. 
 What is the secret to Blue Bell's sweet success? To Howard W. Kruse, chief executive of Blue Bell Creameries Inc., it is simple. "We make the best ice cream in the country," he said as earnestly as an East Texas accent allows. "The milk we use is so fresh, it was grass yesterday."
But part of the formula is surely Blue Bell's homespun appeal, with constant reminders of its folkloric "little creamery in Brenham."
In fact, Blue Bell could be on the way to becoming the Coors of the 90's, as outsiders bootleg it in ice chests to where it is not available or, like the poet Maya Angelou, pay exorbitantly to get it by overnight delivery.
The question now is whether this almost cultish mystique can survive as Blue Bell strives to become a true national brand, gradually stretching its radius as it enters one new market after another.
A local favorite can easily make it big in the wider world, as Jack Daniel's whisky proves, or it can face a rougher journey, as Cape Cod potato chips, Nantucket Nectar juices, Krispy Kreme doughnuts and others have learned.
For one thing, cutting corners on quality can backfire. Harder to control, though, is that regional tastes vary. New Yorkers may not crave the same ice cream Texans do. And some products just can't make it if they lose their down-home image.
Blue Bell hopes it can cope with all this, partly by maintaining strict oversight on production, and still grow outside its regional base.
Founded in 1907 when enterprising townsfolk converted an abandoned cotton gin to churn farmers' excess cream into butter, Blue Bell had 1997 sales of $191 million, according to Information Resources Inc.
Although it is carried in just 14 percent of the nation's groceries, the ice cream ranks behind only the top seller, which goes under the Dreyers label in the West and Edy's in the East, and No. 2 Breyers, and is ahead of Haagen-Dazs and Ben & Jerry's.
With $3.3 billion in sales, the market for store-bought ice cream is filled with plenty of contenders defending their turf.
"There's a lot of competition out there, but we're willing to work at it," said Mr. Kruse, whose German ancestors settled in the rolling hills of Brenham, 70 miles northwest of Houston, in 1880. The privately held creamery has been under his family's control since 1919.
"Blue Bell does make a heck of an ice cream," confirmed Jerry L. Dryer, a dairy industry analyst and marketing consultant in Chicago, but "that's just a small piece of what it takes to make it nationally."
Tastes -- whether for ice cream or any other food or drink -- can vary widely. Cape Cod potato chips flew off the shelves in the Northeast, but in the 1980's, when the Anheuser-Busch Companies bought the brand and tried to take it nationwide, they gathered dust in many parts of the South and Midwest. "Just because a product has a loyal local following doesn't necessarily mean it will translate well into other markets," said Robert E. Spekman, marketing professor at the Darden School of Business Administration at the University of Virginia.
Blue Bell has seen significant taste variation within its relatively small sales area, which expanded outside Texas in 1989 to gradually encompass the other Gulf Coast states as well as Oklahoma and parts of New Mexico, Kansas and Missouri.
To cope, the company has, through test-marketing and trial and error, tailored flavors to suit local preferences. Banana Pudding is popular in New Orleans; Lemon goes over better in Dallas. Still, Blue Bell's flagship flavor, Homemade Vanilla, "has strong appeal wherever we've gone," said John W. Barnhill Jr., who as executive vice president and general sales manager is Blue Bell's second in command.
Another challenge is maintaining the homespun image that first made a product popular. Entenmann's baked goods lost that edge when a succession of corporate giants, including Warner-Lambert, Kraft Foods and now Bestfoods expanded distribution but failed to emphasize the brand's origin as a tiny Brooklyn bakery that delivered goods by horse-drawn wagon.
"Today it's just another brand without much distinction fighting it out in a very competitive market," said Lynn C. Dornblaser, editorial director of New Product News, a Chicago trade publication.
Even though Blue Bell has plants in three states that crank out 100,000 gallons of ice cream a day, it relentlessly advertises itself as the "little creamery in Brenham." The company spends 2 to 4 percent of its sales on advertising and bumps that up by another 25 percent per household locally when it enters a new market.
Along with print, radio and TV spots featuring grazing cows and barefoot country children, Blue Bell officials pay a neighborly visit to the mayor of each new city where they expand distribution, bearing a free gallon or two of ice cream.
The strategy mimics that adopted by the Brown-Forman Corporation in the 1950's to sell Jack Daniel's whisky nationally. For over 40 years, Jack Daniel's ads have depicted an old distillery in bucolic Lynchburg, Tenn. Founded in 1866, the distillery -- today a thoroughly modern plant that produces five million cases a year -- attracts tourists from throughout the United States, just as Blue Bell devotees flock to Brenham to watch ice cream cartons trundle along a fully automated assembly line. Both sites feature consciously quaint, Victorian-style facades, and Blue Bell also has an old-fashioned ice cream parlor.
But image is only part of it. Another danger is that the mass production needed to go national will change the taste. Ask anyone who remembers what an Entenmann's crumb cake or Famous Amos cookie used to taste like.
"It's hard-to-impossible to maintain the integrity of a product when you start producing it on a massive scale," Ms. Dornblaser said.
This is especially true when a company sells out to a larger concern. "Large corporations usually are more interested in the brand than the product behind it," said Jonathan K. Frenzen, clinical associate professor of new product management at the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business. "Economics usually triumphs over taste considerations."
Take Krispy Kreme doughnuts, legendary in their native South. To cut costs, Beatrice Foods, now a unit of Conagra Inc., changed the 1937 recipe when it took over the product in 1976. After years of declining profits, a group of franchisees bought Krispy Kreme back in 1982. "The first thing we did was go back to the original recipe," said Scott Livengood, president of the Krispy Kreme Doughnut Corporation.
The company is again trying to expand nationally, with the goal of opening 70 new stores, for a total of 105, by year-end. But this time every outlet will receive the original doughnut mix directly from a central plant in Winston-Salem, N.C.
"Central control is essential to keeping up the quality," Mr. Livengood said.
Mr. Kruse at Blue Bell agreed. "Things are liable to change when you allow outside control," he said. Blue Bell declines at least six buyout offers a year and refuses to contract out production or delivery.
Its greatest difficulty in pursuing a wider market has been distribution. Like so many other small food and beverage companies, Blue Bell has had difficulty gaining supermarket shelf space. "Some stores have certain expectations," Mr. Barnhill said, referring to the under-the-table but perfectly legal practice of charging "slotting fees" -- payments grocery stores demand from companies to stock their products or to display them more prominently.
"Stores swear they don't do it, but they do," said Nancy Panos Schmitt, associate professor of marketing at Westminster College in Salt Lake City. "Shelf space is so pricey it keeps a lot of good products from getting to the consumer."
Kineret, a line of frozen kosher foods now owned by Hain Food Group, almost went bankrupt shelling out for shelf space when it tried to enter markets outside the Northeast.
And the founders of Nantucket Allserve Inc., based in Cambridge, Mass., initially had to beg mom-and-pop stores to stock Nantucket Nectars because they could not afford to get their juice beside Ocean Spray and Lipton in major grocery and convenience stores.
Blue Bell says it refuses to pay slotting fees and thus receives little or sometimes no shelf space in Kansas City area supermarkets, where it has no strong ties. Blue Bell has only 8 percent of the Kansas City market -- but over 50 percent of many of its other markets.
The company will stay in the region, though, in the hope that a familiar grocery chain will move in soon. "I wish we'd done a little more research before we went in there," Mr. Barnhill said. "We've been a lot more careful since then."
Blue Bell expects plenty of room in grocers' freezers when it makes its debuts in Atlanta next month and in Memphis in July. It would not disclose its long-range expansion strategy, but if history is any indication, Blue Bell will continue its conservative state-by-state creep, adding at least two big urban areas a year.
But as Blue Bell expands its territory and its ice cream becomes more widely available, will it lose its mystique? "That's what happened to Coors beer," says Mr. Frenzen at the University of Chicago.
Coors had something of a cult status in the 1970's, when it was sold exclusively in the Rocky Mountain region and on the West Coast.
When the Coors Brewing Company began to sell its product nationally in the 1980's, the furor quickly faded. Even though it was the same beer, "it wasn't special anymore," Mr. Frenzen said. "Scarcity has always been a source of perceived value."
Mr. Kruse is not concerned. "People are always going to want the best," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A regional food brand's appeal can fade when national distribution begins. Howard W. Kruse of Blue Bell wants to keep control over his ice cream. (Bob Gomel for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Scoop Dreams"
Turning a regional brand into a national one is a difficult challenge. Here is how Blue Bell ice cream, which is trying to expand beyond its Southwest base, compares with some other products.
 
BLUE BELL ICE CREAM
1997 SALES: $191 million
DISTRIBUTION: 14% of the country
It is spreading into new markets, while keeping its production centralized.
 
CAPE COD POTATO CHIPS
1997 SALES: $17.2 million
DISTRIBUTION: 23% of the country
Not everyone likes the chips as much as Northeasterners do.
 
JACK DANIEL'S
1997 SALES: $1 billion
DISTRIBUTION: Worldwide
It succeeded globally by growing slowly while stressing its roots.
 
KRISPY KREME
1997 SALES: $220 million
DISTRIBUTION: 17 states
Its recipe was changed, but new owners went back to the old formula.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KKD (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (63%); NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (54%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (54%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (54%); SIC2051 BREAD & OTHER BAKERY PRODUCTS, EXCEPT COOKIES & CRACKERS (54%); NAICS311520 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERT MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2024 ICE CREAM & FROZEN DESSERTS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: BLUE BELL CREAMERIES INC INFORMATION RESOURCES INC (63%); KRISPY KREME DOUGHNUTS INC (54%); BEN & JERRY'S HOMEMADE INC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: BLUE BELL CREAMERIES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); TEXAS, USA (93%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: ICE CREAM; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES DAIRY PRODUCTS (90%); ICE CREAM (90%); EXECUTIVES (55%); 

PERSON: MURPHY, KATE MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 1998



153 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: Whitman, Like Other Leaders, Must Pick Budget Surplus Plan

BYLINE: By JENNIFER PRESTON 

DATELINE: TRENTON, Feb. 6

 BODY:
When Gov. Christine Todd Whitman unveils her new state budget next week, she faces the same difficult choice as her fellow Republican Governors in New York and Connecticut: whether to spend or give back a huge budget surplus.
Senior Whitman administration officials announced today that they had revised tax revenue projections upward by $609 million for the current fiscal year, which ends June 30. And for the new fiscal year, beginning July 1, they estimated there would be an additional $710 million in tax revenues. That could give Mrs. Whitman about $1.3 billion to spend or return to taxpayers over the next 17 months. The state adopted a $16.2 billion budget last June. 
 State Treasurer James A. DiEleuterio Jr. said the state's strong economy and the boom on Wall Street contributed to the unexpected rise in tax dollars flowing into the state's coffers.
Mr. DiEleuterio would not say whether Mrs. Whitman intended to use the extra money for spending increases or tax cuts. The Governor is scheduled to outline her new spending plan to the State Legislature on Tuesday.
But Democrats were already offering Mrs. Whitman some ideas on what to do with the money.
"We favor a property tax cut, and we've offered a couple of good ways to slice it," said the assistant Senate minority leader, Bernard F. Kenny Jr., a Democrat from Hoboken. "Personally, I would like a substantial boost in state aid for education to put the state share in the neighborhood of 50-50 with local school boards, where everyone knows it should be."
Senator Wayne R. Bryant, a Democrat from Camden County, called today for expanding the state's property-tax rebate program. It now provides property tax rebate checks, up to $500, for senior citizens whose income is under $100,000 and for homeowners and tenants whose household income does not exceed $40,000.
Mr. Bryant said Mrs. Whitman and Republican lawmakers should use $400 million from the budget surplus for a property-tax-rebate program to all households with incomes between $40,000 and $100,000 for at least one year.
"There is no reason why we cannot make it the policy of the state to set aside a portion of revenue growth each year to fund the Homestead Rebate program," he said.
In Connecticut, Gov. John G. Rowland announced this week that he intended to put checks in the mail -- some for as much as $200 -- to taxpayers, returning $125 million of a state surplus that is projected to be at least $180 million.
The budget surplus is a record $1.8 billion in New York State. After three years of putting forth austere spending plans, Gov. George E. Pataki recommended a 7.6 percent spending increase and the acceleration of already enacted tax cuts in his new $71.9 billion spending plan.
Mrs. Whitman faces pressure to increase spending for the state's urban schools. A judge has recommended that New Jersey spend $312 million more annually for programs in urban schools. The State Supreme Court must now decide whether to force the state to do it.
In her inaugural address, Mrs. Whitman also promised to spend $200 million more a year to help preserve farmland and other open space.
Mr. DiEleuterio said that growth in the personal income tax accounted for the biggest increase in revenues for this fiscal year and the new fiscal year. The personal income tax is expected to generate $304 million more than anticipated in this year's budget, and another $520 million more in the new state spending plan.
Sales tax revenues are also expected to rise $170 million in this year's budget, and $208 million more in next year's budget.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (94%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); PROPERTY TAX (89%); TAX LAW (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (67%); SALES REBATES (57%); SENIOR CITIZENS (57%); 

PERSON: PRESTON, JENNIFER; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV) CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 1998



154 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS;
Prices Rise as Fears About Asia and Interest Rates Ebb

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
Bond prices rallied yesterday as investors seemed to dismiss the third surprisingly strong employment report in a row. Instead, they are still betting that the drag from Asia will slow growth in the United States enough to keep the Federal Reserve from raising interest rates.
Stocks also moved higher, with the Dow Jones industrial average rising 72.24 points, or nine-tenths of 1 percent, to 8,189.49, and the Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks jumping 8.92 points, also nine-tenths of 1 percent, to 1,012.46, a new high. For the week, the Dow was up 3.6 percent and the S.& P. 500 3.3 percent. 
 While both stocks and bonds gained yesterday, it is because the two markets diverge in their outlooks on Asia that the story becomes interesting. It appears that this week's stock rally was built, in part, on the belief that Asia's impact on the United States will be much weaker than feared.
"There is less concern about the impact on the American economy then there was in the fall," Richard McCabe, chief market analyst at Merrill Lynch, said of the stock market. Recent analyses have suggested that many companies could be helped, he noted.
That change of sentiment, he said, can be seen in the rebound recently of so-called cyclical stocks, which are sensitive to economic cycles and would generally have earnings problems if the economy slowed down a lot. Since its low on Jan. 9, the Morgan Stanley index of 30 cyclical stocks is up 10.9 percent, with even some of its hard-hit members, like Caterpillar and International Paper, bouncing back.
Big bank stocks have also rebounded strongly, after falling sharply on fears that the Asian financial turmoil would cut into their trading profits and earnings, a concern that was confirmed in some fourth-quarter earnings reports released last month. The Keefe, Bruyette & Woods index of 24 money-center and leading regional banks is up 10 percent since Jan 23.
Yesterday, banks were leading the market again. J. P. Morgan led the Dow higher as rumors of a merger with Deutsche Bank sent the price of the stock up 4 3/8, or 4.1 percent, to 111 3/4. The bank would not comment, but several bank analysts dismissed the chances of such a merger. "It is not to be believed," said George Salem, a banking analyst with Gerard Klauer Mattison & Company.
The change in interpretation of the Asian impact has been helped by the recent rally in the stock markets of Asian countries that have been engulfed by the financial turmoil and whose economic growth is expected to slow significantly this year: South Korea, Malaysia, Thailand, Indonesia and Hong Kong. The rally in the Japanese stock market has also helped.
Jeffrey M. Applegate, the chief United States strategist at Lehman Brothers, said that while the worst of the economic impact from Asia was still to be felt, the rallies in markets in Asia, Europe and the United States might be an indicator that things will be better a few quarters down the road.
It is not illogical, he said, for European or American stocks indexes to be rallying. "We are looking over the valley -- the trough," he said.
But since the drag from Asia is still looming, there could be some rude surprises in the spring, when this year's first-quarter earnings begin to be released.
"The question is: is this the beginning of something that is going to go on and on?" asked Marshall Acuff, equity strategist at Salomon Smith Barney. "I don't think so because we are going to by tagged" by Asia. Mr. McCabe of Merrill Lynch added: "We are going from the overpessimistic of the fall to the overoptimistic of the spring. Then we will take a look."
In the bond market, the price of the 30-year bond rose 5/32, to 102 29/32, while the yield, which moves in the opposite direction, slipped to 5.92 percent, from 5.93 percent on Thursday. In the when-issued market, where there is trading ahead of next week's quarterly Treasury auction, the 3-year note yielded 5.40 percent; the 10-year note, 5.57 percent, and the 30-year bond, 5.92 percent.
The employment report released yesterday showed that 358,000 new nonfarm payroll jobs were created in January -- well above forecasts of 235,000. It was the third month in a row that job growth was stronger than expected. But after a brief selloff, the bond market rebounded and finished little changed on the day.
Neill M. Soss, the chief United States economist at Credit Suisse First Boston, attributed the rebound to bond investors who were counting on the drag from Asia to slow down the American economy.
And while he acknowledged that there was no significant sign of such a slowing yet, he said that the Federal Reserve had clearly indicated to investors that the central bank expected one. That makes it even easier to dismiss strong economic reports that would normally send bonds tumbling.
Mr. Soss noted that the Fed announced this week that it had changed its official policy outlook, which had presumed that its next interest rate move would be an increase. That stance, which is an important signal of the central bank's intent, is now neutral.
In addition, he said that Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, indicated in Congressional testimony at the end of last month that the impact of Asia would not be fully known until this spring, which means any move by the Fed in not likely for several months. "The market can take comfort from that idea," he said.

GRAPHIC: Graph: Graph shows the Dow Jones Industrial Average daily closes for the months of February 1997 through February 1998. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)
 
Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorite Stocks" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%); MS (NYSE) (54%); DEUT (JSE) (53%); DBK (FRA) (53%); DBK (BIT) (53%); DBETN (JSE) (53%); DBA (ASX) (53%); DB (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); MALAYSIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); THAILAND (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); GERARD KLAUER MATTISON & CO LLC (61%); MORGAN STANLEY (54%); KEEFE BRUYETTE & WOODS INC (53%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (53%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); MALAYSIA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); THAILAND (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS; GOVERNMENT BONDS; FINANCES STOCK INDEXES (95%); BOND MARKETS (91%); BONDS (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); MONEY CENTER BANKS (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (68%); 

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 1998



155 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Japanese House Votes to Bail Out Banks

BYLINE: By SHERYL WuDUNN 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Saturday, Feb. 7

 BODY:
The Japanese Government took a stride closer toward bringing stability to Japan's volatile financial system as the lower house of Parliament approved legislation early today to spend about $240 billion to bail out banks.
Politicians say they hope that the legislation, which is expected to win approval in the upper house in about a week, will help dispel the uncertainty and pessimism that have plagued markets here since November, when four financial institutions collapsed. Since then, there have been repeated jolts of bad news, including rising corporate failures, weak economic performance, the arrests of Finance Ministry officials and the resignation last week of the Finance Minister. 
 The bailout is one of the biggest in history, and though it still has its critics, the expectation that the Government will finally spend money to maintain financial stability has helped calm the markets a bit recently and the currency has risen slightly. On Friday, the Nikkei index of 225 issues ended at 17,040.06, up 2.5 percent for the week, while the yen was quoted at 124.12 yen to the dollar, up from 126.85 yen last week.
"We absolutely need this bill to help out banks that are having problems raising funds on their own," Kimio Yamaguchi, head of the Finance Ministry's banking bureau, told the Parliament before the vote, according to Bloomberg News.
While the Government says it hopes the legislation will resolve the nation's financial crisis, many economists and analysts are skeptical that the measures are sufficient. Japan's economy has been faltering for seven years, in large part because the Government has been reluctant to move aggressively to manage the debt crisis. It finally acknowledged last month that banks were saddled with bad or questionable loans amounting to about $620 billion.
With such a heavy debt burden, banks have been trying to shrink their loan assets, and this has helped bring about a credit squeeze, which in turn has led to higher numbers of corporate bankruptcies and overall unease in the economy.
Two bills were passed early this morning, one of which would provide 17 trillion yen, or $137 billion, to guarantee deposits and strengthen the Deposit Insurance Corporation, or D.I.C., an entity similar to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. With the new law, which could go into effect later this month, the D.I.C. in Japan can also be called upon to help deal with the collapse of financial institutions.
The second bill, which has drawn more criticism, would make available 13 trillion yen, or $105 billion, to allow the Government to help strengthen the capital base of the banks. Essentially, it would buy subordinated debt of the banks or take a stake in them by buying their preferred shares, which carry no voting rights. The plan draws heavily from one used by the United States in the 1930's when the Government bought preferred shares in banks to help pull the nation out of the Depression.
The Government has not yet announced how it will determine which banks' shares or debt it will buy. But it has suggested it will follow the American approach and start by buying shares in healthy institutions to lend credibility to the program. Critics fear that the program will be used to bolster ailing banks that should be allowed to close down or be merged with other institutions.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (63%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (63%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (63%); BLOOMBERG LP (54%); FINANCE MINISTRY (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: FINANCE MINISTRY (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BANKS AND BANKING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS BAILOUTS (91%); BANK FAILURES (91%); LEGISLATION (91%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BANKING LAW (78%); TRENDS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (77%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (75%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); PREFERRED STOCK (73%); SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS (70%); STOCK INDEXES (68%); 

PERSON: WUDUNN, SHERYL

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 1998



156 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 916 words

HEADLINE: JOBS IN JANUARY WERE UP SHARPLY

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 6

 BODY:
The economy created jobs at a surprisingly robust pace in January, the Government reported today, evidence that America's economic stamina has withstood any disruptions caused so far by the financial tumult in Asia.
The Bureau of Labor Statistics said the economy added 358,000 jobs last month, far above the 235,000 forecast by economists. 
 It was the third consecutive month that job generation has been exceptionally strong. With growing opportunities for work drawing more people into the labor force, the unemployment rate remained at 4.7 percent in January, just a notch above its quarter-century low.
The demand for workers also led employers to raise wages again last month. Average hourly earnings of production and nonsupervisory employees rose 4 cents, to $12.51. The gain left wages 3.8 percent higher than a year earlier, extending a trend that has given back to workers some of the earning power they lost to inflation in the last decade.
But economists said the wage increase was not enough to raise any concerns about higher inflation. And because the Federal Reserve has made clear that it expects the economy to slow in coming months as ripple effects from Asia reach the United States, investors disregarded the large jobs gains, betting that neither a rise in interest rates nor resurgent inflation is looming.
Stocks rose, pushing the Dow Jones industrial average up 72.24 points, to 8,189.49, leaving the index within 70 points of its record high set on Aug. 6. In the bond market, a sensitive barometer of inflation anxiety, prices edged up, pushing down the yield on the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond to 5.92 percent from 5.93 percent.
"Job creation is sturdy and we have effective price stability," said Paul McCulley, an economist at UBS Securities. "The bottom line is that we've got a lovely economy."
With potential inflation counterbalanced by worries about possible price declines, the Fed and its chairman, Alan Greenspan, have suggested that they intend to keep interest rates unchanged until the economy tilts clearly in one direction or another.
The job figures for January extended a surge in employment that began last fall, just when the labor market had showed signs of cooling. After accounting for a small downward revision today to December's figures, the economy has been creating jobs at a rate of 358,000 a month for the last four months -- and 381,000 over the last three months -- after averaging 242,000 for the first nine months of 1997.
The surge in jobs reflects a remarkable confluence of positive and self-reinforcing economic forces. Inflation has been almost nonexistent, and consumer confidence has been extremely strong. After a short, sharp drop when the scope of Asia's financial problems first became evident, the stock market has rebounded and corporate profits have remained healthy.
Long-term interest rates, an important indicator of economic stability, have fallen in the last few months. Lower rates have helped invigorate housing and other interest-sensitive sectors of the economy by making loans more affordable, and have allowed companies to continue investing heavily in more efficient equipment.
The likelihood that the Federal budget will soon move from deficit into surplus has further improved the outlook. The less money the Government needs to borrow, the more is freed for private investment.
President Clinton welcomed the job figures at a news conference today. His advisers said the results reflected not just the balancing of the budget, but also initiatives such as improved access to education and training and the opening of foreign markets to trade.
"There are enormous economic and social benefits from our nation's high-employment economy," said Janet L. Yellen, the chairwoman of the President's Council of Economic Advisers.
Some of the biggest employment gains came in the construction industry, which added 92,000 jobs in January. The increase reflected the strength of the housing industry, which has been helped not just by declining interest rates but also by unusually warm weather.
Service industries also showed solid job gains, as did manufacturing, which is expected to be hardest hit when the effects of the Asian crisis hit the American economy.
The major harm from Asia is likely to come from the plunge in the value of many Asian currencies relative to the dollar, a situation that is expected to lead to a surge of inexpensive imports into the United States, hurting American competitors. And the weakness of the Asian economies is also likely to lead to decreased demand for American exports.
"The economy has been running on the fumes of the strength from before the Asia shock," Mr. McCulley said. "Those fumes will exhaust themselves, and the manufacturing sector is going to start getting beat up in the spring."
The figures showed the unemployment rate for adult men declined to 3.8 percent last month from 4.1 percent in December, hitting the lowest figure for almost two decades. The rate for adult women rose four-tenths of a percentage point, to 4.4 percent.
For the first time, the Labor Department broke out unemployment by education level as well as gender, age and race. The analysis showed unemployment rates dropped steadily with higher levels of education. Among people with less than a high school education, the rate in January was 7.2 percent. Among high school graduates, the rate was 3.9 percent, and college graduates, 1.9 percent.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "The Labor Picture in January" shows employment and unemplyment statistics for January. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. D4)
 
Graph: "Consumer Borrowing" shows net change in total consumer installment credit outstanding, from July 1996 to Dec. 1997. (Source: Federal Reserve Board)(pg. D4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (54%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (94%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) DOW JONES & CO INC (54%); DOW JONES & CO INC (54%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (94%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; WAGES AND SALARIES; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) EMPLOYMENT (93%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); INFLATION (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); WORKFORCE DEMAND (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (74%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); TREASURY SECURITIES (72%); BOND MARKETS (69%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (69%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 1998



157 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1998

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 586 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

January Job Gains Reflect Economic Vibrancy
The economy created jobs at a surprisingly strong pace in January, evidence that America's economic stamina has withstood any disruptions caused so far by the financial crisis in Asia. 
 The data released yesterday by the Bureau of Labor Statistics showed the economy added 358,000 jobs last month, far above the 235,000 widely forecast and the third consecutive month that job generation has been exceptionally strong. The unemployment rate remained at 4.7 percent, near its quarter-century low, and there was no evidence of inflationary wage increases. Page A1.
 
Markets Rally to Close Strong Week
Stocks and bonds both advanced in reaction to the unemployment report, viewed by investors as evidence that economic growth remains healthy and inflationary pressures are benign. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 72.24 points, to 8,189.49, for a weekly gain of 282.99 points or 3.6 percent. The Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks rose 8.92 points, to 1,012.46, its fourth record high in five days, and finished the week up 3.3 percent. The 30-year Treasury yield eased to 5.92 percent from 5.93. D4.
 
Japan Closer to Bank Bailout
Japan's lower house of Parliament approved a $240 billion bailout package for troubled banks, moving an important step closer to returning the financial system to health. The plan will help guarantee bank deposits, pay for cleanups of failed banks and provide capital to banks hobbled by bad debts. D3.
 
U S West Beats Forecasts
U S West said earnings before one-time items for the fourth quarter declined 4.6 percent. But the results exceeded analysts' estimates, and its shares rose. D4.
 
Italian Banks Seek Merger Talks
Two large Italian banks -- Istituto Bancario San Paolo di Torino and Istituto Mobiliare Italiano -- plan to discuss a possible merger. A combination would create a bank with $206 billion in assets and and a strong position in investment banking. D3.
 
Wall St. Skeptical Of Trump's Plan
Donald J. Trump confirmed a report that he had hired two investment banks to help him sell all or part of Trump Hotels and Casino Resorts. But gambling industry analysts, who expressed skepticism when he first proposed the idea last month, grew even more skeptical yesterday, arguing that the $1.7 billion price was excessive. Mr. Trump, meanwhile, said he was confident of a sale. D3.
 
$168 Million for Canada Chain
Canada's largest retailer, the Hudson's Bay Company, is acquiring the 112 stores of Kmart Canada for $168 million (United States.) Kmart Canada, controlled by an investor group, is Canada's No. 3 discount chain. D3.
 
VW Ad Draws Fire in France
The Roman Catholic Church in France is suing Volkswagen of France and its advertising agency over their use of "mocking" religious images to promote VW's new Golf model. One advertisement is modeled after Leonardo da Vinci's depiction of Christ's Last Supper. A4.
 
Wheeze of Relief in Germany
German lawmakers defeated legislation that would have subjected Germany's 17 million smokers to anti-smoking rules long familiar in the United States. Tobacco companies, which pay $14 billion a year in German taxes, had opposed the legislation. A4.

Fine Host in S.E.C. Inquiry
Fine Host, a food services company that dismissed its chairman and treasurer after disclosing accounting problems in December, said that it was being investigated by the Securities and Exchange Commission. D3.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 8,189.49 up 72.24
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.92% down 0.01
The Dollar -- 124.12 yen up 0.69
 
Photo: Donald J. Trump.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: HBC (TSX) (80%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (80%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (80%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (80%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (80%); NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (63%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (63%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (53%); 

COUNTRY: CANADA (94%); FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (92%); JAPAN (92%); ITALY (79%); 

CITY: TURIN, ITALY (79%); 

COMPANY: HUDSON'S BAY CO (80%); ISTITUTO BANCARIO SAN PAOLO DI TORINO (65%); TRUMP ENTERTAINMENT RESORTS INC (63%); ISTITUTO MOBILIARE ITALIANO SPA (53%); KMART CANADA LTD (50%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (58%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (58%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (94%); FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (92%); JAPAN (92%); ITALY (79%); TURIN, ITALY (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); MERGERS (89%); INFLATION (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (88%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (83%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); STATISTICS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); BONDS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%); TREASURY SECURITIES (69%); CASINOS (69%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (65%); APPROVALS (65%); HOTELS & MOTELS (65%); RESORTS (64%); RETAILERS (63%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (60%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (60%); RELIGION (60%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (50%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%); GAMING (50%); 

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 1998



158 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 522 words

HEADLINE: Theater Megaplex Is Planned For Downtown White Plains

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS, Feb. 6

 BODY:
Tishman Speyer Properties Inc. and Loews Theaters joined city officials today in announcing that the companies would open a 24-screen, 5,200-seat movie theater complex downtown, on the site of an abandoned building formerly occupied by Macy's.
City officials, who have long struggled to halt a retail decline in what was once known as the City of 1,000 Stores, said they were heartened by news of the $100 million construction project, which is scheduled to begin early next year and be completed by December 1999. 
 Mayor Joseph M. Delfino predicted that the new movie theater complex -- which would be one of the largest in the United States -- would serve as a linchpin for the city's growth.
"It's a major, major step in the overall revitalization of downtown White Plains and will play a crucial role in enhancing our position as the heart of Westchester County," the Mayor said.
In the summer of 1996, Macy's moved out of the building on Mamaroneck Avenue it had occupied in the center of downtown for 47 years and moved into the nearby Galleria Mall. After the relocation, the small downtown stores outside the mall struggled to survive. Both the Galleria and another mall here, the Westchester, have drawn shoppers away from the stores on Mamaroneck Avenue, the city's main thoroughfare, and its side streets, where some of the once prosperous stores now stand empty.
In addition to the movie theaters, Tishman Speyer/Travelers Real Estate Venture L.L.C., a recently formed joint venture, plans to include space for shops and several restaurants at the former Macy's site, said Steven Rubenstein, a spokesman for the project. The three-story building will be razed to make way for the new project, he said.
"Loews had been eyeing the site for some time," Mr. Rubenstein said, "but Macy's was still selling socks there."
Under the proposal, Loews, a Sony Retail Entertainment company, will lease 118,000 square feet in the new structure from Tishman Speyer for its 24 theaters. All told, the retail and movie theater components will encompass about 450,000 square feet. The new building will have a glass atrium facing Mamaroneck Avenue.
An earlier plan for a multiplex near the Metro-North Railroad station was approved by the City Council, but Mayor Delfino said that that plan was no longer being considered.
Tishman Speyer Properties, which has its headquarters in Manhattan, recently bought the Chrysler Building and the Kent Building, along with adjacent properties, between 42nd and 43rd Streets and Lexington and Third Avenues in Manhattan. It is also a co-owner and the managing agent of Rockefeller Center.
Loews Theaters has 1,020 screens under the Loews or Sony name in 140 locations in 16 states, including the Sony Theaters Lincoln Square megaplex at Broadway and 68th Street in Manhattan.
Neither Tishman Speyer or Loews would disclose the price paid to Federated Department Stores, the parent company of Macy's, for the property here. Tishman Speyer has also acquired property near the site, on which it is planning to build residential units. Details were not available for those plans.

GRAPHIC: Map of White Plains showing location of the new multiplex: A 24-screen complex would be on the site of a former Macy's.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: M (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (95%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (95%); NAICS512131 MOTION PICTURE THEATERS (EXCEPT DRIVE-INS) (95%); SIC7832 MOTION PICTURE THEATERS, EXCEPT DRIVE-IN (95%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: TISHMAN SPEYER PROPERTIES; LOEWS THEATERS MACY'S INC (95%); LOEWS THEATRE MANAGEMENT CORP (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: TISHMAN SPEYER PROPERTIES; LOEWS THEATERS

GEOGRAPHIC: WHITE PLAINS (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; THEATERS (BUILDINGS) CITIES (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); MOVIE THEATERS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); MAYORS (89%); RELOCATIONS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); RETAILERS (77%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); APPROVALS (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); THEATER (58%); 

PERSON: DELFINO, JOSEPH M (MAYOR) STEVEN RUBENSTEIN (56%); JOSEPH M DELFINO (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 1998



159 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: New Special Relationship: A Deft Defense of Clinton

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 6

 BODY:
Tony Blair gave a whole new meaning this week to the "special relationship" that has defined British-American relations since Churchill and Roosevelt joined forces against the Nazis in World War II.
On a four-day visit here, his first to the Capital since his election last May, the cheerful British Prime Minister provided a much-needed emotional lift for the American President, who has been increasingly besieged over reports of a sex scandal. 
 And Mr. Blair, who last year gave valuable public relations advice to the royal family after the death of Princess Diana, offered such a ringing defense of Mr. Clinton that he seemed to be performing a similar rescue mission.
At their joint news conference today, Mr. Blair was asked if his forthright defense of Mr. Clinton was a "politically risky strategy."
"I've said it because I believed it and because I think it is the right thing to do," Mr. Blair answered without hesitation.
"In the end, you either decide in politics, when you're asked about people, you're going to say how you actually feel or you're going to make a whole series of calculations," he went on. "And my belief is that the right thing to say is what you feel. And I happen to think -- I don't know whether it's my place to say it or not -- that if you look at the American economy, you look at the respect with which America is held right round the world today, if you look at the standing and authority of the President, it's a pretty impressive record for anyone."
Mr. Blair had been interpreted to Americans as a protege of Mr. Clinton, a member of the postwar generation who copied Mr. Clinton's successful formula in moving his party to the center. But somewhere during this visit, the dynamic changed between the 44-year-old Mr. Blair and the 51-year-old Mr. Clinton, and Mr. Blair no longer seemed the initiate.
During their news conference today, Mr. Clinton's qualities of appearing relaxed, expansive and politically deft belonged to Mr. Blair.
Andrew J. Pierre, a professor of international relations at the School of Advanced International Studies at Johns Hopkins University, said that because of the timing of the visit -- as tensions build over Iraq -- Mr. Blair had "nothing to lose" in his strong defense of Mr. Clinton.
"To the extent that Blair builds up Clinton, it's money in the bank, it's political capital, and it won't be forgotten. When the day comes that Blair is in trouble -- and I'm not suggesting it will be the same kind of trouble -- Clinton will go out and support him."
"It's of value to Blair domestically because it puts him on the broader world stage, it gives British diplomacy a new elan to once again be in tandem with the leader of the free world," Mr. Pierre said. "And it's a godsend to Clinton. It gives him a few light hours."
Anthony Cary, a spokesman for the British Embassy, basking in the afterglow of the news conference, said: "It was no great surprise to us. People on the outside are saying that Blair was deliberately being an umbrella or a life raft, or that their relationship blossomed because there was a particular need on one side. But that is only because of the domestic context. There is a very good personal chemistry between them and a good fit of their agendas."
Today Mr. and Mrs. Clinton took Mr. Blair and his wife, Cherie, on a tour of the new memorial here to Franklin D. Roosevelt. Tonight the Blairs headed to Camp David for a private, informal dinner with the Clintons and the Gores. The Blairs are to fly back to London on Saturday morning.
During toasts at a formal dinner at the White House Thursday night, Mr. Blair spoke conversationally. Rather than stuffily pretending that nothing was amiss, Mr. Blair made direct reference to his host's troubles since reports surfaced that Mr. Clinton had been sexually involved with a 21-year-old White House intern.
In his toast, Mr. Blair described his afternoon visit to a high school in suburban Maryland and the enthusiastic crowd of more than 2,000 students.
"I know I'm not alone in supporting you," Mr. Blair said. "I know the American people support you too." The declaration gave the dinner audience of 240 luminaries a starting point for sustained applause.
Mr. Clinton, who offered his toast first, made no mention of his difficulties.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Clintons and the Blairs visited the Franklin D. Roosevelt memorial in Washington yesterday. The Prime Minister, regarded as something of a Clinton protege, used the trip to step out of the President's shadow. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); IRAQ (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); IRAQ (79%); 

SUBJECT: ETHICS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; GREAT BRITAIN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (79%); WORLD WAR II (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); SCANDALS (76%); ETHICS (71%); SEX SCANDALS (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); 

PERSON: LEWINSKY, MONICA S; BLAIR, TONY (PRIME MIN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SEELYE, KATHARINE Q; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LEWINSKY, MONICA S TONY BLAIR (91%); PRINCESS DIANA (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 1998



160 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 451 words

HEADLINE: President Clinton's Tobacco Numbers

 BODY:
President Clinton's budget assumes that $65.5 billion will be extracted from the tobacco industry over the next five years, either as voluntary payments from cigarette manufacturers or higher taxes on tobacco products. While he offers several enticing ways to spend the hypothetical money -- more biomedical research, day care subsidies and financing for smaller class sizes -- the most important aspect of this budget item is its size. Mr. Clinton has now put on the table the amount he thinks needs to come from the tobacco industry in order to deter smoking, particularly among teen-agers.
Public health experts have long argued that while many strategies are needed to reduce teen smoking, like curbs on advertising, the key is raising the price of cigarettes. In order to cut teen smoking by 50 percent, most health economists believe the price of cigarettes would have to increase by at least $1.50 a pack. Experts convened by the National Academy of Sciences have recommended even higher increases of $2 a pack. 
 Mr. Clinton's budget plan would move toward higher prices, but would not reach those goals. Assuming that cigarette makers would pass any new costs on to consumers, the proposed $65.5 billion payment from the industry would mean a $1.10 per pack price increase over five years, according to White House budget analysts. That increase might cut teen smoking by perhaps 30 percent, probably not enough to protect most vulnerable youngsters from picking up the habit. Even so, it is nearly doubles the price increase projected under the settlement agreement reached last summer between 40 attorneys general and the tobacco industry. That proposal would increase cigarette prices by only 62 cents over 25 years.
Getting even the lower amount will not be easy politically. There is already talk that a national tobacco settlement is dead because the industry is insisting on immunity from future civil lawsuits as a trade-off for payments, an element that many health advocates oppose. Indeed, recent disclosures from tobacco company documents of their aggressive efforts to target teen-agers make any talk of immunity increasingly unpalatable. But Mr. Clinton should not give up on the idea of comprehensive legislation that strongly regulates nicotine and significantly curbs tobacco consumption.
While he has rightly criticized the settlement backed by the attorneys general as too small, he has yet to unveil specific tobacco legislation. Instead, he has left the details to Congress. This hands-off approach is unlikely to generate the public support needed to force a reluctant Congress to place public health needs before the financial interests of cigarette makers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (56%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (56%); NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: SMOKING AND TOBACCO; EDITORIALS; TAXATION; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CHILDREN AND YOUTH; STATES (US); LAW AND LEGISLATION SMOKING (92%); TOBACCO MFG (92%); ADOLESCENTS (91%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (90%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (86%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (77%); BIOMEDICINE (77%); YOUTH MARKET (77%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (75%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (72%); LITIGATION (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (65%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 1998



161 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1452 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-8
 
Clinton and Blair Issue A New Warning to Iraq
President Clinton and the British Prime Minister, Tony Blair, issued a new warning to President Saddam Hussein of Iraq that he will face military action unless he complies with weapons inspectors and Security Council resolutions. A1 

Secretary of Defense William S. Cohen arrived in Germany to begin an 11th-hour mission to Europe and the Persian Gulf. Mr. Cohen said that once he arrived in the Persian Gulf on Sunday he would spell out for Arab leaders the plans that the United States has for striking Iraq if Saddam Hussein continues to defy U.N. inspections. A6
 
Marine Pilot Dies in Gulf
Two Marine Corps F-18 fighters collided over the Persian Gulf, killing one of the pilots, the Defense Department said. The other pilot was rescued. The fighters collided as they were returning to the carrier George Washington from what was described as a training mission for possible air strikes against Iraq. A6
 
Official Admits Jet Was Low
A top United States naval official acknowledged that the jet that sheared ski lift cables in northern Italy this week was flying below the approved minimum altitude. The pilot reportedly said that he saw the cable too late for evasive action to prevent the accident, which took 20 lives. A4
 
Strong Quake in Afghanistan
A powerful earthquake and aftershocks in remote northeast Afghanistan this week may have killed several thousand people and left thousands more injured and homeless, Afghan officials and international relief agencies said. A3
 
Bomber Kills Nine in Sri Lanka
At least nine people were killed when a suicide bomber detonated explosives strapped to her body at a military checkpoint in Sri Lanka's capital, the police and witnesses said. No group claimed responsibility for the blast, and the Government did not blame anyone, but security forces have been on alert for attacks by separatist Tamil Tiger rebels during festivities for the nation's 50th anniversary of independence. A3
 
Bosnian Suspect Arrested
Bosnian federation police arrested a Serb and charged him with assassinating a deputy prime minister during the Bosnian war, the authorities said. A Serb mob later retaliated for the arrest by abducting passengers on buses traveling to central Sarajevo, U.N. officials said. Most were later released. (Reuters)
 
Administrator Killed in Corsica
France's regional administrator for Corsica was killed on the Mediterranean island of Corsica after attending a classical music concert produced by his wife. The police said two men shot Claude Erignac in the head three times outside the theater, and a pistol was found at the scene.
 (Associated Press)
 
NATIONAL A8-13, A18
 
The President Expresses A Determination to Stay On
President Clinton said that he would "never" consider resigning over accusations involving a former White House intern, and he asserted that he had not improperly sought to influence the testimony of his personal secretary. In a tense news conference dominated by questions about his relationship with the former intern, Monica S. Lewinsky, Mr. Clinton declined to provide any new details. He cited a need to protect the confidentiality of the continuing investigation, and complained that others were "leaking unlawfully." A1
 
President Clinton's personal lawyer denounced the independent counsel's office as "out of control" and said he would seek contempt sanctions in Federal court to stem what he called "a deluge of illegal leaks." A9
 
Prosecutors from Mr. Starr's office and lawyers for Ms. Lewinsky let a deadline pass with no sign of an agreement that would grant her immunity in exchange for her cooperation. The deadline had been imposed by Mr. Starr, who said on Thursday that Ms. Lewinsky would have to agree by yesterday to be interviewed by his prosecutors. Only after such an interview, he said, could he decide on her request for full immunity. A9
 
Scientific Records Destroyed
A huge trove of historical scientific records from the Naval Research Laboratory has been destroyed because of snarled communications between another Federal agency and the laboratory, which calls the loss a calamity. A12
 
Ex-Teacher Sent to Prison
Mary Kay Letourneau, a 35-year-old former grade school teacher in suburban Seattle, was sentenced to more than seven years in prison after violating the terms of her suspended sentence for raping a 13-year-old boy. Ms. Letourneau, who had a child with the boy, was recently found with him in a car, in violation of her promise to a judge three months ago to have no further contact with him. A11
 
Focus of Bomb Investigation
Investigators seem to believe that Eric Robert Rudolph, a 31-year-old North Carolina man, may be crucial to solving several violent attacks over 18 months, including three bombings in the Atlanta area. A11
 
Court-Martial Jury Is Set
Jury selection in the court-martial of Sgt. Maj. Gene C. McKinney was completed with a panel of eight members seated in the military courtroom, four of them officers and four of them enlisted personnel of the same rank as the defendant. A13
 
Greater Frequency of Strokes
Strokes hit about 200,000 more Americans a year than commonly believed, a study has found. It tried to correct previous research by looking at black neighborhoods instead of just white communities. With other reseasrch, the study suggests that about 700,000 Americans a year suffer strokes, or about 40 percent more than the accepted estimate, and that the figures could double in the next half-century. A13
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-7
 
Taxi Accidents Rise As Other Types Decline
The number of reported accidents involving taxicabs in New York City rose more than 40 percent from 1990 to 1996, even as the total number of motor vehicle accidents in the city was falling, according to police figures. A1
 
Record Is Questioned
The First Deputy Attorney General, William M. Flynn, acknowledged in depositions that he failed bar examinations for five years before passing and being licensed to practice law in 1992. Mr. Flynn also admitted that he had misrepresented his record when he listed himself as an assistant District Attorney in Erie County from 1987-92; Mr. Flynn was then a criminal law associate, a title given to people still seeking their license. B1
 
Fans Pay Tribute
Thousands of people turned out to pay their respects to Junior Hernandez, the host of a popular morning radio show on the Spanish-language station WSKQ-FM. He was 34 and had chronic asthma. B1
 
Student Gambling Arrests
The police said they had broken up a betting ring that took bets from sports fans in nine states. Among the people arrested, the police said, were a student at Columbia and a law student at New York University. B3
 
NEEDIEST CASES B2
 
SPORTS C1-8
 
The Olympics Begin
The final Winter Olympics of the century opened with a spare, traditional celebration of Japanese culture that broadened into an call for international peace and brotherhood. A1
 
ARTS & IDEAS B9-17
 
OBITUARIES B18
 
BUSINESS DAY D1-16
 
Job Creation Is Unabated
The Government reported that the economy created jobs at a surprisingly robust pace in January, compelling evidence that America's economic stamina has weathered the financial tumult in Asia so far. It was the third straight month that job creation was exceptionally strong. The unemployment rate remained at 4.7 percent. A1
 
Bonds and Stocks Stay Strong
Bond prices rallied as investors seemed to dismiss the third surprisingly strong employment report in a row. Instead, they are betting that the drag from Asia will slow growth in the United States enough to keep the Federal Reserve from raising interest rates. Stocks also rose. D4
 
Oxford Narrowing Its Search
Norman C. Payson, a doctor responsible for creating and running a fast-growing managed care company, has become the leading candidate to become the new chief executive of Oxford Health Plans, according to people who have been briefed. D1
 
Billion-Dollar Loss Forecast
Columbia/HCA Healthcare said it expected to report a fourth-quarter loss of at least $1.25 billion. D1
 
Business Digest D1
 
EDITORIAL A16-17
 
Editorials: Solving the remedial problem; Clinton's tobacco numbers; blow to human rights in Honduras; Congressional pet pandering.
 
Columns: Frank Rich, Thomas L. Friedman.
 
Bridge B14
 
Weather B15
 
Crossword B12

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (50%); 

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (92%); SRI LANKA (92%); GULF STATES (91%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%); 

STATE: INDIAN OCEAN (94%); CORSE, FRANCE (93%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (50%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (92%); SRI LANKA (92%); GULF STATES (91%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%); INDIAN OCEAN (94%); CORSE, FRANCE (93%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES RESCUE OPERATIONS (90%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); EYEWITNESSES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); ARRESTS (86%); INSPECTIONS (79%); ASSASSINATION (78%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); NAVIES (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (73%); ARMED FORCES (72%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (69%); LIBERATION TIGERS OF TAMIL EELAM (69%); ANNIVERSARIES (66%); SKIING (66%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (65%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (64%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (93%); TONY BLAIR (90%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 1998



162 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: 15-Year Plan Is Adopted To Clean L.I. Sound

BYLINE: By JOHN T. McQUISTON 

DATELINE: BAYVILLE, N.Y., Feb. 6

 BODY:
In another effort to clean up Long Island Sound, Federal and state environmental officials have adopted a 15-year, $650 million plan to upgrade sewage treatment plants along the New York and Connecticut shoreline.
The plan seeks to reduce nitrogen discharges that have been directly linked to a reduced level of dissolved oxygen in the Sound, which harms fish, lobsters and shellfish and the small organisms they feed on. 
 The project was approved unanimously at a meeting on Thursday of the Long Island Sound Policy Committee in Manhattan. The group also adopted a plan to reclaim and restore at least 2,000 acres and 100 river miles of habitat along the shore over the next 10 years.
The two initiatives fulfill commitments outlined in a larger conservation and management plan for the Sound that was adopted by state and Federal agencies in 1994, based on an initial study begun in 1988 amid fears that the Sound might be dying.
"Long Island Sound is tremendously valuable to all who live, work and vacation along its shores," said Jeanne M. Fox, an administrator for the Federal Environmental Protection Agency, which is working in partnership with New York and Connecticut on the project.
"These new actions should take us a long way toward healing the Sound and insuring its health for future generations," she said, noting that the Sound's 1,200 square miles contributed $6 billion to the economies of New York and Connecticut.
Mary Mears, a spokeswoman for the E.P.A., said today that New York and Connecticut had already received around $500 million in Federal aid to upgrade its waste treatment plants. She said that much of the money had gone to New York City, where treatment plants in the Bronx and Queens supply more than 36 percent of the Sound's nitrogen.
"Federal funding for Long Island Sound projects for the next two years is already in place," Ms. Mears said. "Naturally, money for some of the projects will be coming from the states and local communities, and we expect to reach our $650 million goal in the next 15 years."
Much of New York's share is expected to be financed by the 1996 Clean Air Act, which included $200 million for Long Island Sound, officials said. How much local communities and taxpayers living in shoreline areas would have to contribute, remained in doubt, officials said.
The nitrogen reduction plan is aimed at what environmentalists consider to be the Sound's most serious problem, hypoxia. It occurs when nitrogen from sewage and storm water runoff from roadways, lawns, golf courses and farms fuel the growth of overabundant algae. When the algae die and decompose, the process depletes the oxygen, leaving an inadequate supply to support fish and other aquatic life.
The new plan calls for a 58.8 percent reduction in nitrogen, to be achieved largely through the upgrading of sewage treatment plants that contribute nearly two-thirds of the nitrogen that reaches the Sound.
There are 70 such plants throughout the Sound's watershed, most of them in New York City and Westchester, Ms. Mears said.
The habitat restoration plan, which will concentrate on more than 450 sites, is intended to complement the efforts to reduce nitrogen loads and improve dissolved oxygen levels in the Sound. More than two-thirds of the sites are in tidal and inland wetland areas. Other areas include beaches and dunes, coastal and island forests, bays, harbors, cliffs and bluffs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: SOUND FEDERAL BANCORP (74%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (55%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (55%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND SOUND; NEW YORK STATE; CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: WATER POLLUTION; FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (90%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); SEAWEED & ALGAE (89%); WATER & SEWER SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (89%); WATER POLLUTION (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (78%); NONPOINT SOURCE POLLUTION (78%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (78%); CRUSTACEANS (76%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (74%); WATER QUALITY (74%); APPROVALS (73%); 

PERSON: MCQUISTON, JOHN T MARY MEARS (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 1998



163 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 197 words

HEADLINE: Scholars Bring Needed Context to Courtroom;
Historians Divided

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Your Jan. 31 Arts & Ideas page article on the Columbia University historian Robert O. Paxton suggests that unlike in France, historians here do not participate in trials. In fact, one of Professor Paxton's Columbia colleagues, the Barnard College historian Rosalind Rosenberg, was a key witness in a 1984 sex discrimination suit brought by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission against Sears, Roebuck & Company. 
 Professor Rosenberg argued that women have always been motivated by concerns other than economic ones and in the Sears case were underrepresented in high-paying commission jobs on account of their preference for less pressured positions. Alice Kessler-Harris, another feminist historian, countered that women have opted for higher-paying jobs when they became available.
The trial, which Sears won, spurred debates among historians about the meaning and obligations of feminist history. It also showed the difficulty of translating complex historical disputes into the simple language of legal argument.
 
FRANCESCA POLLETTA
New York, Jan. 31, 1998
 
The writer is an assistant professor of sociology at Columbia University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: S (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (84%); 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SEARS, ROEBUCK & CO SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (84%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (93%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (93%); US EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: SEARS, ROEBUCK & CO COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (93%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (93%); US EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; HISTORY; WOMEN; DISCRIMINATION; SUITS AND LITIGATION HISTORY (95%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (90%); LITIGATION (88%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (87%); EMPLOYMENT (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); WITNESSES (72%); DISCRIMINATION (71%); 

PERSON: POLLETTA, FRANCESCA (PROF) ROBERT O PAXTON (76%); ROSALIND ROSENBERG (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 1998



164 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1998

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: Columbia Student Charged as Gambling Ring Member

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY 

 BODY:
It's not every day that the New York City Police Department's vice enforcement division finds its way to Columbia University. But on Thursday night, a team of officers descended on the college's Zeta Beta Tau fraternity house and arrested a 20-year-old economics major for what they said was his part in a $10 million-a-year sports gambling ring.
The student, Joseph Della Pietra, a junior at Columbia, was arrested outside the fraternity house about the same time that police officials raided other places in the city and on Long Island and arrested 15 other people. Law enforcement officials described the operation yesterday as a high-stakes betting business that was based in Queens and took bets from sports fans in nine states across the country. 
 The Queens District Attorney, Richard A. Brown, whose office was involved in the five-month investigation, said yesterday that Mr. Della Pietra, 20, worked as a runner, taking bets and distributing winnings to about 20 to 30 Columbia students.
Another student, William Basso, who is in his third year at New York Law School, was also arrested and accused of taking bets from students and from people outside the school.
Mr. Brown said that students at other colleges and universities might have also been involved and that such rings often have connections to organized crime.
Mr. Della Pietra's lawyer, Joseph Tacopina, said yesterday that his client denied all the allegations.described Mr. Della Pietra as a hardworking college student who was from Bay Ridge, Brooklyn.
Mr. Tacopina said his client had never called or visited the Bayside, Queens, base of the operation, the so-called wireroom, to which most of the bets were routed.
"He is sitting in a cell with 15 people, none of which he knows," Mr. Tacopina said. "He's just a college kid and he's upset to be connected to these people he doesn't know. Keep in mind that there are plenty of college students with an interest in sports who will place a bet every now and then on a football game."
Columbia officials said they were stunned by Mr. Della Pietra's arrest and would cooperate fully with the police and prosecutors. "We had no inkling that there was any gambling going on," said Virgil Renzulli, a public affairs spokesman for Columbia. "This came as a surprise."
Another public affairs spokesman, Fred Knubel, said that it was the first time in his 30 years at Columbia that a student had been accused of involvement with a gambling ring. He said the university had started its own investigation to decide whether to impose discipline, which he said could include suspension or expulsion.
Mr. Tacopina maintained his client's innocence. He noted that when investigators froze bank accounts and seized safe deposit boxes of some of the people arrested, they found the accounts to be hefty. Mr. Basso, for example, had more than $200,000 in his checking account, police officials said. "But that kind of evidence just won't be there with Joseph," Mr. Tacopina said. "All he's got is about $1,400 in a bank account. His role in this is nothing like what the prosecutor describes."
A phone number could not be obtained yesterday for Mr. Basso, and calls to New York Law School went unanswered.
The mood at Mr. Della Pietra's fraternity house yesterday was glum. The members would not comment on his arrest as they entered and left the three-story building on the edge of the Columbia campus. Two flags flew outside the fraternity house, a blue and white flag emblazoned with the fraternity's letters and a more foreboding black flag decorated with a skull and crossbones. It was not known whether the black flag is always displayed.
Zeta Beta Tau, one of 12 fraternities at Columbia, has 40 members and is is known to be favored by baseball players. Mr. Della Pietra is one of 25 members who actually live at the house. Investigators said they believed Mr. Della Pietra played baseball for Columbia, but school officials would not confirm that. Mr. Della Pietra's older brother, Christopher, was captain of the school's football team in the late 1980's.
District Attorney Brown said the gambling operation was based in a home in Bayside and in the back room of a pizza parlor in Massapequa, N.Y. Of the 16 people arrested, at least 6 of them worked primarily as clerks recording bets at one of the two locations, the police said.
Most of the others arrested were believed to be runners who would place bets for other people, the authorities said.
According to the police, the main bookmakers who ran the overall operation included Peter Bartolillo Jr., of Franklin Square, N.Y., and Todd Labarca and Richard Traschetti, both of Lindenwood, Queens. All 16 people have been charged with multiple counts of promoting gambling, and if convicted could be sentenced to as much as four years in prison. By midnight, 10 had been arraigned and released at the Queens County Court Building, and the remaining 6, including Mr. Della Pietra, were to be arraigned and released later.
The average bet taken was for about $40 or $50, officials said, and would be placed on college and professional sports. Most bettors were from New York or New Jersey, but others were from San Francisco, Boston, Las Vegas, Nev.; Arlington, Va.; Charlotte, N.C., and Harrisburg, Pa.
After the police received a tip from a bettor who was being threatened by members of the ring because he owed them money, they started tapping phone lines and investigating the operation last October. During the raids, police officials seized stacks of betting slips, $25,000 in cash and computers and fax machines. Mr. Brown estimated that the ring had $8.4 million in illegal profits.
"Illegal gambling is almost always operated with the involvement of organized crime," Mr. Brown said. "It's the fuel that fires the engines allowing them to operate in other illegal activities, like narcotics and loan sharking."
A police deputy inspector, Peter P. Clarke, said he believed that a big portion of the betting operation focused on colleges and universities. "I guess some college students have bad gambling problems, just like in general society," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A member of Zeta Beta Tau fraternity at Columbia University was accused of placing bets for other students in a ring that operated from coast to coast. Yesterday, the fraternity house was flying two flags. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOK PUBLISHERS; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY; NEW YORK LAW SCHOOL COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY PRESS (95%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); ZETA BETA TAU (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY; NEW YORK LAW SCHOOL COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); ZETA BETA TAU (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: GAMBLING; ORGANIZED CRIME STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); STUDENT FRATERNITIES & SORORITIES (90%); ARRESTS (90%); ILLEGAL GAMBLING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); ORGANIZED CRIME (77%); SCHOOL SUSPENSION & EXPULSION (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); SPORTS FANS (72%); 

PERSON: TOY, VIVIAN S; DELLA PIETRA, JOSEPH; BASSO, WILLIAM; BROWN, RICHARD A (DIST ATTY) DELLA PIETRA (91%); JOSEPH TACOPINA (70%); WILLIAM BASSO (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 1998



165 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 7, 1998

SECTION: Section A; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2743 words

HEADLINE: TESTING OF A PRESIDENT;
Excerpts From Statements and Answers to Questions by Clinton and Blair

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 6

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from statements and replies to questions by President Clinton and Prime Minister Tony Blair at a news conference today at the White House:
 
Statement by Mr. Clinton
First let me say that it's been a real pleasure to welcome my friend, Prime Minister Blair, here to Washington with the entire British entourage. It continues a great tradition of partnership between our nations anchored by common values, driven by common vision, eager to meet the challenges of this new age. 
 Today, we'll pay tribute to that heritage with a visit to the F.D.R. Memorial. Earlier in this century, President Roosevelt and Prime Minister Churchill led the community of free nations that prevailed in world war. Now on the eve of the 21st century, the Prime Minister and I seek to shape the peace in a world that is rich with possibility and promise, but still not free from risk.
We have a very similar outlook on preparing our own countries for the future. And if I might just take a moment to talk about the latest economic news.
The strategy we are both working is to prepare all our people for the information age and the global economy.
Today, we have new evidence that strategy is working here.
In the last month, America had 358,000 new jobs, over a million in the last three months. We're approaching 15 million new jobs in the last five years, with the lowest unemployment in 24 years. Wages are rising, inflation is low.
The role of government has changed. We have the smallest percentage of these new jobs in the public sector and the highest percentage in the private sector in the United States since the 1920's. By maintaining fiscal discipline, opening more markets, investing more in our people, we will continue to expand opportunity and promote prosperity. . . .
We reaffirmed our determination to combat modern cross-border threats, like terrorism and the spread of weapons of mass destruction. On Iraq, we stand together. Saddam Hussein must know that we are determined to prevent him from threatening his neighbors and the world with weapons of mass destruction.
The Prime Minister and I would both prefer a genuine diplomatic solution. The best way to stop Saddam from developing an arsenal of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons and the missiles to deliver them is to get the inspectors back to work with full and free access to all relevant sites.
But let me be clear. If Saddam does not comply with the unanimous will of the international community, we must be prepared to act -- and we are.
On Libya, 10 years later, we haven't forgotten the victims of the bombing of Pan Am 103 in the skies over Lockerbie, Scotland, or their loved ones. We'll not rest until Libya complies with the requirements of the world community and surrenders for trial in the United States or Scotland the two Libyans accused of that brutal crime.
We addressed our commitment to advance the cause of peace, and I welcome Britain's efforts as president of the European Union to spur greater cooperation in the Middle East peace process. I also commend the Prime Minister for his courageous steps in cooperation with the Irish Government to promote a climate of confidence and hope in Northern Ireland.
The multiparty talks provide the best chance for a real solution to that conflict. . . . I unequivocally condemn the recent sectarian killings and beatings and threats. Nothing worth having in Northern Ireland can be accomplished through violence. I told the Prime Minister that we will continue to do all we can to advance the cause of peace, and of course, I asked for and received his advice in that regard.
The recent financial crisis in Asia demands action from the international community. On our increasingly interconnected planet, trouble in the far end of town can easily become a plague in our own neighborhood. We agree that every affected nation must take responsibility for implementing tough reforms and that other nations, when they do that, when those nations that are affected do their part, other nations should support helping them through the International Monetary Fund. . . .
 
Statement by Mr. Blair
As the President has just indicated, we discussed obviously a range of different topics. At the top of the list, of course, was the situation in respect to Iraq. And what we agreed was that we had to do three things in particular.
We had first of all to make sure that our own public opinion was properly educated as to why it is so essential that the U.N. inspectors are able to do their work. The amount of weapons that they have already uncovered in the six or seven years that they have been doing this task, and why it is therefore absolutely essential that Saddam Hussein is brought back into line with U.N. Security Council resolutions and the inspectors can go about their tasks unhindered.
We ourselves a couple of days ago in Britain published a document where we listed precisely all the various weapon finds the inspectors have made.
And when you go through that list and see all the various attempts there have been to try and prevent the inspectors carrying out their functions, then I think people can understand why it is so necessary, so important for us, to be prepared to take whatever action is necessary to ensure those inspectors can go back in and fulfill their task.
Secondly, though, in relation to Iraq, it is important that we stress all the time, of course we want a diplomatic solution. But it must be a diplomatic solution based on and fully consistent with the principles that we have set out.
The question of whether there is such a diplomatic solution rests ultimately with Saddam Hussein. He has the choice. He can bring himself back into compliance with the agreements he entered into and then that diplomatic solution can be fulfilled.
Thirdly, however, we have of course to prepare, in case diplomacy cannot work.
In view of the situation, we in Britain have been looking at our own military readiness in case a diplomatic solution does not in the end prove possible.
We have decided to base eight Tornado GR-1 aircraft in Kuwait, with the full agreement of the Government of Kuwait. These are ground attack and reconnaissance aircraft. Their deployment is a precautionary measure and it will take place over the next few days.
So, all the way through in respect of Iraq, we've agreed that we must educate, we must engage in diplomacy, but we also must prepare. . . .
 
Questions and Answers
Q. Mr. President, despite the ongoing investigation, you've felt no constraint in saying what your relationship with Monica Lewinsky is not -- was not. So it seems by logic that you ought to be able to say here and now what was your relationship? Her lawyer says -- called it colleagues. Is that an apt description?
MR. CLINTON Well, let me first of all say once again -- I never asked anybody to do anything but tell the truth. I know about the stories today. I was pleased that Ms. Currie's stated unambiguously this morning -- unambiguously -- that she's not aware of any unethical conduct.
But this investigation is going on. And you know what the rules for it are. And I just think as long as it's going on I should not comment on the specific questions . . .
Q. Mr. President, switching to Iraq, . . . I think the American public is largely in the dark about what to expect about a military attack on Iraq. Are you talking about something that lasts a day or two, or something that lasts for weeks, or months?
And on a diplomatic note, you've got France and China and Russia opposing this. Boris Yeltsin says that it could lead to World War III. What gives Britain and the United States the right to go it alone on this?
MR. CLINTON First of all, the most important thing, the best thing that could be done, what we hope will happen, is that there will be a diplomatic solution to this which will result in the inspection teams for the United Nations being able to return and have unfettered access to the appropriate sites. Because as the Prime Minister, I think, put out a paper just a couple of days ago, pointing out the incredible work that's been done by the inspection teams. That's the best thing. Now, whether there is a diplomatic solution or not is entirely up to Saddam Hussein.
If he decides that he wants to continue to have the freedom to rebuild his weapons program, then I believe that the clear mandate for the world community, based on not only the resolutions of the United Nations but the danger this would present to the interests and values of the United States, the people of Great Britain, the people of the region, is to do what we can to weaken his ability to develop those weapons of mass destruction and visit them on his neighbors.
You know, I never discuss operational plans. I wouldn't do that. I think the important thing is that you know that I don't want this. Nobody wants this. We want a diplomatic solution. It's up to him.
The second thing I would say is, the Secretary of State has been working very hard in the last several days, has traveled, as you know, widely. I have been on the phone a lot. I believe there is more agreement than at first it appears about the necessity to push this thing through to the end. And I will continue to talk with President Yeltsin, President Chirac and others. But consider the alternative. After all, this man is the only repeat offender around with chemical weapons. He used them on his own people. He used them on the Iranians. And I believe it's a very serious thing. And I think that the American people will understand that.
Q. World war, says President Yeltsin.
MR. CLINTON I just -- I don't understand what chain of circumstances would lead to that development. I don't believe that will happen.
Q. Mr. President, just to go back to the controversy that's been surrounding you lately, there have been various reports that in some ways have come to be accepted as fact. And I just want to give you an opportunity.
One of them is that in sworn testimony to the lawyers for Paula Jones that you changed your version of your relationship with Gennifer Flowers. And I just wonder if you can tell us, I mean do you now --
MR. CLINTON Again, even though the judge's order has been routinely violated by the other side in the case, the judge has issued strict orders in the case for every -- that covers everybody, including me, not to discuss it.
I can tell you this -- and I'm confident as this thing plays out it will become more apparent in the future -- if you go back -- I told the truth in my deposition with regard to that issue, and I also did in 1992 when I did the interview, which I think was rerun the other night -- the interview that Hillary and I did on 60 Minutes. . . .
Q. Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. President, is it possible for you to launch an attack if you don't have on board the French, the Russians, the Chinese?
MR. BLAIR I think, John, you have to distinguish very carefully between what, of course I accept -- varying degrees of enthusiasm or commitment for the military option -- with the complete unanimity there is in the world community that Saddam Hussein has to comply with the resolutions and that his capacity to develop weapons of mass destruction must be halted.
Now it is difficult for us to see -- and for me to see, quite frankly -- that, if you take that as the position, how diplomacy unless it is backed up at least by the threat of force is ever going to work and succeed.
But it would be wrong, I think, to think that either our -- for example, our French or our Russian colleagues, were not absolutely insistent that Saddam Hussein comply with these resolutions. And they are making diplomatic efforts in order to ensure that that happens. I wish those efforts well, provided they are fully consistent with the principles that have been set out.
It is just that we take the view, and I think experience teaches us that this is the only realistic view of Saddam Hussein, that unless you back up whatever diplomatic initiatives you are taking with saying quite clearly, well, if diplomacy doesn't work, the option of force is there, then those diplomatic initiatives are unlikely to succeed.
But it's important that we realize that it is in that area that any difference lies, not in the insistence of the world community that he must come into line with those U.N. resolutions.
Q. Mr. President, all these questions about your personal life have to be painful to you and your family. At what point do you consider that it's just not worth it, and do you consider resigning from office?
MR. CLINTON Never. You know, I was elected to do a job.
I think the American people know two or three things about me now that they didn't know the first time this kind of effort was made against me. They -- I think they know that I care very much about them, that I care about ordinary people whose voices aren't often heard here. And I think they know I have worked very, very hard for them. And I think they know now more often than not the ideas I had and the things I fought for turned out to be right in terms of the consequences for the American people. I think they know all that.
And I'm just going to keep showing up for work. I'm going to do what I was hired to do. And I'm going to try to keep getting good results for them.
The pain threshold, at least for our side, being in public life today has been raised. But to give into that would be to give into everything that I fought against and got me into this race in 1991 to try to run for president in the first place.
I have tried to bring an end to this sort of thing in our public life. I've tried to bring the American people together. I've tried to depersonalize politics and take the venom out of it. And the harder I've tried to do it, the harder others have pulled in the other direction.
That doesn't mean I'm wrong. And I would -- I would -- I would never walk away from the people of this country and the trust they've placed in me. . . .
Q. I'm wondering if you could elaborate on something that the First Lady said recently about a right-wing conspiracy who's working against you. Could you explain how that conspiracy works, and specifically, are Linda Tripp, Ken Starr and Monica Lewinsky part of that conspiracy?
MR. CLINTON Now you know I've known her a long time, the First Lady, and she's very smart. And she's hardly ever wrong about anything.
But I don't believe I should amplify on her observation in this case. . . .
Q. While relations with -- with -- between Britain and the United States appear to be splendid right now, there's a darkening cloud over relations with Italy. The prime minister, the president, the defense minister, has issued some very harsh statements about the accident the other day when a low-flying Marine plane severed a cable and the car fell. There's a lot of anger. Some people in Italy are even asking for the closing of the Aviano base. What do you have to say to them?
MR. CLINTON Well, first of all, what happened was horrible, and when I heard about it I was very shaken. And I -- I -- as you know, there were -- there was a period of a few hours there where it wasn't clear how many people had died and where there was another whole gondola suspended where many more people could have died, and thank God they were rescued.
And the whole thing has been an agony for the people of Italy and there were a large number -- substantial number of Germans killed.
And I'm sure for the pilot of the plane and the people in our military base in Aviano, where I have been on more than one occasion, I can tell you what I think should be done. I called Prime Minister Prodi, and I told him that I was heartsick about it, that I would make absolutely sure there was a no-holds-barred full investigation of what happened, that the Italians would be kept fully informed and be a part of it, and that we would work with them in every way possible to make sure that they knew that we tried to get to the bottom of it and to handle it in the appropriate way.
You know, in our military every year -- I say this to the American people all the time, but let me just say this -- it is an inherently dangerous business. Now, we don't know what the facts are here. Maybe somebody made a careless mistake. We don't know. I do not know what the facts are and I will not render judgment until I do. . . .

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); SCOTLAND (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); IRAQ (92%); 

COMPANY: ;UNITED NATIONS PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (60%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); SCOTLAND (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); IRAQ (92%); 

SUBJECT: BIOLOGY AND BIOCHEMISTRY; ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ETHICS; SEXUAL HARASSMENT BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); JOB CREATION (87%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (86%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (85%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); BOMBINGS (74%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); EVIDENCE (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); ETHICS (71%); INFLATION (71%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (70%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (62%); TERRORISM (61%); BIOCHEMISTRY (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BLAIR, TONY (PRIME MIN); LEWINSKY, MONICA S; JONES, PAULA CORBIN BILL CLINTON (92%); TONY BLAIR (91%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 1998



166 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 7; Page 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1298 words

HEADLINE: The Gradual Revolution

BYLINE: By Jeffrey E. Garten; Jeffrey E. Garten is the dean of the Yale School of Management and the author, most recently, of "The Big Ten: The Big Emerging Markets and How They Will Change Our Lives."

 BODY:

THE COMMANDING HEIGHTS
 The Battle Between Government and the Marketplace That Is Remaking
 the Modern World.
 By Daniel Yergin and Joseph Stanislaw.
 Illustrated. 457 pp. New York:
 Simon & Schuster. $26. 
 We often think of a revolution as an event that changes the course of history -- the American War of Independence, the Bolsheviks taking over the Kremlin, the East Germans tearing down the Berlin Wall. But revolutions can have a much longer arc. They can result from the interaction of strong personalities, powerful ideas and changes in circumstances and stretch out for many years -- like the decline of feudalism or the shift from agrarian to industrial societies. In "The Commanding Heights," Daniel Yergin, the Pulitzer Prize-winning author of "The Prize: The Epic Quest for Oil, Money and Power," and Joseph Stanislaw, a Paris-based adviser to global companies, describe the broadest and most dramatic long-fused revolution of this century -- the changing balance of power from governments to markets, and the significant effects of this change on politics, economics and culture. It is an extraordinarily ambitious undertaking, combining the history of milestone events in countries as diverse as France and India, the biography of leaders as different as Margaret Thatcher and Deng Xiaoping and the evolution of ideas ranging from Keynesian economics, which focused on how governments could manage economies, to the Chicago school of free markets. But it is also a brilliantly successful project, a colorful and even suspenseful story of how the world has been transformed over the last half-century.
The book's title comes from a 1922 speech by Lenin in which he told his Communist comrades that the new Soviet state would have to control the most important components of the economy -- the commanding heights. It was a philosophy that would be adopted in various forms around the world for at least the next 50 years. In the United States, increasing government regulation was in vogue from Franklin Roosevelt's New Deal to Richard Nixon's experiments with wage and price controls. In Britain and Europe, nationalized companies and state planning were key elements of the political and economic landscape until the 1980's. In Japan and the rest of East Asia, state-centered mercantilism, in which the government pushed exports and kept out imports, has only recently begun to subside under the pressure of a financial crisis. And in Latin America, the Indian subcontinent and Africa, political leaders until the 1990's were obsessed with using governments to force industrialization and to address poverty directly.
As Yergin and Stanislaw describe so vividly, the era of big government succeeded for a long time. American prosperity soared; Japan and Germany managed spectacular recoveries from wartime devastation; the Soviet Union transformed itself from a backwater economy to an industrial power; and much of the third world achieved political independence and economic takeoff.
So how did we go from a world in which government was on the top side of the seesaw of power to one in which public sectors are shrinking, deregulation is everyone's priority, state companies are being auctioned off to private investors and Wall Street is the most powerful influence on economies everywhere? The short answer is that governments overreached, while at the same time prosperity created private markets that became too big, too powerful, too complex and too internationally linked for public officials to control. Beginning with the oil crisis in 1973 and the advent of stagflation in the United States, and extending to the third world debt crisis in the 1980's, to the double-digit unemployment in Europe for most of the last decade and to the financial meltdown in Japan starting in the early 1990's, it became clear that governments were failing to deliver economic progress for enough of their citizens. Then, too, the Soviet model imploded, removing any alternative economic system to capitalism. As Singapore's longtime political leader, Lee Kuan Yew, said: "Communism collapsed, and the mixed economy failed. What else is there?"
In describing the U-turn from government to market dominance, "The Commanding Heights" manages its most impressive feat: to tell a real-world story in multiple dimensions and to make it read like a novel. For example, the authors describe the rise of Margaret Thatcher from obscurity, influenced by strident free-market advisers as well as by passionate conservative economists like Friedrich von Hayek. They tell the story of how Deng Xiaoping, three times officially disgraced by Chinese leaders, rose to the top of the Communist hierarchy and started China on what may be the most extensive set of economic reforms ever undertaken anywhere. They relate how Mexico and India reformed their closed economies in the last few years and are moving rapidly toward more open markets. And they document the years of economic pressures and contentious politics in the United States that led to widespread deregulation of such industries as airlines, telecommunications and banking. Included here too is the explanation of how American universities and think tanks, with their market-oriented doctrines, replaced the London School of Economics -- which had influenced so many socialist leaders -- as the intellectual center of global economics.
Most interestingly, Yergin and Stanislaw describe how ideas about the primacy of markets spread like fire from one country to another. Thatcherism caught on in the United States and beyond; Hungarian concepts of capitalism were adopted by China; management theories hatched at Harvard were implemented in Russia; new approaches to private pension management in Chile were studied by Germans.
It is tempting to say that this pro-market revolution, like nearly all revolutions, is irreversible, but the authors are more thoughtful and subtle. As they themselves write, a lot depends on whether markets will deliver the goods and services that people want at affordable prices and on whether they will be able to provide a modicum of fairness in society. On these scores the experiment with global capitalism is still new, and the returns aren't in. Many countries have seen an increase in economic growth rates and in opportunities for talented individuals. But from China to Argentina, income inequalities are rising. From Russia to Mexico, large swaths of the economy are dominated by criminal syndicates, indicating an absence of the legal underpinnings required to support legitimate capitalism.
The freeing of economies from government shackles has a long way to go in Europe and Japan, not to mention in emerging markets like Brazil and Indonesia. In these nations, many of the most difficult steps toward deregulation are still ahead, and are sure to create political conflict as old patterns of doing business are disrupted and as vested political interests are challenged by new groups. Finally, a global financial crisis could reverse enthusiasm for Adam Smith, as could a serious economic slowdown in the United States, which could lead to protectionism and the disruption of global trade.
Yergin and Stanislaw are cautiously optimistic that societies around the globe will continue to embrace more market-oriented systems, and that the world will be a better place as a result. Yet they have struck exactly the right balance between, on the one hand, acknowledging the powerful momentum that markets have achieved and, on the other, recognizing the weak links in the system. Their fascinating book, at once so packed with information, so clear and so nuanced, contains this warning: The free-market revolution isn't over, and no one knows where it will end.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: COMMANDING HEIGHTS, THE (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); INDIA (92%); JAPAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); FRANCE (71%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (56%); 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (93%); INDIA (92%); JAPAN (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (88%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); FRANCE (71%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (56%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); NATIONALIZATION (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); HISTORY (77%); LITERATURE (74%); WRITERS (74%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (74%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (71%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (69%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); GREAT DEPRESSION (61%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (53%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (51%); 

PERSON: GARTEN, JEFFREY E; STANISLAW, JOSEPH; YERGIN, DANIEL RICHARD NIXON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1998



167 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 6; Page 38; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 7430 words

HEADLINE: Jimmy Hoffa's Revenge

BYLINE: By Jeffrey Goldberg; Jeffrey Goldberg is a contributing writer for the Magazine. His last article, about the persecution of Christians, appeared in December.

 BODY:
On a wind-whipped fall day, a creaking, leaking motor home angles into the parking lot of the V.F.W. hall in Brick Township, N.J., and releases into a knot of waiting teamsters the scion and heir-presumptive of the most notorious labor leader in American history.
"Welcome to Brick, Jimmy!" shouts a barrel-bellied man, and James Phillip Hoffa shouts back, "Thanks, buddy!" and then the cluster of teamsters moves inside the hall, and Jimmy smiles wide, and a wave of applause washes over him. The applause is for his father too, the martyred father who, the mythology says, had this great union stolen from him by the Kennedys, and who had his life stolen from him by the Mob, and whose son is going to redeem this union in his name. Smoke gets in Jimmy's eyes as he inches his way inside, where the air is damp and smells of cigarillos and Wal-Mart cologne and steam tables that keep the hot dogs hot. The teamsters wear black T-shirts and hooded sweatshirts that scream "Hoffa" like a threat, and these 45-year-old white men who drive trucks in the dead of winter and break their backs on loading docks while their bosses plot to hijack all the good jobs to Mexico, they buy up the sweatshirts at Hoffa rallies just like the black teen-agers who bought "X" caps to proclaim their to-hell-with-you militancy. These are freight guys, mainly, drivers and warehousemen, not "Buster Browns," the shorts-wearing package boys -- teamsters in brown shorts, can you believe it? -- from the U.P.S. wing of the union, which is Ron Carey's wing. 
 Hoffa points to the $30 sweatshirts and tells me, "We don't get our money from the Mob, and we don't steal money from the union treasury" -- by which he means that he's no Ron Carey, the disgraced teamster president who is neck-deep in an embezzlement scandal. Days earlier, a Federal monitor forced Carey to drop his bid for a second term as the teamsters' president, making Hoffa the favorite for the presidency. The irony of this race -- and ironies top ironies in the story of the teamsters -- is that it wasn't the guy named Hoffa who was accused of stealing an election.
Hoffa plows his way to the podium, and my attention is drawn to the men wearing jackets that read "Local 560," which was once Tony Pro's local, Tony Pro being Anthony Provenzano, the Genovese family captain and teamster leader (there was a time when this combination was no contradiction at all) who was thought to be the man behind the disappearance of Hoffa's father, and I have to think that Hoffa doesn't like seeing "Local 560" jackets around him, because to him, his father's disappearance isn't a Jay Leno joke whose punch line is Giants Stadium but a colossal tragedy. And then I notice a man hovering near Jimmy who stands out in this crowd of jeans-and-boots-wearing truck drivers: he has slicked-back hair, he wears a silk shirt open at the collar and his pinkie ring shines through the smoke. A pinkie ring suggests teamster fat cat, which in turn suggests Mob, and I try to figure out who he is, but it's bad form to push through a wall of truck drivers, and anyway, the program is starting.
A local teamster boss named Fred Potter gets up and riffs, daringly, on a Kennedy theme, telling his men that "the question today is not what Jimmy Hoffa's gonna do for you. It's what are you gonna do for this union," and I think I see Hoffa grimace slightly, because if there's anything he can't stand, it's the Kennedys, who, the way he sees it, spread the black lie that his father was corrupt. In one sense, Hoffa the Son hasn't been running against Ron Carey, or against any other teamster. He's been running against Robert F. Kennedy, the prosecutor who chased his father from the union.
Now comes a South Boston teamster leader named John Murphy, a greyhound-thin militant who gets a floor-stomping greeting even before he tells the men about his heroic exploits. Murphy is the Hoffa campaign official who early last year dug into a pile of Carey's finance reports, found a thread and pulled, unraveling the embezzlement scheme that toppled Carey and cleared a path for Hoffa that runs straight to the Marble Palace, the teamster headquarters on Capitol Hill. Murphy, who used to work for the Committee to Defend the Black Panthers, is Hoffa's leftist theoretician, a blue-collar agitator who despises Carey's supporters, "Ira Magaziner liberals," he calls them, people who believe it their mission to uplift the working class, but wouldn't be caught dead partying with them.
And then comes Dan DeSanti, the president of a North Brunswick teamster local who claims to get his retirees a $3,500 monthly pension after only 20 years labor, $3,500 a month for sitting still. And he's treated like the biggest hero here because, after all, fat pensions and fat contracts are the reason people join the union in the first place. And then DeSanti introduces the man who will lead them all to victory.
Jim Hoffa, a 56-year-old labor lawyer, lifts his bulk on stage, looks out at the teamsters wearing his name across their chests and crows, "Weeeee're back!"
He gives the speech he has given a thousand times, but he has energy. He knows these men. Yes, he's a lawyer, white-collar down to his loafers, but he has stood by the fire barrel, he has driven trucks and he knows what makes a teamster mad:
"I'm gonna ask just one question here," Hoffa says. "Is there anybody here who thinks the Federal Government wants a big, strong teamsters union?"
"No!" comes the raw-throated response. Real Hoffa men believe that the Department of Justice would do anything, legal or illegal, to keep the teamsters out of the hands of anyone named Jimmy Hoffa, which is the reason the campaign sells old Life magazines alongside the sweatshirts. On the cover of the magazine is a squinting and steely James Riddle Hoffa, the father, and inside, the story labels Hoffa's teamsters "a national menace" studded with "grafters, gangsters and extortionists." But someone who threatens corporate America and its lap dogs in Washington is who the people here in Brick want. They are scared, and not without reason; they're scared of Nafta and deregulation and globalization, and their fear sometimes turns into paranoia about outsiders and shifting social norms.
"The Federal Government wants exactly what Ron Carey gave them," Hoffa says, "a union divided, a union led by incompetents and a union that's broke. We have got to turn that around. We're going to deliver this union back to its members." More cheers, even though Hoffa's followers, as a rule, seem less interested in running their union as a democratic collective than in letting a strong man run it for them. That's what Hoffa the Father was: the village chief. ("Yeah, that's him," his son says. "A father figure.")
"When Ron Carey came up, he didn't know any teamsters," Hoffa tells his supporters. "He put a bunch of people in from the Mine Workers. His bodyguard was a Mine Worker, his main advisers were from the Mine Workers --."
"Mine Workers are homos!" someone in the back yells, to a scream of laughter.
"-- and I'm gonna tell you one thing," Hoffa says, "I've traveled this country from coast to coast and there's more brains and talents in the teamsters -- I say let's put teamsters back to work and fire the Mine Workers!"
The men cheer wildly, and the V.F.W. hall shakes.
"Now, I have to laugh when they say they're going to investigate our campaign finances too," Hoffa continues. Federal officials, having disposed of Carey, are now looking for evidence that Hoffa also broke campaign finance rules.
"I wish those investigators were here to ask you -- every one of you has given money to our campaign. We didn't steal the money from the treasury. You know, there's always a reporter that doesn't know anything about the teamsters, always wanting to ask questions, and you listen, you tolerate them, and then they say, 'Some people say if Jimmy Hoffa gets in, you'll bring back the black, dark old days.'
"You know what I said? 'Are you kidding? We got a guy Carey who's probably going to jail for stealing money from the treasury -- I'm running to end the dark old days!' "
There it is, the world gone upside down: Carey as Crook, Hoffa as Reformer. Though there's a remote chance that Carey could return, and a better chance that Hoffa himself might be barred from the race, this, improbably, is where things stand. Now Hoffa pumps his fist, his supporters cheer madly and then they line up to take $5 Polaroids with their man. I find Murphy in the corner, waiting for his ride back to Boston, where he runs a small beer-drivers' local. If Hoffa wins, Murphy is going to the Marble Palace with him. Unlike some of the men who have latched themselves to Hoffa's name, Murphy is no self-dealer. For one thing, he takes a salary of just $62,400 a year, less than some of his drivers make.
"You know, if you're going to represent the workers the right way, you're going to be a threat to the economic system, so you've got to be clean," Murphy says, reading my mind. "If you're not, you've got no business being in this game."
So does Hoffa belong in the game?
"Absolutely," Murphy replies. "Absolutely."
In the distance, I catch another glimpse of the pinkie-ringed teamster. Later he'll tell me he's simply a laid-off driver, hoping to catch a break at a Hoffa rally. But I have my doubts: in the teamsters today, it's easy to wonder if even the innocent are guilty.
It never used to be so hard to figure out who the bad guys were in the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, America's second-largest union and one of its dirtiest. Corruption has always been the Achilles' heel of organized labor, and the teamsters have at times been all heel: three of the union's last six presidents ended their careers in jail.
Ron Carey once joked about the curse of the teamster presidency. It was three years ago, and we were standing by his desk in the Marble Palace. I asked him how he felt sitting where Jimmy Hoffa and later Jackie Presser sat. We both looked at his chair as if it were electrified, and then Carey told me, with a wry little smile, to go ahead and take a seat.
Back then, he could afford to crack jokes. He was widely seen as a workingman's hero, a fearless union reformer and a kingmaker too, who supplied the decisive votes needed by John Sweeney and his band of progressives to seize control of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., the 13 million-member labor federation, from the centrists and cold warriors who had long dominated it.
Today, though, Carey may wish he never laid eyes on that chair.
Following revelations that Carey's operatives embezzled teamster treasury money to aid his re-election campaign, a Federal monitor overturned the 1996 teamster election, when Carey beat Hoffa 52 to 48 percent, and later banned him from meeting Hoffa in a rematch. Carey is now on unpaid leave from the union, fighting to overturn the Federal rulings while facing possible indictment in the embezzlement scheme. Hoffa now stands as the only candidate for the presidency, though several prominent teamsters from Carey's wing are jockeying for the right to face him in a rerun. (The election has not yet been scheduled.) Hoffa is the obvious favorite to win the presidency: his opponents' best hope is that Federal officials, now investigating the finances of the 1996 Hoffa campaign, will knock him out of the race, too. If so, Chuck Mack, a key Hoffa ally and the teamster leader of the San Francisco area, is a probable replacement.
The Carey scandal is serious, and spreading. Three of his operatives have already pleaded guilty to fraud charges. They helped divert more than $700,000 in teamster treasury funds to liberal advocacy groups; that money was then diverted to Carey's campaign accounts. Stripped of euphemism, what Carey's men did -- with his knowledge, investigators claim -- was to embezzle the dues money of rank-and-file teamsters in order to perpetuate their man in his high-paying office, a plot that stinks of Old Guard-style corruption.
Reid Weingarten, Carey's lawyer, says his client has done nothing wrong. If there is any justice in this process, Mr. Carey will be completely vindicated," he says. "The charges against him are utterly inconsistent with Mr. Carey's well-documented lifetime in union reform."
The odor of scandal is reaching beyond the teamsters. Kenneth Conboy, the Federal overseer who barred Carey, has accused Richard Trumka, the secretary-treasurer of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., of illegally diverting union funds into Carey's campaign. Trumka has taken the Fifth in response to investigators' questions; his lawyer, Nicole Seligman, says, "We are confident the facts will show convincingly that Rich Trumka has acted properly and lawfully."
Conboy has accused other Carey allies, including Gerald McEntee, the president of American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, and Andrew Stern, the president of the service employees' union, of trying to improperly aid Carey's campaign. "I was never asked to raise money and I did not raise any money for any candidate in the teamsters election," says Stern. McEntee's spokeswoman says only that he is cooperating with investigators, and has no comment.
The mushrooming financial scandal may prove disastrous for the fund-raising network of unions, liberal "good government" groups and the Democratic National Committee. Federal prosecutors conducting a separate criminal probe say that the D.N.C. steered donors to Carey's campaign in exchange for teamster donations to Democratic causes. It was Carey who turned the teamsters, long a Republican-friendly union, into a cash cow for the Democrats, sending the bulk of the $10 million the teamsters spent in political contributions over the past five years to Democratic candidates.
Most of all, though, the scandal is a disaster for the rank and file. A powerful union means an empowered worker; a union divided and under siege can mean distracted labor leaders, emboldened employers, an empty strike fund and weak contracts.
The teamster scandal erupted just as organized labor was having its best year in memory. Last fall, the A.F.L.-C.I.O., with the teamsters at the forefront, defeated President Clinton's bid to win fast-track trading authority. Months earlier, the teamsters mounted a surprisingly successful strike against U.P.S. This was Ron Carey's most glorious moment, proving that the perpetually beleaguered teamsters union could still protect its members from the ravages of the global economy. Yes, the union's treasury was nearly tapped out (down from $155 million when Carey took over six years ago to less than $10 million today) and yes, membership numbers were flat, but the strike seemed to be the spark that might set the union's organizing drives on fire.
Now, though, the Sweeney revolution is tainted, a Republican-led investigation is taking shape in Congress and press coverage is focused, once again, on teamster corruption.
The Ron Carey story was not supposed to turn out this way.
Carey is a onetime Republican who transformed himself into a darling of the leftist teamster reform movement, and his 1991 election victory was seen as a repudiation of the union's felonious past. It was also seen as proof that direct Federal supervision of the teamsters, the outcome of a Federal R.I.C.O. suit against the union, would be remembered as a smashing success. By 1992, when Carey took office, the teamsters were already three years into Federal supervision, and Carey quickly pleased his Federal overseers by selling the union's jets, cutting his salary and removing the leaders of corrupt locals. He said all the right things about throwing the bums out and returning control of the union to its members, and his press coverage was adulatory.
The truth would turn out to be more complex. In fact, there have long been questions about Carey's moral purity: about his testimony on behalf of a mobbed-up member of the Queens U.P.S. local of which Carey was (and still is) president; about allegations made by a high-ranking Lucchese family turncoat that Carey was mob-controlled; about his improbably lavish real-estate collection; about a Mafia loan-shark ring financed by his local's money.
Carey has repeatedly asserted his innocence, and to his obvious relief, the Independent Review Board, the quasi-governmental body that oversees the union, issued a report in 1994 clearing him of these charges. But the report did nothing to end the civil war between Carey's forces and those then coalescing around Hoffa.
Many teamster leaders opposed Carey because of his efforts to cut their salaries and perks. But many were ideologically opposed to the union's leftward turn, and critical of Carey's alliance with the D.N.C. While Hoffa and his supporters tend to be Democrats, they are more conservative than Carey, and believe he and his allies have paid too much attention to liberal social causes and not enough to rebuilding the union.
By the time Carey took office, the teamsters' union, like most unions, had seen its best days. Membership swelled during Jimmy Hoffa's reign, from 1958 to 1971, and peaked in the late 70's at about 2.3 million. By the 90's, the teamsters were down to about 1.4 million and had become, by necessity, a catch-all union. Today, the teamsters' freight division, the victim of trucking deregulation, stands at only 120,000 members. The union now includes 250,000 warehouse and food-industry workers, 180,000 U.P.S. employees, 10,000 Northwest Airlines flight attendants (300,000 teamsters are women) as well as nurses, firemen, sheriffs, custodians, gravediggers and, if you can imagine, the actors who play Mickey Mouse and Goofy at Disney World.
During the bruising 1996 election between Hoffa and Carey, voter turnout was particularly heavy in the freight division (where Hoffa was the overwhelming favorite, as was his father) and among U.P.S. workers (who went for Carey, a onetime U.P.S. driver). But in some locals, fewer than 10 percent of the members returned their ballots; all told, only 35 percent of teamsters voted -- and this was an election in which ballots were mailed to members' homes.
Now, rank-and-file disaffection is a more serious problem than ever. "The members are in shock," says Randy Cammack, the principal officer of a 14,000-member teamster local in Los Angeles. "They're just burnt out. They don't know what to think. The Carey people were accusing the Hoffa people of crimes, but then they committed crimes themselves. So you have to go back and question everything that's been said." Cammack, a former Carey supporter, has moved to Hoffa's camp. "We need someone to unify the union, and he's the only one who can win."
The possibility of a Hoffa presidency has thrown organized labor into a tumult. Hoffa has accused Sweeney and Trumka of openly backing Carey, and some of Sweeney's opponents hope that a Hoffa victory would curtail Sweeney's power. If Hoffa were to win the teamster presidency, he would control 10 percent of the votes in the A.F.L.-C.I.O., which would be a strange twist of events given that the A.F.L.-C.I.O. expelled the teamsters 40 years ago as punishment for electing Hoffa's father as president.
Sweeney has made his peace, at least outwardly, with the idea of a Hoffa presidency. "I respect Jim Hoffa for what he is in terms of his own contributions to the labor movement," he says, "and I will be more than happy to deal with whoever the teamsters choose to be their president."
The most significant roadblock to Hoffa's ascension may be the probe into the finances of his 1996 campaign. If the Federal monitor overseeing the election, the former Manhattan prosecutor Michael Cherkasky, finds evidence that Hoffa knew of any scheme to fix the election, he could bar Hoffa from running. Cherkasky's investigation will probably not be completed before next month, and he has refused to comment about the targets of his probe.
Hoffa seems unbothered by the investigation: to him, Cherkasky is just one more Government agent in a 40-year line of Government agents fighting the Hoffa family. Hoffa sees Government supervision as a conspiracy to keep the teamsters weak, and he sees Carey as the Government's man. In Hoffa's view, the Federal Government favored Carey until Hoffa's own men discovered Carey campaign crimes that were too flagrant to ignore. "We found the records, we found the checks and we took the Government and put their nose in it and said, 'This is embezzlement,' and they finally said, 'Yeah,' " Hoffa says bitterly. "We were the ones who eventually brought Ron Carey down. The Government hated that, but they finally saw it."
Hoffa is a complex man, but his defining characteristic is an abiding distrust of the Federal Government and the leaders it anoints. Carey, Sweeney, Trumka, Cherkasky -- they're all the same to him, men whose mission it is to deny him what was taken from his father.
Hoffa's office, on the ground floor of an orange-brick teamster building in a blasted-out section of Detroit, is depressing and dank, and bare of furnishings, the office of a man who doesn't spend much time there. His official title in the union is administrative assistant; he was put on the payroll of the Michigan Teamsters Joint Council in order to qualify him to run for president. On one wall is a drawing of his father, with Mount Rushmore in the background. On another hangs a poster from the 1992 film "Hoffa," in which Jack Nicholson played the teamster boss. Hoffa didn't like the movie much, but he likes the poster -- "He Did What He Had to Do," it reads. "That's my dad," Hoffa says.
He grew up the middle-class son of a working-class icon. His father got him summer jobs driving trucks, but law school was the ultimate goal. When football got in the way of college -- Hoffa played both offense and defense at Michigan State -- his father forced him to quit the team. When I asked Barbara Crancer, Hoffa's older sister, if she or her brother ever rebelled against their father's wishes, she replied: "We never had a rebellious stage. Our father would never have allowed that."
Hoffa graduated from the University of Michigan Law School, and, in his only early bout with celebrity, ran in 1967 as a Democrat for a seat in the Michigan House. After losing that race, he built a modest labor law practice, servicing teamster locals allied with his father. Since then, Hoffa, his wife, Ginger, and their two sons, now in their 20's, have lived in middle-class contentment and obscurity. His life to date has not shown the markings of greatness.
Sitting with Hoffa on a rainy day in December, I take out of my briefcase his father's last book, "Hoffa: The Real Story." It is animated by Hoffa's fighting spirit, and it is wonderfully self-serving. I turn to a chapter near the end and read aloud his father's final words on the subject of union power: "I see one last big round of fights coming between labor and management. . . .In the old days, they bombed our homes, shot us, used tear gas on us and beat the hell out of us. It can happen the first time there's a depression and there would be a knockdown, bloody battle again. . . .When that war comes, Jimmy Hoffa wants to be right up front."
By the time this book was published, in late 1975, Hoffa was already dead. I now ask his son if these are the beliefs that motivate him, too.
"My father was a very different person than myself," he says. "I'm my own person. My father was born in 1913. He lived through the Depression. He came up through the school of hard knocks. I'm not going to war with anyone."
I then mention the Indian-wrestling affair, in which Hoffa's father claimed he was challenged by Robert Kennedy to an arm-wrestling match. Hoffa's father said at the time that he beat Kennedy -- twice. This, he claimed, was the root of his problems with Kennedy. By humiliating Kennedy physically, Hoffa wrote, he sealed their feud. (Kennedy's book on his war with Hoffa makes no mention of any arm wrestling.)
I ask Hoffa if he would be challenging Janet Reno to an arm-wrestling match.
"No, no," he says, but adds, with half a smile, "I could take her."
Then, when he realizes I'm writing down what he's saying, he freezes. "Look, I'm a lawyer. I have no beef with the Department of Justice."
Even though I've known only one of them, it seems safe to say that Jimmy Hoffa is no Jimmy Hoffa. Which is certainly for the better, and maybe also for the worse.
I first met Hoffa three years ago, at a Las Vegas meeting of the teamsters' Women's Caucus, which was dominated entirely by men. It was a pro-Hoffa crowd, and the men in charge made up Hoffa's brain trust, as it were. They included Larry Brennan, the bilious and potty-mouthed chief of the Michigan Teamsters Joint Council, who lectured me at length about the "bull dykes" who run the women's caucus. Hoffa himself seemed like an afterthought at the convention, a front man for Old Guard teamster interests whose greatest asset was his name. I wrote this up in an article for New York magazine, calling Hoffa a soft and satisfied man with ethics problems of his own.
He remains, three years after I first met him, mostly unreadable. His pale gray eyes are as smooth and impenetrable as opaque glass. Various commentators have, in one fashion or another, characterized him as dim, but what that may reflect is that he is wary, and often inarticulate. When he strays from his stump speech, he is not a convincing talker, and he is unskilled at grappling with policy issues.
He has, however, earned the right to be wary, after bearing his name so long. He is a man who, when he arrives at a hotel, sometimes hears clerks gibe, "Oh, so you finally showed up."
Over the past two months, in a series of conversations, he would usually wave away my questions about his father and his family. But recently, in a hotel suite in Washington, he told this story:
"Under Michigan law, it takes seven years to declare someone dead. I had to marshal my father's assets, I had to file reports for seven years before a declaration of death was issued. I'll never forget this -- one day my mother said, 'How long is this going to take?' I said, 'Seven years.' And she looked at me and said, 'Well, I won't be here.' And she died before the seven years, died in 1980. She died of a broken heart. She lost her will to live."
He paused for a second, and then muttered, "Ah, it's one of those things."
I was mistaken about him; he is not as soft he seemed. He led his family through the time of his father's jailing, and his disappearance. He has slogged through a relentless campaign and built a national slate of candidates, and he has withstood the insults hurled at him by Carey and by the press.
Of course, the ability to weather adversity does not by itself qualify a man to run America's biggest private-sector union, and Hoffa is, in one important respect, profoundly unqualified to serve as teamster president. He is the first candidate for the job in memory who has not even served as a shop steward.
And, aside from the investigation into his campaign finances, he has his own ethical problems to confront. In 1970, for instance, he was a partner in an investment plan with a man named Allen Dorfman, a close ally of his father. Dorfman, who would eventually be gunned down by mobsters in Chicago, was a well-known organized-crime figure who, thanks to Hoffa's father, was able to steal from the teamsters' Central States Pension Fund.
"I had no relationship with Dorfman," I heard Hoffa tell an unsuspecting reporter in Massachusetts late last year. Three years ago, however, he told me that he was in a limited partnership with Dorfman for "one or two years." He said then that, back in 1970, he was "a young kid" who "didn't know his reputation." But by 1970, Dorfman's reputation was well established, and Hoffa was already four years out of law school.
Nothing upsets Hoffa more than questions about Dorfman, which he considers irrelevant to his cause. What counts, he says, is his love of the rank and file. "I have a great dedication to making these guys' lives better," he says. "That's what I believe in. That's what this is about."
He is right about one thing: many rank-and-file teamsters don't seem to be terribly bothered by questions about his past. His support, he says, comes from members motivated by self-interest, who believe, as he does, that their union has been adrift since his father disappeared. "This union is in a sorry state," he says.
Hoffa has only outlined general goals for his presidency: to rebuild the union's treasury and to end the civil war between teamster factions. Hoffa has also suggested some surprisingly reformist proposals, including caps on officials' salaries and stricter ethics guidelines. And he has succeeded in building a fairly wide coalition. Over the past three years, his campaign has jettisoned some of the unreconstructed Old Guard, elevating sophisticated regional leaders of solid reputation like Chuck Mack of San Francisco and Jon Rabine of Seattle. A Hoffa administration would see these men in positions of influence, along with John Murphy and Hoffa's campaign manager, Tom Pazzi, a savvy political operative who began his career in, of all places, Robert Kennedy's Presidential campaign.
Another goal, Hoffa says, would be to end what he calls the union's slavish devotion to a single political party. He would undoubtedly fire the liberal activists who now staff the Marble Palace, and end the union's automatic support for Democratic candidates. "Our focus will be the nuts-and-bolts issues of better contracts and pension plans," he says. "Workers were an abstraction to Ron Carey and his crew, something to be manipulated."
At union halls and plant gates, Hoffa does seem to have a genuine feel for blue-collar workers and their concerns, despite his uncallused hands and his law degree. Aware that his white-collar background hurts his campaign, he tries strenuously to convince the workers that he is one of them. Two dozen times, I've heard him say on the stump, "I've stood by the fire barrel," which is striker shorthand for, "I've stood in the cold on the picket line." And he touts his own blue-collar associations. "I have social friends who are truck drivers," he says. "These are people I have dinner with, who I play racquetball with."
He says he also shares with blue-collar workers a distrust of Eastern liberal elites. "I don't perceive that the workers are looking for social change. I believe they want to preserve what they've got, move along the continuum of good contracts and a growing union," he says. "My belief is like my father's belief -- as long as the members like what I'm doing, I'm O.K. I don't worry about some guy in Hyannis Port laying in bed reading The New York Times on Sunday morning with his bagel and his orange juice."
Hyannis Port?
Every so often, Hoffa drops a clue that his quest for the teamster presidency is motivated by something deeper than his love for the workingman.
Not long ago, while campaigning outside a freight-distribution center in Carlisle, Pa., he pulled out a copy of recent a Time magazine article describing the allegations raised against President Kennedy in a book by the investigative reporter Seymour Hersh. "He couldn't run for president of the teamsters!" Hoffa guffawed, smacking the picture of Kennedy with the back of his hand. "He's too dirty to run the teamsters. He'd be disqualified!"
In moments of candor, Hoffa admits that his run for the presidency is one way of closing a circle: the Kennedys hounded his father from the union, and he will avenge his father.
When I asked him to explain his father's reputation as one of the most corrupt and ruthless labor leaders in history, he said: "He was a very great man. He lived his life, and the answer is, the Kennedys went after him. The Kennedys could not control him. That's why they went after him. My father knew about the Kennedys, we knew about that stuff," he says, referring to the material in Hersh's book. "This is nothing new to Hoffa. My father's attitude was, 'Who the hell were these people whoring around, then going after me.' "
Hoffa, who teethed on his father's legend, seems to live inside a myth in which his father plays the blameless protector of the workingman and Robert F. Kennedy plays the wicked prosecutor who seeks the public destruction of Hoffa as a way of getting his brother elected President.
The Hoffa-Kennedy war began in earnest in 1957, when Hoffa was called before the Senate McClellan Committee, which was investigating organized crime's infiltration of labor. Robert Kennedy was the committee counsel; his brother served on the committee. Hoffa, then the top Midwest teamster, was widely believed to be in league with labor racketeers. Kennedy bloodied Hoffa but could not put him away, and the attacks only made Hoffa more popular among teamster leaders, who chose him the following year as their president. Kennedy continued pursuing Hoffa, especially after his brother appointed him Attorney General in 1961. Kennedy finally won: Hoffa was convicted in 1967 for mail fraud and jury tampering. He went to jail, lost control of the union and was murdered, the F.B.I. believes, when he tried to return to power over the objections of organized-crime bosses, who had made even more lucrative arrangements with Hoffa's crooked successor, Frank Fitzsimmons.
To this day, Hoffa's son refuses to acknowledge that his father, at the very least, made a devil's pact with organized crime. From Hoffa's perspective, his father is utterly free of sin. Other members of the Hoffa family offer a slightly more nuanced view. His sister, Barbara Crancer, a circuit court judge in St. Louis, described her father to me this way: "He was a very pragmatic person. If you had to deal with people, you dealt with people. Just go to New York City -- there are certain people you have to deal with that you wouldn't invite into your home. Agreed? You did what had to be done. Didn't Joe Kennedy do that? Didn't he have to deal with who he had to deal with to get his son elected President? I don't think anybody doubts that anymore."
The truth about Jimmy Hoffa is certainly more complex than his family would have it, but it is also more complex than some Kennedy partisans would have it too.
Jimmy Hoffa was a stone thief, but he was also a formidable labor leader.
To think of Jimmy Hoffa only as a gangster who robbed his union's pension funds is to forget that he is also responsible for one of the great contracts in labor history, the National Master Freight Agreement, which doubled and tripled wages for truckers and lifted thousands of teamster families into the middle class. He was an autocrat, and he enriched himself at the expense of his members, but in many ways, he also made the teamsters the strongest they had ever been. Even critics like Ken Paff, the leader of the Teamsters for a Democratic Union who calls Hoffa's son "a puffy little softy," admits that the father was more labor leader than Kennedy would grant.
"The freight agreement was his high-water mark," Paff continues. "But he was setting up a dictatorship. If you look at his legacy, the bad part is what we're still dealing with now."
What the younger Jimmy Hoffa knew is that some union workers like having a tough guy behind them. Their bosses act like gangsters, the reasoning goes, so why shouldn't their union leaders?
Now Hoffa's son is trying to take over a union in which some workers still feel the same way. I recently spoke with Hoffa supporters in the warehouse of the Barkoff Container Supply Company in Hayward, Calif., men who want a tough guy in their corner. "I was victimized by the last trucking company I worked for and I don't want to be victimized again," said one warehouse man, Jim Bittles.
So what do you think of Hoffa's father?
"He was probably a gangster type," said Vern Alstatt, a fellow warehouse man. "Like a Mayor Daley of Chicago. He ran the union a little bit crooked, but he ran it like a son of a bitch. Back in the 60's, if somebody crossed a picket line, the union would be back the next day to beat the expletive out of him. They'd fight for your job."
What about Hoffa's son?
"There's a gut feeling that he's strong," Bittles said. "Maybe you have to be a lawyer these days to know what's going on."
So even if Hoffa turned out to be a little bit dirty, it wouldn't bother you?
"I need somebody to protect my job and my pension," Alstatt says. "I don't care about that other stuff."
Why do you think the Government cares about corruption in the union if you don't?
"The Government isn't a friend to labor," Bittles said. "They want to control us." His is not an uncommon view.
On a Sunday morning in December, Larry Brennan, the top Michigan teamster and Hoffa's nominal boss, stands before 60 members of his Detroit local, which is a perennial target of Federal investigators and which Hoffa's allies say is under investigation by the Independent Review Board for possibly siphoning money into Hoffa's campaign.
"If there's ever a mob," Brennan declares, "it's the Department of Justice, the Department of Labor and the I.R.B. I'll tell you this -- the money that was paid to the Democratic Party was nothing but protection. If they ever let us get into the citadel in Washington, I wouldn't be surprised if we brought the whole Government down. Everybody understand -- that's why they're investigating us, because they don't want that to happen."
Then he eyeballs me and says: "You, newspaper reporter, you're under control by the Government, too. You're afraid to say what the truth is. I know exactly how you are. You'll only print what you think will make news. . . .When Hitler took power in Germany, the night of the long knives, they destroyed property, burnt books, killed people. Well, we've had six years of that and survived. This union will survive."
Though Brennan has been studiously left off the Hoffa slate, he remains the id of the Hoffa campaign, giving feverish and disjointed voice to its core belief: that the Clinton Administration, the Department of Justice and the quasi-official bodies created to oversee the teamsters are hopelessly partisan, and excused Carey's imperfections in order to keep Hoffa out.
For years, Hoffa and his cronies ran against walls trying to make their case. They were stymied in part because their spokesmen tended to be people like Brennan, and in part because Carey seemed incorruptible. Finally, they say, the world is seeing that they weren't all wrong.
"The adversarial relationship between some elements of the Federal Government and the Hoffa family is of long standing and is well known and documented," says Pazzi, Hoffa's campaign manager. "There seemed to be an obvious bias toward Carey and his people and against Hoffa and his people by both the election officer and the I.R.B. throughout the campaign, and we concluded that at least some parts of the Government wanted to pick winners and losers in the election, and we weren't the ones in the win column."
Arthur Fox, a left-leaning lawyer and longtime adviser to teamster dissidents, says he believes that the various union monitors were too willing to look the other way for Carey's sake. "I think the ends-justifies-the-means philosophy was very much at work here," he says. "They may have thought that Carey was infinitely better than anyone else who has come along, that it's better to have Carey than Hoffa."
The I.R.B. has, in fact, shown itself to be partisan. In 1994, its chairman, the former Federal judge Frederick Lacey, warned another investigator, Thomas Puccio, about the danger of probing too deeply into Carey's background. "I told you . . .what would happen if you brought Carey down," Lacey wrote to Puccio, "in that there were 'old guard' teamsters throughout the country that were hoping that Carey would be eliminated as a candidate in 1996 so that the clock could be turned back to what it was when I first came on the scene as Independent Administrator."
Hoffa's allies have long charged the I.R.B. with being soft on Carey. But now it is not only Hoffa's camp that is wondering if anyone was watching the reformer. "We've had all this Federal Government supervision, and what do we have to show for it -- a union that's broke, that's basically in receivership," says Peter Hoekstra, a Republican Representative from Michigan who will be leading Congressional hearings into the teamster scandal this month. We want to ask the I.R.B., 'Were you watching or were you not watching?' "
After nine years of government supervision and six years with a reformer at the helm, the teamsters are in a weakened state. And this is a bad time for America's flagship private-sector union to be divided and broke. Despite recent gains, most unions are not growing, and are reeling from globalization and anti-labor legislation.
This became clear to me in Detroit, the scene of a continuing teamster strike that might be more typical than last summer's U.P.S. strike.
The unionized employees of Detroit's two newspapers have been striking for 31 months, and they have lost. The newspapers took back the workers they wanted and left the rest in the cold. The workers, members of two teamsters locals as well as the Newspaper Guild and two other unions, continue to picket, if only to remind the people of Detroit that theirs was once a union town.
On a recent Saturday night, I visited a group of picketing teamsters outside a Detroit Free Press distribution plant in a Detroit suburb. About 15 strikers marched slowly back and forth across the plant's entrance. Their evenings are choreographed: they are not allowed to block the entrance, but they do tend to linger in front of the driveway, and if they happen to block for a moment the replacement workers arriving for their shift, so be it. The replacement workers have a routine, too: they are to stop, honk, blink their lights and then proceed through the line of picketers.
The blood-freezing cold only serves to amplify the strikers' anger. "Yeah, you $8-an-hour whore, go to your job," one striker yells at a replacement worker as she drives through the line. A company detective videotapes the proceedings from a van parked just outside the plant gate.
"They're messing with our lives, so we're messing with them," says Diane Valko, a striking teamster.
I ask the strikers what they think of Hoffa, and of Carey, who tried to break the deadlock. Carey gets lukewarm support; Hoffa is ardently disliked. "He lives right here in Detroit, but I don't see him doing anything for us," one striker says.
"This is beyond leaders, though," Valko tells me. "This is about labor laws, and it's about what the companies know they can get away with these days."
Which is exactly right: Even the old Jimmy Hoffa, the larger-than-life figure who dominated whole industries, might have found the Detroit newspaper strike unsolvable. The companies are openly disrespectful of the unions, the law allows them to hire replacement workers and no moral or political authority in the city has been able to convince the newspapers that their path is wrong. Carey couldn't solve the strike, and Hoffa's son, who is distinctly not larger-than-life, probably couldn't do it either.
The teamsters are still a force to reckon with in American life. They can be found nearly anywhere an hourly worker can be found. And they still possess the ability to wreak selective havoc on the economy, as they did during the recent U.P.S. strike. But gone are the days when the teamsters could cripple commerce by shutting down the highways. Even today's most optimistic teamsters don't believe that days like that will be returning anytime soon.
At about midnight, as they're preparing to pack it in, one of the strikers, a middle-aged man named Mike Stringfield, tells me they'd stay out later if they only had fire barrels to keep them warm. I had noticed that there weren't any, and fire barrels, as Hoffa never fails to point out to those who doubt his blue-collar credentials, are an essential element of any self-respecting picket line.
I ask Stringfield where the fire barrels are.
"The company got the town to declare that fire barrels were a safety hazard," he says, laughing bitterly. "Isn't that crazy? We can't even get a damn fire barrel anymore."

GRAPHIC: Photos: James Hoffa, the proud father, with his son in 1959. (Associated Press) Opposite: His son today. (Nina Berman/Sipa Press, for The New York Times); Solidarity with picketers, above, in Peabody, Mass. Opposite: Signed Polaroid poses with Hoffa, at $5 a pop, were going fast at a teamsters' fund-raiser in Natick, Mass.; A Life magazine profile of the first Jimmy Hoffa in the 60's branded him corrupt and claimed the teamsters were studded with grafters, gangsters and extortionists," but he's still a hero to many modern-day teamsters.; Hoffa, with his wife, Ginger, was plucked from middle-class obscurity to run for the presidency of the teamsters.; Ron Carey, above, the discredited teamster president. Top left: Hoffa with his point men; John Murphy, second from left, helped take down Carey. Bottom left: Hoffa's father confronted his nemesis, Robert F. Kennedy, in 1958. (Nina Berman/Sipa Press, for The New York Times; Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF TEAMSTERS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; FINANCES LARCENY & THEFT (88%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); MEN (76%); EMBEZZLEMENT (69%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (65%); HISTORY (57%); 

PERSON: GOLDBERG, JEFFREY; HOFFA, JAMES JR; HOFFA, JAMES R; CAREY, RON JAMES RIDDLE 'JIMMY' HOFFA (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1998



168 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 6; Page 26; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: The Capitalist;
Dinosaurs of The New Economy

BYLINE: By Michael Lewis 

 BODY:
Psychologists who study these things have identified a pair of delusions people often suffer about their favorite technologies. The first, found mainly in the young, is the conviction that some useful device has been around much longer than it actually has. Not long ago I watched slack-jawed while a college poetry professor tried to reason with his class of 15 otherwise intelligent students who somehow had convinced themselves that Samuel Taylor Coleridge was distracted from finishing "Kubla Khan" by a telephone call. In 1798. The students imagined the phone as they imagined the wheel -- one of those things that had been around, like, forever.
The other common delusion about technology is that it will never be replaced. Older people with a financial stake in the device in question are especially prone to this line of thinking. The flip side of the 19-year-old who imagines Romantic poets ordering delivery pizza over the phone is the 60-year-old executive of a Baby Bell who imagines college students 10 years from now ordering delivery pizza over the phone. 
 The telephone executive has perfected the art of pretending he is immune to change. Anyone can see that he is not, however. The phone may not be threatened with complete extermination. But like the vinyl record at the dawn of the CD, it is more vulnerable than it knows.
The first to point this out are the people in Silicon Valley who sell the technologies designed either to displace or to complement the telephone. The high-tech promoter Regis McKenna, for instance, who made his name marketing the Apple computer, has a stand-up routine he does at business schools and technology trade shows. He mentions some phone company by name; the audience chuckles, knowing perfectly well what must come next. A horror story.
He then launches into a tale about his wife and her cell-phone company. It goes like this: Mrs. Regis McKenna makes a huge number of calls a month on her cell phone; she pays her bills on time; she is, all things considered, the ideal cell-phone customer. One month she receives a bill that is triple her actual usage. She calls the phone company to complain, in the sweetest possible tones. The man at the phone company tells her that she is an idiot.
The lesson Regis McKenna draws from this is not the old one that salesmen should never insult their customers. It is the new one that the phone company, like any well-run company, needs computers to alert the employees when they are speaking to ideal customers, so that they may confine their insolence to less-than-ideal ones. The phone companies do have computers, but apparently not as many as they need to be tactically rude.
Regis McKenna says that he once told this very same tale, without naming names, to an audience that included the presidents of two cell-phone companies. Each assumed it was his company and came rushing forward to apologize. But neither actually did anything about it.
This is the gist of the complaint about the phone people: they behave as if they don't need to change. They behave, in short, like monopolies. Of course, the local phone companies are, in effect, monopolies. But even the long-distance phone companies, whose deregulation was meant to unleash their inner entrepreneurs, have shown a talent for learning only the wrong lessons in the free market. On the one hand, they have been quick to engage in the phone-industry equivalent of dirty tricks -- slamming, the (illegal) art of switching a customer's long-distance carrier without his permission. The regional Bell telephone company Ameritech contends that in a recent one-year period, AT&T and MCI between them were responsible for 33,940 slams, which makes pro wrestling look gentle.
On the other hand, they act as though they exist in some privileged space, free from market scrutiny. No chief executive of a new technology company would dare, as Robert Allen, then AT&T's C.E.O., did two years ago, to give himself a big raise immediately after orchestrating a drop in his stock price (in a raging bull market).
And no new technology company would balk at acquiring new and better technology. But the phone companies more or less acknowledge this tendency in themselves -- or at any rate in one another. A few weeks ago, for instance, AT&T announced the results of its test on Bell Atlantic to see whether it was worthy of a partnership. "Totally unacceptable," AT&T concluded. "Rather than processing orders electronically, Bell Atlantic is using manual processes...."
More to the point, every entrepreneur with some new communications technology considers first whether he can implement it without dealing with the phone company. If not, he thinks again. The great changes taking place in the way people exchange messages are occurring despite, rather than because of, the companies that used to dominate the business. Some local telephone companies, to take but one example, have filed lawsuits against the Federal Communications Commission that could result in surcharges on every Internet connection.
The closest thing to a spokesman for the innovation crowd is a man named John Doerr, a venture capitalist with the Silicon Valley firm of Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, which has put up the seed capital to create tens of billions of dollars in Internet companies. When Doerr addresses a crowd he flashes up a pair of slides. The first describes the now legendary Moore's Law: the number of transistors on a chip doubles every 18 months. Doerr's second slide describes Moron's Law. It reads, "The telephone industry will promise to deliver whatever it feels like in 18 months, but will really take at least twice as long to deliver it." There is also a footnote: "Of course, whatever you get is not what you asked for."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER AND COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT AND SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (54%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (54%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (54%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: APPLE INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (89%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); PSYCHOLOGY (74%); WRITERS (72%); SENIOR CITIZENS (69%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (67%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, MICHAEL REGIS MCKENNA (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1998



169 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 5; Page 10; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 2694 words

HEADLINE: Sand, Silence and Solitude

BYLINE: By ELLEN WARNER; ELLEN WARNER is a photojournalist and portrait photographer based in New York.

 BODY:
"THE desert? No, I've been to Egypt 17 times, but I've never gone into the desert," said our travel agent, sounding rather puzzled. "You know, you see the desert right next to all the ruins."
When I persisted, she put me in touch with a travel agent in Washington, D.C., who had a branch office in Cairo. Talking with them several weeks before my trip last April, it became apparent that yes, they could get me a car and a driver to visit the oasis villages of the New Valley -- an area of the Western Desert about halfway between the Nile Valley and the Libyan border. But did I know, they asked without enthusiasm, that it would be very hot? 
 I decided to check further. Friends working for the Agency for International Development in Cairo suggested that I call Amr Shannon, a rally driver who took people on desert safaris. When I told him I'd always wanted to go to the desert and asked him what it was like, there was a pause and he said respectfully: "It is beautiful -- unlike anything else. You have to be there to feel it." I knew I had found my guide.
Then came the practicalities. Did we want one car or two? With one four-wheel-drive vehicle we could travel up to 25 miles off "the asphalt," the sparsely traveled road that connects the oasis towns. If anything happened to the car, it would be possible to walk back to the road, which meant civilization. On the other hand, with the addition of a support car we could travel 125 miles off the asphalt.
I consulted Richard, my English friend who on the spur of the moment had agreed to accompany me, and he said that he thought 25 miles would do it, so I agreed that we would be conservative.
The car would cost $200 a day, including our guide, Amr, and we would pay extra for gas and the food we took with us. Amr cautioned us to take sweaters and a warm jacket, as in April the desert can get below freezing at night.
We planned to spend a total of five nights in the Western Desert (as the Egyptians call the Sahara in Egypt) and the oases of the New Valley. The valley comprises the bulk of Egypt's Western Desert and the oases of Bahariya, Dakhla, Farafra and Kharga, which roughly parallel the Nile.
Four weeks from my initial telephone call to Amr, after several days in teeming Cairo, I got together with Richard and Amr, and we headed west in a Jeep packed with everything from tents, shovels and sand mats (which are placed under your tires for traction if you get bogged down in the sand) to basic food for the week. Our trip had been postponed a day because of bad sandstorms April, as it turns out, is the month of the khamsin, a warm wind that blows north from the Sudan.
There were a fair number of cars on the road during the first hour's drive out of Cairo as we passed new housing developments and a few industrial parks, but from then on we saw only about one car an hour. Our first destination was the oasis of Bahariya, 225 miles southwest of Cairo, where we planned to stop for lunch.
The land was flat, sand as far as the eye could see, often lightly covered with black pebbles of basalt, called "the pavement of the desert." Halfway to Bahariya something caught Amr's eye. He slowed down and turned off the road. There in front of us were petrified tree trunks from the days before the Sahara was desert.
Half an hour later he veered off again, this time to a field of shells dating from 40 million years ago, when what is now the Sahara was ocean. Translucent mother-of-pearl shells the size of my palm, which had once held soft oysters, peeled apart in my hand, shining like mica. Because of the lack of humidity in the Sahara, it is not uncommon to find shards of ancient pottery and other artifacts, as well as prehistoric remains such as these.
 CONTINUING toward Bahariya, the topography became hilly. Amr scanned the landscape, and we swerved off the road heading toward pebbly hills (actually formed by piles of petrified shells and marine life). Leaving the car at the bottom of one of these, we climbed to the top in the midday sun to find two chains of longitudinal sand dunes, the Ghard Ghorabi, stretching as far as the eye could see. I was awed by their majesty and mesmerized by their rhythmic waves.
The variety of dunes is astonishing. Some are only a few feet high; others reach several hundred feet and traverse hundreds of miles. A flat, rocky area can suddenly become a range of sand dunes. Their shapes are determined by several factors: the direction, strength and consistency of wind; the amount of sand; the hardness of the terrain, and the amount of vegetation. Dunes are constantly moving, propelled by the wind, sometimes more than 100 yards a year. Nothing can hold them back.
Oases are depressions in the plateau of the desert, usually ringed by steep sandstone escarpments. They can be large, often 20 miles long, and contain many villages. The houses of El Bawiti, capital of Bahariya and a typical oasis village -- where we had lunch -- are made of brick the color of the surrounding sand. The only color is on doors and windows painted wonderful pastel blues, turquoises, greens and yellows. It is common to see charming, primitive drawings of camels, jumbo jets and cars on the facades because all good Muslims make a pilgrimage to Mecca at least once in their lifetimes, and upon returning draw a picture on the front of their house illustrating the story of the trip.
We ate at Bayoumi's restaurant, where our meal was the same one we were to have at every restaurant in an oasis town -- vegetable soup (usually lentil), Egyptian beans, chicken, rice and a fresh vegetable (zucchini or yellow squash) in tomato sauce -- hearty and healthy. We were invariably the only tourists (we saw only one other couple during our week in the desert). The Egyptians are very friendly and respectful of visitors. When people did not want me to photograph them, the subjects (usually women) discreetly turned away or asked for baksheesh (a tip), but they were never rude or angry.
As it was now only a few hours until nightfall, we got back into the car to continue. For the more leisurely traveler, Bahariya boasts some modest ruins -- rock tombs over 2,000 years old, skeletal remains of Roman garrisons, a Ptolemaic temple and a Greco-Roman village.
The more mountainous terrain between Bahariya and Farafra begins to resemble a lunar landscape. We camped about 55 miles south of Bahariya in an area called Crystal Mountain. Here the ground is covered with hard sand and there are outcroppings, sometimes mountainous, of quartz that shine like crystals in the sun. We pitched our tents in the hollow between two of these hills and Richard and I took a walk across this moonscape.
At dusk we climbed an adjacent hill to watch the sunset. Without the distraction of electric lights from nearby humanity, the desert night sky is ablaze with stars. A book on stars, with a simple chart of the constellations, is a must for any desert safari.
It got cold, so we climbed back down close to the campfire and put on turtlenecks and jackets.
You can almost hear the quiet in the desert. Amr says that people either love the desert or are scared by its loneliness.
My own fear was more of scorpions and poisonous snakes, both of which come out at night. I worried about having to get up in the dark and stumbling on some hidden interloper. Amr said: "Snakes and scorpions only disturb you if you disturb them. Take a flashlight and be careful not to kick over any stones, and in the morning shake out your shoes to make sure nothing has curled up inside them."
Daybreak was spellbinding, with deep shadows and sunlight reflecting off the quartz outcroppings. After breakfast we drove south and after several stops arrived at the White Desert, so called because mounds of white chalk are blown by the sand and wind into strange mushroom-shape formations.
The Egyptian Desert is the driest part of the Sahara -- in Farafra, according to National Geographic and "The Sahara Handbook" by Simon Glen, it rained in 1945 and not again until 1973. The smallest of the oases, Farafra consists of several hamlets, some dependent on old Roman wells. We had lunch in one of the two roadside restaurants in the village, then started the 190-mile drive to the Dakhla oasis, along the most desolate and worst-maintained section of the road.
It crosses a corner of the Great Sand Sea, a vast area of flat sand and dune fields stretching westward to Libya. Now, truly isolated, we were lucky to pass a car every two hours. It was hot and there was a slight breeze, so sand was blowing into the car. I tied a handkerchief around my head covering my nose and mouth, but my nose clogged up and I found it slightly hard to breathe. Amr showed me how to snort water in through my nose, blow out and clear out the sand. That was the only moment when I felt a twinge of fear,in the isolation of the Great Sand Sea.
We had hoped to camp next to a dune field about 35 miles west of Dakhla, but by the time we arrived the khamsin wind had picked up. When it starts blowing before dusk, it means a sandstorm during the night, so we pressed on to the village of El Qasr in the Dakhla Oasis, where we spent two nights in rooms above the local cafe. We were disappointed not to be camping out but our little "hotel" gave us a new experience.
Each night the men of the village congregated there to smoke their water pipes, play dominoes, talk and watch a terrible Tarzan-type American soap opera with Arabic subtitles on TV. We were welcomed into the domino games and treated as part of the group. Dinner was brought to our domino tables, we were encouraged to smoke, and everyone was thrilled when one of us happened to win a game.
The food in the cafe was delicious -- dinners of the fare to which we had become accustomed and breakfasts of taamia (ground Egyptian beans with parsley and sesame fried in oil like little hamburgers), omelets, pita bread, white cheese, fresh fruit and tea.
In El Qasr, the most charming village we saw, mud brick houses with ornamented doorways and decorative friezes line narrow sandy alleyways. Their doors have lintels, beneath which one has to stoop because sand has spent centuries rising over the thresholds. The veils of the women and the djellabas (long robes) of the men waft gracefully with the breezes, adding an aura of tranquillity to the timeless feeling of the village.
 DAKHLA is the largest oasis in the valley, and the main occupation is farming. In the morning we watched men harvesting wheat. They cut the stalks with sickles, then girls collected the sheaves and gleaned the kernels left behind. The boys threw the wheat onto a wagon, which a donkey pulled to the village. It was a scene that could have taken place 3,000 years ago.
Heading for our last oasis, Kharga, 125 miles from Dakhla, we stopped at Balat to see the newly discovered pharaonic tomb of Pepi II, dating from 2200 B.C., and then what used to be a camel stand on the old track between Dakhla and Kharga.
There we saw prehistoric writing on rocks striped with very soft sandstone -- yellow, red, blue, green. When you rubbed it, the color came off onto your fingers. The women of ancient Egypt used this sandstone as makeup. We arrived in Kharga in time to visit the Temple of Amun-Re in the ruins of the ancient town of Hibis. Completed by the Persian ruler Darius I in the sixth century B.C., it bears a later inscription of Nekhtnebf, one of the last native pharaohs. It was decorated with pharaonic painting and hieroglyphs, and high up on the walls we could see the graffiti of 19th-century explorers.
When the light started to fade at the temple, we settled ourselves into the three-story Kharga Hotel -- where, aside from a few Russians there on business, we were the only guests.
Our last morning we visited the necropolis of El Bagawat, a Coptic Christian burial ground dating from the fourth to seventh centuries, its numerous mausoleums dotted over several small hills. They are made of mud brick, many with domes, decorated with primitive frescoes in bright colors, depicting biblical scenes, well-preserved by the dry desert air. St. George slaying the dragon and Noah's Ark seem to have been favorites.
 OUR last stop in Kharga was the Archeological Museum, which houses decorated coffins for mummies, glass, pottery, jewelry and other remnants of desert life from pharaonic times to the present. Surprisingly, perhaps because of the lighting and the way the objects are arranged, the exhibits here seemed to be better displayed than those in the Egyptian Museum in Cairo. Then we were pressed to reach Luxor, a five-hour drive, before nightfall.
Traveling at night in the countryside near Luxor is frowned upon by the Egyptian authorities because of the possibility of terrorist attacks. Since the killing last November of 58 foreign tourists were killed by Islamic militants in the courtyards of a Luxor temple, the Government has tightened security measures even further, and travelers may find that they are accompanied by a police escort in certain areas near Luxor if the authorities deem it necessary.
The road from Kharga to Luxor is desolate. Every hour or so there is a checkpoint, the soldiers stationed there the only signs of life along the way. We had our last picnic lunch between buttes in the middle of a "waterless sea" of sand. The last miles of desert seemed precious, and we began to wistfully conjure our next trip.
I now know that once the desert is in your bones, there will always be a pull to go back -- to hear the quiet, to see the night sky, to feel the power and rhythm of the dunes, to sense one's smallness in nature.
 
How to charter a ship of the desert
 
When to Go
The best time to visit the Western Desert of Egypt is during November and December, when temperatures are pleasant (generally up to 78 degrees in November and up to 68 in December) and the air is clear. In September and October and from January through April it is warmer, but traveling is still comfortable. April brings the risk of the khamsin, the wind that blows north from the Sudan and can produce sandstorms. From May through August it is too hot.
You will need a hat with a visor, walking shoes and plenty of sunscreen. Women should wear long-sleeved shirts and long trousers to respect the modesty requirements of an Islamic culture. A warm sweater and jacket are needed for the nights, when temperatures drop considerably. Also take a towel, washcloth and soap.
 
Guides
We traveled with Amr Shannon, whose telephone and fax number in Cairo is (20-2) 518-6130. Amr now charges $300 a day for himself as guide and driver for one to three people. He has an air-conditioned four-wheel-drive car that seats four. Each extra car is $300 a day. The price includes gasoline but not food, which he will provide and cook. If you want, you can shop with him for the food -- a good idea if you have the time.
Mohammed Marzouk, telephone and fax (20-2) 258-8083, is also based in Cairo. He takes a minimum of six travelers, using at least two four-wheel-drive cars. His charge of $65 a person a day includes gasoline, all meals, tents and sleeping gear. Mr. Marzouk also can organize a combination car and camel safari. The cars take the luggage, while the passengers go by camel. When you arrive at the campsite, the tents are ready. The cost of these trips depends on the tour, but Mr. Marzouk says that they cost less than the car-only version.
His cars are not always air-conditioned.
 
Lodging
If you want to sleep in a hotel instead of a tent, there is al-Qasr Cafe, Dakhla oasis. It's a simple place with good food. Guests sleep on a bed in their own sleeping bags. There are no private bathrooms. The cost is around $1.50 a person a night (calculating the Egyptian pound at about 35 cents). A hearty meal will cost around $2.
The Kharga Hotel, Kharga Oasis, lacks charm but is adequate. It's a three-story building that has about 60 rooms, with private baths that are equipped with showers but no tubs. The rates are $17 to $20, including breakfast.

GRAPHIC: Photos: In El Qasr, villagers' dress and way of life create a feeling of timeless tranquillity. Harvesting wheat in the Dakhla Oasis. Getting water in El Qasr. A house at the Farafra Oasis. (Photographs by Ellen Warner)(pg. 10); The method of harvesting in the fields at the Dakhla Oasis is much as it was thousands of years ago. (Ellen Warner)(pg. 18)
 
Map of Egypt showing the location of Cairo. (pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EGYPT (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: CAIRO, EGYPT (90%); 

COMPANY: NILE VALLEY AVIATION (57%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (56%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (56%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EGYPT; EGYPT (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (90%); CAIRO, EGYPT (90%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; DESERTS DESERTS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (53%); 

PERSON: WARREN, ELLEN AMR SHANNON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1998



170 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 848 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT;
A Financial Crisis Yields Some Far East Bargains

BYLINE: By EDWARD A. GARGAN 

DATELINE: HONG KONG

 BODY:
AS Asian economies crumble, the race is on for the best travel deal. The leader at the moment is a British fellow in Bali who asked if he could pay his bill in rupiah. The hotel said yes, the guest scurried into town to change his money, and by the time he did, the cost of his stay had dropped $2,000.
Such deals don't come along every day. 
 Still, Asia's financial crisis is making parts of the region far cheaper than they have ever been for those paying in United States dollars or European currencies. In Thailand, the baht is worth roughly half what it was six months ago; in Indonesia, the rupiah is down 75 percent in value, and in the Philippines, 40 percent has been knocked off the peso's value in the last few months.
Hong Kong, alas, remains as pricey as ever, with the Hong Kong dollar chained irrevocably to the dollar at 7.8 to 1, a link that insures that hotels, restaurants and shopping are among the costliest in Asia.
"For those people who happen to have checked into hotels when rates were falling, they got a good deal," said Cynthia Rosenfeld, the director of Asian development for Club Med Asia.
"But by now, all the international hotels have switched to dollars, so you won't be staying at the Oriental in Bangkok for $60," she said, referring to one of the world's great hotels.
Even so, there are bargains for travelers who use a little ingenuity. Instead of booking a hotel through a travel agent, calling the hotel ahead yourself can generally result in a lower room rate. "Bargain," insisted Ms. Rosenfeld, "bargain."
A few calls around the region recently did find some genuine bargains: a room at the Shangri-La in Kuala Lumpur over the weekend for 200 ringgit a night, or roughly $48, and a weekend package at the leisurely and elegant Sukhothai in Bangkok for $117. Just a few months ago, each hotel charged well over $200 a night.
Travelers who prefer adventure to predictability cannot help but find Asia cheaper than those who go on package tours, although some of the things that come cheaper are not necessarily enough to warrant the trek from Europe or the United States.
In Jakarta last week, where the rupiah is wallowing at about 20 percent of its value just a couple of months ago, a pair of the newest Nike running shoes goes for about $25, about a quarter of what they will cost in New York.
And in Seoul, where the won is worth a fraction of its former hefty self, a full sushi dinner at the Grand Hyatt is now about $35, less than half of what it cost before the South Korean economy began to spiral out of control last month.
"Restaurants are much cheaper in Asia now," Ms. Rosenfeld said. "That's where the bargains lie. All services are going to be cheaper, like a massage at the Oriental, renting a car and driver in Kuala Lumpur, or eating out. Restaurants cannot keep reprinting their menus. They can't change their prices every day."
There are signs already, however, that some merchants, particularly in Thailand, are beginning to ask foreigners for payment in dollars. A recent survey by a Thai polling institute found that 40 percent of foreign tourists in Thailand had been asked to pay for goods or services with dollars; the survey also found that 57 percent of the tourists polled thought they had been cheated by taxi drivers, street stalls, hotels and jewelry shops.
Here in Hong Kong, once regarded as Asia's shopping paradise, there is little to tempt visitors -- or locals -- these days. At a stereo store in Causeway Bay, C.S. Lau, a salesman, was bemoaning the drop in sales, where state-of-the-art amplifiers and other high-end stereo equipment run into tens of thousands of dollars. "Sales have gone down 40 to 50 percent," he said ruefully. "We won't cut prices because of poor sales though. With our business, people who don't usually buy the stuff won't buy it even if it's cheaper."
At the Hong Kong Honma Golf Company nearby, Fan Chun Chung was equally depressed at the forest of putters, drivers and sand wedges that seemed to have sunk roots into the floor of his store. "Sales are down," he said, "no doubt about that. We are losing our Korean customers."
But there are some deals to be had. Clothing stores in particular are sporting "Sale" signs, with discounts as steep as 70 percent and 80 percent at some stores.
Nevertheless, Despite sporadic bargains, whether in clothing in Hong Kong or restaurants in Bangkok, the number of tourists from Europe and the United States is dwindling. Hong Kong is experiencing the worst tourism slump it has ever seen. And on a recent visit to the Thai island of Phuket, only a handful of bungalows were occupied at the Amanpuri resort -- a luxury hideaway where prices, cited in United States dollars, begin at about $450 a night.
Moreover, flights between Asian capitals are largely empty these days, causing some airlines to cancel flights, or in the case of Qantas, which recently canceled its South Korea route, cancel routes altogether. Even Japan Air Lines is considering reducing the 56 flights it runs between Japan and Hong Kong.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: H (NYSE) (58%); CU (PAR) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (58%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (58%); NAICS483114 COASTAL & GREAT LAKES PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (55%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (55%); SIC4481 DEEP SEA TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS, EXCEPT BY FERRY (55%); 

COUNTRY: ASIA (95%); HONG KONG (94%); INDONESIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); THAILAND (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: BANGKOK, THAILAND (92%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (77%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (77%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (77%); 

COMPANY: HYATT HOTELS CORP (58%); CLUB MEDITERRANEE SA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; HONG KONG; ASIA (95%); HONG KONG (94%); INDONESIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); THAILAND (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); MALAYSIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (92%); KUALA LUMPUR, MALAYSIA (77%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (77%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (77%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); CURRENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); TRAVEL AGENTS (86%); TOUR PACKAGES (78%); TOUR OPERATORS (78%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); US DOLLAR (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); 

PERSON: GARGAN, EDWARD A CYNTHIA ROSENFELD (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1998



171 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 10; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: Food Technology Unit Comes to Ardsley

BYLINE: By PENNY SINGER 

 BODY:
VELTROL, Litesse and Xylitol are hardly household words, yet they are everyday products found in the food and beverages on the shelves of the bakery, dairy, confectionery, processed meat and poultry, seafood, vegetable, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverage departments of supermarkets across the United States.
For the uninitiated, Veltrol is a key ingredient in the development of compound flavors where a fruity characteristic is essential. Litesse is a polydextrose bulking agent used in reduced-calorie confectionery products and Xylitol? Xylitol is used in chewing gum and confections and recognized for its unusual dental benefits in preventing and reducing dental caries. 
 All three products have been developed by Cultor Food Science, one of the world's largest developers and marketers of high-performance food ingredients. Cultor Food Science is a business sector within Cultor Corporation, based in Helsinki, Finland, an international research and marketing organization focusing on nutrition, operating in more than 30 countries and distributing products worldwide.
Cultor's annual sales are approximately $1.8 billion, with Food Science generating about $480 million. Last November, Cultor Food Science moved to Westchester, opening a $15 million, 100,000- square-foot Customer and Technology Center in Ardsley, bringing 150 jobs to Westchester and accolades from the Westchester Partnership for Economic Development
At the ribbon-cutting ceremony, the menu, demonstrating the end use of Cultor ingredients, included offerings like reduced-fat, reduced- calorie-butter-cream cake; low-fat pumpkin ice cream, chocolate-raspberry-cream-flavored coffee and anise-flavored sugar cookies.
"Consumers are demanding more from food than ever before," said Joseph Dunne, the newly appointed president of Cultor. "They are more knowledgeable about food and nutrition, and they want better taste, fewer calories, higher nutrition and a longer shelf life. Basically, what we do is help our customers, food manufacturers and processors around the world satisfy consumer tastes by developing specialty ingredients, flavors and protectants for food and beverages."
The new Cutlor Food Sciences and Technology Center consists of two adjoining buildings: the Customer Building, which contains executive offices, marketing and all corporate operations, and the Technology Building, which includes research and development, technical services and technical development operations.
True to Finnish practice, on the lower level of the Customer Building isan employee fitness center with men and women's saunas, furtheringthe belief in the therapeutic effects of the sauna as a way to relax and refresh employees and guests.
"The company as it is today was formed in January 1996 by merging two industry leaders -- Cultor Ltd. and Pfizer Food Science -- into Cultor Food Science," Mr. Dunne said. "Our corporate offices were formerly in Manhattan, while technical service and R&D were located in Groton, and North American management offices were in Parsippany, N.J. Now everything is efficiently under one roof."
Explaining that the integrated campus provides interaction between product management and technical teams, Mr. Dunne said the buildings at the new center have been designed to facilitate interaction at every level of the company. The new complex not only contains state-of-the-art research and development laboratories and pilot plants but also "brings together skilled scientists and technologists from around the world with some of the most forward thinking business minds in the industry," he said.
On the top floor of the Technology Building, scientists in seven laboratories use sophisticated technology, including robotics, to discover new ingredients and manufacturing processes. The Sensory Labs are especially noteworthy. They provide a controlled testing environment for sensory evaluation of product attributes like sight, smell, taste and texture of foods, beverages and personal health care products. "We are more than ingredient vendors," Mr. Dunne said. "We offer value-added products and services. Working hand in hand with customers gives us the ability to have an impact on such things as product, particularly in helping food processing customers to develop reduced-fat, reduced-calorie foods, new flavors and innovative ingredients to keep food safe and fresh. We also assist with marketing strategies and regulatory approvals."
Mr. Dunne, who was born in Ireland 55 years ago, received his Ph.D. in biochemistry from the University College in Dublin, his post-doctoral experience at the University of California, San Diego, and Max Planck Institute in Dortmund, Germany.
"What I hoped to do was teach at a University," he said. "But teaching jobs were scarce in Ireland. When I came back from Germany, I was offered a temporary teaching job at the University College in Dublin for one year. But when, at the end of the year there was no offer of a permanent job there, I accepted an offer to become general manager of the Biochemical Technology Unit at University College in Galway. That position was half academic, half business."
His next job was all business and eventually brought him to the United States.
"I became technical director of Biocon Ltd., a global food-ingredient company in Cork, and then I went to the United States to Lexington, Ky., as executive vice president for Biocon U.S.A. It was a major move for all of us, my wife, Mary, and our children, but we liked it in the United States, especially the six years we spent in Sarasota, Fla., when I had the task of consolidating two companies we had acquired," he said.
After another consolidation, he became vice president and general manager of Quest International, a leading food-ingredient company. In 1994, he was named president with responsibilities for all flavor and food-ingredient business throughout the United States. "When I became president, and we moved to Chicago in 1995, I thought, Careerwise this is it, and it was very good," he said. "When I was approached to take over the president's job at Cultor, I must say, the global size and aspect of the company attracted me. Why not, I said to myself, have a final fling? And I accepted the job."
Recently the Dunnes were house hunting in Westchester. "We have seen houses in some of the most beautiful areas anywhere, from Irvington to Rye and places in between," he said. "I like to play golf, and I see that Westchester is the place to do it. Two of our sons already live in Manhattan. The third is in Hollywood, and our daughter is in college, so we don't need as big a house as we once did."
The Dunnes, who have family in Ireland, keep an apartment in Dublin, which they use for three weeks every summer.
"Economically, what is happening in Ireland is truly marvelous," Mr. Dunne observed. "A young, smart, hard-working, educated populous is transforming the country."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Srini Vasan and Alice Havens, above, food technologists working at Cultor Food Science's Customer and Technology Center in Ardsley. Joseph Dunne, left, is the newly appointed president of Cultor. (Photographs by George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PFZ (LSE) (51%); PFE (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (69%); SIC2048 PREPARED FEEDS & FEED INGREDIENTS FOR ANIMALS & FOWLS, EXCEPT DOGS & CATS (69%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (51%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (51%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); FINLAND (87%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); HELSINKI, FINLAND (56%); 

COMPANY: CULTOR FOOD SCIENCE CULTOR CORP (69%); CULTOR LTD (61%); PFIZER INC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: CULTOR FOOD SCIENCE

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FINLAND (87%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); HELSINKI, FINLAND (56%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (90%); NUTRITION (90%); SUGAR SUBSTITUTES (90%); FOOD ADDITIVES (90%); FOOD SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); CONFECTIONERY INDUSTRY (90%); OILS & FATS (90%); MEATS (90%); DIETING (90%); NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); CONFECTIONERY (90%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); MEAT PROCESSING & PRODUCTS (89%); BAKERIES (89%); FOOD MFG (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (78%); PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (78%); POULTRY (78%); ICE CREAM (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); FLAVORANTS (76%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); CAVITIES (70%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (68%); APPOINTMENTS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); 

PERSON: DUNNE, JOSEPH; SINGER, PENNY JOSEPH DUNNE (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1998



172 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 2; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: The View From/Hastings-on-Hudson;
Children Along the Hudson Beseech Clinton to Aid the River

BYLINE: By LYNNE AMES 

DATELINE: HASTINGS-ON-HUDSON

 BODY:
HERE is a letter written to the President by a 7-year-old who already has concerns about the world she lives in:
"Dear President Clinton, My name is Allison, and I am a second grader at Hillside School in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y. Our town is next to the Hudson River. We are studying the river this year. I have learned that the plankton starts the food chain, and if the river gets filthy the plankton will die. There will not be a food chain. 
 "The river is important to me because if you go to look at the river and it is dirty, you will not be able to see any reflection. Please say this river can be an American Heritage river."
Whether the Hudson has been chosen to be designated an American Heritage river under a new Federal program will be announced later this month, but if it is not, it will not be from lack of trying. Up and down the river, children and adults in waterfront communities are making their voices heard, hoping to convince the powers that be that the Hudson is, indeed, worthy of special consideration. And Hastings has been among the most vocal.
"The river is an integral part of everyone's life here," said Betsy Pausch, owner of a small advertising agency who lives and works in the village. "You see it every time you step outdoors."
The American Heritage River program was suggested in 1996 by Vice President Al Gore as a way to "see to it that environmental and economic concerns were not at odds with each other," said Ethan Carr, riverfront program director of Scenic Hudson, a nonprofit organization based in Poughkeepsie. The panel, he explained, would name 10 Heritage rivers. No new Federal money would be appropriated, but a new job, that of river navigator would be created for each river and the region it represents.
Each river navigator will act as a liaison between Federal, state and local agencies and nonprofit organizations to coordinate regulatory activities, oversee development and initiate projects. "This will make government work better, be more responsive to the people -- to paraphrase Vice President Gore, 'one river at a time,' " Mr. Carr said. The river navigator will work with individuals, government agencies and nonprofit organizations to balance the concerns of environmentalists in their quest to clean up the Hudson, and the navigator will also investigate former industrial sites on the riverfront for possible mixed-use residential, recreation and small business development.
Meanwhile, Hastings and other Hudson River communities keep hoping. In November, Ms. Pausch, Michelle Hertz, a sculptor and jewelry designer, and other Hastings residents organized a letter-writing campaign, encouraging friends, neighbors, school officials and students to write to the White House. Several hundred letters were sent.
"I have so many thoughts on the river, so many reasons I feel it is important to our community," Ms. Hertz said. "I go down to the waterfront all the time. In the early morning, the light makes the palisades look golden. In late afternoon, when the sun is in the west, it shines on the river and the water looks like melted, liquid silver, and the palisades are really dark above it. And the history -- I think of what it must have been like when the native Americans were here."
One of Ms. Hertz's recent sculptures is of a turtle, executed in clay, its shell divided into 13 segments. The work is entitled "13 Moons Over Hastings" -- Indians believed the year had 13 lunar cycles, Ms. Hertz said; in each segment is a relief of a Hudson River-related scene: the cliffs, the water and even a less idyllic picture of a factory belching smoke.
"Somewhere along the way in history, people started hurting the river," Ms. Hertz said. "They stopped caring for it and began using it for industrial development and dumping of toxic waste. The entire western border of our village is on the riverfront, and some of it is a park, but some still looks like an atomic bomb hit it; it still bears the scars of industry. People all along the river, not just here but up and down the Hudson, do not understand the importance of the river, and it got hurt along the way."
Young people in the community echoed her thoughts. One high school student wrote: "As a resident of a Hudson River town, I know how central the river is to our daily life and culture. Although a lot has been accomplished to restore the health of the water and its shores, much remains to be done. There are many groups working hard to reclaim the Hudson as a center of community life and recreation."
A third grader wrote: "I think the Hudson River is beautiful. My family and I enjoy the river in the spring, summer, fall and winter. I read that the Yellow River in China is polluted, and the children who live near it are sick and cannot learn. This makes me sad. I want to protect the Hudson River."
One of Ms. Pausch's children, 7-year-old Andreas, put in his letter to the President: "I learned that the Hudson River starts in the Adirondack Mountains. This river is important to me because if we don't clean it all up the fish will die. Please say this river can be an American Heritage River."
And, from one of Ms. Hertz's children, 4-year-old Douglas Friedman: "Dear President Clinton, When I am on the rocks in the park I look at the Hudson River and the beautifulist river is the Hudson River."

GRAPHIC: Photo: On Hastings waterfront: Betsy Pausch, kneeling, with sons Andreas and Thomas, and Michelle Hertz with her son, Douglas Friedman. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: SCENIC HUDSON (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SCENIC HUDSON (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HUDSON RIVER; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: RIVERS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH RIVERS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); APPROPRIATIONS (77%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (72%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (72%); SCULPTURE (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (66%); SMALL BUSINESS (65%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (65%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (64%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (64%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (60%); JEWELRY (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); AMES, LYNNE BILL CLINTON (90%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1998



173 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 14CN; Page 3; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1468 words

HEADLINE: Q&A/Peggy Post;
Etiquette on the Comeback Trail? Well, Yes

BYLINE: By KAREN BERMAN

 BODY:
WHEN Emily Post first published her etiquette book in 1922, she could hardly have imagined that her name would become a household word. But of course it did. Emily Post means etiquette.
After she died in 1960, her work was continued by her granddaughter-in-law, Elizabeth L. Post, and, since 1995, by her great-granddaughter-in-law, Peggy Post. Peggy Post, who lives in Fairfield County, took over the long-running "Etiquette for Today" column in Good Housekeeping magazine, and is the author of the 16th edition of "Emily Post's Etiquette," published by HarperCollins last year. 
 Ms. Post began her career as a flight attendant and spent 20 years in corporate management, consulting and sales. She began appearing at bridal shows on behalf of the Emily Post Institute in 1991, and in a recent interview, she discussed her Post persona. Following are excerpts from that conversation.
Q. Etiquette is often defined as traditional rules for behavior. How does that concept fit our changing world?
A. Etiquette is a set of guidelines, traditional guidelines a lot of the time. However, etiquette really is a code of behavior based on being thoughtful and considerate that makes our lives function more easily. The definition doesn't change, but guidelines have to change. Emily recognized that 75 years ago. She kept revising her books. Little things such as chewing with one's mouth closed really work. More modern ones have to do with computers. In fact, we need etiquette more than ever today.
Q. What are the most significant changes in the new edition?
A. There are quite a few. Because we are a global economy today, we travel. We don't want to offend our hosts, so I added a chapter on international issues. Common-sense reminders: Know as much as you can about your host's culture and traditions. For example, using your left hand in Arab countries can be offensive because that's the hand that's reserved for personal hygiene.
I wrote a section on working out of one's home. There's a section about casual day, which seems to be here to stay. I've put in some new guidelines for weddings. I expanded the chapter on families who are step-parenting. I expanded the telephone and computer sections.
Q. You've traveled for the Emily Post Institute for years. What regional differences have you noticed? Where does Connecticut fit in?
A. People ask me this a lot. I really don't like to generalize. Throughout the country there are a lot of polite, courteous, kind people and there are people who are rushed, or living in such crowded conditions that they may be downright grumpy. I find the more crowded the area, the more one might have to look for courtesy.
Some people say this is the worst area, from Boston down to Washington. I don't say that. I'm not from Connecticut, but I've lived here for 18 years. Somebody did a study comparing Connecticut mannerisms to mannerisms in the Midwest and tried to say we're ruder here. But I saw a bumper sticker on I-95 the other day. It said, "Courtesy is contagious, let's start an epidemic."
Q. What are the most frequently asked questions?
A. First people say, "Do people really care about etiquette any more?" I say that actually there's a resurgence in thinking about etiquette. There is an almost alarm feeling out there that, "Hey, we do need to do something."
Another question: Is there any hope for our children? We have gotten so informal today, and a lot of children just aren't getting some of the basics. Maybe it is a good idea to teach children how to hold a fork like a pencil instead of a shovel. Maybe it is a good idea to teach them how to introduce friends to each other. It's not just form or formality; it's also about caring and sharing, being responsible, feeling comfortable.
The biggest category of questions is about weddings. The stickiest involve the divorced family. Another question is who pays for what.
There's one other frequently asked question: "I've planned a function or party and I've asked people to R.S.V.P. I hear nothing. What do I do?" I say you can certainly call and say, "I hope you've received the invitation and I hope you can join us." You don't let your anger show.
Q. Are the questions the same in Connecticut as everywhere else?
A. Pretty much. People seem to have the same concerns.
A new thing that's popped up with weddings is cash bars. There are little pockets around here, and in other parts of the country, too. It really offends guests, across the board. I'm revising the wedding book now and saying these are the things that really upset people.
Q. How do you create new rules to respond to trends?
A. I do research. I see what people are asking in letters. I find out what people are doing. Then I apply what I think makes sense.
It used to be that guests did not wear white or black to a wedding. Now maybe the bride wants an all-black-and-white wedding. Yes, black is a somber color, but it can be a beautiful color for a sophisticated evening wedding. Yes, a guest may wear white, as long as she doesn't look like the bride.
Tuxedos traditionally were worn by men in the evening after 6. Today, 50 to 70 percent of rentals for daytime weddings are for tuxedos.
I've been asked about e-mail for thank-you notes. Those are handwritten, traditionally. But if you're sending a computerized longer letter and your thank-you is part of that letter, or if this is the only way a teen-ager is going to get into writing thank-you notes, it's not the end of the world.
Q. What is the biggest etiquette problem on the Internet?
A. The anonymity. So many times people say, "I got this rude message." A lot of people think it's fun to be a little more reckless because they don't feel they're talking to another person.
Q. In the past few years, we've seen dramatic societal changes. How do you frame your advice on male-female relations, same-sex couples and other sensitive topics?
A. I frame it on common sense and being considerate. I think the day of being shocked at different life styles is probably falling away -- it should at least. If you don't approve of what somebody else is doing, keep it to yourself. Don't assume you know how someone else should live.
The feminist movement has affected male-female relationships, especially in business -- women can have responsible jobs. That's also carried into male-female relations socially. It's a little more balanced out. I don't think it makes sense to get offended if a man holds the door for a woman. A woman may hold the door for a man. It's just a matter of being considerate.
Same-sex couples: same thing. It's here to stay. I was asked, "What does one do if you're invited to your friend's ceremony of union -- gay wedding." I said "Well, if it's your friend, be happy for your friend. Be sure you R.S.V.P. I'm sure you want to go to the wedding and you want to send a gift." Be considerate and respectful and that's the key.
Q. The new Etiquette acknowledges the changes brought by the women's movement, but often offers traditional rules -- a man walking on a particular side of a woman, for example. Why not create more new rules for our evolving roles?
A. I'm constantly creating new rules. I inherited a book, and I wanted to keep some of the old-time traditions in there. It really doesn't matter today who walks where, but it's fun to have a little tradition.
Q. Etiquette has been revised periodically, there have been 12 spin-off books, the magazine columns, a CD-ROM. It seems like a well-run family business.
A. It is. It's a pretty exceptional family. Emily wrote so many other books, she didn't want to write an etiquette book. She had to be talked into it. Then it just mushroomed. In 1946 she established the Emily Post Institute to keep her works going and to keep the integrity of the works. That was smart.
Emily's son Edwin, after she died, tried to be Mr. Emily Post and that didn't work.
Q. But by that time Edwin's son -- your father-in-law -- had married, and his wife, Elizabeth L. Post, got the job.
A. My mother-in-law said, "I can do that," and the whole family said, "You're hired." My mother-in-law carried on for 30 years. I met my husband 20 years ago. He said even back then, "You love to write. Maybe someday when my Mom retires you'll want to do this." My husband has three siblings. Everyone's involved in a different way, but everyone gets along really well.
The subject matter is timely right now. I keep saying to my mother-in-law, "How in the world did you do this 30 years ago, with the hippie movement and the Vietnam war?" People were not interested in traditional stuff. A wedding? People got married jumping out of an airplane. Now you can still do all those personal things, but people like to blend them with tradition. I'm lucky.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peggy Post with portraits of Emily Post, whose work she carries on. (Susan Farley for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: EMILY POST INSTITUTE (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: EMILY POST INSTITUTE (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (92%); INTERVIEWS (90%); PUBLISHING (78%); WRITERS (78%); FAMILY (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); ETHICS (77%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (74%); PARENTING (63%); GLOBALIZATION (63%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1998



174 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: Restoring Historic Union Station in Kansas City

BYLINE: By JILIAN MINCER 

DATELINE: KANSAS CITY, Mo.

 BODY:
AFTER decades of deterioration, this city's historic Union Station at the southern edge of downtown is undergoing a $234 million renovation that will restore its former grandeur and install a lavish 285,000-square-foot science museum.
It took several months just to prepare the monolithic train depot for the project. Walls were demolished, the roof was repaired and 10 million pounds of debris and 35 miles of pipes were removed. 
 The new construction and actual renovation, which began last month, are expected to be completed in November 1999. Once restored, the station will look as it did when it was proclaimed the "great gate to the west" by President Woodrow Wilson at its opening on Oct. 30, 1914.
The limestone exterior has held up relatively well, but the interior will require extensive renovation. But once complete, the building will take visitors back to the turn of the century when huge, distinguished buildings like the station were constructed for public use.
The restored grand hall, with its 95-foot ceilings decorated with acorn rosettes and two 3,000-pound chandeliers, will be available for civic events and other activities. Beyond the grand hall will be an urban plaza (now the north waiting room) the length of a football field. The plaza, resembling a city park, will have a huge fountain, street lights and benches and lead to the entrance of what is to be called Science City.
The project will initially have 132,000 square feet of retail, office and restaurant space. But its primary tenant will be Science City. As its name suggests, the museum will be designed like a city, with multiple levels and even streets and alleyways.
Dozens of exhibits will offer visitors the opportunity to dig for fossils, prepare for a mission to Mars or crawl through a cavern over a stream and into a tree house. There will also be an exhibit tracing the evolution of trains from the 1860's to the present.
"We're truly trying to create a city for the visitor to explore," said David A. Ucko, president of the Kansas City Museum, which will develop and manage the new museum. "We're creating an adventure."
The museum also will have three theaters including an Imax-type theater and a planetarium. Hines/Mortenson of Kansas City, a construction and development partnership, was hired to manage the design and construction aspects of the project, which leaves most of the station's original architecture intact.
The plan also calls for the station to serve as a hub for cars, taxis and buses and, potentially, light rail in the future. Space has been reserved off the grand hall for an Amtrak station, now adjacent to the main depot. Additionally, a skywalk will connect the station with Crown Center, an 85-acre commercial and residential complex that is owned by Hallmark Cards.
Many in the city consider the station's renovation crucial to the revitalization of the downtown, which has seen significant new construction in recent years, as well as the renovation of office, residential and hotel space.
THE museum is expected to attract a million visitors a year and add close to $8 million to the metropolitan area's economy, according to a recent analysis.
"I believe the project will forever change the face of Kansas City," said Lisa Adkins, chairwoman of the Kansas and Missouri commission in charge of the public financing of the project. "It's taking a piece of the city that was deteriorating and transforming it into a jewel."
The original construction of the station brought together the efforts of competing train companies. At the end of the 19th century, Kansas City was becoming a national rail center and competing railroad companies began to consider their mutual need for a larger station.
A critical point came in 1903 when the old Union Avenue Depot on the city's west side was flooded and remained closed for 10 days. That incident helped persuade 14 railroad companies to form the Kansas City Terminal Railway Company to consider other locations for a station.
The companies quietly purchased land south of the city's downtown. Then they commissioned the renowned Chicago architect Jarvis Hunt to design the classical Beaux-Arts depot, which took four years to build. The entire project cost $50 million, more than two and a half times the budgeted amount.
When the station opened it was the nation's third-largest rail station after Grand Central Terminal and Penn Station in New York City, the latter demolished in 1963.
For its first 50 years, Union Station was one of the busiest in the nation and was the backdrop for numerous historic events. One, in 1933, was the infamous Union Station Massacre during which Charles (Pretty Boy) Floyd and Adam Richetti gunned down several law-enforcement officials and their prisoner, Frank Nash, outside the station.
At its busiest during World War II, as many as 260 passenger trains and several hundred freight trains moved over the station's network of tracks each day.
EVEN though Kansas City remains one of the nation's busiest freight hubs, the passenger travel began to wane in the 50's and 60's as air travel became more popular. By 1983, after fruitless proposals to restore the station, it was closed without ceremony and two years later Amtrak opened a small station in an adjacent building.
In 1993, the legal title to the station was transferred to the Union Station Assistance Corporation, a private, nonprofit group, that is redeveloping the project in partnership with the Kansas City Museum.
At the same time, the museum was ready to open a badly needed science museum because the city was the only one of its size in the nation without a modern one.
About $82 million was donated by local foundations and businesses. Then in November 1996, voters in the five-county, bistate Kansas City metropolitan area approved a one-eighth-of-a-cent sales tax to raise $118 million for the project.
"I think it passed for a variety of reasons," said Andy Scott, executive director of the Union Station Assistance Corporation. "Citizens in both Kansas and Missouri have long wanted to do something together. This gave them that opportunity."
Even though the renovation has just started, the downtown has already begun to feel its impact. Property values just north of the station on the other side of the tracks in what is known as the Freight House district are climbing as dilapidated buildings are being transformed into art galleries and lofts. Indicative of this change, a partnership involving Lidia Bastianich, co-owner and chef at Felidia restaurant on New York City's East Side, recently decided to renovate the old freight house and open a restaurant there.
"The station renovation was a deciding factor," said Dave Wagner, managing partner and president of Lidia's Restaurant Group. He said they had considered the suburbs and midtown but chose the freight house because of the train station and its proximity to several of the city's largest hotels. The location is about 10 blocks from the Bartle Hall Convention Center.
The Union Station Assistance Corporation owns several nearby buildings that are connected through tunnels to the train depot. Those buildings are expected to be developed into a cultural and entertainment district in a second phase.
"It's like a beehive is starting," said Mr. Scott of the Union Station Assistance Corporation. "But it takes time to make honey."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Union Station, with a skyline backdrop, and its north waiting room, which will become an "urban plaza." (Photographs by Dan Ipock for The New York Times)
 
Map showing the location of Union Station in Kansas City.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (50%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (50%); NAICS511191 GREETING CARD PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC2771 GREETING CARD PUBLISHERS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (94%); MARS (53%); 

CITY: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (50%); HALLMARK CARDS INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY (MO); UNITED STATES (94%); MISSOURI, USA (94%); MARS (53%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: RAILROADS; UNION STATION (KANSAS CITY, MO); STATIONS AND TERMINALS (PASSENGER); HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES BUILDING RENOVATION (91%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (89%); CITY LIFE (78%); TRAINS (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (77%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (77%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (77%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (76%); PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (69%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (69%); RETAIL PROPERTY (64%); SPACE EXPLORATION (64%); RESTAURANTS (64%); 

PERSON: MINCER, JILIAN MICHAEL MCMAHON (64%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1998



175 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 3; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1254 words

HEADLINE: YOUR HOME;
Refinancing Underlying Mortgages

BYLINE: By JAY ROMANO 

 BODY:
CO-OP boards in buildings with underlying mortgages are discovering something homeowners have been finding in the last few months: that it sometimes makes sense to borrow to pay off old loans even though it might cost money -- perhaps a lot of money -- to do so.
"We've been seeing an absolute rush of refinancings of underlying mortgages" -- mortgages on entire buildings -- said James G. Samson, a Manhattan lawyer who specializes in co-op and condominium law. "I've been in practice now for 25 years and I've never seen this kind of lending." 
 Mr. Samson was describing a commercial version of the refinancing boom across the nation -- a phenomenon fueled by low interest rates and high competition among lenders. "I'm now seeing boards do these very sophisticated calculations and enter into some very sophisticated negotiations with their lenders," Mr. Samson said. "And the boards come out smelling like roses."
The sophisticated calculations, Mr. Samson said, actually boil down to finding an answer to one question: How long will it take for the savings from the new loan to pay for what it will cost to get it?
Mr. Samson explained that when such a cost-benefit analysis is conducted for a standard residential mortgage, the cost of the new loan typically includes application fees, processing fees, legal fees, title insurance, points paid to the lender and mortgage-recording taxes if the property is in New York.
When the loan to be refinanced is an underlying mortgage in a co-op, however, additional factors must be considered, the most significant of which is the prepayment penalty.
"It used to be that prepayment penalties were not all that bad," said William Greenberg, a certified public accountant in Manhattan who specializes in co-ops and condominiums. "But now, they're usually pretty stiff."
A prepayment penalty is the amount a borrower agrees to pay to a lender if the borrower wants to pay a loan off before the end of the loan term. And while prepayment penalties have all but disappeared in residential mortgages, Mr. Greenberg said, they are still common in commercial loans, such as co-op underlying mortgages.
In the past, Mr. Greenberg said, the prepayment penalty was just that -- a penalty of one or two percent of the outstanding balance that would be imposed as a way of discouraging borrowers from paying off their loans early.
Increasingly, however, prepayment penalties have been used by lenders to insure the payment of nearly all the interest due on a loan paid to term -- even if the loan is paid off early. That means that a borrower with a loan that had three years to go could be responsible for that three years' interest even if the loan were paid in full today.
"Traditionally, prepayment penalties discouraged refinancing," Mr. Greenberg said. "But now, with interest rates where they are, there's often enough spread between the old payment and the new payment to make up for the prepayment penalty."
For example, Mr. Greenberg said, a co-op client of his recently paid a prepayment penalty of more than $50,000 to refinance a new mortgage at a lower interest rate.
"They'll recapture the penalty in just a couple of years," he said, adding that in addition to obtaining the benefit of a lower monthly maintenance payment as a result of the lower interest rate, shareholders will also be able deduct their proportionate share of the prepayment penalty because it is considered mortgage interest for tax purposes.
"It's a question of calculating everything out," Mr. Greenberg said. "And it's worth doing the calculation if you can lock into today's rates for 10 years or more."
Gregg Winter, president of Winter & Company Mortgage Services, agreed. "You can't just stumble into a new underlying mortgage," Mr. Winter said, "but this is really an unusual time. It's conceivable that a co-op can go from a mortgage now at 9 or 10 percent interest to one that is 2 1/2 to 3 percentage points lower. That ends up being a huge savings, even with prepayment penalties and the cost of getting the loan."
For example, Mr. Winter said, a co-op client in Manhattan recently refinanced an existing $1 million mortgage at 9.5 percent interest with a $1.1 million mortgage averaging 7.187 percent interest over the next 10 years. Even though the co-op could have chosen a fully amortizing loan, it elected to take a 10-year balloon loan instead -- which means that the unpaid principal is due in full after 10 years.
And though the closing costs for the new loan were about $80,000 -- nearly $50,000 of which was attributable to prepayment penalties on the old loan -- the new loan still made good fiscal sense. The monthly payments on the new loan, Mr. Winter pointed out, are roughly $7,500 -- more than $5,000 less than the $12,644 monthly payments on the original loan.
"That means that even with a big prepayment penalty, it will only take about one year and four months to absorb the $80,000 in closing costs," Mr. Winter said.
It is also worthwhile in many cases, Mr. Winter said, to start negotiating for a refinancing with the holder of the existing mortgage. "You might be able to change a 10 percent interest-rate loan to an 8 percent loan -- and extend the term at the same time -- without paying any out-of-pocket penalties," he said.
Co-ops that are contemplating locking in a low interest rate by refinancing their underlying mortgage to a long-term mortgage, Mr. Winter said, should be careful to plan for future needs at the same time.
"Co-ops are like living organisms," he said. "They need care and they need maintenance, so it's unrealistic to believe that any borrowing today is alone going to be enough for things that need doing 20 or 30 years from now."
With that in mind, he said, co-op boards should obtain a line of credit -- in addition to the refinancing -- to insure having a source of ready cash whenever it is needed.
"Whenever you want to set up secondary financing like a line of credit, it's always easier to deal with it at the outset, when you're negotiating the first mortgage," he said.
Mr. Winter said that the benefit of having a line of credit -- as opposed to borrowing money only to place it in a reserve fund -- is that interest is paid only when the money is needed. "For example, you can tap into it on a monthly basis if you're paying a contractor for a long-term project," he said.
Finally, Mr. Winter said, now is an ideal time for co-op boards that have been carrying loans on which they pay only interest, not principal, to consider converting to self-amortizing loans, thereby insuring eventual elimination of the debt.
"Some people have the philosophy, 'Why should we pay principal just to make it nicer for people who will be here long after we leave?' " Mr. Winter said, adding that such a philosophy makes sense only in situations where the outstanding balance on the underlying mortgage is so small in proportion to the total value of the co-op that it has hardly any impact on the value of individual apartments.
More frequently, however, the opposite is true: high outstanding balances on underlying mortgages keep values of apartments lower than they might otherwise be while increasing the difficulty that will be encountered when individual shareholders and the co-op itself tries to borrow in the future.
"Some co-ops need to burn off some of that debt to increase the values in the building," Mr. Winter said. "And there's never been a better time to do that than now."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Tom Bloom)(pg. 3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5141 GENERAL LINE GROCERIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (72%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: CO-OP ULM KONSUMGENOSSENSCHAFT EG (90%); CO-OP CHEMICAL CO LTD (90%); CO-OP '82 UA (90%); CO-OP ATLANTIC (90%); CO-OP SERVICES CREDIT UNION (90%); CO-OP STAR RT (90%); CO-OP ZAFON HYPERSHUK MARKETING CHAINS LTD (90%); CO-OP JERUSALEM AGUDA ZARCHANIT SHITUFIT LTD (90%); CO-OP BUILDING CONSULTANTS (90%); CO-OP MORAVA SRO (90%); CO-OP GRAIN & SUPPLY CO (90%); CO-OP COUNTRY FARMERS ELEVATOR (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES; COOPERATIVES RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); FINES & PENALTIES (89%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (75%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (72%); LAWYERS (69%); TITLE INSURANCE (69%); 

PERSON: ROMANO, JAY MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1998



176 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 6; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 1726 words

HEADLINE: Fascination in the Depression

BYLINE: By MARCELLE S. FISCHLER

 BODY:
PRINTS line the walls of Herschel and Fern Cohen's stately colonial home. From floor to ceiling, stacked four or five high, up the stairs, down the hallway, in the office, bedrooms and bathrooms, hundreds of lithographs, wood engravings, woodcuts and etchings evoke images of the Depression era. Huddled masses, powerful workers, robust-looking "fat cat" capitalists, sharecroppers and coal miners, represented almost entirely in black and white, dominant the collection of realistic works.
This pre-eminent collection of American prints depicting the Great Depression is the passion of a Wall Street portfolio manager who focuses on the psychology of investors and their swings from optimism to pessimism. 
 The images of breadlines and sweatshop workers after the stock market crash of 1929 moved Mr. Cohen, 57, who has worked at Smith Barney Asset Management for 30 years, and his wife, an elementary school librarian in Roslyn, to canvas museums, galleries and auctions.
Part of the Cohens' vast collection, 104 prints from 89 print makers, is on display through April 19 at the Heckscher Museum in Huntington in "Visions of a Changing America: Depression Era Prints From the Collection of Herschel and Fern Cohen."
"I think there were three periods in this country's history that were unlike any other periods -- the Civil War, the Depression and World War II -- that just changed people's lives forever," said Mr. Cohen, who has a Ph.D. in physiological psychology and originally planned to be a college professor. "Art from the Depression is a window. It's a window into my parents' behavior. It's a window into how people think. I'm so fascinated by how people react to, exist in, come out of periods of unbelievable change and duress."
The "rush" Mr. Cohen feels from finding Depression images, and his obsession with collecting them, stems from his childhood.
"Something about these Depression images, they excited me," he said. "I love images with people. My parents were so Depression driven. They were wonderful people who would never take a risk."
His father started out in the 1930's selling used records.His mother quit high school to go to work to help support her family. Her father, a manual laborer, shoveled coal and gravel.
"All of our family lived in two-family houses plus attics," said Mr. Cohen, a Long Island resident who grew up in Cleveland. "My grandparents lived upstairs, my aunts and uncles lived next door, my cousins lived in the attic.Everybody pitched in and worked.
"There was one painting in the house and that was by a guy my dad had grown up with. There was no art in the house and no luxuries, period."
Like many collections, the Cohens' began accidentally. He knew nothing about art, she knew very little. While shopping for a rolltop desk, Mr. Cohen stumbled across American paintings in a gallery and bought one instead of a desk.
"It was 1976, the year of the Bicentennial," he said. "There were a lot of celebrations in the museums about American art. My interest was starting to peak and we really flipped for it. The great thing about this country is, even if your parents were immigrants, you kind of take the history of this country as your own. We fell in love with this American art of the 19th century. We made it a mission to go around looking at all this stuff and learning about it. We went to Washington, we started going to regional museums. We went to Vermont, Pennsylvania, all over. We just fell in love with American art."
As much as the Cohens loved paintings, especially urban landscapes, they could not afford them.
Visiting the National Collection of Fine Arts (now the National Museum of American Art) and the Corcoran Gallery in Washington, the Cohens were drawn to social realist and industrial prints. Twentieth-century renderings by artists like Howard Cook and Louis Lozowick were a natural extension of the Hudson River landscapes they loved. Mr. Cohen began to form a "wish list."
Immersing himself in his pursuit, he researched art at the public library and talked to local gallery owners about prints. He bought his first prints at an auction.
"The prints were really very, very inexpensive, which was perfect," he said. "For someone who came from a background of never spending money on any kind of luxury, I loved this stuff and I didn't feel like I was breaking the bank to do it. Nobody cared. They weren't popular. Especially the kind of stuff I liked.
"I liked the landscapes, but in their stacks I would see an occasional industrial scene or something with people in it and I loved it. Maybe they didn't know too much about it. I responded to them and I would buy them.
He added: "I could really decorate a house with them.I had no downside risk. I was always thinking: 'Is this really bad to do? Spend money on this?' I felt that since they were so relatively inexpensive and they were original art, what could my downside risk be?
"I never ever thought of this as investment. Talk about Depression era mentality. I always thought if I lose my job and things get bad and I needed to sell things, could I get something near my money back? It was a luxury. I always worried about security. That came from my parents, and that's a Depression thing."
Fifteen million people, or almost 25 percent of the work force, were unemployed during the Depression. Among them were 10,000 artists. Under President Roosevelt's Works Progress Administration, 5,000 artists secured jobs. Among the painters, sculptors and muralists were 300 print makers.
The works they produced, made in editions of 25, of which the artist could keep 3, examined the economic crisis around them. Prints of strike scenes and bread lines, tomato pickers and subway riders were distributed to schools, hospitals, libraries and museums.
"The Depression era art would be nonexistent had the Government not sponsored the W.P.A. program," said Mary Ryan, owner of a Manhattan gallery specializing in American prints from the 1920's to the present. "During the height of the Depression, there weren't people buying art," she said. "Some of the greatest artists who worked in the 20th century in America were kept employed by the W.P.A.."
Among Mr. Cohen's favorite images at the Hecksher show is Clare Leighton's "Bread Line, New York," a 1932 wood engraving showing long lines of people hoping for assistance, huddled under the elevated train tracks, a loan shop sign nearby, with the metropolis in the background.
In Albert Potter's 1932 linocut, "Brother Can You Spare a Dime," a man stands, hand outstretched, in front of a throng, while a skeleton hovers above the cityscape. The title was borrowed from the Rudy Vallee and Bing Crosby song, often thought of as the anthem of the Depression.
Mabel Dwight's 1935 lithograph, "Merchants of Death," a social commentary reflecting failed capitalism, portrays a skeleton leading a group of businessmen that evolve into vultures.
"Spiderboy," a 1936 etching by James Allen, shows a muscular construction worker perched on a steel beam high above the city. This glorified image of a worker reminds Mr. Cohen of his grandfather.
Anne Cohen DePietro, curator of the Hecksher Museum, said that the Depression era collection showed "America in transition from a rural economy to an industrial economy, from an agrarian-based society to the Industrial Revolution on into the big metropolises that were burgeoning in the 30's."
"It documents a period of very exciting transition in America and of great hardship as well as testimony to the resilience of the human spirit," she said. Continuing, she said: "Because they didn't have to worry about finding patrons to purchase their work, the artists were freed up to explore subjects that they would never have dreamed of having had the freedom to create if they were looking for patrons to buy. It opened the doors creatively."
Bent and stooped coal miners, covered in soot, trudge home after work, in Michael Gallagher's 1938 etching, "Scranton Coal Miners." Maxine Seelbinder, an obscure print maker, created depressing scenes of tenement life in the 1933 lithograph, "Housing Needed."
"By collecting in that period you can find these treasures that nobody cared about, nobody wanted," said Mr. Cohen, admiring one of Seelbinder's images on the wall of his home office. "There is no information available at any public library or print book about her. How pessimistic must you be if you only print six of them. She was obviously drawing what she really felt. God, I love this."
The 30's were also the "age of urban optimism," the era of the skyscraper, elevated trains and industrial architecture. Artists glorified the machine age and burgeoning steel industry.
"After the W.P.A. program was over, the work that was left was largely destroyed," Ms. Ryan said. "It was burned and discarded . A lot of work was used for pipe insulation and as scrap paper for Rikers Island inmates." Only a few prints remained.
Initially, Depression era art was viewed as a social realistic embarassment, and a reminder of a difficult time, said Ms. Ryan. It wasn't until the 1970's that people began to look at Depression era art anew. Although out of the mainstream of 80's art collecting, burgeoning interest in the last 20 years has dramatically increased their value.
In 1981, it was Ms. Ryan, whose gallery specialized in 1930's W.P.A. material, who validated Mr. Cohen's interest in the subset of collecting.
"It was love at first sight," Mr. Cohen said. "All of a sudden, I found somebody who formally liked the stuff that I had sort of been thinking about but had no information about. I hadn't seen any literature about stuff I liked. She would track down the artists and things I never thought about doing. I finally found someone to share the excitement with, somebody who knew what they were doing."
Ms. Ryan helped him define why he liked the Depression era art and sought out the same material. He started meeting the few other dealers and collectors around the country who share his passion.
The Cohens, who also accumulate doorstops, weathervanes and Americana, hope to keep their collection intact and growing.
"If I'm a collector, it doesn't make me happy that things went up, because there's always something else out there," Mr. Cohen said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fern and Herschel Cohen collect Depression era prints. Part of their collection is at the Heckscher Museum. (Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (79%); HISTORY (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (77%); PAINTING (76%); PSYCHOLOGY (75%); BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (75%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (73%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (73%); SWEATSHOPS (72%); GARMENT WORKERS (72%); COAL MINING (71%); CIVIL WAR (70%); SCHOOL LIBRARIES (68%); WORLD WAR II (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: FERN COHEN (95%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1998



177 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 1; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1609 words

HEADLINE: Slow H.M.O. Bill Payments Strain Hospitals

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER 

 BODY:
SLOW payments by managed-care companies are causing financial strains for Long Island hospitals, which say that despite determined efforts they are unable to collect tens of millions of dollars of overdue bills.
The payment policies are also cutting drugstore profits, driving pharmacists out of business and adding to competition among drugstore chains that are increasingly relying on sales of nondrug merchandise. 
 Similar problems, which also affect doctors, are being seen in other parts of the New York metropolitan region. But as managed-care companies, or health maintenance organizations, transform health care, the problems are severe on Long Island, hospital and pharmacists' groups said.
For hospitals, time-consuming negotiations with the companies is creating extreme frustration. Hospital administrators said they often encountered runarounds, broken promises, half truths, arcane bureaucratic requirements and novel methods of evasion when they tried to collect for services often rendered months earlier.
"We spend an inordinate amount of time rebilling and calling," said Rick Annis, a senior vice president and the chief financial officer at the North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System. "Some of the managed-care companies come out and meet with us about late bills, and after we show them the records they still say they are up to date on payments."
Mr. Annis said the late or unpaid bills totaled tens of millions of dollars for his system, one of the largest in the Northeast. "We can absorb it as long as they pay eventually," he added. "But we are having to fight them for the money they owe us."
The president of Southampton Hospital, Dr. John J. Ferry Jr., said he made four telephone calls in one day last week to a managed-care company to ask about a long-overdue bill. "The person I was calling was either on the phone or out," said Dr. Ferry. "The last time I called they said he was gone for the day."
Dr. Ferry said the experience was typical. One bill sent to an H.M.O. in August was not paid until last week.
The hospital documented a series of calls to H.M.O. employees who were frequently unavailable or said they had not received information mailed and faxed by the hospital more than once.
"Even if we were paid in a matter of weeks from the time we were told the check was cut, we would be happy," said Dr. Ferry. Instead, he said, "But after months of haranguing we are still hearing the-check-is-in-the-mail stories."
Dr. Ferry said uncollected payments were creating cash-flow problems that were a factor in a recent layoff of 15 of the 900 employees at the hospital.
A new state law lets hospitals collect interest if claims properly filed with a managed-care company are not paid in 45 days.The law also allows the state to fine the companies.
Hospital administrators said that they had hoped that the law would bring relief but that they continued to face challenges in filing so-called "clean" claims that complied exactly with all the companies' requirements.
The law may not apply in cases where the companies deem that bills are not clean, or properly filed, or when the companies dispute the need for services.
The executive vice president and chief executive officer of the Nassau-Suffolk Hospital Council, Peter M. Sullivan, said when managed-care companies refused to pay for treatment hospitals were forced to absorb costs.
Mr. Sullivan said slow payments pointed to an inherent conflict of interest for managed-care companies. "The H.M.O.'s take premiums from subscribers to provide payment when, as and if they need medical care," Mr. Sullivan said. "Any excuse they can find not to pay a provider for medical care enhances their profits."
Some critics have said that the time that managed-care companies are able to hold on to money and earn interest on it before they pay is a major profit center for them.
Mr. Sullivan and others said there was increasing worry about slow payments by Oxford Health Plans, one of the largest companies. The company has faulted computer problems. "The length of time that this was used as an excuse led one invariably to the conclusion there are serious management problems, or else they are not being completely candid," Mr. Sullivan said. Oxford did not return a call for comment.
Last week a group representing 500 doctors in Manhattan announced that it was seeking arbitration to speed overdue payments from Oxford. The group also wants clearer payment guidelines. Doctors' agreements with Oxford bar them from suing over grievances.
On Long Island, some hospitals have been reluctant to comment publicly on slow payments. Others denied that they were having difficulties. "We are not having that problem," said Richard E. Semple, a spokesman for the Brookhaven Memorial Hospital Center in Patchogue.
Mr. Semple said the hospital, with 900 employees, had decided to eliminate 27 full-time positions, reflecting a freeze in Medicaid reimbursements. About 57 percent of its revenues are from Medicaid, he said.
Hospital officials and pharmacists said that as the state shifted Medicaid recipients to managed-care companies the problems would multiply.
Hospitals are under pressure to merge or form partnerships because of many sweeping changes in health care, particularly the advent of H.M.O.'s. Systems with several hospitals and treatment centers have greater leverage in negotiating favorable rates.
Reduced government payment for care and the state's deregulation of reimbursement rates on Jan. 1, 1997, add to the pressure.
For independent pharmacists, changes wrought by managed-care companies have helped reduce the average profit on prescriptions, from $6 eight years ago to $3, according to Craig M. Burridge, executive director of the Pharmacists Society of the State of New York.
Mr. Burridge said hundreds of independent pharmacies had gone out of business in recent years, including scores on Long Island. "If you keep having a net loss of pharmacies," he said, "it means longer lines and further distances to the drugstore. And you won't have that personal relationship with your pharmacist."
Pharmacists said they were working harder for smaller returns. "With the reduced profit on prescriptions, you have to do high volume to make a buck," said Kevin McQuade, a pharmacist and a partner at Town Drug in East Northport. "It is causing unduly high workloads, and accuracy and professionalism are out the window. But no one cares."
Pharmacists said they lost money when they filled some prescriptions. "It's impossible," said David Biren, a pharmacist and the owner of Smith's Pharmacy in Levittown. "That's why most stores that haven't closed are closing now. More independents are closing now than ever before."
Independent drugstores are frequently bought out and closed by chains that want customer records and good will that the independent store had built up. The chain then often offers jobs to the displaced pharmacists.
Independents who are remaining in the business say they have no choice but to agree to H.M.O. reimbursement rates if they want business from that group of customers.
In most cases, the independents never deal directly with the managed-care companies, but with pharmacy benefit managers that are agents for the companies.
Before managed care, a pharmacist's profit margin on prescriptions was the difference between the discounted wholesale price and the retail price. Now, H.M.O.'s, through the benefit managers, set what they pay pharmacists for prescriptions. A lower margin results, the pharmacists said, because the system reduces the spread between the discounted wholesale and retail prices.
Herbert I. Mindlin, a pharmacist and the executive director of the Long Island Pharmacists Society, said independents also had to pay wholesalers within 15 days to assure maximum discounts. He said the benefit managers took a month or longer to reimburse pharmacists.
Mr. Mindlin said managed-care failed to take into account the costs of containers, labeling and "any services that go into the dispensing of the product, including the public service aspect of talking to customers."
Pharmacists, he added, had to pay processing fees to benefit managers when filing for payments. "If they refuse the claim and you have to file again," he said, "you have to pay again." Independents were also barred by law from banding together to affect prices, Mr. Mindlin said. He said that that had put them at a disadvantage against chains that were treated as a single entity, adding to their leverage.
"The independents would be able to compete in the marketplace if there was a level playing field," Mr. Mindlin said. "Otherwise the economic conditions for them can only get worse."
As independents have declined, chains, including Genovese, CVS, Walgreens and Rite-Aid, have expanded, creating stiff competition among them. Gene Wexler, a vice president and the general counsel for Genovese, said chains were also earning lower profits on drugs because of managed-care policies. But Mr. Wexler said his company, headquartered in Melville, had also succeeded in resisting rates that it considered too low.
"One major third-party plan was demanding an unacceptably low reimbursement rate," Mr. Wexler said. "We said, 'We can't do that and we will not participate in the plan.' A few months later they came back with an acceptable offer."
In another sign of the profit squeeze, Genovese recently said it would cut up to 600 jobs and close or sell five stores, including one in Nassau. The 134-unit chain has 39 stores in Suffolk and 28 in Nassau. It has 5,300 employees.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. John J. Ferry, president and chief officer of Southampton Hospital. (Michael Shavel for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SOUTHAMPTON HOSPITAL (NY) SOUTHAMPTON HOSPITAL (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHAMPTON HOSPITAL (NY) SOUTHAMPTON HOSPITAL (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE; DOCTORS; HOSPITALS; DRUGSTORES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (93%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (92%); HOSPITALS (90%); PHARMACIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (90%); PHARMACISTS (90%); FERRIES (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); LEGISLATION (72%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (72%); 

PERSON: RATHER, JOHN; FERRY, JOHN JR (DR) JOHN J FERRY JR (82%); PETER M SULLIVAN (80%); H M O BILL PAYMENTS STRAIN HOSPITALS (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1998



178 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1405 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Long Island;
REITs Moving More Aggressively Into the Market

BYLINE: By DIANA SHAMAN

 BODY:
SINCE its entry into the Long Island industrial market a year ago with the purchase of a 2.7-million-square-foot industrial portfolio owned by Lazarus Burman Associates of Syosset, First Industrial Realty Trust of Chicago has acquired 1.2 million additional square feet in Nassau and Suffolk Counties.
"We have a lot more in the pipeline and expect to add two to three million square feet more by the end of the year," said Jeff Schwartzberg, senior investment officer for First Industrial's northeast regional office in Syosset, of which Jan Burman is the senior regional director. 
 "The Long Island economy has made a very successful transition away from defense and this market now has a positive absorption with more demand than there is space," Mr. Schwartzberg added. "A year from now we intend to own 6.5 million to 7 million square feet and dominate the industrial market in a major way."
Flush with cash and with access to huge lines of cheap credit, real estate investment trusts like First Industrial have become aggressive buyers of real estate in markets throughout the country, and Long Island is no exception.
The so-called REITs are publicly held companies that invest in income-producing properties using money raised through the sale of shares. Investors participate in rental income by receiving dividends and also can profit -- or face losses -- on fluctuations in the value of the real property.
But to meet Wall Street expectations, REITs are under constant pressure to acquire or develop additional properties, or their money sits idle.
Until the arrival of First Industrial, the only REIT of any size in the Long Island market -- other than retail REITs like Kimco Realty Corporation of New Hyde Park and the Simon DeBartolo Group of Indianapolis -- had been Reckson Associates Realty Corporation of Melville.
Reckson, which came out with an initial public offering in May 1995, now owns or has under contract 19.6 million square feet of office and industrial space in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, of which 8.7 million square feet are on Long Island. About 25 percent of its portfolio is industrial space.
First Industrial, formed in 1994, focuses on buying and managing industrial properties. It has a 56.6-million-square-foot portfolio in 24 major markets that include Long Island, New Jersey, Detroit, Minneapolis, Houston, Tampa, Fla., Cleveland and Phoenix, among others.
"REITs right now are the darlings of Wall Street, and their access to capital is great, so they acquire more property in order to add to their net operating income," said Andrew J. Merin, the executive director of Cushman & Wakefield's Financial Services Group in East Rutherford, N.J.
WORKING with Cushman & Wakefield's Long Island office in Melville, Mr. Merin's group recently brokered the sale to First Industrial of the 613,000-square-foot Equipark industrial park on Veterans Memorial Highway in Ronkonkoma. In the deal, which closed in December, First Industrial paid the owner, the Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United States, $27,018,018.18 for 8 buildings on 52 acres, of which seven are vacant land ready for development. It had previously paid Lazarus Burman $139 million for its 39 buildings, which included one in Fairfield, N.J.
The unusual sealed bid offer for Equipark came about because the Hebrew symbols for the numerals 8 and 10 mean good luck, said Mr. Schwarzberg of First Industrial, "and I knew we had to come in around $27 million." He added, "I was told we won by $18,000."
Reckson has also gone on a spending spree in the last year. In addition to other acquisitions in the metropolitan area, it bought 2.013 million square feet in 13 office and industrial buildings on Long Island, together costing $164 million. It is also spending $18.8 million on major renovations in those buildings. "Being bigger enables us to see every tenant in the market and keep a strong pulse on what's going on," said Scott Rechler, Reckson's president.
"REITs are helping to fuel the market by buying up choice properties, renovating them and creating an enhanced facility," said Ralph Perna, executive vice president of Grubb & Ellis/Island Realty, commercial brokers in Melville.
But others say too much money may be chasing these properties and that may ultimately backfire for the REITs.
"I've had several deals I put offers in, but the REITs just gobbled them up and it didn't make sense to us to pay those prices," said Arthur D. Sanders, president of Spiegel Associates in Jericho, a major owner and landlord of industrial, office and retail space.
"When the other end of the real estate cycle comes, and there are greater vacancies and less income, I question whether the REITs' acquisitions at these levels will turn out to be sound," he added.
Joseph A. Farkas, senior vice president of the Manhattan and Long Island offices of CB Commercial, a national brokerage firm based in Los Angeles, said there was still plenty of room for private investors. "Reckson doesn't go after everything everyone else goes after, so there's plenty of opportunity for the entrepreneurial owner to be a player," he said.
For example, in a recent deal that CB Commercial brokered on behalf of the Connecticut General Life Insurance Company, the 125,000-square-foot Woodlands Office Park in Hauppauge was bought by the privately held Lighthouse Real Estate Ventures of Rockville Centre, Mr. Farkas noted. "It was not the multistory trophy asset that Reckson typically purchases," he said.
T HE great thing about REITs is that they liquify bricks and mortar," said Gus P. Nuzzolese, senior executive director at Sutton & Edwards, commercial brokers in Lake Success. And although REITs may be pushing up property prices, rent increases have risen only 10 percent over two years, "which isn't anything to get excited about," he said.
"There is still a substantial amount of private ownership in place, and tenants still have a lot of options," he noted. "There are 140 million square feet of office space on Long Island and no one will dominate that because you can't buy it all."
Furthermore, Mr. Nuzzolese said, should there be a downturn in the market, REITs are less likely to get hurt than private owners -- though their stock may go down -- because of their low debt service.
"The positive side is that REITs tap into the investor market and that's good news for Long Island because it helps stimulate the economy," said Theodore P. Sasso Jr., senior managing director of Insignia/ESG, commercial brokers in Syosset. "The capital they are freeing up typically belongs to a local owner and that money goes into the economy somewhere else."
One of the attractions for owners who sell to REITs is that deals can close very quickly -- it took 33 days to close the $27 million Equipark transaction, for example.
Another advantage is that owners who might otherwise face large capital gains taxes can defer those taxes.
"If the deal is properly structured, owners can transfer the property to a REIT and get their value out in the form of operating partnership units," said Seymour Zelanko, partner at Margolin, Winer & Evens, an accounting and business advisory firm in Garden City.
Owners of these units, which are limited partnership interests in a REIT, get the same dividend income and potential price appreciation as shareholders. But the transfer is considered a tax-free transaction and is not taxed until the units are sold, Mr. Zelanko said.
He predicted that Long Island's office and industrial properties would start attracting more national REITs because of the health of the market.
According to an end-of-year office market report by Cushman & Wakefield of Long Island, the average asking rent in Suffolk and Nassau was $24.30 a square foot at the end of December, compared with $22.81 a square foot 12 months earlier. During the same period, the overall office vacancy rate dropped from 13.4 percent to 10.6 percent.
Industrial space is showing the same rent rise and space decline. According to Sutton & Edwards, the vacancy rate in December was 11.09 percent, compared with 15.7 percent the year before. In the same period, Rents rose from $6.48 a square foot to $6.78.
"Long Island has become the kind of area investors seek out," Mr. Zelanko said. "And REITs are the ownership vehicle of choice in the 1990's and will be into the next century."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jan Burman, senior northeast regional director of First Industrial Realty Trust, a REIT that entered the Long Island industrial market a year ago. (Lois Raimondo for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KIM (NYSE) (84%); SLG (NYSE) (64%); FR (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (84%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (58%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (55%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (55%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: KIMCO REALTY CORP (84%); SL GREEN REALTY CORP (64%); FIRST INDUSTRIAL REALTY TRUST INC (58%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (55%); SIMON DEBARTOLO GROUP INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (92%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (91%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (91%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1998



179 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk

LENGTH: 1314 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Connecticut;
For Danbury, a 354-Unit Mixed-Housing Subdivision

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES

DATELINE: DANBURY

 BODY:
FOR the first time in recent memory a large residential subdivision is under construction in Fairfield County. A total of 354 of detached homes and town-house condominiums are being built in Danbury, moderately priced from $159,900 for a two-bedroom town house to $285,000 for a four-bedroom detached home.
Spreading over a 130-acre hilltop off Nabby Road, the project, called Sterling Woods, is situated a half-mile uphill from Federal Road, a main artery lined with a plethora of local and big-box stores, including Stew Leonard's food market, Home Depot, Borders Books and Circuit City. A quarter-mile away is the Stadley Rough Elementary School. 
 Convenient as all this will be for the residents, the stores fortunately cannot be seen from Sterling Woods. The developers floated helium balloons at the level of the projected housing to determine how much of the wooded buffer should remain in place to mask the stores below.
The stylish dwellings -- 77 detached houses and 277 town houses when the project is completed -- contain an unusually generous number of standard features. They include full, sometimes finished, walkout basements, fireplaces, central air-conditioning, landscaping and all appliances except laundry machines. There are also decks, patios and sometimes both, with a patio at ground level and a deck above it.
Two to six town-house units per building range in size from 1,288 to 2,320 square feet; single family homes vary from 1,677 to 2,377 square feet, excluding basements, and every residence has a one- or two-car garage. Town-house owners own no land, but homeowners have fee simple title to their lots, which are 6,000 to 13,000 square feet.
Common charges of $150 to $210 a month for condominiums and $222 for the detached homes cover insurance on the exterior of the buildings, trash collection, snow clearance and road and landscape maintenance.
"Every homeowner has a fractional interest in the community property and will be a member of a community association," said Paul J. Kuehner, partner with his brother, Carl R. Kuehner 3d, in Building and Land Technologies of Wilton, a family-owned business. They are developing the project jointly with Clay Fowler, principal of the Spinnaker Companies of Stamford.
Prices for the homes, which appear to be bargains compared with other Fairfield County towns more convenient to New York City, are average for Danbury, and reflect similar pricing in other northerly Fairfield County towns. "It's the cost of the land," said Carl Kuehner. "The difference between a multi-family attached unit in Danbury and the same unit in, say, Greenwich or New Canaan is about $25,000. The spread on a house could be as much as $100,000."
Since sales began 13 months ago, 86 homes and town houses have been sold, 18 are nearly finished, 14 are under construction and the rest are to be completed by January of 2001. A residents' pool, clubhouse with exercise room and a children's playground are expected to be completed in June and a series of jogging trails will be installed as construction proceeds.
DANBURY is considered by real estate professionals to be experiencing a major upturn. Its downtown has been undergoing redevelopment and it has approved more than half a dozen applications for residential subdivisions of six to 40 homes.
"An influx of corporate people from the expansion of Duracell in Bethel and new companies relocating here has pushed resales up in price and down in numbers," said Richard Jowdy of Danbury's Prudential Real Estate office. "So we are seeing new homes being built, up to the $500,000 to $600,000 range -- that's unusual for us."
According to the city's five-term Mayor, Eugene Eriquez, a three-mile stretch of Route 7 from Danbury south to Ridgefield is to be improved by the state's Department of Transportation. "It will take until the year 2000 to complete, but it will dramatically improve traffic flow to and from lower Fairfield County," said the Mayor.
Mr. Eriquez's popularity is partly due to keeping the mill rate, or the dollars of tax per thousand dollars of assessed value, at 19.3 for the last three years. Taxes at Sterling Woods vary from $2,400 to $3,730. Sterling Woods is attracting empty-nesters who are scaling down from a family home, and "there are a lot of single people relocated by I.B.M. or working at Boehringer-Engelheim in Ridgefield, or coming in from New York State on I-684," said Barbara Adelizzi, Coldwell Banker Real Estate's sales manager for the development.
In addition to a steady stream of buyers, she said, "we are getting requests from people who want to rent town houses. There is a great shortage of rentals in Danbury, consequently we are prepared to sell some units to investors."
Kim Spector, a financial planner at I.B.M. in White Plains, bought a Sterling Woods town house last November after living in Danbury for several years. "It's two minutes from the highway, and the kitchen is huge -- which I love," she said. Accustomed to the 50-minute drive to work, she said, "I wanted to stay in Danbury because you get so much more for your money than in White Plains or Stamford, and I love waterskiing and the beach at Candlewood Lake. But one of the main reasons I bought here was the resale value."
Maintenance-free vinyl siding, gas heat and fireplaces, and city water and sewers are additional resale advantages.
CONCERNS about demands on water pressure by the development and the school were allayed when the developers installed additional water tanks, and worries over emergency vehicles accessing the single entry-exit road were addressed by building a road halfway up the hill for emergency vehicles only.
The school's 438 pupils in kindergarten through grade 5 may not be subject to crowding because "we don't expect too many children in Sterling Woods," said Timothy P. Connors, Superintendent of the Danbury schools and a Sterling Woods townhouse resident himself. "If that happens, we have plenty of land for an addition," he said.
Joan and Lewis Addessi no longer have children at home, but they bought a Sterling Woods single-family house anyway, with a large open kitchen-family room for entertaining grandchildren. They moved in last month, after selling the Danbury home they had occupied for 38 years. The family owns the Addessi jewelry stores in New Canaan and Danbury.
"We looked from Ridgefield to Newtown and Milford," said Mr. Addessi. "We checked out other places the Kuehners had built, and finally we looked at each other and said, 'This is it.' The next place we move will be to St. Peter's Cemetery."
The Kuehners and Clay Fowler have worked together for eight years, producing luxury and moderately priced homes and condominiums in Wilton, Norwalk, New Canaan, Woodbury and Danbury; in Stamford, they have just broken ground for 30 luxury homes off Westover and Stillwater Roads, to be priced from $500,000.
Sterling Woods was started in the early 80's by George Davon, who built 87 still occupied and well-maintained condominium units that lie across from the new Sterling Woods entrance. Mr. Davon died before the project could be completed; the remaining acreage went into receivership and was repurchased at auction by Mr. Davon's company, Park Cliff in Manhattan, which sold it to the Kuehners and Mr. Fowler.
"A lot of developers would not do something as large as this because of the potential for recession during a long construction period," said Carl Kuehner. But, he reasoned, by increasing choices among four town-house and six detached-house models, and diversifying price ranges, a broad base of the market can be reached.
"For the first time in years we are seeing larger-plan development concepts again," he said, "and its an education for the consumer. The Northeastern Yankee is not accustomed to not owning everything in fee simple."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Town houses, left, in the Sterling Woods development in Danbury, which also has detached homes. Kim Spector at kitchen counter in her town house. (Photographs by Michael J. Doolittle for The New York Times)
 
Map showing the location of Danbury, Conn.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BGP (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (57%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (57%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (57%); NAICS311511 FLUID MILK MANUFACTURING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: BORDERS GROUP INC (57%); STEW LEONARD'S LLC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); HOME CENTERS (75%); RETAILERS (75%); HVAC SYSTEMS (73%); FAMILY (73%); COMMUNITY PROPERTY (69%); FAMILY COMPANIES (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1998



180 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1348 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey;
Confident Consumers Are Buying Large New Homes

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
HIGH consumer confidence and low mortgage interest rates are boosting the market for large new homes in the $500,000-and-up range.
With financing more readily available, builders are responding to what they say is a steady demand for such houses by starting new projects or expanding existing ones. Some builders are even creating "design centers," where prospective buyers can choose from many options and upgrades to customize their new homes. 
 The demand is coming mainly from young professional couples with children and from baby boomers who have held back from buying until now, as well as an increasing number of people transferred by their corporations, said John Udell. He is president of the New Homes and Land Division of Weichert Realtors, a brokerage in Morris Plains.
Forty-five projects, totaling more than 307 homes, are in various stages of development in the $500,000-and-over category in the state's 14 northern and central counties, according to the New Homes Division of Coldwell Banker, another brokerage based in Short Hills. Last year there were 30 projects with 220 homes.
That follows the uptick in new construction in New Jersey. Through last November, 9.8 percent more housing permits had been issued than the previous year's total of 22,146 for the same period, data from the state's Department of Labor show.
Other factors are also stoking the market for more expensive houses, industry analysts said. One is that the strong economy and bull market on Wall Street have left some buyers with increased incomes and many, sensing that corporate downsizing and layoffs are mostly over, are investing in bigger homes. The improvement in the state's overall housing market is also making it easier for people to buy and sell.
"As long as people at the bottom of the housing ladder can buy, there is a domino effect, allowing people to sell an existing home for a bigger one," said David J. Schoner, vice president of Coldwell Banker's New Homes Division.
Those factors were part of the reason Lisa and Daniel Adams decided that instead of expanding their 3,400-square-foot ranch in Morris Township, they would buy a bigger new house in the same town. "I had called the contractors and was ready to remodel, but I was out driving last month and fell in love with this new house," said Mrs. Adams. "So we said, 'Why blow up our house when this one has everything we want?' "
The couple -- she is the owner, and he is the manager of an engineering, plumbing and heating supply company -- are buying a 4,200-square-foot colonial in the $600,000 range at Hillside Meadows, a subdivision under development off Lake Road. They put their current home on the market last month and are confident it will sell, Mrs. Adams said, adding that she expected to close on the new house in May.
"We think it's a solid investment," she said.
As of the third quarter of 1997, 159,200 existing homes had sold for that year, compared with 148,800 during the same period in 1996. The average sale price also rose, to $192,400 from $191,600, according to the New Jersey Association of Realtors in Edison.
Coldwell Banker puts the average sale price in the $500,000-and-over new-home category at $824,735 for the 58 houses sold in 1997 at the 45 projects it tracks. That is up from $808,820 for the 48 homes sold 1996.
Typically, builders offer many options and upgrades for potential buyers of their model homes. Buyers are spending $20,000 to $120,000 on such options, with additional rooms -- like conservatories and home offices -- marble floors and granite countertops among the most popular, Mr. Schoner said.
Land values have also risen, Mr. Udell of Weichert Realtors said. That, along with a dwindling supply of suitable sites and the state's long approval process for construction, will temper the pace of construction of such projects, keeping demand ahead of supply, he said, adding: "There will be upward pressure on prices."
For projects to be successful, Mr. Schoner said, they must be in upscale locations with records of appreciation, reasonable taxes and good schools. He said many of the projects are in areas accessible to employment centers along the Interstate 287 corridor in Morris, Bergen, Somerset and Monmouth counties
In the Somerset County community of Skillman, Toll Brothers of Huntingdon Valley, Pa., which focuses on luxury homes, is building Beden Brook Estates, close to Route 518. The 52 homes each sit on lots averaging 1.5 acres, and some back onto a golf course.
BASE prices for the four- and five-bedroom homes, with 3,400 to 4,050 square feet, are $447,000 to $520,000. But with options and lot premiums, the average price for the 31 homes sold since sales began a year ago has been $563,000.
"This market has been going strong for the past two years, but has ratcheted up even more in the past six months," said Frederick N. Cooper, vice president of finance at Toll Brothers. He attributes the increased sales to buyers' "confidence in the economy and in their employment."
Hillside Meadows in Morris Township, where the Adamses intend to live, is also finding demand among buyers. Since sales started in October, five of the 3,800- to 4,500-square-foot, five-bedroom homes, each on lots just under one acre,, have been sold, said Jay S. Grant of Grant Homes, L.L.C. of Mendham, the developer. The average sales price, including options, is $660,000.
"People are looking to spend money," Mr. Grant said, adding that they will invest in a larger home if they believe they are getting value for their money.
At another Morris County subdivision, off Pleasant Plains Road in Long Hill and called Autumn Crest, Sterling Properties L.L.C. of Livingston is also attracting buyers looking for bigger homes. Since the project opened last summer, 12 of the 18 homes, ranging from 3,600 to 4,300 square feet, have been sold for an average price of just under $600,000, including options, said Joseph Forgione of Sterling.
Pinnacle Communities Ltd. of Millburn will break ground on two luxury projects next month because "we see a hole in the market that we want to take advantage of," saidPaul R. Schneier, the company's director of operations.
One project, the Gates at Mahwah on McIntosh Drive in the Bergen County town of Mahwah, will have up to 14 houses, each on a lot averaging one to 1.5 acres and with 4,000 square feet of space. The other project, Beacon Hill, located at Somerville and Allen Roads in Bernards Township in Somerset County, will have 15 houses of similar size on minimum one-acre lots. Base prices are expected to start in the $600,000 range.
In Colts Neck in Monmouth County, Byron Hill Homebuilders of Marlboro is developing the Ridings, 22 homes on 47 acres on HeulittRoad. Landscaped pathways lace the development, providing bridle paths that lead to the nearby 200-acre Bucks Mill Park.
"We see growth in the luxury home market, particularly in Monmouth County, where there is a demand, but there is not much available," said Luther A. Gueyikian, the president of Byron Hill.
THE houses, which can be customized, sit on 1.5-acre lots and have 5,000 to 7,800 square feet of space. Since sales began a year ago, the base price has increased to $700,000 from $600,000, Mr. Gueyikian said, adding that 15 homes had been sold.
The Matzel & Mumford Organization of Hazlet is building a 42-home subdivision called Bedford Chase, on Beacon Light Road, just off Route 517 in Tewksbury Township in Hunterdon County.
"Buyers are looking for quality and for a good investment," said Roger Mumford, president of the company. "But they are not going to move unless the new house meets their life style." The company has built a 4,000-square-foot design center at its Hazlet headquarters to help buyers at all of its developments in what Mr. Mumford, called "personalizing their home."
Sales of Bedford Chase's 36 homes began just under two years ago, Mr. Mumford said. The homes, averaging 3,800 square feet with options and upgrades, have sold for an average price of $540,000, he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rendering of house now rising at Hillside Meadows in Morris Township, left. House at The Ridings in Colts Neck, where the base price is $700,000. (Nancy Sarno, rendering; Cahn Communications)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (56%); NAICS522310 MORTGAGE & NONMORTGAGE LOAN BROKERS (56%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: WEICHERT REALTORS INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; FAMILIES AND FAMILY LIFE; MORTGAGES; CREDIT ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); FAMILY (90%); HOUSING MARKET (79%); INTEREST RATES (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CHILDREN (78%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ENGINEERING (76%); MORTGAGE RATES (73%); BABY BOOMERS (73%); BUILDING PERMITS (72%); LAYOFFS (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (50%); PLUMBING SYSTEMS & FIXTURES (50%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE DAVID J SCHONER (66%); DANIEL ADAMS (66%); JOHN UDELL (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1998



181 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 19; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: Students' Research Pays Off in Patents

BYLINE: By MERRI ROSENBERG 

DATELINE: ARMONK

 BODY:
AS many of their elders struggle to figure out the most basic computer applications, two students at Byram Hills High School here were recently named among the 300 semifinalists -- but not among the 40 finalists -- selected in the Westinghouse Science Talent Search for their research in computers. More significantly, the students, August Petrillo and Philip Fong, both seniors, became the first students ever to have their work patented -- by International Business Machines, where they did their research. They , were, incidentally, the only Westchester students to reach the semifinals.
August, 17, whose paper dealt with identifying computer viruses, and Philip, 18, who developed a computerized method to analyze singing, are part of Byram Hills High School's Science Research Program. Now in its ninth year, the program has been nationally recognized for its success in producing science scholars. In recent years, the school has produced the highest number of Westinghouse science scholars in the county, with 11 semifinalists and 3 finalists. 
 Under the direction of Dr. Robert Pavlica, who initially developed the concept and holds a doctorate in biochemistry, students can pursue research projects in whatever scientific area interests them.
At Byram Hills, there are now 50 students enrolled in the program. Students earn three Regents credits for this three-year course, which is taken in addition to biology, chemistry and physics. As part of the course requirements, students are expected to find mentors in their field, apply for grants, conduct experiments and review scientific literature. Students are also expected to meet with Dr. Pavlica for an hour every 10 days and spend at least seven hours in independent research every two weeks.
The program has proved so effective at developing young research scientists -- even among students who had not previously taken much interest in traditional science courses -- that the National Science Foundation asked Dr. Pavlica to design a model that can be used throughout the United States. Such a program is now in use in several schools in Florida and California, and 74 high schools in New York State have adopted it.
"One of the things that makes this program work is that kids do what they love," Dr. Pavlica said. "I'm there to facilitate the process. With these students, I knew enough about computers to know that what they were working on was state of the art, and to let them go."
Both August and Philip are self-described computer aficionados, although they have many other interests. Philip, who has been admitted to the California Institute of Technology but is waiting to hear from other colleges before making his choice, is a member of the track team and the cross-county team. He writes for the school newspaper and is a member of the math team. August, who will enroll at Princeton University next fall, is captain of both the math team and the mock trial team. He plays varsity tennis and skis, edits the school's literary magazine and teaches a class in computer programming to younger students at the high school.
Since the school has a relationship with the I.B.M. Research Group in Yorktown Heights, which provides lab space, mentors and research guidance for the students, it was a natural fit for August and Philip to pursue their projects there. Philip worked with the speech-recognition group in the Human Language Technologies Department, while August worked with the Anti-Virus Lab Research Group. The students worked at their labs during summer vacation as well as after school, and they estimate that they have devoted close to 2,000 hours each to their projects.
"I don't sing," Philip said, when asked why he chose to research singing. "This was a cool project because it was different and new. The goal is to help people learn to sing by having the computer identify the different phonetic sounds that go into singing. The computer can analyze pitch, rhythm and pronunciation and identify someone's weak spots or problems."
Although Philip's work is somewhat analogous to the voice-recognition software programs that are currently on the market, enable someone to dictate into a computer, in many ways a more useful way of thinking about his work is envisioning a karaoke model.
I.B.M. applied for a patent on this work, Philip explained, because it is unique. "The idea doesn't exist," he said. "I couldn't find any research in this area -- and the actual technologies don't exist."
His mentor, Nelson Strother, a programmer at I.B.M. Research in Yorktown Heights, said: "This is a neat idea for a niche market. It's a neat way to stretch the limits of speech-recognition technology."
Philip, the eldest of three children, lives in Pleasantville. His father is an electrical engineer, and his mother is a pharmacist. He intends to study engineering in college because "I want to build something," he said, after expressing surprise that his work was selected by the Westinghouse judges.
August, the older of two children, lives in Bedford. His father is a businessman, and his mother is an English teacher. "I've been a computer person ever since kindergarten, when my family got an Apple," he said. "I thought it was interesting because you could program it to do whatever you want. It's so versatile."
"I was initially interested in working with artificial life, but when I couldn't find a mentor, I branched out to artificial intelligence," August said. "Prior to my junior year, I started working on my own stuff."
August's research offers an automated program that enables computer programmers automatically to identify macro-viruses, which can infect data files, documents and templates in a computer system.
One of his mentors at I.B.M. Research, Morton Swimmer, a project leader for the immune system group there, said: "Augie's work was excellent. Otherwise, we wouldn't have pursued the patent. It's central to what we were doing with the immune system. It has definite implications for the future. It's the direction that we see the anti-virus field going."
August plans to study economics at Princeton and work toward a graduate degree in business administration. "This is at the back end of computers," he said. "Before this research, everyone was doing this analysis by hand. As the number of viruses that were created rose, you needed an automated system. This program I created analyzes viruses that come into I.B.M. via the Internet. Everyone will need to use this research, because the virus growth rate is too high. If you don't have this technology, you can't survive in the virus field in the next few years."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Philip Fong, left, and August Petrillo, Westinghouse semifinalists, with Dr. Robert Pavlica, center, at Byram Hills High School in Armonk. (Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: IBMC (BRU) (57%); IBM (NYSE) (57%); IBM (LSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (IBM) INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (IBM)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS; INVENTIONS AND INVENTORS; WESTINGHOUSE SCIENCE TALENT SEARCH STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); PATENTS (90%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); SCIENCE FUNDING (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); LITERATURE (73%); COMPUTER VIRUSES (73%); PHYSICS (72%); TRACK & FIELD (70%); BIOCHEMISTRY (67%); 

PERSON: FONG, PHILIP; PETRILLO, AUGUST; ROSENBERG, MERRI PHILIP FONG (95%); ROBERT PAVLICA (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1998



182 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 2; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 2283 words

HEADLINE: The Jersey Rust Belt Gets a Bit Brighter

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA 

 BODY:
DEMAND for industrial property is surging in northern New Jersey, prompting renewed interest in old and frequently decayed sections of once-vibrant manufacturing communities close to New York City.
Factory buildings in Hudson, Essex and Passaic Counties that sat idle for years because of the long decline in manufacturing are finding new uses. 
 "Old industrial properties that were looked on as eyesores are in demand again," said Scott Deutchman, a broker with SBWE Real Estate in Hasbrouck Heights. He said land values in places had risen so much that former warehouses in the Meadowlands were being converted to retail stores and companies are searching in towns like Harrison, Kearny, Newark and Paterson for old factories that can be converted to new uses.
"There has been so little building for so long in this state that we're running out of room," said Joseph R. Romano, executive vice president of Grubb & Ellis New Jersey. "Older, urban areas were seen as less desirable, but if you need 100,000 square feet of space to grow your business and you can't find it anywhere else, you have to look there."
Mr. Romano said the current situation provided a window of opportunity for some cities and towns of the northern part of the state to demonstrate that they have reduced crime to acceptable levels and are willing to accept businesses that would not be welcome in pricey suburbs before the next wave of commercial building gives companies the option of moving into campus-like sites farther south in the state.
According to figures collected by Grubb & Ellis, all the counties in northern New Jersey have vacancy rates for industrial property in single digits, with Bergen County the lowest at 6 percent in the fourth quarter of 1997, compared to 8 percent a year earlier. Vacancies for Bergen, Essex, Hudson and Passaic Counties have all dropped over the last year. In Hudson County, which includes such once-bustling but now decayed manufacturing areas as parts of Kearny and Harrison, the vacancy rate went from 9 percent in the fourth quarter of 1996 to about 7.5 percent in the fourth quarter of last year and the other two in the mid-7 percent range, down from 7.9 percent in Passaic and 8.5 percent in Essex.
Real estate executives said it was not likely that vacancy rates could go much lower, since most of the property left was functionally obsolete, with low ceilings and floors without the capacity to accept heavier loads even if the roof was raised.
One indication of the renewed appeal of northern New Jersey's industrial areas is the recent announcement by a New York-based film production company, the Shooting Gallery, of plans to build a studio and back lot in Harrison, in Hudson County, on a 30-acre property dominated by the old Worthington pump plant. A former Western Electric factory complex in Kearny that once employed 25,000 people manufacturing telephone equipment is now being operated as warehouses for tenants who like the Hudson County location near the Turnpike, the rail access and the proximity to the Newark air and sea ports.
Even Paterson, the first planned industrial community in the country when founded at Alexander Hamilton's behest in 1791, but well past its prime as a manufacturing center, is showing signs of revival. Old mill buildings in the Passaic County city have been converted into offices, retail stores and housing. And plans are being discussed to bring mixed development to the badly deteriorated heart of the city's Federal historic district.
The old industrial complexes that are being redeveloped have something that is in short supply in or near New York City: space. Stephen Carlis, the chief financial officer of Shooting Gallery, noted that the old factory buildings on the site had 60-foot ceilings, which leave plenty of room for sets and lighting.
"The whole site has 30 acres of land, which is just not available in Manhattan," he said. Mr. Carlis said the company, whose best-known film is "Sling Blade," is planning to use the entire site as a back lot with facilities to do high-tech post-production work often lost to studio companies in California.
Another attraction, he said, was how close the site is to the company's principal offices in Manhattan. "It's only six miles away," he said. "We are still a New York film company. We have just expanded to New Jersey."
Space and location are the themes, as well, at River Terminal Development Company, a 300-acre site at the confluence of the Passaic and Hackensack Rivers in Kearny. The site, which combines an old shipyard with the former Western Electric complex, has 5.4 million square feet of warehouse and distribution space and 40 acres of vacant land to build more if the need arises.
PART of the need for ever-more space is ever-bigger trucks, said Alan M. Lambiase, real estate sales manager for the privately owned River Terminal company.
"If you go back a few years, trailers were about 40 feet long," he said. "Now that cargo box is as much as 53 feet, and when you add the tractor you are talking 80 linear feet." To back such a vehicle up to a loading dock requires from 110 to 140 feet of maneuvering space, something not easily done in more crowded locations.
Room to maneuver is becoming even more important because distributors do not like inventory piling up for long periods of time, tying up working capital. They want to move goods in and out more quickly, which means buildings are adding loading docks, forcing trucks to park more closely together.
"The old ratio was one dock per 10,000 square feet," Mr. Lambiase said. "Now it is one per 7,500 square feet and, in some cases, one per 5,000 square feet."
Most tenants at River Terminal are in some part of what is now called the logistics business, a combination of warehousing, distribution, repackaging and shipment preparation. "You can't really make any money just warehousing anymore," he said. "You have to do value-added work; it's almost like remanufacturing."
Tenants include companies that handle distribution for garment companies, department and specialty stores and those that deal with perishable products, such as frozen food. He said access to both the sea and airports was important to companies whose business is moving goods quickly and efficiently.
The background of the property teaches lessons in industrial development. The eastern half was once a shipyard and later a ship-scrapping operation operated by River Terminal's parent company, Hugo Neu Corporation, which remains in the scrap business in other locations.
On the western side stands a building that is 50 feet wide but 700 feet long. Corporate records show that the building was once a Ford Motor Company assembly plant, complete with a small test track that still exists in altered form. Today the building is operated by River Terminal as a warehouse for tenants that have large seasonal swings in their inventory.
Paterson, conceived by Hamilton and planned by Pierre L'Enfant, the French engineer who laid out downtown Washington, was intended to be the nation's first industrial park. In the late 1700's, the power of falling water was the most efficient way to drive machinery, and with the 77-foot falls on the Passaic River, there was plenty of water with a long way to fall. The name derives from William Paterson, then the governor of New Jersey.
The same forces that drove manufacturers out of Kearny and Harrison were present in Paterson as well, although manufacturing still represents the largest category of employment in the city. But unlike Newark, which has experienced a sharp drop in population, Paterson's has held steady at about 150,000, fueled by a diverse stream of immigrants. City officials estimate more than 50 nationalities are represented among recent immigrants.
Some recovery has taken place. Of the 500,000 square feet of space that was once vacant in the old Continental Can building, only 50,000 remain. A. & P. remodeled annother old mill building adjacent to one of its stores and moved in 500 office workers.
Detailed real estate statistics are not kept town by town, but Deborah Hoffman, executive director of the Paterson Economic Development Corporation, said she knew of only two industrial sites larger than 50,000 square feet that were available in the city.
In the federally designated Great Falls Historic District, where a series of canals once directed water to the wheels of mills that spun silk and produced the first practical revolver pistol, an industrial revival is not likely. So developers have converted some mills to housing and mixed uses, talking advantage of various tax breaks and subsidies.
"This area was economically dead in the mid 1980's," said Lawrence E. Regan, the president of Regan Development of Yonkers. Most of the old mills had long since ceased to operate and many had been heavily damaged by fire.
But it had been recognized as an Urban Enterprise Zone, which meant funds were available to help offset the costs of development. Mill buildings were converted into housing for artists and others, with retail stores to serve the residents.
DEVELOPMENT in a historic district must be done with an eye toward preserving at least some of the past while meeting the needs of today. Mr. Regan is proposing a $21 million mixed-use development along the Passaic River that would include stabilizing and perhaps restoring the partly destroyed Colt Gun Mill at the corner of Van Houten and Mill Streets in the heart of the district.
The mill was the first to produce a practical revolver pistol, commencing operations in 1836. But the weapon was complicated and expensive, so the New Jersey company went bankrupt in 1842 and the building subsequently was used for textile production. The revolvers that won the West came from Connecticut and other places.
Nevertheless, because the weapons industry is considered by historians as the precursor for all mass manufacturing in this country, the Federal Government has pledged $4 million to help restore some of the raceways, water wheels and buildings in the historic district to show how the United States took its first steps toward industrialization.
Mr. Regan's proposed development, which would follow earlier mill renovations for housing, would include 30,000 square feet of commercial space, planned to include an art gallery, cooking school and a cafe, and 65 two-family housing units. Forty-five of the units would be partially subsidized, 20 of them market rate.
Trying to build in a historic district is a stiff challenge, Ms. Hoffman said. "The developer just about needs an archeologist standing there every time he digs a hole," she said. "Regan Development has revised its plan five or six times to be sensitive to the community and to history."
George McLoof, whose Longstreet Development Company has also been active in the historic district, said the city's image as a tired mill town long past its prime was countered by reality.
"People are paying $30 to $40 a square foot for retail space along Main Street, and you don't see many vacancies," he said. "If someone closes, someone else opens up pretty soon." He said the city's industrial past meant its infrastructure was well developed. "There is a lot of underutilized electrical and gas capacity," he said.
Naturally, the past has left some problems as well. One of the few sizable development sites left in the city, an 11-acre parcel downstream from the historic district, includes the site of an old town gas plant operated by a predecessor of Public Service Electric & Gas Company.
Before pipelines were built to carry natural gas from states like Texas and Louisiana to the north, gas for cooking and lighting was generated by heating coal. It was often a sloppy process, and the ground below the old plant, which is adjacent to the river, is heavily contaminated with hydrocarbons.
One attempt by the utility to have a contractor solve the problem by digging up the soil and treating it failed, so it has been forced to take a different approach. "There are about 11 acres available for development with restrictions," said Warren Straubmuller, a project manager for Public Service. One of these restrictions in on residential development, where the lingering effects of pollution could be a health hazard.
The most contaminated soil will be treated and capped, he said, adding that "P.S.E. & G. will keep three acres as a gas distribution station," leaving eight acres available for others.
ONE drawback to development in urban locations is finding enough parking for cars. Mr. McLoof is working on a plan to build an entertainment center near the city's center that would include a multiscreen cinema, retail and office space and maybe a stage for live entertainment.
Since the block-square site is now a parking lot, he has to find a way to demonstrate to city planners that there will be adequate parking in the area if the open lot is supplanted by a building.
If finding a place to put a car after arriving in Paterson may be a problem, getting there is not. The city is split by the main east-west highway in the northern part of the state, Interstate 80. And there are access ramps in the city.
Like the other manufacturing centers in northern New Jersey, Paterson, Newark and the smaller cities and towns of the area are tightly linked with the rest of the national and international economy by a well-developed system of road, rail and ports.
"Logistically, there is no better place to be in New Jersey than Newark -- it just has an image problem," said Mr. Romano. "There is a reason why the older cities are located where they are."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Former Western Electric factory complex in Kearny is now being operated as warehouses for tenants who like the location near the Turnpike.; Residential Hamilton Square in Paterson includes part of old mill. Old Ford plant at River Terminal in Kearny is now a warehouse. (Photographs by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Ruins of Colt Gun Mill, right, in Paterson historic district, which may be part of mixed-use project. Nearby, a converted factory. (Photographs by Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)(pg. 6)
 
Map showing the location of Northeast N.J.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GBE (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (56%); NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (56%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GRUBB & ELLIS CO (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; PASSAIC COUNTY (NJ); HUDSON COUNTY (NJ); ESSEX COUNTY (NJ); UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (79%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (60%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (60%); RETAILERS (55%); 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1998



183 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 11; Page 5; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1347 words

HEADLINE: PERSPECTIVES;
Speeding the Pace of Recycling in City-Run Housing

BYLINE: By ALAN S. OSER 

 BODY:
IN the Cypress Hills section of Brooklyn, close to the Queens border, Jean M. Reynolds is becoming expert in a housing relocation technique known as checkerboarding.
The checkerboard player moves tenants from one apartment to another, usually in a different building, with the option to return when renovations are complete. 
 As one of the smaller and newer participants in the city's Neighborhood Rehabilitation Program, Ms. Reynolds, the community development director of the Cypress Hills Local Development Corporation, is growing adept at the technique. She began with a vacant building, at 296 Jerome Street. Tenanting it created some of the vacancies in other buildings that are due to be upgraded.
"I've found that many of the tenants don't want to go back to their old apartment, because they were overcrowded there," Ms. Reynolds said. "I've had to find alternative housing for them. Our goal is to make clean, decent housing. We'll fill the empty apartments through the lottery system."
There are five more buildings in her Cypress Hills pipeline. They are part of a much larger city pipeline of occupied tax-foreclosed buildings that have long been run by the city but are gradually being renovated by local nonprofit development companies, which will own and manage them.
The Neighborhood Rehabilitation Program, as the effort is called, is one of the two major city-sponsored rehabilitation programs that depend on the Federal tax-credit program for low-income housing. The other is the Neighborhood Entrepreneurs Program, which relies on local entrepreneurs to take the role of long-term owner-operators.
Together these programs account for about 70 percent of rehabilitation activity in the city's gradually shrinking inventory of tax-foreclosed housing. Using other Federal financing sources as well as its own money, the city also recycles multifamily buildings directly to tenant ownership, and rehabilitates one- and two-family houses for low-income owners.
Now the Clinton Administration is proposing to raise the level of financing under the tax-credit program by 40 percent nationwide. The fate of that proposal in the budgetary debate just getting under way in Congress is uncertain, but if it is enacted it would probably have a bigger impact here than anywhere else.
"We're the largest user of the tax-credit program in the country," said Richard T. Roberts, the Commissioner of Housing Preservation and Development.
If the Clinton proposal becomes law, the city would probably be able to pick up the pace of the two big rehabilitation programs by 40 or 50 buildings a year over the current rate of about 120 buildings a year, housing officials said. The average number of apartments in tax-foreclosed multifamily buildings is 10.
Under the tax credit program, major corporations and well-to-do individuals earn about a 10 percent rate of return in the form of tax reductions over a 15-year period by contributing to low-income housing production. Investment houses market the credits to investors on behalf of both for-profit and nonprofit developers. The program began in 1987 with a three-year Congressional authorization, and in 1993 it was made a permanent part of the Internal Revenue Code.
The program has been capped at about $300 million a year for 10 years, allowing sponsors to undertake 75,000 to 90,000 housing units nationwide. The Administration proposes to lift this to about $420 million a year.
HOUSING recycling with tenants in place is a slow process. When Mayor Edward I. Koch started his 10-year housing plan in 1986, the inventory of foreclosed occupied apartments stood at about 52,000. The Giuliani administration's plan is to rid itself of the entire remaining 25,000 units over about 10 years.
Since 1988, tax-credit financing has been used in the rehabilitation of 12,100 units, both vacant and occupied. But in recent years its principal use has been in rehabilitating smaller occupied structures.
For the last five years there have been no new city takeovers, or vestings, and the plan is to divert directly to community-based ownership any buildings that are effectively abandoned by private owners, avoiding the vesting process and city management entirely. This has yet to happen, but it may for the first time in about eight months, housing officials said, depending on the results of a foreclosure action on 174 buildings in the South Bronx that is already under way.
The community development corporations that renovate buildings under the Neighborhood Rehabilitation Program work closely with the intermediaries that provide nonprofits with the capital raised through the tax-credit program -- the Local Initiatives Support Corporation, known as LISC, and the Enterprise Foundation.
The system has helped build the network of community-based management companies. In addition, the city supplies low-interest loans for construction, averaging at present about $60,000 an apartment.
William Traylor, senior program director for LISC in New York City, said that there were about 70 local development corporations in the city now, but only about 20 are of substantial size in the sense that they have completed and are operating hundreds of apartments. Many of their buildings were built new or rehabilitated under earlier, and far larger, Federal production programs.
LISC itself deals with about 40 nonprofits. Over time, Mr. Traylor said, nonprofit operators have learned to economize on operating and maintenance costs, which now average $4,100 an apartment per year, he said. The buildings pay no taxes and pay only 1 percent interest on their mortgage debt.
The tenants living in city-managed buildings must wait sometimes for years before the funding is available to start these rehabilitation projects, and they are not always thrilled by the dislocation it entails. But for many the wait is worthwhile.
Nilsa Rosa, a tenant with two children living for nine years in a Cypress Hills one-bedroom with a kitchen "smaller than a closet" and a stoppage in her kitchen sink for the last five years, was the final tenant to occupy the totally rehabilitated 15-unit walk-up at 296 Jerome Street in Cypress Hills when she moved in last week.
Ms. Rosa, who is 50, will be paying $286 a month, the public-assistance shelter allowance for a family of three, and will get a spacious second-floor two-bedroom apartment.
"It's beautiful," she said. "There's so much room. It's so clean." Four of the 15 tenants are on welfare; the rest are working families with incomes of $22,000 to $34,000 a year, said Ms. Reynolds, the development director of the Cypress Hill development corporation.
With Victor Morales of Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, as the architect, the group will start the reconstruction of five additional buildings in Cypress Hills in June. Four of the buildings are six-unit walk-ups and one is an 18-unit walk-up at 209 Jamaica Avenue. The other addresses are 28-29 Fulton Street, 553 Glenmore Avenue, 211 Bradford Street and 779 Liberty Avenue, all city-owned and managed for about 15 years.
At present Ms. Reynolds has been working with tenants to prepare a relocation plan. "Initially some people were a little cynical," she said, "but eventually they become anxious to be relocated to new units, once you've talked with them on an ongoing basis and formed a bond."
Two of the buildings had been plagued with drug trafficking. Housing officials moved out the problem tenants before the community group became involved.
"The tax-credit program is the only program out there right now that targets our market," said Michelle Neugebauer, executive director of the Cypress Hills Local Development Corporation, which was formed in 1983. "We only have scattered abandoned properties, but they bring down the value of the whole surrounding neighborhood."
Ms. Neugebauer also noted that market-rate apartments in Cypress Hills now rent for about $750 to $900 a month, far more than many people living in the neighborhood can afford. "The program has created affordability," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Superintendent Robert Cruz, left, tenant Teofilo Rodriguez with son, Brandon, and Jean M. Reynolds, program director, at 296 Jerome Street. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CYPRESS HILLS LOCAL DEVELOPMENT CORP CYPRESS HILLS LOCAL DEVELOPMENT CORP (75%); LOCAL INITIATIVES SUPPORT CORP (58%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: CYPRESS HILLS LOCAL DEVELOPMENT CORP CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL REAL ESTATE (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (87%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); TAX INCENTIVES (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); TAX LAW (71%); BUDGETS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); LEGISLATION (64%); 

PERSON: OSER, ALAN S MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1998



184 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 3; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: ON THE MAP;
Porters, Maids and Barbers: Blacks and the Service Industries

BYLINE: By STEVE STRUNSKY 

 BODY:
When Cubit Brunson arrived in Jersey City in 1915 from a farm in South Carolina, he landed a job selling insurance to other blacks. His son Theodore became a collection manager for the Internal Revenue Service. Theodore's son, Neal, is a lawyer. Unlike Cubit Brunson, many African-Americans who migrated to Northern states had to build their family foundations with more menial labor. To celebrate February as Black History Month, the Afro-American Historical and Cultural Society Museum, 4,000 square feet above the Greenville Branch of the Jersey City Public Library, has assembled an exhibit titled "Blacks in the Service Industry." Ted Brunson, 75, who directed the museum since it was founded in 1977, passed the directorship on to his son last year. Neal Brunson, 35, spoke recently as he and his father gave a tour of the museum, which holds cultural icons ranging from sheet music of blatantly racist "coon songs" to an elaborately carved African tribal stool.
Q. Why an exhibit of blacks in the service industry? 
 A. At the end of the Civil War, most blacks worked in the service industry: maids, butlers, domestics, washerwomen, barbers, porters. And they came north because of the money. The war economy of the North enabled more people to hire more domestics and more servants and to pay them more money. So they came north to New Jersey. And one of the things we're focusing on is what happened when they got here. How did they earn a living when they got here? You talk to any African-American, and ask how many of your grandparents, how many of your grandaunts and uncles worked in the domestic industry. I bet you at least one out of two, one out of three worked in that field. And from that very humble type of job, they saved the economic life of black America. We would have gone bankrupt. African-American men often were day laborers. Day laborers did not work consistently. There was not consistent money coming into that community -- except the wife who was taking in wash, the wife who was working as a domestic or the men that were able to work as butlers and in other male service jobs.
Q. Was there competition for those jobs?
A. The competition was enormous. Blacks were predominantly barbers for the entire population prior to the migration of Italian-Americans. And as Italian-Americans came in, blacks were displaced from that. At the turn of the century when Atlantic City was a vacation hub, blacks were predominant workers in terms of waiters and busboys and the staffing of these hotels. When more migrants came from Europe, they were summarily displaced.
Q. Is there a parallel between blacks being displaced from jobs at the turn of the century and what some blacks say today about more recent waves of immigrants?
A. Absolutely. One of the reasons why I was fascinated with this period is, you have a lot of debate now about the affirmative action question. And you have some who pose the question of why blacks have not been able to reach a certain economic level. So I'm going back and taking a look at the economic forces that really drove this.
Q. What was Jersey City's history as a link in the Underground Railroad?
A. Frederick Douglass spoke here, there were a number of abolitionist meetings here. It was an important link because New Jersey had slavery. New Jersey didn't give up slavery until the 13th Amendment. So in New Jersey there always had to be a link with the abolitionist movement and the Underground Railroad to get people from New Jersey on through. STEVE STRUNSKY

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ted Brunson and his son Neal at the Afro-American Museum. Dolls depicting black military figures, left. (Photographs by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (58%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); GREENVILLE, SC, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: AFRO-AMERICAN HISTORICAL AND CULTURAL SOCIETY SERVICE INDUSTRIES LTD (58%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: AFRO-AMERICAN HISTORICAL AND CULTURAL SOCIETY INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (58%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); GREENVILLE, SC, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS; BLACK HISTORY MONTH AFRICAN AMERICANS (92%); HISTORY (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); DISPLACED PERSONS (87%); LIBRARIES (77%); CIVIL WAR (76%); MEN (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (74%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (73%); FOUNDATIONS (71%); MUSIC (68%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%); IMMIGRATION (64%); HOTELS & MOTELS (60%); 

PERSON: BRUNSON, NEAL; STRUNSKY, STEVE MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1998



185 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 14; Page 9; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 406 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: CONEY ISLAND;
Call It Sea Gate or Seagate?

BYLINE: By AMY WALDMAN 

 BODY:
Observers of Mayor Giuliani's reputed ability to cow into submission employees, opponents and citizens, take note: the Mayor may have met his match, and his name is Kasper Price.
Mr. Price is the president of the Sea Gate Association, which represents the residents of Sea Gate, a private, gated community on the western edge of the Coney Island peninsula. 
 Since last summer, Mr. Price and his association have been engaged in a fierce boundary dispute with their neighbors and the city. The city emerged bloodied from the most recent round of legal sparring. Sea Gate came out smiling.
It all started with some chain links. Last summer, Sea Gate, determined to keep its private community private, erected a 10-foot-high fence to bar outsiders from a new strip of beach that the tides had caused to materialize at the back of some Sea Gate houses.
Their Coney Island neighbors were furious, and they quickly enlisted the help of city officials. After an investigation, the city concluded that not only had Sea Gate failed to get a city permit to construct the fence, but that the fence was on land that had been seized by the city in 1977 for nonpayment of taxes.
With the police looking on and Mr. Price fuming, city officials took the fence down. The Sea Gate Association promptly filed a lawsuit against the Mayor and the city.
On Jan. 22, Justice Joseph J. Dowd of State Supreme Court in Brooklyn issued a preliminary injunction barring the city from Sea Gate property.
He also said the city appeared to have violated Sea Gate's constitutional rights, because the association had never been notified that the land in question was on the tax rolls, let alone that taxes were owed. Due process had been denied, he ruled.
Mr. Price was exuberant, although the lawsuit has yet to be decided. "We're not only going to put the fence back up," he said, "we're going to sue for damages."
Jeannette LoSciuto, a Coney Island resident who had led the charge against the fence, called the judge's ruling incredible. There was overwhelming evidence, she said, that the city had owned the land since 1962, when it was seized under an urban renewal plan.
Warren Shaw, an assistant corporation counsel in the New York City Law Department's commercial and real estate litigation division, said the judge's ruling was "not a final determination."
"What's ultimately going to happen," he added, "no one knows." AMY WALDMAN

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: SEA GATE ASSOCIATION (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; SEA GATE (BROOKLYN); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: BOUNDARIES AND TERRITORIAL ISSUES; SUITS AND LITIGATION CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (87%); DUE PROCESS (76%); BEACHES (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); INJUNCTIONS (70%); JUDGES (70%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (67%); DAMAGES (65%); EVIDENCE (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (64%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: WALDMAN, AMY; DOWD, JOSEPH J (JUSTICE) RUDY GIULIANI (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1998



186 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 12; Page 1; Column 1; Automobiles 

LENGTH: 935 words

HEADLINE: Fancy Boxes From Europe, Wrapped for Americans

BYLINE: By LEONARD M. APCAR 

 BODY:
VOLVO has an exceptional sense of who buys its boxy, utilitarian cars. Mercedes has an equally strong sense of what customers want from its solid, sometimes stolid, luxury cars. Never have the two camps been close.
While Volvo loyalists depend on that company's reputation for safety and reliability, Mercedes traditionalists view the three-pointed star as a touchstone for Old World elegance, endurance and, of course, status. 
 Ah, status. What would a Mercedes be without it? For the most remarkable feature of the Mercedes E320 station wagon is its price, which starts at more than $47,000 and exceeds $50,000 with full leather, sunroof and the fancy traction and stability technology that defines luxury cars today. And that is for rear-wheel drive. A new all-wheel-drive option costs another $2,750.
For that money you would expect something more than a state-of-the-art, seven-passenger wagon, even if it is intended to cart children, plants and groceries. And, mostly, Mercedes delivers. The performance is spirited, the handling is agile and responsive and the appointments are not just convenient, they are virtually flawless.
What it does not deliver is that something extra -- grace, muscle, refinement -- that seduces you into the showroom and makes you downright joyful to part with a big chunk of Junior's college tuition.
While test-driving the E320, I kept thinking about Ford and Volvo wagons I have driven, asking myself what there is about this car that merits the extra money.
The answer, I concluded, is that the Mercedes is superior to those capable workhorses -- it is more powerful and more roomy -- but only if you value a little more raw performance up front and extra cargo space in the rear. The Mercedes has both, and for now it is alone at the top of the heap. Two German luxury wagons -- a restyled Audi A6 and the BMW 5-Series -- will make their American debuts later this year.
The E320's engine is a new, delightful 3.2-liter V6 -- replacing an in-line 6 -- with an efficient 221 horsepower and impressive fuel economy. It has two platinum-tipped spark plugs and three valves per cylinder, and roars out a stunning percentage of its peak torque at relatively low speeds, about 2,000 r.p.m. Merging onto a freeway, accelerating from a stop and jumping into a passing lane are not gambles.
The automatic transmission has five speeds, which is rare among station wagons. Like some other luxury gearboxes, it senses road grades and driving speeds and decides when to change gears. On the freeway, it stays in gear longer, for example.
I put the Mercedes through a mix of tasks, including suburban errands and a trip up the Taconic Parkway for a day of skiing. The weather was varied but frightful -- with rain and snow showers and slick, even icy, road conditions -- but the rear-drive wagon got us where we needed to go. It was helped by its standard traction control, which diverts power from wheels that are spinning to those that are gripping. A $990 option, the electronic stability program, reduces sliding or spinning of the driving wheels by selectively applying the brakes to keep the car going in the proper direction.
As the for the all-wheel-drive version, a colleague who drove the car through the Catskills reported that it was unperturbed by snow-packed lanes and muddy mountain roads.
Like every Mercedes, the E320 wagon felt solid and safe, and wind noise was minimal. There were two air bags up front and two in the front doors. In one panic stop, I benefited from a braking feature that adds full force to the brakes when it senses an emergency, based on how quickly the driver has depressed the brake pedal.
The interior had all the usual Mercedes luxury. A touch of walnut surrounds the cabin, which is pre-wired for a mobile phone and a little gizmo that integrates up to three remote controls (presumably for the driveway gate, the garage door and the horse barn). Storage pockets abound. The power front seats can be adjusted 10 ways.
The air-conditioner has separate controls for the driver and the front-seat passenger. A vent between the front seats blows hot or cold air to the rear passengers.
The Germans have clearly surrendered to Americans' demand for cup holders. This wagon had eight: two up front, two in the glove box door, two that slid out of the second-seat armrest and two for passengers in the rear-facing third seat. There was even a nice cup ring that sprouted from the center console and expanded to hold big containers.
So where are the flaws? For this amount of money, I'd prefer a two-piece tailgate, which would make it easier to tuck away small items. The seats, for all the automation, were not as comfortable as those in other luxury cars I've driven. The large, single windshield wiper never washed and wiped completely. The clock can be read only by the driver. The instrument panel light that monitors the traction control systems is a distracting, over-large yellow triangle.
But here's a safety concern: The cruise control is operated by a stalk to the left of the steering wheel, just next to the turn signal lever. If you are not careful, a flick of the stick activates the cruise control and sends you flying ahead. Oddly, there is not a light announcing that the cruise control is on.
Lately, Volvo has advertised its all-wheel drive wagon with a line, "Life, liberty and the pursuit of just about anything you please." But if you choose the Mercedes, you tell the world that you don't need to pursue anything. You have arrived.
 
INSIDE TRACK: The power wagon for the power lunch set.

GRAPHIC: Photos: MERCEDES-BENZ E320: Although all-wheel drive is available, this luxury wagon will not be mistaken for a truck. VOLVO V70 CROSS COUNTRY AWD: A sport-utility alternative, it is one of three all-wheel-drive V70 wagons.
 
Table: "High-Status Wagons With All-Wheel Drive" compares price and features of the Mercedes-Benz E320 and the Volvo V70 XC AWD.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VOLVY (NASDAQ) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336120 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3713 TRUCK & BUS BODIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (67%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: MERCEDES BENZ AG; VOLVO AB OLD WORLD BAKERY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MERCEDES BENZ AG; VOLVO AB

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (67%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); LUXURY GOODS (90%); SEDANS (79%); TUITION FEES (76%); 

PERSON: APCAR, LEONARD M

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1998



187 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 9; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 954 words

HEADLINE: MUTUAL FUNDS;
It May Be Time to Go for Gold

BYLINE: By MICKEY MEECE 

 BODY:
PRECIOUS metals are suddenly looking more precious. With last week's news that Warren E. Buffett was quietly amassing a hoard of silver, driving its price to the highest level in nine years, investors began to see a treasure trove, rather than a junk heap, in long-neglected precious metals and the mutual funds that invest in them.
In fact, gold was already rallying a bit, climbing above $300 an ounce recently, after trading at $278.15 on Jan. 12. It ended the week just under $300. Gold stocks also rose after the news of the activity by Mr. Buffett, one of America's most widely followed investors. 
 After last year, when the average gold fund tumbled 43 percent, according to Morningstar Inc., the fund tracking company in Chicago, it almost seemed that these funds had nowhere to go but up.
No fund -- not even the once high-flying Midas -- escaped the carnage. All the gold funds did poorly, from fund families like Lexington Strategic Investments, U.S. Global Investors, USAA and Morgan Stanley.
Now, with Mr. Buffett accumulating silver, which, like gold, is a traditional inflation hedge, it is perhaps less surprising that some funds, like Oppenheimer Gold and Special Minerals, have been increasing their gold holdings. "Given the relatively steep decline in gold stocks last year, we believe that the risk-reward is now better for gold stocks than other minerals," Oppenheimer said in its January shareholder report.
It moved to 75 percent gold and 25 percent other minerals, from 65 percent gold and 35 percent others. "The gold holdings will be relatively stable because of our emphasizing senior producers with low cash costs and highly liquid shares," the report said.
Even more aggressive, Sogen Gold has nearly 98 percent of its holdings in gold stocks, seemingly unfazed by a slide in net assets to $31.4 million at the end of 1997, from $55.8 million a year earlier. In such a terrible year, it was the best performer among strictly gold funds, down 30 percent.
The fund's manager, Jean-Marie Eveillard, said, "Our attitude has been the same one we took four years ago," namely that the downside risk was modest because "the price had already declined considerably from its peak, so it's a long-depressed asset." An investment of $10,000 when Sogen Gold opened in September 1993 would have been worth $8,124 at the end of last year; the value of the same investment in a typical precious-metals fund would have fallen to $6,422, according to Morningstar.
Equally stubborn in its strategy is Van Eck Associates, which has maintained a 90 percent exposure to gold in its two gold funds. Last year, Van Eck International Investors Gold A was down 36 percent, while Van Eck Gold/Resources A dropped 39.3 percent.
Harry Bingham, a manager of institutional gold portfolios at Van Eck, pointed out that gold typically ran contrary to the market, especially during major moves or changes. "There's been a bull market for the last 15 years, and gold has been in a bear market with some great rallies in between," he said.
Mr. Eveillard agreed that "everything is cyclical -- bear markets and bull markets, so this one's not going to last." Secondly, he added, "From a commodity point of view, there has been an excess of demand over supply" of 500 to 1,000 tons a year, as demand for jewelry has exceeded production from mines.
Still, Mr. Eveillard said, "obviously, as long as the feeling prevails that everything is right with the world, the opportunity for gold prices to move up is modest." He added that he was prepared to ask shareholders to vote on abandoning the sector entirely at the end of the year if prices did not move up -- as he had said when he opened the fund in 1993.
Across the fund industry, however, many investors were already abandoning the sector last year. Assets of gold and natural-resources funds totaled $4.98 billion at year-end, according to AMG Data Services, a fund-tracking firm based in Arcata, Calif., down 37 percent from the beginning of the year. "The only sector that has had a larger percentage decline in asset base is the Asian emerging market," said Robert Adler, president of the firm.
Analysts cited two reasons for gold's slide last year: the near absence of inflation and the threat of central bank sales of gold reserves, which would overwhelm the market and cause prices to fall.
Now, the pendulum could swing. "There should be strong support for the price of gold," said Mark Wright, a senior analyst at Morningstar. "At current levels gold is selling cheaper than it costs to mine it. At some point, if gold stays at this level, companies will have to stop mining, and the prices will go up."
Doug Cohen, an analyst with Morgan Stanley, Dean Witter, Discover & Company, said: "With gold rallying a bit, the panic selling from last year has subsided. Mutual fund redemptions seem to have bottomed out. Anyone looking to get into gold hasn't missed the opportunity yet. Most people are very cautious. On the whole, there's probably more upside reward than downside risk in the gold price at $300 per ounce."
Few analysts would advise investors to join a gold rush. As Mr. Eveillard said, "It's a very opaque market with many participants." Still, many favor modest holdings, particularly for investors looking for insurance against inflation, market swings or political instability.
Mr. Wright of Morningstar, like other advisers, recommends keeping a small proportion of a portfolio, from 2 to 5 percent, in gold. "The bottom line is again diversification," he said. "Even a 2 percent stake in precious-metal stocks should reduce the volatility of one's entire portfolio enough to compensate" should the overall market go down.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Climbing Back From the Valley?"
After a two-year slide, the price of gold has turned up recently, a development mirrored in the performance of funds that invest in stock of companies that mine gold and other precious metals. Graph shows spot price of gold and value of $10,000 invested on Dec. 29, 1995, in an average of all precious-metals.
 
GOLD
FRIDAY: $298.15
 
(Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets (gold); Morningstar Inc. (fund average))

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (83%); GROW (NASDAQ) (55%); MS (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (83%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (77%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (83%); U S GLOBAL INVESTORS INC (55%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (77%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: GOLD MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); 

PERSON: MEECE, MICKEY WARREN BUFFETT (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1998



188 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1410 words

HEADLINE: MINDING YOUR BUSINESS;
From Lake Wobegon and Beyond, A Round Table on Economics and Finance

BYLINE: By LAURA PEDERSEN-PIETERSEN 

 BODY:
TO add some perspective to these turbulent financial times, we have convened three great thinkers: Mark Twain, Will Rogers and Garrison Keillor, voice of the public-radio show, "A Prairie Home Companion," and author most recently of "Wobegon Boy" (Viking, 1997, $24.95).
True, none of them runs a mutual fund or works as a Wall Street economist. And they have no comments about last week's rebound in Asia. But they do have a lot to say about how Main Street thinks about money. 
 (The comments of Mr. Twain and Mr. Rogers are taken from their writings. Mr. Keillor, who is quite alive, spoke with me recently in Manhattan.)
Q. Gentlemen, thank you for joining our financial discussion.
MARK TWAIN I've come loaded with statistics, for I've noticed that a man can't prove anything without statistics.
Q. Do your indicators suggest that it's wise to put money into the stock market right now? Some analysts are predicting a recession.
GARRISON KEILLOR In Lake Wobegon, where I'm from, we don't trust paper. Wealth is what's here on the premises. If I open a cupboard and see, say, 30 cans of tomato sauce and a 5-pound bag of rice, I get a little thrill of well-being -- much more so than if I look at the quarterly dividend report from my mutual fund. But then my mutual fund is one of the few in America that's losing money.
Anyway, if I had ever been tempted to buy the stocks of the corporations that owned the major networks, I wouldn't think of it after they paid $17.6 billion for the rights to broadcast football.
MR. TWAIN There are two times in a man's life when he should not speculate: when he can't afford it and when he can.
WILL ROGERS Don't gamble! Take all your savings and buy some good stock and hold it till it goes up, then sell it. If it don't go up, don't buy it.
Q. A lot of people on Wall Street took home multimillion-dollar bonuses in 1997. Is that wrong, considering that the average American's salary is around $30,000?
MR. KEILLOR We're skeptical of rich people in Lake Wobegon. A person can sleep in only one bed at a time. In the New Testament, rich people are not well spoken of. One of the few depictions of a person in hellfire is a rich man. One of the few persons who comes to Jesus and goes away disappointed is a rich young man. This has not had a big effect on Bill Gates or Donald Trump, but it has had a big effect on people from Lake Wobegon.
Q. Does that mean that religion plays a part in investment strategy?
MR. KEILLOR Happy Lutherans -- believers in splashing some water on babies and then not worrying about it, just come every Sunday and bring a hot dish -- are, of course, bullish on life in general. Dark Lutherans -- believers in the utter depravity of man --think that any upturn is momentary, sure to be followed by a long, grim slide.
Dark Lutherans feel that 6 percent is about all that a person can legitimately expect in annual return. Fifteen percent, to a Dark Lutheran, is a fantasy, and 30 is a hallucination. After 30 percent come the glaciers. Happy Lutherans, of course, accept whatever good luck comes their way as an omen of more to follow.
Q. Are you aware that there is a Lutheran Brotherhood Opportunity Growth fund? It's done considerably worse than the Standard & Poor's 500 over the last year.
MR. KEILLOR Lutherans are not smart about money. Look at how many of them are still in dairy farming.
Q. Do you think it is morally wrong to try to make a lot of money?
MR. TWAIN Like all other nations, we worship money and the possessors of it, they being our aristocracy. We like to read about rich people in the papers; the papers know it, and they do their best to keep this appetite liberally fed. "Rich Woman Fell Down Cellar -- Not Hurt." The falling down the cellar is of no interest to us when the woman is not rich, but no rich woman can fall down cellar and we not yearn to know all about it and wish it was us.
MR. KEILLOR It's vulgar to be concerned with money. That's the fundamentalist view that I grew up with, and also the English-major view that I graduated with. So, if you get a windfall now and then, you give away a bunch to your family, you throw fistfuls out to various charities and you salt the rest away in the seemliest way possible.
I put my money into a money market account that pays -- I forget what -- about 2 3/4 percent.
I never invested in the stock market. I put some retirement money into a mutual fund once, but I almost never look at it. The way I earn money is by writing. I'm a farmer of prose crops. If they thrive, I prosper, and if they don't, then I get by and get over it.
Q. So you believe that people who make a lot of money should give a large amount to charity, as Ted Turner did recently?
MR. ROGERS Americans are the most generous, kindhearted people on earth as long as they're convinced not one dollar of it is going for taxes.
MR. TWAIN In all the ages, three-fourths of the support of the great charities has been conscience money.
Q. How about saving money? America has one of the lowest savings rates of any nation.
MR. KEILLOR In Lake Wobegon we believe in salting money away, not only as an investment but also to remove it as a temptation.
MR. TWAIN Simple rules for saving money: To save half, when you are fired by an eager impulse to contribute to charity, wait and count 40. To save three-quarters, count 60. To save it all, count 65.
Q. Do you think most Americans mind paying their fair share of taxes?
MR. KEILLOR No. Cheating on your income taxes is not an honored tradition in this country. Before doing it you'd have to think long and hard about whether you want to be on the news, shielding your face with your hat while being led in for arraignment. It's something to contemplate, especially since most of us don't have hats anymore.
MR. ROGERS The income tax has made more liars out of the American people than golf has.
MR. TWAIN We've got so much taxation. I don't know of a single foreign product that enters this country untaxed except the answer to prayer.
Q. Everybody seems to be selling self-help books these days. They've taken over at least half the shelves in bookstores. Are we in a period of great economic growth but of personal or spiritual decline?
MR. ROGERS We don't know what we want, but we are ready to bite somebody to get it.
MR. TWAIN Be careful about reading health books. You may die of a misprint.
MR. KEILLOR Would one want to be seen reading such books as "How to Improve Sexual Potency in 15 Days?" Is this something you'd want your sister to find on your bedside table? They really suggest the sort of vapid, vaguely neurotic and helpless person no one wants to be.
And they're all scams. Each one more than the others. The problem is not with the American people. News magazines need a crisis to put on their covers every week. They need photos of our fellow Americans looking distraught and anxious. And, lacking an airline crash, they have to stimulate self-doubt and paranoia -- even if it means finding a substance in the crystals in every American's freezer and suggesting they are causing a drop in intelligence.
Q. Why do you think that two million Americans migrated from metropolitan areas to small towns last year -- reversing a decadelong transition from town to city?
MR. KEILLOR It's our old unrequited romance with ourselves. We honestly would like to believe that, if we lived where we could get to know each other better, we would become fast friends. This usually turns out not to be true.
Small towns are not characterized by deeper friendships but by people finding ways to manage the irritation and contempt that are the results of proximity.
Q. Many people feel that our society is too litigious. Do you agree?
MR. KEILLOR Litigation is like Elvis worship, something you read about in newspapers, something that doesn't touch many people.
Q. Our time is up, gentlemen. Any final words of advice?
MR. TWAIN There is an old-time toast which is golden for its beauty. "When you ascend the hill of prosperity, may you not meet a friend."
MR. ROGERS The only way to solve the traffic problems of the country is to pass a law that only paid-for cars are allowed to use the highways.
MR. KEILLOR I've said it before, but: Some luck lies in not getting what you thought you wanted but getting what you have, which once you have it you may be smart enough to see is what you would have wanted had you known.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Garrison Keillor, a farmer of prose crops, is a dedicated believer in 2 3/4 percent. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)
 
Drawing (Robert Grossman)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (89%); PUBLIC RADIO (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (76%); BONDS (76%); WRITERS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); DIVIDENDS (67%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (60%); 

PERSON: KEILLOR, GARRISON; ROGERS, WILL (1879-1935); CLEMENS, SAMUEL LANGHORNE (MARK TWAIN) (1835-1910); PEDERSEN-PIETERSEN, LAURA DONALD TRUMP (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1998



189 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1289 words

HEADLINE: SPENDING IT;
'Married Filing Jointly,' and Liable for a Bundle

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

 BODY:
WHEN her husband asked her to sign their joint tax return that fateful day in 1969, Josephine C. Berman complied without a second thought.
Filing a separate return never entered her mind because she had no job or income. Moreover, had she balked, she said, "my husband would have hounded me and forced me" to sign a document about which she had scarcely any knowledge. 
 Yet Mrs. Berman's assent has resulted in 28 years of hounding by the Internal Revenue Service, which, in enforcing joint-liability provisions of the tax law, has slapped a lien on her house in South Orange, N.J., for its total value of $180,000 and has seized her individual retirement account.
Now 68 and one step from what she said would be abject poverty, Mrs. Berman contended that the case, which has also involved attempts to garnishee her pay, caused her to suffer a nervous breakdown and contributed to the loss of her job as a dental nurse after agents repeatedly questioned her boss.
"Over the past 28 years, I have lived with a black cloud shrouding me -- a constant reminder over my head," she said in a letter to members of the Senate Finance Committee, pleading for Congressional intervention. With her credit rating destroyed and her debt a social stigma, she added, "my very existence is continually threatened."
Virtually alone among developed countries, the United States makes married taxpayers individually responsible for the entire tax associated with a joint return, the kind filed by 95 percent of couples.
Usually, filing jointly has tax advantages. But not so in "innocent spouse" cases. There, typically, a wife is dunned years later for taxes related to business or other dealings of a husband from whom she is separated or even divorced. The situation can also apply to husbands found liable for the debts of their wives.
The wife is liable for her husband's unreported income, his overstated deductions and any amount he has acknowledged owing but fails to pay. Often, the husband has disappeared and the I.R.S. seeks payment from the wife, who, living in the matrimonial home, is usually easier to find.
"It's a bad law," often "egregious" in application, said David L. Jordan, a partner at Ernst & Young who for two years was acting chief counsel at the I.R.S.
Neither the I.R.S. nor anyone else keeps formal track of such cases, but Richard C. E. Beck, a professor at New York Law School who specializes in tax law, estimated that as many as 75,000 women a year are forced to pay obligations of ex-husbands because they had signed joint returns.
Joint liability was enacted in 1938, a time when fewer women held jobs and divorce was less common. It came out of administrative need: in a joint filing, the I.R.S. could not determine whose income was whose.
Now, joint liability is under attack from several quarters. An American Bar Association task force that studied the issue recommended sweeping repeal of tax laws that are based on it.
In its own appraisal last year, the General Accounting Office found that the I.R.S., which is not bound by how divorce decrees may assign tax responsibility, provides scant help for innocent spouses. The agency denies most of the few requests for relief it receives, the G.A.O. said; nor does the I.R.S. have any specific form or application process. Its publications provide little information about such cases.
With ambitious reorganization plans putting the tax agency in the spotlight, prospects for innocent spouses -- at least future ones -- have brightened.
In its last session, the House of Representatives passed a bill that would have made it easier for spouses to win relief from I.R.S. collection efforts. Among other revisions, the measure created a new category of not-entirely-innocent-but-far-from-guilty wife who would have to pay only the part of the tax that involved items the I.R.S. or the courts decide she should have known about.
The Senate, which did not act last year, may go even further this year. The Finance Committee has scheduled a hearing on the joint liability issue for Wednesday.
One possibility under consideration would allow wives to file amended returns in which they change their filing status to "separate" from "joint." Another would replace joint liability with proportional liability: Each spouse's tax would be calculated on a married-filing-separately basis, to figure the share each owed.
The Treasury, which a spokesman said Friday is "very concerned" about the issue, also expects to announce a series of administrative steps this week to facilitate relief for innocent spouses. These measures, which he would not specify, would be in addition to proposals in the Administration's budget to require the I.R.S. to alert married taxpayers of joint liability in its publications, to give those denied relief an appeal to the Tax Court and to bar levies while a case is in the Tax Court.
Such revisions would constitute a second significant attempt to ease the burden of innocent spouses. Spurred by some harsh Tax Court decisions, the Government in 1971 legislated remedies.
To win relief, the spouse must now show that the disputed liability is "grossly erroneous"; that the return showed a "substantial understatement" of tax due; that the spouse did not know, or have reason to know, of the understatement, and that, over all, it would be inequitable to hold her liable.
But tax experts and women seeking to qualify for relief say the law remains inflexible. "It's practically worthless," said Elizabeth R. Cockrell of Manhattan, who the I.R.S. says owes more than $600,000 for a former husband's disallowed tax shelters from 1979 to 1981. Her struggle has far outlasted the prison term a promoter of the shelter served for criminal fraud.
"There are four tests -- if you fail one you lose the whole case," said Ms. Cockrell, founder of a support group called Women for I.R.S. Financial Equity. "And hiring a tax lawyer is the last thing most of these women can afford."
Mrs. Berman, who is scheduled to testify before the Senate panel, traces her problems back three decades, to the return she co-signed in which her husband, Irving, deducted legal expenses from his duty-free liquor business that were later disallowed.
The couple are long separated but never officially divorced. Mr. Berman left in 1970, failed at various jobs and was unemployed for more than four years; he is, Mrs. Berman said, simply unable to pay what the I.R.S. says he owes. Mr. and Mrs. Berman have not kept in touch and efforts to reach Mr. Berman last week were unsuccessful.
Mrs. Berman faced a $62,000 tax debt which, with interest and penalties, now amounts to more than $300,000. Periodically, she agreed to waive the statute of limitations so the I.R.S. would not sell the house and evict her and her three children.
The I.R.S. made little effort to pursue Mr. Berman because the Berman home could be attached. "Once he left, they really targeted her -- and left him alone," said Douglas Berman, their 35-year-old son, who has seen his mother struggle with this burden since he was 7.
Especially galling, Mrs. Berman said, was the seizure in 1996 of her I.R.A., worth more than $35,000. That resulted in an early withdrawal penalty, and technically pushed her income high enough that she did not get a tax refund she had been counting on.
The I.R.S., citing confidentiality rules, declined to comment on the Berman case.
The current system is "bad for marital relations," said David Keating, a consultant to the National Taxpayers Union, a taxpayer advocacy group. "It's very difficult emotionally to say 'Honey, I'd like to file separately this year even though it will cost us a few thousand extra dollars.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: Josephine Berman in her South Orange, N.J., home, on which the Internal Revenue Service has placed a lien. Her problems began when she signed a joint tax return. (Mike Peters for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (51%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (51%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (83%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (83%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; MARRIAGES; TAX EVASION; INCOME TAX; LAW AND LEGISLATION TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX LAW (91%); MARRIAGE (89%); TAX FRAUD (78%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); LEGISLATION (75%); PERSONAL DEBT (74%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); LAWYERS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); WOMEN (71%); LAW SCHOOLS (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); INDIVIDUAL RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS (54%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (54%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR; BERMAN, JOSEPHINE JOSEPHINE C BERMAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1998



190 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1018 words

HEADLINE: The World;
A Promised Land of Frozen Milk and Honey

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SPECTER 

DATELINE: TOMSK, Russia

 BODY:
AMERICANS don't know much about Russia, but what they do know (or think they know) has been etched into their brains from birth: The place is a big, loutish and at times exuberant mess. It is the world headquarters of suffering. If the Czars and the Communists differed in every other way, they shared an ability to incite dread on an almost unimaginable scale.
Americans also know this: A big part of Russia is called Siberia. It's the worst place on earth, a five million square mile penal colony filled, from the Ural Mountains to the Sea of Okhotsk, with exiled zombies who would rather be dead. The American Heritage Dictionary has even turned the place into history's biggest descriptive noun: Siberia, a remote and undesirable locale. 
 But what if that weren't true? What if that remote locale, one of the last great swaths of unspoiled earth, turned out to be incredibly desirable? What if Siberia had the world's most important lake, its biggest gold mine and more diamonds, gas, timber and open spaces than any place on Earth? And what if people in Siberia were more independent than they are anywhere else in Russia?
 
Looking Ahead
What, in short, if Siberia was one of the most promising places on Earth?
"Nobody would believe a word of that," said Viktor Kress, the imaginative governor of the Tomsk region, in western Siberia, where the capital city has 500,000 residents and another 500,000 are spread out in dozens of the most inaccessible communities in the world. "Even in Russia people want the story to read: Siberia is the worst place there is. It drives everybody nuts when the truth turns out to be different."
It certainly has driven the people who run Russia crazy. Of course if Siberia is far from the worst place there is, it is also not paradise. It's too big and uncontrollable to be paradise. Siberia is so enormous that almost two million square miles would be left over if the entire continental United States was dumped in the center of it. Lake Baikal alone is larger than Belgium; more than a mile deep, it contains a fifth of the earth's supply of fresh water.
The vast distances make the cost of transporting even simple goods forbiddingly high. Many cities that were created and financed by the Soviets have no economic reason for their existence, and in a free market they are dying by the score. The weather is at least as bad as any myth can make it, and there is little money for anyone.
The money part may actually change soon. Siberian oil and gas are the main energy sources not just for Russia but for much of the former Soviet world. More than 75 percent of the hard currency earned by Russia last year came from oil exports, and nearly 95 percent of that oil came from Siberia. Japan and Korea are salivating over the prospect of sticking their earth movers into the ground there. In the past, Siberia was exploited greedily for Moscow, and by Moscow. When the Kremlin sages felt like it, they sent some money back from where it came.
That approach isn't going to work anymore. It was no coincidence that when Russia's President, Boris N. Yeltsin, met last November with Prime Minister Hashimoto Ryutaro of Japan, the meeting was held in Krasnoyarsk, the geographic center of Russia. The Japanese want to drill, dig and cut Siberia to bits.
And the Russians, aware that they can no longer pay Siberian miners with surplus towels or pencils, have decided that they had better let the Japanese in. The environment here, pure in large part because the country has been too poor to destroy it, may face a fundamental challenge as a result. But in the nation's biggest region, where wages are lower than the national average and the disease and hunger rates are higher, jobs are going to matter more than preservation. At least for a while.
Last year, Boris Nemtsov, the Deputy Prime Minister who, among other duties, has the task of bringing in more Asian investment, stunned Japanese business leaders at a lunch in Moscow by announcing his home and mobile phone numbers. Just in case they had trouble reaching him.
There is only one problem associated with the tremendous wealth that awaits those who invest in Siberia's mostly northern deposits of oil, gas, coal, timber and other resources. They will have to go get it. It's not as easy as it seems. Most of Siberia's staggering cache of raw materials are refined far from where they are found. That is particularly true of paper and gems. In the past, when the market meant nothing and competition was a dirty word, nobody worried about the cheapest way to develop a product.
The economics of moving raw goods enormous distances are never promising.
"We have a huge chore ahead of us," said Leonid Manyenko, a timber executive who works for an international consortium here. "We have to get the products out of the ground and develop them. Then we have to ship to markets at a cost that will let us still earn a profit."
That's where the eternal battle between Siberia and those people in Moscow comes in. Siberians look at Moscow with about the same attitude that Wyoming cowboys have when they approach the Beltway. "There is a feeling that all they do is take," said Mr. Kress, referring to the federal government. "It's not completely true. But it is certainly not all that wrong either."
 
Stuck With Each Other
When the Soviet Union first dissolved, many people thought huge chunks of Siberia would desert too. That never happened and it looks less likely with each passing year.
There are too many connections and Siberia does not have the will or ability to break away from anybody. But Moscow has increased payments to the region, promised to help set up local political authorities that would actually have power to set utility rates and disperse money and, to some degree, it has stopped treating this part of Russia like an enormous wallet.
"Moscow has realized it can't make it without us," said Aleksandr Makarov, the mayor of this city. "We don't like to admit it, but we know the same is true for us. We need each other so we are going to work it out.

GRAPHIC: Photos: All right, Siberia is no wasteland. But nobody says it's warm. On a December day in 1991 in Surgut, it was 31 below zero Celsius (24 below, Fahrenheit). (Shepard Sherbell/SABA); A native Komi reindeer herder. (Shepard Sherbell/Saba)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); BELGIUM (55%); 

STATE: EARTH (93%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN HERITAGE HOMES (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; SIBERIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); BELGIUM (55%); EARTH (93%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); LAKES (72%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (67%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); TRENDS (60%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (59%); MOUNTAINS (55%); 

PERSON: SPECTER, MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1998



191 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: The World: Fear Itself;
Again, Israel Worries About Iraq

BYLINE: By JOEL GREENBERG 

DATELINE: JERUSALEM

 BODY:
WAITING to trade in her family's worn gas masks for new ones at a crowded distribution center, Orly Abarjil said she was fighting off anxiety.
"Sure it's scary," she said of the prospect, however remote, that Iraq might launch chemical or biological weapons at Israel in response to an American air strike. "I try not to think about it. We went through enough the last time." 

Recycling Trauma
 During the 1991 Persian Gulf war, Israelis put on gas masks and huddled in sealed rooms while 39 Iraqi Scud missiles with conventional warheads crashed into their country.
The trauma of those days resurfaced last week as the country engaged in a frenzy of speculation about its chances of being attacked again.
All the commotion flew in the face of facts that argued that an all-out attack was highly improbable. And after days of official silence in the hope of averting panic, the Israeli Government belatedly launched a media offensive to persuade the public that not only were the Iraqis unlikely to bomb the country, but that enough medicines and vaccines had also been stockpiled to meet any threat, even a distant one.
What the alarm obscured were the important differences between the current crisis and the reality of the Persian Gulf war.
At that time, Iraq's President, Saddam Hussein, threatened Israel and later attacked it in the hope that an Israeli retaliation would drive Arab countries out of the American-led coalition arrayed against him. But Israel never responded, although it had every reason to defend itself.
Today, with no coalition facing Iraq and that country's weapons program curtailed, Mr. Hussein has made no threats and Iraqi officials declare publicly that they have neither the intention nor the capability of attacking Israel. What's more, if Iraq did actually launch biological or chemical weapons, the act itself would essentially refute its contention that it has none.
But these altered circumstances, which might allow Israelis to sleep peacefully at night, have gone largely unnoticed in the swirl of media hoopla and public jitters that has arisen over the last couple of few weeks.
 
A Panic Attack
 News programs and talk shows have overflowed with gulf war flashbacks and discussions of whether the country was prepared this time for a biological or chemical assault.
Newspaper tabloid headlines screamed: "Are We Ready?" "Is the Anthrax Vaccine Effective?" "Are Israelis Planning to Flee?"
Thousands of Israelis have overwhelmed gas-mask distribution points, waiting hours to replace their old masks.
The switchboard of the army's home-front command crashed when it was flooded by too many callers.
Some people readied gas-proof bomb shelters. Others went to drugstores to buy antibiotics.
There were also Israelis who were prepared to travel outside the country.
"We are whipping up an almost clinical psychosis that is much ado about nothing," said Joel Feldschuh, who was the Israeli air force's chief intelligence officer during the Persian Gulf war and who is now president of El Al, the national airline.
 
A Mind-Set
 "There is no similarity between what is happening today and what happened in 1991," added Mr. Feldschuh, virtually a voice in the wilderness on Israeli radio. "The Iraqis have no interest today to attack Israel. By stirring up this panic, we are digging ourselves into a hole. We're damaging the economy. What investor will want to come to Israel when we are making such a commotion? What tourist will want to come here?"
Doron Rosenblum, a social critic and satirist, argued that Israelis were caught in a mind-set formed during generations when Jews were persecuted abroad. Even though they are citizens of the most powerful country in the Middle East, they feel terribly vulnerable.
"It's a mentality of self-victimization," Mr. Rosenblum said in an interview. "We see ourselves as victims in a psychodrama in which the Holocaust can come back any day. We're behaving like a shtetl, not a state."
That stance can also have its political uses, enabling Israel to shed for a time an image of oppressor of the Palestinians and reclaim the more sympathetic role of a nation under Arab threat.
The theme was picked up by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, whose tough policies toward the Palestinians have been blamed for the collapse of peace efforts. The crisis with Iraq, he told high school students last week, was "a perfect reminder of what kind of neighborhood we live in."

GRAPHIC: Photo: An Israeli soldier delivered gas masks to a Jerusalem shopping mall last week. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (95%); IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); GULF STATES (88%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (88%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ; ISRAEL; ISRAEL (95%); IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); GULF STATES (88%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (88%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DESERT STORM (90%); ANTHRAX (89%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); NEWS BRIEFS (84%); ANXIETY DISORDERS (78%); BOMBINGS (77%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (72%); ARMIES (72%); VACCINES (68%); ANTIBIOTICS (66%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (63%); 

PERSON: GREENBERG, JOEL SADDAM HUSSEIN (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1998



192 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: The Nation;
The News Junkies' Treatment Program

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY 

 BODY:
PROPELLED by forces no one really controls, the nation has arrived at a point at which sensational news is crossed by throbbing, tangled skeins of gossip, titillation, rumor, speculation and revulsion.
Beginning with the O. J. Simpson case and continuing through the death of Diana, Princess of Wales, to the current fulminations of the White House sex scandal, a ritual has evolved that strictly governs the unfolding of a certain kind of Big Story. 
 First comes the revelation of something irresistibly fascinating yet seemingly unworthy of high-toned civic discourse. This is followed by a media firestorm, saturation coverage based on high ratings and seat-of-the-pants assessments of public appetites.
Then there's the morning after: the public wakes up aghast at the news organizations that forced it to sink so low, and the news organizations loudly confess their sins.
Behold a great nation locked in what clinicians might call a bipolar dilemma, with all of the signs of classic addiction: We know it's wrong, but we do it anyway.
But there may be a cure.
In the past two years, psychiatric clinicians conducting exhaustive field studies on the American news media have defined a new and potentially devastating behavioral disorder that is characterized by manic attention to stories about celebrity and/or sexual behavior, followed immediately by a depressive phase marked by episodes of severe guilt, group recrimination and feelings of inadequacy.
This illness has been identified in current clinical nosology as Media Overreaction Disorder (Recurrent Episodes with Hypomanic Specifiers). It is now under scientific peer review for inclusion as a mental disorder in the next edition of the American Psychiatric Association's Diagnostic and Statistical Manual (D.S.M. IV r ).
We at Human Resources cannot stress enough the need to have you or your organization clinically evaluated for signs of this debilitating disorder.
There is no reason to be ashamed in seeking help! Remember, MOD Crisis Intervention Counselors on the staff of the Human Resources Department are standing by to assist you at this moment!
Among the treatments available NOW, all fully covered by health insurance, are:
* A Twelve-Step Program, MOD Anonymous, with activities such as organized keening and group conference calls to Mr. Richard Jewel in Atlanta.
* Intensive 28-Day Aversion Therapy in Media-Phobic Resort Environment. (Human Resources is currently accepting reservations for the spring session in sunny Algeria. Reserve early!) At the spring session, the keynote speaker will be recovering MOD sufferer Twombley (Scoop) Birkenstock, author of the best-selling, "I'm O.K.; You're a Damn Disgrace to the Profession."
* Weekly sessions of group role-playing therapy, supervised by a Certified MOD Addiction Specialist, during which participants are encouraged to renounce symptomatic MOD acting-out behaviors by impersonating any one of the Three Stooges. Activities include cathartic eye-poking and face-slapping while participants shout phrases like "Nyuk, nyuk, nyuk" and "Back off the story already, you moron!" and "Why, I resemble that remark!"
* Group Electro-Shock Treatment.
* Maximum-Security Hospitalization.
You, of course, must be asking, "How do I know if I am a MOD sufferer?"
First, remember this: Denial is an indicator of MOD! Before the next overhyped news story comes along, as it assuredly will in the next week or 10 days, learn to recognize the MOD Danger Signs!
The essential feature of Media Overreaction Disorder is an initial period of group binge behavior, followed by a sharp depressive onset in which MOD sufferers are tortured by feelings of low self-esteem.
Media Overreaction Disorder is indicated when a journalist or news organization exhibits, on any one (1) overhyped news story, two (2) or more of the following behavior patterns among these Clinical Diagnostic Criteria:
(1) Joins or assigns someone else to join an unruly mob consisting of at least 50 television cameras and 100 hyperventilating reporters, all shouting similar questions at a cowering person who is either famous or suddenly notorious and who is being hustled toward a public or private doorway. The shouted questions to include one or more of the following:
"Did you do it?"
"Did he do it?"
"What did (you/he/it) do, anyway?"
"Why did (you/he/it) do such an awful thing?"
"Are you genuinely sad or sorry about this (terrible tragedy/criminal indictment/embarrassing accusation)?"
"Don't you owe the American people an (apology/ explanation/environmental impact statement) to account for the (criminal/sexual/recreational) activity that has brought us all out here shouting questions in the rain?"
(2) Is unable to ignore or suppress urge to beat a story to death (or to assign another person to beat said story to death). Often (stays on the air/adds extra pages) long after anything useful on the subject at hand has been said or printed at least five (5) times.
(3) For television journalists, an irresistible compulsion to create, commission, or pose with bizarre graphic logotypes aimed at establishing the public perception that the overhyped story that has precipitated the episode of Media Overreaction Disorder is, in fact, Vitally Important to the Nation. Example: On-screen graphic logo showing cartoon of startled Uncle Sam with his hat flying off with the words above, in bold red letters: "Live Nude Girls!"
(4) For print editors, an obsession to label endless "sidebar" articles on arcane elements of overhyped event with pithy little headline "kickers." Examples:
"Who's Sorry Now?"
"The Damned"
"Throw the Bum Out!"
"Suffer the Little Children"
"Holy Cow!"
"He Said, She Said (Or So Somebody Claims)"
"Oral Arguments"
"The Widening Gyre"
"Can the Center Hold?"
"What Would Jesus Say?"
"Are the French Snickering at Us Once Again?"
"The Day the (Innocence/Trust/Music/Unemployed Royal Person) Died."
(5) Uncontrollable logorrheic urges, including the impulsive uttering on the air or printing in the paper of words or phrases that the (journalist/news organization) would never (employ/allow) in normal circumstances, even with a gun to (his/her/their/its) head.
Examples: "Semen-stained dress," "Princess of Our Hearts," "Low-Speed Chase," "The nation was (stunned/horrified/appalled/gravely insulted/titillated) today when . . ."
(6) Marked tendency, when confronted by the public with evidence of Media Overreaction Disorder, to blame others.
Examples: "Well, some dweeb on the Internet reported it first" and "Hey, just because Geraldo got it from an anonymous source doesn't mean it's necessarily asinine."
(7) Onset of the initial prolonged period of hysterical overreaction is followed by a period of profound depression, decreased self-esteem, hypersensitivity to ridicule and a feeling that "Now the People Are Fed Up With (Me/Us/Them)."
Typically, MOD sufferers then feel the need to convene together in group sessions characterized by interminable rationalizations, delusional self-examinations, finger-pointing, sonorous whimpering and chronic gaseous emissions, which, if left untreated, can persist for weeks.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (George Booth)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: MOD ADDICTION (92%); HUMAN RESOURCES DEPARTMENT (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: MOD ADDICTION (92%); HUMAN RESOURCES DEPARTMENT (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA MENTAL ILLNESS (88%); HUMAN RESOURCES (86%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); SCANDALS (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); SEX SCANDALS (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); PSYCHIATRY (73%); CONFERENCE CALLS (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (71%); BEHAVIOR DISORDERS (71%); WRITERS (71%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (71%); SCIENCE NEWS (66%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (66%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LEWINSKY, MONICA; SHARKEY, JOE PRINCESS DIANA (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1998



193 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Vive La Difference;
In Europe, a Sneer, a Cheer and a Lament

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY 

DATELINE: PARIS

 BODY:
AMERICANS, Alexis de Tocqueville found to his bemusement in 1835, "consider marriage as a covenant which is often onerous, but every condition of which the parties are strictly bound to fulfill, because they knew all those conditions beforehand, and were perfectly free not to have contracted them."
Alexis, meet Bill and Hillary, and the rest of America. The present-day country bears little resemblance to the homogeneous "Anglo-American society" whose moralizing you found so oppressive. If the latest public opinion polls are to be believed, supposedly naive and innocent Americans turn out to be just as nonchalant and blase about marital peccadilloes, even Presidential ones, as Europeans have been for centuries. 
 Not that worldly Europeans didn't find plenty to gape about in the Monica S. Lewinsky shenanigans.
The French didn't know whether to sneer or leer, so they did both, with acres of coverage in newspapers and magazines that combined a delectation for juicy details with disdain for Americans for making such a fuss about them.
Then, with the news that polls showed, basically, that Americans didn't care if a little extramarital sex were going on in the White House as long as the President was doing his job, French commentators congratulated themselves that Americans were finally coming of age and becoming more like, well, the French.
The novelist Yves Berger wrote in Le Journal du Dimanche, "Everything begins to look as if the United States had finally acquired that wisdom and good sense which we in the Old World, especially France, have long prided ourselves on: the ability to recognize the distinction between public life and private life."
President Francois Mitterrand, who had a mistress and a child by her, was carrying on a long tradition. Aram J. Kevorkian, an American lawyer practicing in France, recalled recently that one President of the Third Republic, Felix Faure, died in the Elysee Palace in 1899 of heart failure at the turn of the century after exertions there with a female "connaissance," a word that can mean "acquaintance" or "consciousness."
"Does the President still have his connaissance?" his worried doctors asked, looking for signs of life. "She left by the back stairs," the dying patient moaned.
 
British Tough Guy
President Clinton certainly got no lessons in morality last week from the visiting British Prime Minister, Tony Blair, whose policy of letting his Labor Government ministers take their consorts along on official trips as if they were spouses has been criticized by the Archbishop of Canterbury. His Foreign Secretary, Robin Cook, whose toughness in dealing with Iraq and with indicted war criminals in Bosnia is much admired by American diplomats, has also weathered scandal over his separation from his wife of many years, Margaret, and his open relationship with a woman he recently and unsuccessfully tried to hire as his private secretary.
Conservative governments in Britain have produced sex scandals seriatim, and though readers of the popular press gobbled up salacious minutiae, they seldom punished the sinners at the polls.
The Sunday Times recalled last week that the late 19th-century Prime Minister, William E. Gladstone, had observed that of 13 prime ministers he had known, 11 had been adulterers. Another, David Lloyd George, indulged in a brisk sex life, "some of it allegedly on the Cabinet table," the newspaper wrote. It should not come as a surprise that Europeans do not hold what they call "Zippergate" against Mr. Clinton, at this point.
 
What? Mature Americans?
A poll of 400 over-18 French women polled by the French Institute of Public Opinion at the end of last month showed that 83 percent of them sympathized with Mr. Clinton, rather than with his accusers. Two separate German public opinion polls showed 63 to 75 percent of the public there thought President Clinton should stay in office, even if it turned out to be true that he had sex with Ms. Lewinsky and urged her to deny it.
More of a surprise to Europeans, however, were American polls showing the same thing. "Are Americans really so fond of Bill Clinton? Not necessarily," Sylvie Kauffmann wrote in Le Monde recently. "They are, of course, aware of his weaknesses, which they have learned to tolerate; but they are satisfied with the economic situation of the country and want to maintain it, the same as they want to preserve the stability of the Presidency, the central institution of their political system."
This new American sophistication, or cynicism, whatever it is, is unsettling to Europeans, who have been gradually coming around to the traditional American view that lying or urging others to lie is unacceptable in their leaders.
"In the past, America often gave us great lessons in morality, and justly so," wrote Franz-Olivier Giesbert recently in Le Figaro's weekly magazine. "American justice was free to track down corruption wherever the trail led, right up to the top, while our judges were brought up short by a too-powerful executive branch."
But in the 1990's, the French have become more like Americans. Investigating magistrates have indicted hundreds of politicians high and low for corruption built on a decades-old system of financing political parties by systematically shaking down companies that bid on public contracts.
French prosecutors now go after corruption with a vengeance, and even Government ministers, previously immune, are theoretically accountable for crimes committed while in office. But the model, America, Mr. Giesbert lamented, has become "a caricature of itself, a mixture of Puritanism, denunciations, media voyeurism and procedural madness."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Robin Cook, Britain's Foreign Secretary, weathered scandal over a split with his wife, Margaret (left) and his link to Gaynor Regan. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); FRANCE (93%); IRAQ (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (76%); 

COMPANY: OLD WORLD BAKERY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; FRANCE; GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); FRANCE (93%); IRAQ (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (76%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS MARRIAGE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (72%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (71%); WRITERS (68%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (66%); SCANDALS (66%); WAR CRIMES (66%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (64%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (60%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (60%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (60%); INDICTMENTS (60%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LEWINSKY, MONICA; WHITNEY, CRAIG R BILL CLINTON (90%); TONY BLAIR (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1998



194 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: DIARY

BYLINE: By David Rampe 

 BODY:

MARKETS
S.& P. Leads the Way
The stock market breezed past another big round figure, with the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index breaking 1,000 for the first time. That left the index at double its level three years ago. It has been Wall Street's recent star, far outpacing the Dow Jones industrial average, which began to underperform around the time that Asian economic worries emerged. "The S.& P. gives a greater weight to defensive stock groups like drugs and foods and beverages," which are less vulnerable if the economy weakens, said Richard McCabe, chief market analyst for Merrill Lynch. The S.& P. ended at 1,012.45, up 25.04 points for the week, and the Dow continued to rally to 8,189.49, up 282.99 points on the week. With the Dow near its record, it seems to have a good foothold for a climb into a new range, one technical analyst said. 

GURUS
Buffett Strikes Silver
Warren E. Buffett surprised nearly everyone by placing a big bet on silver, and if the past is any guide, it will probably turn into a chunk of gold. His company, Berkshire Hathaway, has acquired almost 20 percent of the world's silver market, and in the few months since he began buying, prices have already soared 60 percent, to their highest level in nine years, just over $7 an ounce. After the news came out, the Buffett investment returned $52 million in one day alone. And it would really pay off if inflation returned, or if industrial demand for silver substantially outstripped supply. And Mr. Buffett, known for making big investments in things he considers deeply undervalued, may be making his move for the long term.
 
BIG BOARD
When the Lights Go Out
The Big Board took much of the bite out of its circuit breakers, a safety feature adopted after the 1987 crash to stop trading at times of panic plunges. The new system varies according to the drop's severity and time of day; if stocks were to collapse by 20 percent by 1 P.M. -- a truly historic drop -- trading would halt for just two hours, then resume. The S.E.C. chairman, Arthur Levitt Jr., right, pushed for the change, on the conviction that open markets are preferable to the eerie calm of closed markets, which could foster a bigger panic.
 
THE FEDERAL BUDGET
Black Ink? What's That?
President Clinton's new budget held out the prospect of the first surplus since Neil Armstrong took a small step onto the moon. Mr. Clinton proposed a 4 percent increase in Federal spending to pay for 100,000 new teachers, provide more child care, expand scientific research and offer some tax incentives. The budget, he said, marks "an end to decades of deficits that have shackled our economy, paralyzed our politics and held our people back." But Republicans attacked Mr. Clinton for a return to what they called the liberal spending of the past.
 
GLOBALIZATION
The Poor Pay
The Asian crisis has shaken but hasn't toppled Brazil, the world's fifth-largest country, where very high interest rates support the currency but hurt the poor and the middle class. Tens of thousands of jobs have been lost. "People are suffering," Pedro Malan, the Finance Minister, acknowledged, "but they would suffer more if we did not do whatever it takes to preserve the currency." The unanswered question is whether policies mandated by international markets will spread prosperity or concentrate it. Brazil is symbolic of all of Latin America, where despite a decade of opening to the global economy, 40 percent of the people are poor and one in four survives on $1 a day or even less, according to the United Nations.
 
WHITE-COLLAR CRIME
The Government Bungles
In an extraordinary blunder, the Government leaked its strategy for prosecuting what it considers a disturbing invasion of Wall Street by organized crime. The memo lists the victims and potential witnesses in the case against reputed members of the Genovese and Bonanno crime families. Prosecutors tried to retrieve the memo, erroneously filed late last year in a court in Phoenix, before the defense obtained it, but it was too late. The Government then hurried to protect the victims and witnesses. The defendants are accused of inflating the stock of Healthtech International, which owns fitness centers . . . On another front, Government investigators are trying to unravel a scheme in which phony medical bills are being submitted to private insurers. Law enforcement officials say that the scheme has sprouted fast and that more than $1 billion in fake claims have been filed by fictitious companies, which operate for a few weeks, disappear, then reopen elsewhere under different names.
 
HEALTH INSURANCE
Oxford on the Defensive
Thousands of frustrated doctors joined a campaign against Oxford Health Plans, the big managed-care provider, saying Oxford was deliberately delaying payments. The doctors asked for an arbitrator to be named, to order the payments of claims and to establish clearer guidelines on payments. Dr. Charles Aswad, chief executive of the Medical Society of the State of New York, a group representing thousands of Manhattan doctors against Oxford, said: "A large percentage of the unpaid bills go back a year. The problem is not getting better; it's getting worse."
 
HOLLYWOOD
Script on Page 78
Buzz, a Los Angeles magazine, entered a novel arrangement to turn out articles with movie potential. Paramount Pictures is to bankroll suitable articles and would get a chance to option them before they are even printed. Eden Collinsworth, the founder of Buzz magazine, below, said the money will have no strings attached. The arrangement goes far beyond the experience of other magazines. Studios have optioned about 20 articles from The New Yorker in recent years, including one on the chance of a flu pandemic, and a handful from Outside magazine, including Jon Krakauer's piece on climbing Mount Everest, which became the best-selling book, "Into Thin Air."

GRAPHIC: Photos:
 
Associated Press
Associated Press
Eden Collinsworth
Barbara Alper forThe New York Times
Roger Cohen/The New York Times
 
 
Drawing (Tom Bloom)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BRK.B (NYSE) (55%); BRK.A (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (55%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: EARTH'S MOON (51%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (55%); MARKETS S&P LEADS (71%); BIG BOARD (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: MARKETS S&P LEADS (71%); BIG BOARD (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); EARTH'S MOON (51%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; FINANCES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY STOCK INDEXES (94%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); SILVER MARKETS (79%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); BONDS (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (68%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (63%); PUBLIC FINANCE (63%); TAX LAW (60%); TAX INCENTIVES (50%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (50%); 

PERSON: RAMPE, DAVID WARREN BUFFETT (75%); BILL CLINTON (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1998



195 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 14; Page 15; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 173 words

HEADLINE: Union Square's Renaissance Began Before the BID

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Your article makes me recall how all of this good work started. In the mid-1970's, when the area was in bad shape, Consolidated Edison had the chance to move its headquarters to midtown, to a new building, at a bargain price. Charles Luce, then chairman of Con Edison, decided not to, primarily because he felt that pulling out would mean a severe blow to the area. 
 But he also decided to do something about the problems. With the support of the 14th Street merchants' association, Mr. Luce and Dr. John Evert, then president of the New School for Social Research, formed a nonprofit corporation, Sweet Fourteen, which became the BID.
Con Edison was the largest contributor to Sweet Fourteen, which had office space in its building. Other major contributors at the time were New York Telephone, Guardian Insurance, Citibank, the United Mutual Savings Bank and the Kaplan Foundation.
 
KENNETH KOWALD
Richmond Hill, Queens
 
The writer retired in 1989 as director of consumer education with Con Ed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (90%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (90%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (90%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (90%); CON EDISON (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: CON EDISON (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNION SQUARE (NYC); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (86%); WRITERS (73%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (72%); TRENDS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: KOWALD, KENNETH FRANKLIN 'CHARLES' LUCE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1998



196 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1444 words

HEADLINE: Brazil's Reformist Chief Rides a Bucking Bronco

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO 

DATELINE: BRASILIA, Feb. 5

 BODY:
Across the street from the presidential palace, the knockdown, drag-out fight over Brazil's future was reaching fever pitch. Congress was awash in protesters out to block an important committee vote reducing social security benefits, the crucial issue foreign investors cite for Brazil to get its fiscal house in order.
The demonstrators destroyed a bullet-proof door to the committee chambers, forcing members to flee, while other congressmen blocked their colleagues from using a second room to take their vote. The president of the Senate, Antonio Carlos Magalhaes, warned the police to control the protesters, brought here by a powerful leftist labor union. 
 "If you have to beat them, beat them," the Senator said. "If you have to shoot, then shoot."
After seven hours, the committee approved the bill. Though the uproar could not be heard from his office in the Planalto Palace, President Fernando Henrique Cardoso, a leftist intellectual turned champion of the free market, had clocked another victory for Brazil's standing in the global economy.
As the man unleashing those passions, Mr. Cardoso is most responsible for turning Brazil into a global player, and forcing its people and industries to compete -- to varying degrees -- in a modern economy. Before winning the presidency, he served as Finance Minister, slaying 2,500 percent annual inflation with an economic plan featuring a new currency backed with dollar reserves. He has made low inflation the new religion of a people dizzy with rising prices.
"The most important thing is to maintain stability," he said in an interview in his office here today. "Because that's the best way to improve the living conditions of the population."
Mr. Cardoso, 66, is the man who most doggedly sells Brazil overseas, courting investors and pledging that the new economic plan will be sustained by reforms to the Civil Service and, most important, social security. Under the current pension system, eligible civil servants and police officers can collect payments equal to their full salaries after the age of 50, enjoying promotions and raises even after retirement. Unable to dismiss civil servants, many of Brazil's 26 states spend 70 percent to 90 percent of their budgets on salaries.
The country stands to save $10 billion a year from the reforms.
The author of a one-time bible of leftist political analysis, "Dependency and Underdevelopment in Latin America," Mr. Cardoso was exiled after its publication by the military dictatorship that ruled Brazil from 1964 to 1985. He lived in Chile, France and the United States, returning home after a general amnesty in 1979 and becoming a centrist Senator four years later.
As President, he walks an exquisitely fine line, publicly denouncing inequality while governing in coalition with parties representing the most conservative, moneyed interests in Brazil.
President Cardoso has set himself the task of undoing an overbearing state bureaucracy by auctioning off Government assets in the telecommunications, petroleum, electricity and mining industries, and by privatizing railroads, highways and the country's port system.
Faced with the turbulence in Asian markets, Mr. Cardoso erected what amounted to a fiscal beachhead to protect the currency, pushing through tax increases and other measures to raise $15 billion in Government revenues, raising interest rates more than 40 percent, and braking growth in the process. He is seizing on fears that the crisis will spread to push through the Civil Service and social security reforms that Congress had long delayed tackling.
The stakes, even beyond Brazil, are enormous. With its 163 million people, this is the world's fifth most populous nation. Its $750 billion-a-year economy is the world's 10th largest.
Bolivar Lamounier, director of the Institute for Economic, Social and Political Studies, a private research institute in Sao Paulo, said that President Cardoso had brought Brazil to the threshold of the modern era.
"We're undoing structures that were created 60 to 70 years ago and are defended by very powerful interests," Mr. Lamounier said. "But they have to be undone in order for the country to create something else."
Melvyn Levitsky, the United States Ambassador here, is also a fan of Mr. Cardoso, and has written articles praising him in an academic journal and a daily newspaper.
"I believe he really wants to change Brazil in a permanent way," Mr. Levitsky said here today. "He wants to change the nature of the relationship between the Brazilian state and the people."
Mr. Cardoso emphasized that point in the interview. "Brazil is not an underdeveloped country," he said, "it's an unjust country."
While many would say it is both, Mr. Cardoso calls inequality this country's "most serious" problem. "That's the point of departure," he said.
Indeed, while past Brazilian leaders have always pounded the nationalist drums when faced with criticism of Brazil, Mr. Cardoso is refreshing in his unembarrassed admission of the country's faults. He is the first President to acknowledge racism as a problem here, and early in his administration took a stand against child labor and indentured servitude, which riddle the sugar and charcoal industries.
Educators credit Mr. Cardoso with making strides in improving schools by establishing a direct relation between the federal Government and local school districts, in effect cutting out a level of corruption by state government. He has tied funds to improvements in attendance, and put televisions in schools around the country as a teaching aid.
But Mr. Cardoso has been faulted for overstating his progress toward reducing the inequalities he criticizes. Although incomes among the lowest-earning workers have risen only slightly during his administration, he is fond of saying that they increased faster than those of the top wage-earners.
But the larger truth, that Brazil ranks among the most unequal societies in the world, has not changed. According to the annual United States State Department report on human rights, issued last week, the top 10 percent of the population here collect 48 percent of the income, while the bottom 10 percent receive only 1 percent. There is no safety net for unemployed Brazilians, many of whom can be seen selling chewing gum or candy bars at stoplights.
The report noted that the minimum wage in Brazil, $105 a month, was about 25 percent of what was necessary to feed a family of four.
Mr. Cardoso rejected the report's criticism, saying that only 1 in 20 Brazilian workers earns the minimum wage or less. The I.B.G.E., a Brazilian economic institute, estimates the number at 1 in 6 workers.
President Cardoso also said that the causes of the minimum wage level were far different, and more difficult to correct, than human rights abuses.
Regardless, both remain problems in Brazil. The State Department report also detailed hundreds of cases of torture, kidnapping and execution-style murders by police officers, the overwhelming majority of whom remain unpunished.
Mr. Cardoso acknowledged that his accomplishments might lag behind his declarations, and said that was only to be expected. His efforts to improve the health system, he conceded, have floundered.
"Structural problems don't change in three, four years," he said. "You can only help along a tendency, create a body of policies, that can have an effect."
"Remember during the civil rights struggle in the United States," Mr. Cardoso said. "The talk was far ahead of the practice. If the talk was not more advanced, the actions would never change. That's why I talk so loudly about human rights, about the recognition of injustice."
Jose Genoino of the leftist Workers Party agrees that President Cardoso has done a good job with the economy and foreign policy, but complained that his steps to address social inequalities had been timid.
"Socially, the country is broken," Mr. Genoino said. "He doesn't have any policy to confront unemployment, to modernize democracy."
If the left has criticized the President for moving too slowly and protecting special interests, Mr. Cardoso counters that where politics may be powerless to alter the concentration of power and wealth in Brazil, the global economy will inevitably spread wealth and power to new groups.
He bears in mind, he added, that his predecessors who tried to modernize Brazil were forced out of office instead.
"You have to politicize problems, to build a consensus," he said. "If you advance without democracy, that's not easy either, because interest groups come along and help an eventual dictatorship take over."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Fernando Henrique Cardoso, a leftist intellectual turned champion of the free market, has helped make Brazil a global player. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHILE (79%); FRANCE (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; BRAZIL (99%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHILE (79%); FRANCE (70%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); INFLATION (87%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (85%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); BUDGETS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); POLITICS (75%); LEGISLATION (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); LABOR UNIONS (70%); CURRENCIES (65%); PRICE INCREASES (64%); TRENDS (64%); RELIGION (64%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (58%); APPROVALS (54%); AMNESTY (50%); 

PERSON: SCHEMO, DIANA JEAN; CARDOSO, FERNANDO HENRIQUE (PRES) FERNANDO HENRIQUE CARDOSO (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1998



197 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Stakes Fiscal Ground in Pitch for Shoring Up Medicare

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Feb. 7

 BODY:
The chairman of the Senate Budget Committee today endorsed President Clinton's call for future budget surpluses to be reserved for Social Security. But breaking with the President over the proceeds of a national tobacco settlement, Senator Pete V. Domenici insisted that tobacco money be devoted to shoring up Medicare.
Mr. Domenici, the New Mexico Republican who is an influential voice in fiscal policy, staked out his position in the weekly Republican radio address. 
 Agreeing with Mr. Clinton's stand on Social Security, Mr. Domenici said: "I would go one step further. Your budget would spend the $65 billion from a tobacco settlement on new Washington-based programs. But I believe we should save Medicare first. If there is tobacco money, it should go toward keeping the Medicare system solvent -- not for new Washington spending."
When Mr. Clinton unveiled his 1999 budget earlier this week and called for any budget surpluses to be preserved until the Government solves the long-range problems of Social Security, he made it much more difficult for the Republicans to use that money for tax cuts.
Congressional Republican leaders have increasingly conceded that they will have to follow his lead and devote most of any budget surpluses to Social Security or the national debt.
But by focusing on Medicare as well as Social Security, Mr. Domenici's proposal gives Republicans a way to outflank Mr. Clinton in appealing to two major constituencies, the elderly and the baby boomers.
Just as significant, the proposal puts an obstacle in the path of those of Mr. Domenici's fellow Republicans who are looking at a tobacco deal, which has yet to be negotiated, as a way to finance a new tax cut.
Speaker Newt Gingrich, among others, has said that if Congress imposes a cigarette tax as part of the tobacco settlement, that money should be used to pay for other tax cuts. And several House Republicans this week announced legislation to insure that any money from the tobacco settlement be guaranteed for smoking prevention programs, tax relief and paying the national debt.
Since taking control of Congress in 1994, the G.O.P. has gone into the annual budget fight with a focused agenda that has led to the Government shutdowns of 1995 and to the agreement struck with Mr. Clinton last summer to balance the budget and cut taxes.
But in the aftermath of the balanced budget deal, the Republicans have split over how to reshape their agenda for a period of prosperity and budget surpluses.
House Republicans hope to begin hammering out a unified position next week at a retreat in Williamsburg, Va. But the prospect of surpluses has exacerbated tensions among the party's tax-cutting supply-side wing, its deficit hawks who want to pay off the debt and its spenders who want more money for defense and for highway and bridge programs.
Some Republicans argue that the party's strongest course is to devote a significant share of money to reduction of the more than $5 trillion national debt. That would be a way to demonstrate to voters the fiscal discipline of the Republican Party.
Most Republicans also want to cut taxes. Conservatives want to eliminate the so-called marriage penalty that occurs when couples who file a joint return are pushed into a higher tax bracket. Some Republicans want the lowest tax rate broadened to apply to more taxpayers. Other Republicans are pushing for further reductions in the capital gains tax and estate tax.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; SMOKING AND TOBACCO; SOCIAL SECURITY (US); MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICARE BUDGETS (96%); MEDICARE (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX LAW (89%); SMOKING (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); TAX RELIEF (87%); LEGISLATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (77%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (77%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); BABY BOOMERS (68%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (61%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL, ALISON; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DOMENICI, PETE V (SEN) BILL CLINTON (91%); PETE DOMENICI (90%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1998



198 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1473 words

HEADLINE: Democrats' Vote Opens A Racial Rift in Florida

BYLINE: By MIREYA NAVARRO 

DATELINE: MIAMI, Feb. 6

 BODY:
Democrats in the Florida House of Representatives made history last year when they elected Willie F. Logan, who is black, as chairman of their caucus and the man in line to be Speaker should the party regain the majority.
Last month, they began to write a different kind of history when they took that honor away and gave it to a white woman. Suddenly, a state party already plagued by difficulties faced a serious rift with black voters, one of the party's most loyal constituencies. 
 Political analysts say the Logan affair is a textbook case of the Democratic Party's challenge throughout the South, as it tries to hold its political base among blacks while reaching out to more conservative whites.
Since the switch from Mr. Logan, a wide group of political and civic leaders who are black have declared "political war" on the Democrats who ousted him and announced to Democrats in general that, as the head of Florida's N.A.A.C.P. put it, "This is payback time." They said they would encourage black voters to become "free agents," no longer beholden to a party.
And leaders of several labor unions have withheld money from the party, saying the treatment of Mr. Logan underscored the party's failure to include unions, minorities and other traditional supporters in its decision-making.
"The party is on life support right now," said Representative John C. Rayson, vice chairman of the Democratic legislative caucus and chairman of the delegation from Broward County, a Democratic stronghold.
Others are even more blunt.
"They're in the toilet," said Richard Scher, a University of Florida political scientist. "The party is just completely disintegrating."
The action by the House Democrats came at a time when Republicans already hold the majority in the State Legislature and early polls suggest that the Republican candidate for governor, Jeb Bush, could clinch a Republican sweep of the state government in the November election.
After more than a century of dominance, the Democratic Party is down to 70 seats in the 160-seat State Legislature, with 55 representatives and 15 senators. The Democrats have yet to present candidates for major offices like Secretaries of Education and State and they have raised less than half of what Republicans have amassed for this year's campaign.
The party erosion and the racial tensions are endemic in the South, where Republicans have gained ground among whites and Democrats have become increasingly dependent on blacks, political analysts say. The Democrats' problems, the analysts say, is the flip side to the Republican Party's relations with the Christian right -- how to appeal to the white middle-of-the-road voter while holding on to the core supporters, like blacks, who furnish most of their votes.
But the Democrats cannot afford to melt down in Florida, the nation's fourth largest state, which was a key to President Clinton's 1996 re-election. "It's extremely important to people like Al Gore," said Hastings Wyman Jr., publisher of the political newsletter Southern Political Report. "For the Democrats, Florida is the best hope for big electoral votes in the South."
And central to that vote are black voters, who account for about 15 percent of the state electorate. While total Democratic registration dropped in Florida over the last decade to the current record low of 46 percent, from 56 percent in 1988, blacks accounted for nearly half of all new Democratic registered voters in roughly the same period. (Forty-one percent of Florida voters are registered Republican.)
In fact, black voters now constitute about a third of all registered Democrats in the state.
"Quite frankly, Democrats can't succeed at all in this state without black voter support," said Jim Kane, chief pollster with Florida Voter, a nonpartisan polling organization in Fort Lauderdale. "It's not a help; it's crucial."
In 1994, Republicans achieved a majority in the Florida Senate and two years later they won the House. The end to Democratic one-party rule in Florida is attributed to such factors as defections from whites and the flow of more Republicans into the state, including Hispanic newcomers, as Florida experienced explosive population growth in the 1980's. Redistricting also played a role by creating minority legislative districts that gave blacks political muscle but left the white areas open for a Republican takeover, some analysts say.
The party, political analysts say, has been slow to react to its new minority status and rebuild. Florida's Democratic Governor, Lawton Chiles, survived the 1994 Republican electoral sweep across the country and two years later Mr. Clinton became the first Democratic Presidential candidate to win the state in two decades, partly because Floridians are fond of cross-over voting.
But now Mr. Bush, who lost to Mr. Chiles by a narrow margin, faces no primary opposition and leads in early popularity polls over Lieut. Gov. Kenneth MacKay, the front-runner among three candidates in the Democratic primary. As of Dec. 31, Mr. Bush had raised $3.3 million, against $1.8 million raised by the three Democrats combined.
In this political climate, many were stunned when House Democrats decided to replace Mr. Logan as chairman of the caucus and as Speaker-designate for the 1999-2000 legislative session, which meant he would have taken over if the Democrats regained their majority in this year's election. Those who voted to oust Mr. Logan said he had not been traveling enough to raise money and recruit candidates, and that he had spread himself too thin in an election year by pursuing a doctoral degree in economics at the University of Florida in Gainesville.
"This was never about race," said the woman who replaced him, Representative Anne MacKenzie of Fort Lauderdale. "This was all about trying to make sure we had the necessary tools to go to battle with the Republicans this November."
But Mr. Logan and other black legislators dispute that he was not an effective or committed leader. They say the bottom line is that Democrats in Florida are not ready for a black party leader.
"I was told by members of the caucus that there was concern of what an African-American leader could do to get them elected in conservative white districts," said Mr. Logan, 40, who represents the small South Florida city of Opa-Locka. Mr. Logan said he first ran for the leadership position in 1994 and that it had taken him until 1997 to win it, when he had no opposition. He said the vote had been unanimous but by last month 31 of the 55 caucus members had turned against him.
The National Association for the Advancement of Colored People in Florida vowed to support candidates running against the 31 House members, all of them white, who voted to oust Mr. Logan and to seek permission from its national board to make endorsements in political races, which is now forbidden. "We have to do something that hurts the Democratic Party sufficiently that it pays attention," said Leon W. Russell, the state N.A.A.C.P. president.
More important, both elected and civic leaders in the state who are black, after a recent meeting in West Palm Beach, have encouraged black voters to no longer blindly support candidates along party lines.
While Mr. Bush and Republican legislators aggressively court the disaffected Democrats, the Democratic leaders are engaged in damage control. This includes meetings with black elected officials, some of whom are making such demands as more state appropriations for economic development and youth programs in black areas. There are also meetings planned with constituent groups like the Florida Education Association/United, whose president, Pat L. Tornillo Jr., warned that the union of 60,000 school employees would not contribute to the party unless it was allowed to take part in decisions, like Mr. Logan's removal and how the party's money is spent.
Lieutenant Governor MacKay, who has publicly disagreed with how Mr. Logan was treated, agreed that there is a need for better communication within the party and noted that this was not the first time a major constituency group had "felt aggrieved" and "that there is no mechanism to talk the thing out."
"We're spending a lot of energy on these issues that we should be spending on a common cause," Mr. MacKay said.
With an election looming in less than 10 months, some doubt the party can recover in time. Even if the disaffection does not translate into support for Republicans like Mr. Bush, black voters may just choose to stay home election day to repay the Democratic Party.
"It's extraordinary to me how it can have such a poor sense of its own constituency to kick a key element right smack in the teeth," said Mr. Scher, the political scientist. "They basically told blacks they were no longer welcome."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Democrats' problems in Florida have been compounded by the ouster of Representative Willie F. Logan, left, as chief of the House Democratic caucus. He was interviewed recently on a Miami television program. (Cindy Karp for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (95%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: ACP (BELGIUM) (53%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA; UNITED STATES (95%); FLORIDA, USA (95%); MIAMI, FL, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS CAUCUSES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (75%); GOVERNORS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (66%); 

PERSON: NAVARRO, MIREYA; LOGAN, WILLIE (REPR) MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1998



199 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 2364 words

HEADLINE: As the N.B.A.'s Stars Soar, The Quality of Play Falls Off

BYLINE: By MIKE WISE 

 BODY:
The N.B.A. All-Star Game, that annual enterprise in ego, athleticism and commercialism, will go off today at Madison Square Garden. The multimillionaires will laugh and dunk; the league's officials will step to the microphones and recount again how popular the sport has become.
What will go unspoken, publicly at least, is what many players, coaches, team officials and others who follow the sport are talking about among themselves: that the game -- the nuts and bolts skills of the players as well as the ability to create the sublime choreography of teamwork -- is ailing. 
 League statistics show that fewer and fewer players shoot very well, and coaches and team executives believe that the falloff results in part from the proliferation of teen-age players entering the National Basketball Association. A handful of teams have won barely one-fifth of their games, leaving players and coaches complaining that too many games on too many nights have been stripped of basic competitiveness. And any number of current and aging stars argue that the development of younger players, from high school through college, has been delayed or damaged by a culture caught up in promoting individual stars rather than teams full of complete players.
"The danger of the credibility of the game being at stake is something I think the league realizes," Michael Jordan said. Jordan, whose appearance in today's game was in jeopardy because he has come down with the flu, was honest enough to acknowledge that his own extraordinary ability may have contributed to the problems among the N.B.A.'s more ordinary participants.
"I guess some of this crept in because of myself and Charles Barkley," Jordan said recently. "With our ability to take over a game and sell ourselves as individuals, we have infected the game as much as we've helped it."
It's a concern that has been building for several seasons, but in recent months some of the game's most prominent players and coaches have spoken with remarkable bluntness about the diminished quality of all-round performance and thus of the N.B.A.'s nightly product.
"We all grew up with Jordan's 'Come Fly With Me' video," said Grant Hill, the Detroit Piston star whom many project as Jordan's heir. "We're the slam-dunk generation. Nobody would work on their skills at the playground. Everybody would just sit around and see if we could dunk. And if you could, you got respect.
"It's too bad, really, because we have lost a lot of the game."
Shooting percentages have consistently fallen in the past decade. After making nearly 48 percent of their shots 10 years ago, teams are now making less than 45 percent. What's more, fewer players are passing the ball. Ten years ago, teams averaged 51.2 assists -- passes leading directly to a score -- each game. Today, the number is 43.6.
The assist statistic is skewed to a degree because an emphasis on defense has reduced scoring, but clearly, players are relying more on themselves than on their teammates. In a world where finances are tied to flair instead of victories, every scintillating move counts.
Medium-range shooting, in particular, has taken a back seat to more flamboyant methods of scoring. A record 39,943 3-point shots were taken last season, nearly five times the number taken in the 1986-87 season (8,913) when there were just six fewer teams in the league. But led by the all-round exploits of Magic Johnson and Larry Bird, that N.B.A. thrived on the floor much more than this one.
Four rule changes implemented this season to increase scoring and offensive opportunities have not helped kick-start offenses. Teams averaged 96.9 points a game last season; they are averaging 95.2 points a game this season.
"Unfortunately in the N.B.A. at this point, we're trying to make up rules to hide deficiencies of players," Knicks Coach Jeff Van Gundy said.
"I think the players in Magic's era, the superstars, really understood the big picture," said Hill, the Piston's fourth-year guard. "I don't know if we understand the big picture, the up-and-coming young athletes. Maybe it's the money situation, the Generation X thing.
"But on the whole, we don't look at this as our league and that we all want to help propel it. It's more, 'What can I get? Me, me, me.' The crazy thing is if we help propel the league, the league will propel us."
The image of an N.B.A. player selfishly excluding his teammates has had a pervasive influence on everyone who plays. Portly middle-aged dentists wave teammates away at the Y.M.C.A. and want to go one-on-one until they dribble the ball off their foot. Young kids at the park would rather dunk on the people who guard them than share the basketball, win and hold court until dusk.
 
Inexperienced Coaches In the Early Years
Interviews with players, coaches and team officials point to the tutelage of today's player as one of the major culprits in the disintegration of basic skills. Inexperienced summer youth coaches, more interested in directing a player toward a college or an agent, have supplanted the influence of the high school coach.
Instead of honing their talents during the off season, emerging prep stars now tour the country's five-star tournaments, scrimmaging in front of whomever will pay for their travel and shoes.
"A good six to eight weeks every summer, that was my life," said Hill. "They weren't teaching camps, either. They were camps to expose your talent, like a cattle call."
Bringing the elite players together at such young ages and compensating them for their talent has led to a sense of entitlement by the time they reach college or the N.B.A., a feeling that they have somehow earned the right to the tricks of the trade before first learning the trade.
Pete Carril, the former Princeton coach who won more than 500 games without offering an athletic scholarship, said: "These people have eroded the influence of a good high school coach. And the game is suffering for it."
Jerry Reynolds, the personnel director of the Sacramento Kings, said: "A young talented player was once being taught by educators, people who didn't have a lot to gain financially and, strange as it may seem, people looking out for the best interests of the athlete. Between a good high school coach and a college mentor, that player could receive seven or eight years of real instruction. Today, that player has been catered to since he was 12 years old."
Reynolds used an example of one of basketball's most complete players to make his point.
"Let's put it this way: Oscar Robertson in the 90's wouldn't be a complete fundamental package," he said. "He probably wouldn't learn to use his left hand or know all the tricks that made him the player he was. That player today would be a great athlete. But he'd probably look more like a Penny Hardaway. Now Penny's a great player, but he's like a lot of stars today. He needs work."
The cycle can continue in college, where a growing number of coaches are under tremendous pressure to win immediately. As players are funneled in and out quickly, often staying for less than two seasons, the result is less teaching and more reliance on one or two stars to deliver a bid to the National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament.
"The coaches running some college programs today are more knowledgeable about how to dress than they are about footwork in the pivot," Reynolds said. "They're glorified insurance salesmen. They know how to meet parents and A.A.U. people. But they're not interested in the person."
The stable and nurturing days of a Dean Smith, who won more games than any other college coach before retiring from North Carolina before this season, are slowly giving way to the slicked-back and well-tailored screamer on the sideline.
"Most guys got into coaching not because of money, but because they loved to teach," said Larry Brown, the 76ers coach who played for Smith. "Unfortunately, they now see people like us getting paid far too much and given far too much credit. They might be getting into the game for the wrong reasons."
 
A Tale of Two No. 1 Draft Picks
The contrasting paths of the No. 1 picks in the 1996 and 1997 drafts illustrate the differences between two systems, one geared toward instant gratification and the other geared toward learning.
Allen Iverson, the 76ers' second-year point guard, traveled to the camps, became one of the most electrifying college players at Georgetown and left school for the N.B.A. after two seasons. Tim Duncan, the San Antonio Spurs' rookie power forward, grew up in the Virgin Islands, was not exposed to the all-star prep circuit and stayed for four years at Wake Forest.
While Iverson has had trouble incorporating his teammates and winning games for the 76ers, Duncan has flourished. The Knicks' president, Ernie Grunfeld, called Duncan the "best passing big man since Bill Walton." Duncan's teammates are more talented than Iverson's, but Duncan believes his adjustment was helped by growing up outside the United States and staying in college for four years.
He was not beholden to the American dream of growing up and becoming a professional athlete.
"People go out and start playing from 5 years old and think, 'Oh, if I ever get to that point,' " Duncan said. "And then someone comes along and says, 'You want to go to the league?' And the kid goes, 'Sure. I've wanted that all my life.' And you're gone, just like that. That wasn't the focus for 10 to 12 years of my life. I had a broader portfolio of things to do growing up.
"The fourth year matured me a lot more," he continued. "I'm not saying my experience was better, but it worked for me."
In the 1989-90 season, the league included 22 players under the age of 23. Today, 35 are under 23 in a league of about 400 players. Ten years ago, Moses Malone and Darryl Dawkins were the only players in the league who had bypassed college. In the past three years alone, four high school players have been drafted in the first round.
Some young phenoms have made the transition easily. But in many cases, younger and more athletic does not mean better.
"We would like to sit down with the players association and talk about what age a player is able to deal with the pressures," Commissioner David Stern said. "Obviously, not all of our young players have made the adjustment as well as Kobe Bryant and Kevin Garnett. It's something we're concerned about."
Iverson has become a prime example of too much, too soon. His shoe commercials and his ability to lose defenders with one crossover dribble have become more important than anything pertinent to the 76ers. He is not alone. Images of post-pubescent athletes are spread across the facades of buildings before they have proved their worth in the league.
Beginning with Jordan in the mid-1980's, the agent David Falk mastered a marketing strategy: forget the team, single out the player. He adopted the same plan with Iverson in the summer of 1996, before Iverson had even played a game in the N.B.A. During a meeting with Reebok executives to discuss Iverson's image, Falk told the group: "Allen Iverson doesn't have to play great. He has to be a great personality on the court. He's going to be a fantastic performer."
Whereas Jordan took the endorsements as a challenge to live up to his image, many young players do not.
"When you think about Magic Johnson, Larry Bird and myself and maybe some of the old players, the league didn't have to market those players," Jordan said. "Their games marketed them. Today, to some degree, the league is marketing players before their games are ready."
No one knows that better than Iverson's coach. "When the Bulls are playing Miami, it's Alonzo Mourning against Michael Jordan, instead of the great Chicago Bulls against the great Miami Heat," Brown said. "It sends a bad message."
 
Season of Futility For Numerous Teams
For the first time in league history, five teams are on pace to lose more than 75 percent of their games. At 4-41, the Denver Nuggets drew fewer than 8,000 fans at home Wednesday against Sacramento. They have a legitimate shot at eclipsing the worst record (9-73 by the Philadelphia 76ers in the 1972-73 season). Golden State and Dallas have won 8 and 9 games, respectively.
Awful teams have to sometimes resort to playing younger players. With bad instruction, on-the-job training can often produce hideous basketball.
"I don't know who you put the responsibility of correcting it on," Jordan said. "Do you go all the way back to your high school levels? To your college levels? Or can you do it on the professional level from an economical standpoint or from a coaching standpoint. I don't know."
More than 600 million people will watch the All-Star Game. New television contracts with NBC and TNT valued at $2.64 billion have created an economic windfall. Attendance is steady and the celebrity status of the game's elite players has pulled in a crossover audience.
"I'm trying to imagine the scenario 10 years ago," Stern said. "If someone were to come and tell me that most of the teams would be playing in new and planned arenas in front of full houses, that every playoff game would be televised on network television and the others would be seen on cable, that we would sign incredibly lucrative television deals and more people will be watching than ever before, well, then I would have said, where do you sign for such a situation because we wouldn't have believed it possible."
"Yes, there are problems. But the beauty of our league is there is a draft and hope springs eternal."
But picking the right players is only part of the problem today. Image and endorsement compete against the idea of five players functioning as a single unit. The current level of popularity enjoyed by the league was not only the result of intense marketing campaigns, but also basic skills that made the game enjoyable to watch, skills that have been severely eroded.
"Basketball is a real simple game," Bird said. "Once people realize there is only one Michael Jordan and nobody can be like him, maybe then you'll get back the ball movement and the passing."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The rookie Tim Duncan has been impressive with his passing skills. (Associated Press); Larry Brown, Philadelphia 76ers coach (Associated Press); Michael Jordon. (pg. 24)
 
Graph: "There is Trouble on the Court"
There is a sense of disquiet in the National Basketball Association over the current quality of play. There are too many missed shots, not enough teamwork and too many players who arrive in the league without adequate preparation.
 
INCOMPLETE EDUCATION
More players are entering the N.B.A. with little college experience. And even high school training is lacking. Graph tracks the number of players younger than 23, from the '88-'89 season through the '96-'97 season.
 "We would like to sit down with the players association and talk about what age a player is able to deal with the pressures. Obviously, not all of our young players have made the adjustment as well as Kobe Bryant and Kevin Garnett. It's something we're concerned about." -- David Stern, N.B.A. Commissioner.
 
THE PASS BECOMES PASSE
One-on-one play is often glorified over teamwork, robbing the game of some of its cohesion. Graph tracks the number of assists per game, from the '88-'89 season through the '96-'97 season.
 "The N.B.A. promotes individuals, not teams. When the Bulls are playing Miami, it's Alonzo Mourning against Michael Jordan, instead of the great Chicago Bulls against the great Miami Heat. It sends a bad message.
 "Why play a team sport and not help your teammates?" -- Larry Brown, Philadelphia 76ers Coach
 
RATTLING THE RIM
Dunks and 3-pointers are on the rise, but overall shot accuracy is on the decline. Graph tracks field goal percentage, from the '88-'89 season through the '96-'97 season.
 
FOUL SHOTS GO AWRY
Free-throw shooting, an unglamorous skill, has also been on a steady decline for the last decade. Graph tracks free-throw percentage, from the '88-'89 season through the '96-'97 season.
 "When you think about Magic Johnson, Larry Bird and myself and maybe some of the old players, the league didn't have to market those players. Their games marketed them. Today, to some degree, the league is marketing players before their games are ready." -- Michael Jordan
 
(Statistical Source: Elias Sports Bureau)(pg. 24)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (59%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CENTER INC (58%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN NETWORK (58%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CORP (58%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN LP (58%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); PHILADELPHIA 76ERS (84%); CHICAGO BULLS (84%); PHILADELPHIA 76ERS (84%); MIAMI HEAT (59%); ORLANDO MAGIC (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); PHILADELPHIA 76ERS (84%); CHICAGO BULLS (84%); PHILADELPHIA 76ERS (84%); MIAMI HEAT (59%); ORLANDO MAGIC (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (59%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL; ALL-STAR GAMES SPORTS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); SCHOOL ATHLETIC STAFF (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); STATISTICS (70%); INFLUENZA (50%); 

PERSON: POPPER, STEVE; JORDAN, MICHAEL MICHAEL JORDAN (92%); KOBE BRYANT (58%); KEVIN GARNETT (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1998



200 of 627 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1998 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: February 8, 1998

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: Our Towns;
Stirring Up an Institution in the Borscht Belt

BYLINE: By EVELYN NIEVES

DATELINE: KIAMESHA LAKE, N.Y.

 BODY:
JOSEPH MURPHY was walking through the Concord Resort Hotel as if he owned the place. "This should all be carpeted," he said as he entered the cavernous hall off the lobby, his shoes hitting the hard tile floor like mallets. "And this," he said, waving his arm at an empty stretch of corridor, "should have trees. It's sterile!"
He glanced outside. The sun streamed in through picture windows, but where the windows were shrouded by faded curtains, the warm bath of light evaporated. "The lighting needs to be changed, too," he said, as he walked into the boardroom next to the synagogue. "I mean, we're talking a whole different atmosphere!" 
 He was just warming up. For the next several hours, Mr. Murphy, a real estate investor, would sit with a posse of architects, engineers and associates and discuss in detail the transformation of the grandest, most famous symbol of the gilded age of the Catskills.
Soon, Mr. Murphy's company, Value Re sort and Spa, will own the Concord. The venerated institution where the tradition of Catskills comedians flourished, where countless nice Jewish boys met their nice Jewish girls and where the idea of bigger being better and biggest best was practically invented, will be out of bankruptcy and out of the hands of the family that opened it 61 years ago.
After years of fighting the Borscht Belt grim reaper, the Concord is getting a second go. Sullivan County's largest employer (with 1,000 workers at peak season) is scheduled for radical reconstructive surgery. When it recovers, it may not recognize itself. The 1,200-room hotel, one of the 10 largest in the world, will have a new identity as what Mr. Murphy calls a "state of the art, world class resort."
THE faded pink carpet and red and green brocade love seats in the lobby, the boxy 60's-style chairs and square tables in the main corridor, the peeling wallpaper and dun-colored walls throughout: gone, gone, gone. In fact, Mr. Murphy's Manhattan-based company, which has owned the Barbizon Plaza, the Hotel Taft and the Senator Hotel, plans to change everything from the ceiling tiles to the wiring. Even the baroque chandeliers, longtime stars of the Imperial Dining Room, may get the hook.
The most historic changes will be in the hotel's philosophy. No longer will guests eat all their meals together in the 3,000-seat kosher dining room. No longer will there even be a 3,000-seat kosher dining room. The Concord will no longer be a kosher hotel. Instead, a 300-seat kosher dining room will be one of five new restaurants planned for the resort.
"This is the biggest convention-size hotel in the metropolitan area outside of New York," Mr. Murphy said. "But after the traditional resort guests started finding other places to go, there was no major attempt to redevelop. The natural attributes of the area are obvious. It takes about an hour and a half, two hours, to get here for 20 million people in the metropolitan area. And it's a tank of gas away from the 70 million people in all of New York State. We're saying, if you build it, they will come."
What Mr. Murphy plans to build on the 1,700-acre site includes two or three new golf courses added to the existing three, 24-hour restaurants, new cross-country skiing trails, a full-service spa and a golf school. This besides refurbishing the downhill ski slopes (the Concord has its own little mountain), the horse trails and the indoor and outdoor pools, skating rinks and tennis courts. He estimates that the renovation will add $30 million to $40 million to the $20 million to $30 million it will cost to acquire the hotel, and that it will bring in numerous new jobs.
Which makes it much easier for those here who have been lamenting the decline of the family-run Jewish resorts to take heart. In fact, the Parker family, which has run the Concord through three generations, as well as owners of the 11 remaining resorts and, not least, Sullivan County, which is owed more than $8 million in taxes by the hotel, are all celebrating Mr. Murphy's project.
So are the hotel's longtime employees, who number in the hundreds. "I say it's a wonderful thing," said Irving Cohen, the maitre d'hotel who has worked here for 59 years. "I can't see anything wrong with what Mr. Murphy is doing. And I'm too young to retire. I'm 80 years old and I can't retire yet."
Everyone knew something radical had to happen. The hotel's fortunes have been in decline for two decades. The guests still come; Friday night, 1,000 rooms were booked, and the lobby was packed with high school students from New York on their senior class trips and a singles group spilling out of the Night Owl Lounge.
But many more have stopped coming, and guests are often heard complaining about the hotel's lost looks and faded glory. Last February, after its major hope for revitalization -- casino gambling -- was rejected by the State Legislature, the hotel, saddled with up to $30 million in debt, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy. It has been operating at a loss ever since.
In September, the Parkers received court permission to borrow an additional $800,000 to meet payroll and other expenses. In November, its troubles reached the critical stage. After a Rochester developer backed away from a contract to buy the hotel, Sullivan County officials asked Judge Adlai S. Hardin Jr. of Federal Bankruptcy Court to order the Concord to file a Chapter 11 reorganization plan by Dec. 2 or face liquidation. The county planned to ask the judge to either appoint a trustee to run the resort or close it and sell its assets. That's when Mr. Murphy's company entered the picture.
Robert Parker, the Concord's chairman and chief executive officer, and his brother George, the general manager, plan to remain with the hotel as consultants. Their three siblings will retire -- happily, according to Robert Parker.
"In a way, we're sad, in a way, excited," Mr. Parker said. "I'm going to be with this for a number of years and I think it has a phenomenal future."
"We couldn't have continued to do it," he said of running the hotel. "Being in bankruptcy, we didn't have the financial wherewithal to make the improvements and changes that the hotel needs."
He blamed both external and internal problems for the hotel's failure. "Gambling in Atlantic City started a small downturn," he said. "The economic downturn hurt. Added to that, in the 80's our taxes doubled in three years and our insurance rates doubled. It becomes a tremendous snowball effect."
Things might have been done differently, George Parker said later, as he kibbitzed with guests in the Blue Jeans Cafe. But he would not say what those things were. "I have too many siblings to deal with to say anything now," he said. "Look, we had a great run. Sixty years. Business has to change with the times. This'll bring the business up to the 21st century."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The worn Concord Resort Hotel is getting a new owner. In the dining room in 1953. (Lew Merrim Monkmeyer)(pg. 33); Joseph Murphy, whose company will soon own the renowned Concord Hotel in Kiamesha Lake, N.Y., hopes to restore it to its former glory. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 38)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. RESORTS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); FLOORING (77%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); MOUNTAINS (72%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (50%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1998

 
